SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
O F
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
WITH HIS
VISION OF THE ANGELIC WORLD:
TO WHICH ARE ANNEXED
THE TRUE-BORN ENGLISHMAN,
A S A T I *R E;
AND
A POLITICAL DISSERTATION,
ENTITLED
THE ORIGINAL POWER OF THE PEOPLE OF ENGLAND
EXAMINED AND ASSERTED.
VOL. HI.
LONDON:
Printed at the ILogojjrapitc prefe;
AND SOLDBY
J. Walter, No. 169, Piccadilly, opposite Old Bond Street.
M.DCC.XC.
5Ei
j
i!
tie ex
5 not
'itter
%i
Ootal;
Ua
Kti .
55 they
^ (
V
&4,
PREFACE
TO THI
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
O F
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
AS the design of every thing is faid to
be first in the intention, and last in
the execution; so I come now to acknow-
ledge to my Reader, that the present work
is not merely the product of the two first
volumes; but the two first volumes may
rather be called the product of this. The
fable is always made for the moral, not the
moral for the fable.
I have heard, that the envious and ill-dis-
posed part of the world have raised some
objections against the two first volumes, on
pretenc?, for want of a better reason, that,
as they fay, thw story is feigned,—that the
names are borrowed,—and that it is all a
romance; that there never was any such
man, or place, or circumstances in any
man's life; that it is all formed and em-
Vol. III. a bellished
ii PREFACE.
bellished by invention, to impose upon the
world:
I Robinson Crusoe, being at this time in
perfect and found memory, (thanks be to
God therefore) do hereby declare, their ob-
jection is an invention, scandalous in design,
and false in fact; and do affirm, that the
story, though allegorical, is also historical;
and .that it is the beautiful representation of
a life of unexampled misfortunes; and of a
variety not to be met with in the world;
sincerely adapted to, and intended for the
common good of mankind; and designed,
at first, as it is now farther applied, to the
most serious uses possible.
Farther; that there is a man alive, and
well known too, the actions of whose Use
are the just subject of these volumes, and to
whom all, or most part, of the story most
directly alludes: this may be depended up-
on for truth; and to this I set my name.
The famous history of Don Quixote, a
work which thousands read with pleasure,
to one that knows the meaning of it, was
an emblematic history of, and a just satire
upon the Duke de Medina Sidonia; a per-
son very remarkable at that time in Spain.
To those who knew the original, the figures
were
Were lively, and easily discovered themselves,
as they are also here, and the images were
just; and, therefore, when a malicious, but
foolish writer, in the abundance of his gall,
spoke of the Quixotism of Robinson Crusoe,
as he called it, he mewed evidently that he
knew nothing of what he faid; and perhaps
will be a little startled, when I mall tell
him, that what he meant for a fatire, was
the greatest of panegyrics/,;
Without letting the Reader into a nearer
explication of the matter, I proceed to let
him know, that the happy deductions I
have employed myself to make from all the
circumstances of my story, will abundantly
make him amends for his not having the
emblem explained by the original; and that
when, in my observations and reflections of
any kind in this volume, I mention my so-
litudes and retirements, and allude to the
circumstances of the former story, all those
parts of the story are real facts in my his-
tory, whatever borrowed lights they may be
represented by. Thus the fright and fan-
cies which succeeded the story of the print
of a man's foot, and surprise of the old goat,
and the thing rolling on my bed, and my
jumping out in a fright, are all histories and
a 2 real
real stories; as are likewise the dream of
being taken by messengers, being arrested by
officers, the manner of being driven on more
by the surge of the sea, the ship on fire, the
description of starving, the story of my man
Friday; and many more most material pas-
sages observed here, and on which any reli-
gious reflections are made, are all historical
and true in fact. It is most real, that I had
a parrot, and taught it to call me by my
name; such a servant, a savage, and after-
wards a Christian, rind that his name was
called Friday; and that he was ravished
» from me by force, and died in the hands
that took him, which I represent by being
killed: this is all literally true; and should
I enter into discoveries, many alive can tes-
tify them. His other conduct and assistance
tome, also have just references, in all their
parts, to the helps I had from that faithful
savage, in my real solitudes and disasters.
The i.ory of the bear in the tree, and the
fight with the wolves in the snow, is like-
wise matter of real history: and, in a word,
the Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, are one
whole scheme of a real life of eight and
twenty years, spent in the most wandering,
desolate,
desolate, - and afflicting circumstances, that
ever man went through; and in which I
have lived so long, in a life of wonders, in
continued storms; fought with the worst
kind of favages and man-eaters, by unac-
countable, surprising incidents; fed by mira-
cles, greater than that of ravens; suffered
all manner of violences and oppressions, in-
jurious reproaches, contempt of men, at-
tacks of devils, corrections from heaven, and
oppositions on earth; have had innumer-
able ups and downs in matters of fortune;
been in flavery worse than Turkish; escaped
by an exquisite management, as that in the
story of Xury, and the boat at Sallee; been
taken up at sea in distress; raised again, and
depressed again, and that oftener perhaps in
one man's life, than ever was known be-
fore; shipwrecked often, though more by
land than by sea: in a word, there is not
a circumstance in the imaginary story, but
has its just allusion to a real 'story, and
chimes, part for part, and step for step, with
the inimitable Life of Robinson Crusoe.
In like manner, when, in these Reflec-
tions, I speak of the times and circumstances
pf particular actions done., or incidents
which
which happened in my solitude and island-
life, an impartial reader will be so just to
take it as it is; viz. that it is spoken, or in-
tended of that part of the real story, which
the island-life is a just allusion to; and in
this, the story is not only illustrated, but
the real part I think most justly approved.
For example; in the latter part of this
work, called the Vision, I begin thus:
"When I was in my island kingdom, I
** had abundance of strange notions of my
"feeing apparitions," &c. All these re-
flections are a just history of a state of forced
confinement; which, in my real history,
is represented by a confined retreat in an
island: and it is as reasonable to represent
one kind of imprisonment by another, as it
is to represent any thing that really exists,
by that which exists not. The story of my
fright with something on my bed, was,
word for word, a history of what happened;
and, indeed, all those things received very
little alteration, except what necessarily at-
tends removing the scene from one place to
another.
My observations upon solitude are the
same; and I think I need sey no more, than
that
that the fame remark is to be made upon all
the references made here to the tranfactions
of the former volumes; and the Reader is
desired to allow for it as he goes on.
Besides all this, here is the just and only
good end of all parable, or allegoric history,
brought to pass, viz. for moral and religious
improvement. Here is invincible patience
recommended, under the worst of misery;
indefatigable application and undaunted re-
solution, under the greatest and most dis-
couraging circumstances; I fay, these are
recommended, as the only way to work
through those miseries; and their success
appears sufficient to support the most dead-
hearted creature in the world.
Had the common way of writing a man's
private history been taken, and I had given
you the conduct or life of a man you knew,
and whose misfortunes and infirmities, per-
haps you had sometimes unjustly triumphed
over, all I could have said, would have yield-
ed no diversion, and perhaps scarce have ob-
tained a reading, or, at best, no attention;
the teacher, like a greater, having no ho-
nour in his own country. Facts that are
formed to touch the mind, must, be done a
great
great way off, and by somebody never heard!
of: even the miracles of the blessed Saviour
of the world, suffered scorn and contempt,
when it was reflected, that they were done
by the carpenter's son; one, whose family
and original they had a mean opinion of,
and whose brothers and sisters were ordi-
nary people like themselves.
There even yet remains a question, whe-
ther the instruction of these things will take
place, when you are supposing the scene,
which is placed so far off, had its original
so near home.
But I am far from being anxious about
that, seeing I am well assured, that if the
obstinacy of our age mould shut their ears
against the just reflections made in this vo-
lume, upon the transactions taken notice of
in the former, there will come an age, when
the minds of men shall be more flexible;
the prejudices of their fathers shall have no
place; and when the rules of virtue and re-
ligion, justly recommended, mail be more
gratefully accepted than they may be now;
that our children may rife up in judgment
against their fathers, and one generation be
edified by the fame teaching which another
generation had despised.
c ROBINSON CRUSOE. -
CHAP. I
OF SOLITUDE.
fjow uncapable to make us Happy, and how unqualified to
a Christian Life.
IMUST have made very little use of my solitary and
wandering years, if, after such a scene of wonders,
as my lise may be justly called, I had nothing to fay,
and had made no observations which might be useful
and instructing, as well as pleafant and diverting to
those that are to come after me.
I have frequently looked back, you may be sure, and
that with different thoughts, upon the notions of along
tedious lise of solitude, which I have represented to the
world, and of which you must have formed some ideas,
from the lise of a man in an island. Sometimes I have
wondered how it could be supported, especially for the
first years, when the change was violent and imposed,
and nature unacquainted with any thing like it. Some-
times I have as much wondered, why it should be any
Vol. III. A . grievance
grievance or affliction; seeing, upon the whole view of
the stage of lise which we act upon in this world, it
seems to me, that lise in general is, or ought to be, but
one univerfal act of solitude: but I sind, it is natural
to judge of happiness by its suiting or not suiting our
own inclinations. Every thing revolves in our minds
by innumerable circular motions, all centering in our-
selves. We judge of prosperity and of affliction, joy
and sorrow, poverty, riches, and all the various scenes
of lise; I fay, we judge of them by ourselves: thither
we bring them home, as meats touch the palate, by
which we try them; the gay part of the world, or the
heavy part, it is all one; they only call it pleafant or
unpleafant as they suit our taste.
The world, I fay, is nothing to us, but as it is more
or less to our relish: all reflection is carried home, and
.our dear self is, in one respect, the end of living. Hence
man may be properly faid to be alone in the midst of the
crouds and hurry of men of business: all the reflections
which he makes, are to himself; all that is pleafant, he
embraces for himself; all that is irksome and grievous,
is tasted but by his own palate.
What are the sorrows of other men to us? And what
their joy? Something we may be touched indeed with,
bv the power of sympathy, and a secret turn of the af-
sections; but all the solid reflection is directed to our-
selves: our meditations' are all solitude in persection ,-
our passions are all exercised in retirement; we love, we
hate, we covet, we enjoy, all in privacy and solitude:
all that we communicate of those things to any other,
is but for their assistance in the pursuit of our desires;
the end is at home; the enjoyment, the contemplation,
is.
OP ROBINSON CRUSOE. 3
is all solitude and retirement; it is for ourselves we en-
joy, and for ourselves we suffer.
What then is the silence of lise? And how is it af-
flicting, while a man has the voice of his foul, to speak
to God and to himself? That man can never want con-
verfation, who is company for himself; and he that can-
not converse profitably with himself, is not fit for any
converfation at all: and yet there are many good rea-
sons why a lise of solitude, as solitude is now under-
stood by the age, is hot at all suited to the lise of a
Christian, or of a wise man. Without enquiring, there-
fore, into the advantages of solitude, and how it is to
be managed, I desire to be heard concerning what soli-
tude really is; for I must confess, I have different no-
tions about it, far from those which are generally under-
stood in the world, and far from all those notions, up-
on which those people in the primitive times, and since
that also, acted; who separated themselves into defarts or
unfrequented places, or consined themselves to cells,
monasteries, and the like; retired, as they call it, from
the world: all which, I think, have nothing of the thing
I call solitude in them, nor do they answer any of the
true ends of solitude, much less those ends which are
pretended to be sought after, by those who have talked
most of those retreats from the world.
As for consinement in an island, if the scene was
placed there for this very end, it were not at all amiss.
I must acknowledge, there was consinement from the
enjoyments of the world, and restraint from human so-
ciety: but all that was no solitude; indeed no part of it
was so, except that which, as in my story, I applied to
the contemplation of sublime things, and that was but
A 2 a very
a very little, as my readers well know, compared to "what
a length of years my forced retreat lasted.
It is evident then, that as I see nothing but what is
far from being retired, in the forced retreat of an island,
the thoughts being in no composure suitable to a re-
tired condition, no, not for a great while; so I can af-
firm, that I enjoy much more solitude in the middle of
the greatest collection of mankind in the world, I mean
at London, while I am writing this, than ever I could
fay I enjoyed in eight and twenty years consinement to
a desolate island.
I have heard of a man, that upon some extraordinary
disgust which he lock at the unsuitable converfation of
some of his nearest relations, whose society he could not
avoid, suddenly resolved never to speak any more: he
kept his resolution most rigorously many years; not all
the tears or entreaties of his friends,—no, not of his
wise and children, could prevail with him to break his
silence. It seems, it was their ill behaviour to him at
first, that was the occasion of it; for they treated him
with provoking language, which frequently put him in-
to indecent pasiions, and urged him to rash replies; and
he took this severe way to punish himself for being pro-
voked, and to punish them for provoking him : but the
severity was unjustifiable; it ruined his family, and
broke up his house. His wife could not bear it, and
after endeavouring, by all the ways possible, to alter his
rigid silence, went first away from him, and afterwards
away from herself, turning melancholy and distracted:
his Children separated, some one way, and some another
way; and only one daughter, who loved her father above
all the rest, kept with him, tended him, talked to him
by signs, and lived almost dumb like her father, near
twenty-
twenty-nine years with him; till being very fick, and
in a high sever, delirious as we call it, or light-headed,
he broke his silence, not knowing when he did it, and
spoke, though wildly at first. He recovered of the ill-
ness afterwards, and frequently talked with his daughter,
but not much, and very seldom to any body else.
Yet this man did not live a silent lise with respect to
himself: he read continually; and wrote down many
excellent things, which deserved to have appeared in the
world; and was often heard to pray to God in his so-
litudes very.audibly, and with great servency: but the
injustice which his rash vow (if it was a vow) of silence
was to his family, and the length he carried it, was so
unjustisiable another way, that I cannot fay his instruc-
tions could have much force in them.
Had he been a single man; had he wandered into a
strange country or place, where the circumstance of it
had been no scandal, his vow of silence might have been
as commendable, and,'as I think, much more than any
of the primitive Christians vows of solitude were; whose
retreat into the wilderness, and giving themselves up to
prayer and contemplation, shunning human society, and
the like, was so much esteemed by the primitive fathers,
and from whence our religious houses, and orders of
religious people were first derived.
The Jews faid, John the Baptist had a devil, because
he affected solitude and retirement; and they took it
from'an old proverb they had in the world at that time,
That every solitary person must be an angel or a devil.
A man under a vow of perpetual silence, if but rigo-
rously observed, would be, even on the Exchange of
London, as persectly retired from the world, as a her-
mit in his cell, or a solitaire in the Defarts of Arabia;
A 3 and
and if he is able to observe it rigorously, may reap all
the advantages of those solitudes, without the unjustifi-
able part of such a lise, and without the austerities of a
lise among brutes: for the foul of a man, under a due
and regular conduct, is as capable of reserving itself, or
separating itself from the rest of human society, in the
midst of a throng, as it is when banished into a desolate
island.
The truth is, that all those religious, hermit-like so-
litudes, which men value themselves so much upon, are
but an acknowledgment of the desect or impersection of
our resolutions, our incapacity to bind ourselves to
needful restraints, or rigorously to observe the limita-
tions we have vowed ourselves to observe: or take it
thus, That the man first resolving, that it would be his
selicity to be entirely given up to conversing only with
Heaven and heavenly things, to be separated to prayer
and good works; but being sensible how ill such a lise
will agree with flesh and blood, causes his foul to com-
mit a rape upon his body, and to carry it by force, as it
were, into a defart, or into a religious retirement, from
whence it cannot return, and where it is impossible for
it to have any converse with mankind, other than with
such as are under the fame vows, and the fame banifli-
ment. The folly of this is evident many ways.
I shall bring it home to the case in hand thus: Chris-
tians may, without doubt, come to enjoy all the desi-
rable advantages of solitude, by a strict retirement and
exact government of their thoughts, without any of
these formalities, rigours, and apparent mortisications,
which, I think, I justly call a rape upon human nature;
and consequently without the breach of Christian du-
ties, which they necessarily carry with them,—such as
rejecting
rejecting Christian communion, facraments, ordinances,
and the like.
There is no need of a wilderness to wander among
wild beasts, no necessity of a cell on the top of a moun-
tain, or a desolate island in the sea; if the mind be con-
fined,—if the soul be truly master of itself, all is fase;
for it is certainly and effectually master of the body, and
and what signify retreats, especially a forced retreat, as
mine was? The anxiety of my circumstances there, I
can assure you, was such for a time, as were very unsuit-
able to heavenly meditations; and even when that was
got over, the frequent alarms from the favages, put the
foul sometimes to such extremities of sear and horror,
that all manner of temper was lost, and I was no more
fit for religious exercises, than a fick man is fit for la-
bour.
Divine contemplations require a composure of soul,
uninterrupted by any extraordinary motions or disorders
of the passions; and this, I fay, is much easier to be ob-
tained and enjoyed in the ordinary course of lise, than
in monkish cells and forcible retreats.
The business is to get a retired foul, a frame of mind
truly elevated above the world, and then we may be
alone whenever we please, in the greatest apparent hurry
of business or company. If the thoughts are free, and
rightly unengaged, what imports the employment the
body is engaged in? Does not the foul act by a differing
agency, and is not the body the servant, nay, the slave
of the soul? Has the body hands to act, or seet to walk,
or tongue to speak, but by the agency of the under-
standing and will, which are the two deputies of the
foul's power? Are not all the affections, and all the
passions which so univerfally agitate, direct, and possess
A 4 the
the body,—are they not all seated in the soul? What have
we to do then, more or less, but to get the foul into a
superior direction and elevation? There is no need to
prescribe the tongue to this or that situation; the hands,
or seet, or tongue, can no more disturb the retirement
of the foul, than a man having money in his pocket,
can take it out, or pay it, or dispose of it by his hand,
without his own knowledge.
It is the foul's being entangled by outward objects,
that interrupts its contemplation of divine objects;
which is the excuse for these solitudes, and makes the
removing the body from those outward objects seem-
ingly necessary: but what is there of religion in all this?
For example, a vicious inclination removed from the
object, is still a vicious inclination, and contracts the-
fame guilt, as if the object were at hand: for if, as our
Saviour fays, He that looketh on a woman to lust after
her, that is, to defire her unlawfully, has committed the
adultery already; so it will be no inverting our SavU
our's meaning to fay, That he that thinketh of a woman
to defire her unlawfully, has committed adultery with
her already, though he has not looked on her, or has
not seen her at that time; and how, mall this thinking
of her be removed by transporting the body? It must
be removed by the change in the soul, by bringing the
mind to be above the power or reach of the allurement,
and to an absolute mastership over the wicked defire;
otherwise the vicious defire remains, as the force re-*
mains in gunpowder, and will exert itself whenever
touched with the fire.
- All motions to good or evil, are in the foul: outward
objects are but second causes; and though it is true,
separating the. man from the object, is the way to make
any
any act impossible to be committed; yet, where the guilt
does not lie in the act only, but in the intention or de-
fire to commit it, that separation is nothing at all, and
effects nothing at all. There may be as much adul-
tery committed in a monastery, where a woman never
comes, as in any other place, and perhaps is so. The ab-
staining from evil therefore depends not only and whol-
ly upon limiting, or consining the man's actions, but
upon the man's limiting and consining his desires; see-
ing to desire to sin, is to sfn; and the fact which we
would commit, if we had opportunity, is really com-
mitted, and must be answered for as such. What then
is there of religion, I fay, in forced retirements from
the world, and vows of silence or solitude? They are all
nothing; it is a retired foul that alone is fit for contem-
plation; and it is the conquest of our desires to sin, that
is the only human preservative against sin.
It was a great while after I came into human society,
that I selt some regret at the loss of the solitary hours
and retirements I had in the island; but when I came
to reflect upon some ill-spent time, even in my soli-
tudes, I found reason to see what I have faid above;
that a man may sin alone several ways, and sind subject
of repentance for his solitary crimes, as well as he may
in the midst of a populous city.
The excellency of any state of lise consists in its free-
dom from crime; and it is evident to our experience,
that some society may be better adapted to a rectitude
- of lise, than a complete solitude and retirement: some
have faid, that next to no company, good company is
best; but it is my opinion, that next to good company,
no company is best; for as it is certain, that no com-
pany
10
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
pany is better than bad company, so it is as certain, that
good company is much better than no company.
In solitude a man converses with himself; and, as a
wise man faid, he is not always sure that he does not
converse with his enemy; but he that is in good com-
pany, is sure to be always among his friends.
The company of religious, good men, is a constant
restraint from evil, and an encouragement to a religious
lise. You have there the beauty of religion exemplisi-
ed; you never want as well instruction in, as example
for, all that is good ; you have a contempt of evil things
constantly recommended, and the affections moved to
delight in what is good, by hourly imitation. If we are
alone, we want all these; and are led right, or led wrong,
as the temper of the mind, which is sometimes too
much the guide of our actions, . as well as thoughts,
happens to be constituted at that time. Here we have
no restraint upon our thoughts, but from ourselves ; no
restraint upon our actions, but from our own consci-
ences; and nothing to assist us in our mortisications of
our desires, or in directing our desires, but our own re-
flections ; which, after all, may often err,—often be
prepossessed.
If you would retreat from the world then, be sure to
retreat to good company; retreat to good books, and
retreat to good thoughts; these will always assist one
another, and always join to assist him that flies to them
in his meditations, direct him to just reflections, and
mutually encourage him against whatever may attack
him from within him, or without him: whereas, to
xetreat from the world, as it is called, is to retreat from
good men, who are our best friends: besides, to retreat,
as we call it, to an entire, persect solitude, is to retreat
5 from
11
from the public worship of God, to forfake the assem-
blies; and, in a word, is unlawful, because it obliges
us to abandon those things which we are commanded
to do.
Solitude therefore, as I understand by it, a retreat
from human society, on a religious or philosophical ac-
count, is a mere cheat: it neither can answer the end
it proposes, or qualify us for the duties of religion,
which we are commanded to perform; and is, there-
fore, both irreligious in itself, and inconsistent with a
Christian lise many ways. Let the man that would
reap the advantage of solitude, and that understands the
meaning of the word, learn to retire into himself: seri-
ous meditation is the essence of solitude; all the retreats
into woods and defarts are short of this; and though a
man, that is persectly master of this retirement, may be
a little in danger of quietism, that is to fay, of an affec-
tation of reservedness, however it may be a slander upon
him in the main, he may make himself amends upon the
world, by the blessed calm of his foul, which they per-
haps who appear more chearful, may have little of.
Retiring into defarts, in the first days of religion, and
into abbeys and monasteries since, what have they been?
Or what have they been able to do towards purchasing
the retirement I speak of? They have indeed been
things to be reckoned among austerities, and acts of
mortisication, and so far might be commendable: but I
must insist upon it, that a retired soul is not affected
with them, any more than with the hurries of company
and society. When the soul of a man is powerfully
engaged in any particular subject, it is like that of St.
Paul, wrapped up, whether it be into the third Heaven,
pr to any degree of lower exaltation: such a man may
well
well fay with the Apostle above, Whether I was in tha
body, or out of the body, I cannot tell. It was in such
a wrapped up state, that I conceived what I call my
Vision of the Angelical World; of which I have here
subjoined a very little part.
Is it rational to believe, that a mind exalted so far
above the state of things with which we ordinarily con-
verse, should not be capable of a separation from them;
which, in a word, is the utmost extent of solitude? Let
such never afflict themselves, that they cannot retreat
from the world: Let them learn to retreat in the world,
and they shall enjoy a persect solitude; as complete, to
all intents and purposes, as if they were to live in the
cupola of St. Paul's, or as if they were to live upon the
top of Cheviot Hill, in Northumberland.
They that cannot be retired in this manner, must not
only retire from the world, but out of the world, before
they can arrive at any true solitude. Man is a creature
so formed for society, that it may not only be faid, that
it is not good for him to be alone, but it is really im-
possible he should be alone. We are so continually in
need of one another, nay, in such absolute necessity of
assistance from one another, that those who have pre-
tended to give us the lives and manners of the solitaires,
as they call them, who separated themselves from man-
kind, and wandered in the Defarts of Arabia and Lybia,
arc frequently put to the trouble of bringing the angels
down from Heaven to do one drudgery or another for
them; forming imaginary miracles, to make the lise of
a true solitaire possible; sometimes they have no bread,
sometimes no water, for a long time together; and then
a miracle is brought upon the stage, to make them live
so long without food; at other times, they have angels
come
come to be their cooks, and bring them roast meat; to
be their phyficians, to bring them phyfic, and the like:
If St. Hilary comes in his wanderings to the river Nile,
an humble crocodile is brought to carry him over upon
his back; though they do not tell us, whether the cro-
codile asked him to ride, or he asked the crocodile, or
by what means they came to be so familiar with one
another :—And what is all this to the retirement-of the
foul, with which it converses in Heaven, in the midst of
insinite crowds of men, and to whom the nearest of
other objects is nothing at all, any more than the ob-
jects of mountains and deserts, lions and leopards, and
the like, were to those that banished themselves to
Arabia?
Besides, in a state of lise, where circumstances are
easy, and provision for the necesfaries of lise, which the
best faint cannot support the want of, is quietly and
plentifully made,—has not the mind insinitely more
room to withdraw from the world, than when, at best,
it must wander for its daily food, though it were but the
product of the field?
Let no man plead that he wants retirement; that he
loves solitude, but cannot enjoy it, because of the em-
barrassment of the world; it is all delusion: if he loves
it, if he defires it, he may have it when, where, and as
often as he pleases; let his hurries, his labours, or his
afflictions be what they will: it is not the want of an
opportunity for solitude, but the want of a capacity of
being solitary, that is-the case in all the circumstances
of lise.
I knew a poor, but good man, who, though he was a
labourer, was a man of sense and religion; who being
hard at work with some other men, removing a great
quantity
14
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
quantity of earth, to raise a bank against the side of A
pond, was one day so out of himself, and wrapt up in
a persect application of his mind to a very serious sub-
ject, that the poor man drove himself and his wheel-
barrow into the pond, and could not recover himself,
till help came to him. This man was certainly capable
of a persect solitude, and perhaps really enjoyed it; for,
as s have often heard him fay, he lived alone in the
world; had no family to embarrass his affections; his
low circumstances placed him below the observation of
the upper degrees of mankind; and his reserved medi-
tations placed him above the wicked part, who were
those in a sphere equal to himself; among whom, as he
faid, and is most true, it was very hard to find a sober
man, much less a good man; so that he lived really
alone in the world,—applied himself to labour for his
subsistence,—had no other business with mankind, but
for the necessaries of lise, and conversed in Heaven as
effectually, and, I believe, every way as divinely, as St.
Hilary did in the Defarts of Lybia, among the lions
and crocodiles.
If this retirement, which they call solitude, consisted
only of separating the person from the world, that is to
fay, from human society, it were itself a very mean
thing, and would every way as well be supplied, by re-
moving from a place where a man is known, to a place
where he is not known, and there accustom himself to a
retired lise, making no new acquaintance, arid only
making the use of mankind which I have already spoken
of; namely, for convenience, and supply of necessary
food: and I think, of the two, that such a man, or a
man so retired, may have more opportunity to be an
entire
entire recluse, and may enjoy more real solitude, than
a man in a defart. For example:
In the solitude I speak of, a man has no more to do
, for the necessaries of lise, than to receive them from the
hands of those that are to furnish them, and pay them
for so doing; whereas, in the solitude of defarts, and
wandering lives, from whence all our monkish devotion
springs, they had every day their food, such as it was,
to seek, or the load of it to carry; and except where, as
it is faid, they put Providence to the operation of a
miracle, to furnish it, they had frequently difficulties
enough to sustain lise; and, if we may believe history,
many of them were starved to death for mere hunger
or thirst; and as often the latter as the former.
Those that had recourse to these solitudes, merely as
a mortisication of their bodies, as I observed before, and
delivering themselves from the temptations which so- ,
ciety exposed them to, had more room for the pretence
indeed, than those who allege they did it to give up
themselves to prayer and meditation. The first might
have some reason in nature for the fact, as mens tem-
pers and constitutions might lead; some have an inor-
dinate appetite to crime; some addicted by nature to
pne ill habit, some to another; though the Christian re-
ligion does not guide us to those methods of putting a
force upon our bodies, to subdue the violence of inor-
dinate appetite. The blessed Apostle St. Paul, seems
to have been in this circumstance, when he was assault -
ed with what is called in the text, a thorn in the flesh;
be it what it will that is meant there, it is not to my
purpose; but he prayed to the Lord thrice; that was the
first method the Apostle took, and thereby set a pious
example to all those who are assaulted by any tempta-
tion.
tion. He did not immediately fly to austerities and!
bodily mortifications, separating himself from mankind*
or flying into the defart, to give himself up to fasting*
and a retreat from the world, which is the object of all
private snare; but he applied himself by serious prayer,
to him who had taught us to pray, Lead us not into
temptation: and the answer likewise is instructing in
this case; he was not driven out, like Nebuchadnezzar, in-
to thedefart, he wasnotcommanded to retire into the wil-
derness, that he might be free from the temptation; no-
thing less: but the answer was, My grace is sufficient
for thee; sufficient, without the help of artisicial mor-
tisication.
So that even in the case of these forcible mortisica-
tions, they are not required, much less directed, for
helps to meditation; for if meditation could not be
practised benesicially, and to all the intents and pur-
poses for which it was ordained a duty, without flying
from the face of human society, the lise of man would
be very unhappy.
But doubtless the contrary is evident; and all the parts
of a complete solitude are to be as effectually enjoyed,
if we please, and sufficient grace assisting, even in the
most populous cities, among the hurries of conversa-
tion, and gallantries of a court, or the noise and busi-
ness of a camp, as in the Defarts of Arabia and Lybia,
or in the desolate lise of an uninhabited island.
C H A P. II.
ESSAY upon HONESTY.
WHEN I first came home to my own country,
and began to sit down and look back upon the
past circumstances of my wandering state, as you will
in charity suppose I could not but do very often, the
very prosperity T enjoyed, led me most naturally to re-
flect upon the particular steps by which I arrived to it.
The condition I was in, was very happy, speaking of
human selicity; the former captivity I had suffered,
made my liberty sweeter to me; and to find myself
jumped into easy circumstances at once, from a condi-
tion below the common rate of lise, made it still
sweeter.
One time, as I was upon my enquiries into the happy
concurrence of the causes which had brought the event
of my prosperity to pass, as an effect, it occurred to my
thoughts, how much of it all depended, under the dis-
position of Providence, upon the principle of honesty,.
which I met with in almost all the people whom it was
my lot to be concerned with in my private and particu-
lar affairs ; and I, that had met with such extraordinary
instances of the knavery and villainy ofmens natures in
other circumstances, could not but be something taken
up with the miracles of honesty that I had met with
among the several people I had had to do with, I mean
those whom I had more particularly to do with in the
Vol..III. B articles
articles of my liberty, estate, or effects, which sell into*
their hands.
I began with my most trusty and faithful widow, the
captain's wise, with whom I first went to the coast of
Africa, and to whom I entrusted 200I. being the gain
I had made in my first adventures to Guinea, as in the
first volume, page 19, appears.
She was left a widow, and in but indifferent circum-
stances; but when I sent to her so far off as the Brasils,
where I was in such a condition, as she might have rea-
sonably bejieved I should never have been able to come
myself; and if I had, might be in no condition to re-
cover it of he"r; and having myself nothing to shew
tinder her hand for the trust; yet she was so just, that
she sent the full value of what I wrote for, being one
hundred pounds; and to shew, as far as in her lay, her
sincere, honest concern for my good, put in, among
'many necessary things which I did not write for, I fayr
put in two bibles, besides other good books, for my
reading and instruction, as she faid afterwards, in Po-
pish and Heathen countries, where I might chance to-
fall. Honesty not only leads to discharge every debt,
and every trust to our neighbour, so far as is justly to*
- be demanded, but an honest man acknowledges himself
debtor to all mankind, for so much good to be done for
them, whether for soul or body, as Providence puts an
opportunity into his hands to do. In order to discharge
this debt, he studies continually for opportunity to do
all the acts of kindness and benesicence that it is possi-
ble for him to do; and though very sew consider it, a
man is not a completely honest man, that does not do
this.
Upoa
tjpon this consideration, I question much, whether
a covetous, narrow, stingy man, as we call him, one
Who gives himself up to himself, as born for himself
only, and who declines the advantages and opportuni-
ties of doing good, I mean extremely so, I fay, I much
question whether such a man can be an honest man;
stay, I am fatisfied he cannot be an honest man; for
though he may pay every man his own, and be just, as
he thinks it, to a farthing, yet this is part of the justice
which, in the common phrase, is the greatest injustice.
This is one meaning of that faying, Summum jus, sum-
ma injuria.
To pay every man his own, is the common law of
honesty; but to do good to all mankind, as far as you
are able, is the Chancery law of honesty; and though
in common law or justice, as I call it, mankind can
have no claim upon us, if we do but just pay our debts,
yet in Heaven's chancery they will have relief against
Us; for they have a demand in equity of all the good
to be done them that it is in our power to do; and
this Chancery Court, or Court of Equity, is held in
every man's breast; it is a true Court of Conscience,
and every man's conscience is a Lord Chancellor to
him. If he has not performed,—if he has not paid this
debt, conscience will decree him to pay it, on the pe-
nalty of declaring him a dishonest man, even in his own.
opinion; and if he still refuses to comply, will proceed
by all the legal steps of a Court of Conscience process,
till at last it will issue out a writ of rebellion against
him, and proclaim him a rebel to nature and his own
conscience.
But this is by the way, and is occasioned by the ob-
servations I have made of many people, who think they
B a are
arc mighty honest is they pay their debts, and owe no
man any thing, as they call it; at the fame time, like
true misers, who lay up all for themselves, they think
nothing of the debt of charity and benesicence, which
20 SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
Rich men are their Maker's freeholders; they enjoy
freely the estate he has given them the possession of,
with the rents, profits, and emoluments, but charged
with a see-farm rent to the younger children of the fa-
mily; namely, the poor: or, if you will, you may call
them God's copyholders, paying a quit-rent to the
Lord of the Manor; which quit-rent he has assigned
for the use of mankind, to be paid in a constant dis-
charge of all good offices, friendly, kind, and generous
actions; and he that will not pay his rent, cannot be an
honest man, any more than he that would not pay his
other just debts. %
The Scripture concurs exactly with this notion of
mine; the miser is called by the Prophet Ifaiah, ' a vile
person, one that works iniquity, and practises hypocri-
sy, and utters errors before the Lord :' Isaiah xxxii. 6.
How does this appear? The very next words explain
it. 'He makes empty the foul of the hungry, and he
will cause the drink of the thirsty to fail.' But lest this
should seem a strained text, let us read on, both before
and after: Verse 5. 'The vile person shall no more be
called liberal, nor the churl faid to be bountiful.' Here
the opposite to a liberal man is called a vile person, and
the opposite to a bountiful man is called a churl; and
in the verse following, the fame vile person, as opposed
to the liberal man, is called a wicked man; and the
liberal man is set up as a pattern for us all, in opposi-
tion to the vile, churlish, covetous wretch. Verse 7, 8.
'The
* The instruments also of the churl are evil: he deviseth
Wicked devices, to destroy the poor with lying words,
even when the needy speaketh right: but the liberal
deviseth liberal things ; and by liberal things shall he
stand.'
In a word, I think my opinion justified by this text,
that a churl, a morose, four disposition,—a covetous,
avaricious, selfish principled man, cannot be an honest
man; he does not pay the common debt of mankind
to one another, nor the see-farm or quit-rent of his
estate to God, who is his great landlord, or Lord of the
Manor, and who has charged the debt upon him. I
know the miser will laugh at this notion; but I speak
my own opinion, let it go as far as reason will carry it.
I come back to the examples I was giving in my
private case. As the widow was honest to me, so was
my good Portuguese captain; and it is this man's ori-
ginal honesty, that makes me speak of the honest man's
debt to mankind. It was honestv, a pjencrous honesty,
that led the poor man to take me up at sea; which, if
if he had neglected, my boy Xury and I had perished
together. It was no debt to me in particular, but a
debt to mankind, that he paid in that action: and yet
he could not have been an honest man without it. You
will fay, if he had gone away and left me, he had been
barbarous and inhuman, and deserved to be left to
perish himself in the like distress: but I fay, this is not
all the case; custom, and the nature of the thing, leads
us to fay it would have been hard-hearted and inhu-
human; but conscience will tell any man, that it was
a debt, and he could not but be condemned by the
court of conscience in his own breast, if he had omit-
ted it; nay, in the fight of Heaven he had tacitly killed
B 3 us,
92
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
us, and had been as guilty of our death as a murderer;
for he that refuses to fave a lise thrown into his hands,
takes it away; and if there is a just retribution in a,
future state,—if blood is at all required there, the blood
of every man, woman, or child, whom we could have
faved, and did not, shall be reckoned to us at that day,
as spilt by our own hands: for leaving lise in a posture
in which it must inevitably perish, is, without question,
causing it to perish, and will be called so then, by
whatever gilded, dressed-up words we may express and
conceal it now.
But I go farther, for my Portuguese went farther
with me; he not only paid the debt he owed to Hea-,
ven, in faving our live*, but he went farther ; he took
nothing of what I had, though, in the common right
of the sea, it was all his due for falvage, as the failors
call it; but he gave me the value of every thing, bought
my boat, which he might have turned adrift,—my boy
Xury, who was not my stave by any right, or if he
had, became free from that time; and the lise of Xury,
which he had faved, as a servant, was his own; yet he
bought every thing of me for the full value, and took
nothing of me, no, not for my passage.
Here was the liberal man devising liberal things, and
the sequel made good the promissory text: For by these
liberal things, the honest, liberal man, might be truly
fajd to stand. When I came to reward him, at my
coming to Lisbon, to sell my estate at the Brasils, then,
he being poor and reduced, and not able to pay even
what he owed me, I gave him a reward sufficient to
make his circumstances easy all his lise after.
The bounty of this man to me, when first he took
rr.e up out of the sea, was the highest and most com-
pleat
pleat act of honesty,—a generous honesty, laying hold
of an opportunity to do good to an object offered by
the providence of Heaven, and thereby acknowledging
the debt he had to pay to his. Maker, in the persons of
his most distressed creatures.
And here also let me remind my readers of what,
perhaps, they seldom much regard; it is not only a
gift from Heaven to us, to be put in a condition of
doing good, but it is a gift and a favour from Heaven,
to have an opportunity of doing the good we are in a
condition to do; and we ought to close with the op-
portunity, as a particular gift from above, and be as
thankful for it, I fay, as thankful for the occasion of
doing good, as for the ability.
I might mention here the honesty of my sellow-
planter in the Brasils, and of the two merchants and
their*sons, by whose integrity I had my share in the
plantation preserved and taken care of; as also the
honesty of the public treasurer for the church there,
and the like. But I am carried off in my thoughts, to
enlarge upon this noble principle, from the two exam-
ples I have already mentioned, viz. the Guinea cap-
tain's widow, and the Portuguese; and this in particu-
lar, because, since I came to England to reside, J have
met with abundance of disputes about honesty ; espe-
cially in cases where honest men come to be unhappy
men, when they fall into such circumstances as they
cannot be honest, or rather, cannot Ihew the principle
of honesty which is really at the bottom of all their
actions, and which, but for those circumstances, which
entirely difable them, would certainly shew itself in
every branch of their lives. Such men I have too
often seen branded for knaves, by those who, if they
B 4 come
come into the fame condition, would perhaps do tho
fame things, or worse than they may have done.
Both my widow and my Portuguese captain sell in-
to low circumstances, so that they could not make good
to me my money that was in their hands; and yet both
of them shewed to me, that they had not only a prin-
ciple of justice, but of generous honesty too, when the
opportunity was put into their hands to do so.
This put me upon enquiring and debating with my-
self, what this subtle and imperceptible thing, called
honesty, is, and how it might be described ; setting
down my thoughts, at several times, as objects pre-
sented, that posterity, if they think them worth while,
may find them both useful and diverting. And first, I
thought it not improper to lay down the conditions
upon which I am to enter upon that description, that I
may not be mistaken, but allowed to explain what I
mean by honesty, before I undertake to enter upon any
discourses or observations about it.
And to come directly to it, for I would make as sew
preambles as possible, 1 shall crave the liberty, in all
the following discourse, to take the term honesty, as I
think all English expressions ought to be taken, name-
ly honesttrly, in the common acceptation of the word,
the general vulgar sense of it, without any circumlocu-
tions or double entendres whatsoever; for I defire to
speak plainly and sincerely. Indeed, as I have no ta-
lent at hard words, so I have no great veneration for
etymologies, especially in English: but since I am
treating of honejly, I desire to do it, as I fay above,
honestly, according to the genuine signification of the
thing.
Neither
Neither shall I examine, whether honesty be a natu-
ral or an acquired virtue,—whether a habit or a qua-
lity,—whether inherent or accidental: all the philoso-
phical part of it I chuse to omit.
Neither shall I examine it as it extends to spirituals,
and looks towards religion. If we enquire about; ho-
nesty towards God, I readily allow all men are born
knaves, villains, thieves and murderers, and nothing
but the restraining power of Providence withholds us
from shewing ourselves such on all occasions.
No man can be just to his Maker; if he could, all
our creeds and consessions, litanies and supplications,
were ridiculous contradictions and impertinencies,—
inconsistent with themselves, and with the whole tenor
of human lise.
In all the ensuing discourse therefore, I am to be
understood of honesty, as it regards mankind among
themselves,—as it looks from one man to another, in.
those necessary parts of man's lise, his converfation and
negotiation, trusts, friendships, and all the incidents of
human affairs.
The plainness I profess, both in stile and method,
seems to me to have some suitable analogy to the sub-
ject, honesty; and therefore, is absolutely necessary to be
strictly followed: and I must own, I am the better re-
conciled, on this very account, to a natural infirmity
of homely plain writing, in that I think the plainness
of expression which I am condemned to, will give no
difadvantage to my subject; since honesty shews the
most beautiful, and the more like honesty, when arti-
fice is dismissed, and she is honestly seen by her own
light only: likewise the fame sincerity is required in
(.he reader; and he that reads this essay without honesty,
will
will never understand it right: she must, I fay, be
viewed in her own light. Jf prejudice, partiality, or
private opinions stand in the way, the mart's a reading
knave,—he is not honest to the subject,—and upon
such a one all the labour is lost; this work is of no
use to him; and, by my consent, the bookseller should
give him his money again.
If any man, from his priyate ill-nature, takes excep-
tions at me, poor, wild, wicked Robinson Crusoe, for
prating of such subjects as'this is, and shall call either
my sins or misfortunes to remembrance, in prejudice of
what he reads ; supposing me thereby unqualisied to
desend so noble a subject as this of honesty, or at least
handle it honestly; I take the freedom to tell such, that
those very wild, wicked doings and mistakes of mine,
render me the properest man alive to give warning to
others,—as the man that has been fick is half a physi-
cian. Besides, the consession which I all along make
of my early errors, and which Providence, you see,
found me leisure enough to repent of, and I hope, gave
me assistance to do it effectually, assists to qualify me
for the present undertaking, as well to recommend that
rectitude of foul, which I call honesty to others, as to
warn those who are subject to mistake it, either in
themselves or others: Heaven itself receives those who
sincerely repent, into the fame state of acceptance as if
they had not sinned at all, and so should we also.
They who repent, and their ill lives amend,
Stand next to those who never did offend.
Nor do I think a man ought to be afraid or ashamed
to own and acknowledge his follies and mistakes, but
rather to-think it a debt which honesty obliges him to
pays
pay; besides, our insirmities and errors, to which all
men are equally subject, when recovered from, leave
such impressions behind them, on those who sincerely
repent of them, that they are always the forwardest to
accuse and reproach themselves: no man need advise
them, or lead them; and this gives the greatest disco^
very of the honesty of the man's heart, and sincerity of
principles. Some people tell us, they think they need
riot make any open acknowledgement of their follies,
and it is cruel to exact it of them; that they could ra-?
ther die than submit to it; that their spirits are too
great for it; that they are more afraid to come to such
public consessions and recognitions, than they would
be to meet a cannon-bullet, or to face a,n enemy. But
this is a poor mistaken piece of false bravery; all shame
is cowardice ; as an eminent poet tells us, that all cou-
rage is sear ;—the bravest spirit is best qualisied fora pe-
nitent. It is a strange thing, that we should not be
ashamed to offend, but should be ashamed to repent;
not afraid to fin, but afraid to consess: this very
thought extorted the following lines from a friend qf
mine, with whom I discoursed upon this head:
Among the worst of cowards let him be nam'd,
Who having sinn'd, 's afraid to be asham'd;
And to mistaken courage he's betray'd,
Who having sinn'd, 's asham'd to be afraid.
But to leave the point of courage and cowardice in
our repenting of our offences, I bring it back to the
very point I am upon; namely, that of honesty. A
man cannot be truly an honest man, without acknow-
ledging the mistakes he has made; particularly, with-
out acknowledging the wrong done to his neighbour:
find why, pray, is justice less required in his acknowT
ledgement
28
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
ledgement to his Maker? He then that will be honest,
must dare to consess he has been a knave; for, as above,
speaking of our behaviour to God, we have been all
knaves, and all dishonest; and, if we come to speak
strictly, perhaps it would hold in our behaviour to one
another also: for where is the man, that is not charge-
able by some or other of his neighbours, or by himself,
with doing wrong,—with some oppression or injury,
either of the tongue, or of the hands?
I might enlarge here upon the honesty of the tongue,
a thing some people, who call themselves very honest
men, keep a very slender guard upon: I mean, as to
evil speaking; and of all evil speaking, that worst kind
of it, speaking hard and unjust things of one another. 1
This is certainly intended by the command of God,
which is so express and emphatic, Thou shalt not bear
false witness against thy neighbour; at least that part
which is what we call slander, raising an injurious and
false charge upon the character and conduct of our
neighbour, and spreading it for truth.
But this is not all; that honesty I am speaking of,
respects all detraction, all outrageous assau-lts of the
tongue: reproach is as really a part of dishonesty as
slander; and though not so aggravated in degree, yet
it is the fame in kind.
There is a kind of murder, that may be committed
with the tongue, that is in its nature as cruel as that of
the hand; this can never be the practice of an honest
man; nay, he that practises it cannot be an honest man.
But perhaps I may come to this again ; but I must go
back, to explain myself upon the subject a little farther
in the general, and then you shall hear more of me, as
to the particulars.
OF HONESTY IN GENERAL'.
IHAVE always observed, that however sew the real
honest men are, yet every man thinks himself, and
proclaims himself an honest man. Honesty, like Hea-
ven, has all mens good word, and all men pretend to a
share of it: so general is the claim, that, like a jest
which is spoiled by the repetition, it is grown of no
value for a man to swear by his faith; which is, in its
original meaning, by his honesty, and ought to be
understood so.
Like Heaven too, it is little understood by those who
pretend most to it;—it is too often squared according
to mens private interests, though, at the fame time, the
latitude which some men give themselves, is inconsist-
ent with its nature.
Honesty is a general probity of mind, an aptitude to
act justly and honestly in all cases, religious and civil,
and to all persons, superior or inserior; neither is abi-
lity or difability to act so, any part of the thing itself, in
this sense.
It may be distinguished into justice and equity, or, if
you will, into debt and honour; for both make up but
one honesty.
Exact justice is a debt to all our sellow-creatures;
and honourable, generous justice is derived from that
golden rule, Quod tib'i fieri non vis alterl ne feccris; and
all this put together, makes up honesty: honour indeed
is a higher word for it, hut it is the fame thing; and
—Differs from justice only in the name,
For honesty and honour are the fame.
This
So Serious reflections
This honesty is of so qualifying a nature, that it ii
the most denominative of all possible virtues : an ho-
nest man is the best title that can be given in the world;
all others are empty and ridiculous without it, and no
title can be really scandalous, if this remain. It is the
capital letter by which a man's character will be known*
when private qualities and accomplishments are worm-
eaten by time; without it, a man can neither be a chris-
tian or a gentleman: a man may be a poor honest man j
an unfortunate honest man; but a christian knave, or a
gentleman knave, is a contradiction; a man forseits his
character and his family by knavery, and his escutcheon
ought to have a particular blot, like that of bastardy.
When a gentleman loses his honesty, he ceases to be a
gentleman, commences rake from that minute, and
ought to be used like one.
Honesty has such a general character in the minds of
men, that the worst of men, who neither practise or
pretend to any part of it, will yet value it in others;
no man ever could be so out of love with it, as to de-
sire his posterity should be without it; nay, such is the
veneration all men have for it, that the general blessing
of a father to his son is, Pray God make thee an honest
man.
Indeed, so general is the value of it, and so well
known, that it seems needless to fay any thing in be-
half of it. So far as it is found upon earth, so much of
the first rectitude of nature, and of the image of God,
seems to be restored to mankind.
The greatest mischief which, to me, seems to attend
this virtue, like the thorn about the rose, which pricks
the finger of those who meddle with it, is pride. It is
a hard thing for a man to be very honest, and not to be
5 prou<J
proud of it; and though he who is really honest, has,
as we fay, something to be proud of, yet I take his ho-
nesty to be in a great deal of danger, who, values him-
self too much upon it.
True honesty, if I may be allowed such an expres-
sion, has the least relation to pride of any view in the
world; it is all simple, plain, genuine, and sincere; and
if I hear a man boast of his honesty, I cannot help hav-
ing some sears for him, at least, that it is fickly and
languishing.
Honesty is a little, tender plant, not known to all
who have ikill in simples; thick sowed, as they fay, and
thin come up: it is nice of growth,—it seldom thrives
in a very fat foil, and yet a very poor ground too, is apt
to starve it, 'unless it has taken very good root: when
jt once takes to a piece of ground, it will never be quite
destroyed,—it may be choaked with the weeds of pros-
perity,—and sometimes it is so scorched up with the
droughts of poverty and necessity, that it seems as if it
were quite dead and gone ; but it always revives upon
the least mild weather ; and if some shower of plenty
falls, it makes full reparation for the loss the gardener
had in his crop.
There is an ugly weed, called cunning, which is
very pernicious to it, and which particularly injures it,
by hiding it from our discovery, and making it hard to
find: this is so like honesty, that many a man has been
deceived with it, and have taken one for the other in
the market: nay, I have.heard of some, who have
planted this wild honesty, as we may call it, in their
own ground, have made use of it in their friendships
and dealings, and thought it had been the true plant,
but they always lost credit by it: and that was not the
worst
neither, for they had the loss who dealt with them, and
who chaffered for a counterseit commodity; and we find
many deceived so still, which is the occasion there is
such an outcry about false friends, and about sharping
and tricking in mens ordinary dealings in the world.
This true honesty too, has some little difference in it,
according to the soil or climate in which it grows, and
your simplers have had some disputes about the forts of
it; nay, there have been great heats about the several
kinds of this plant, which grows in different countries;
and some call that honesty, which others fay is not; as
particularly they fay, there is a sort of honesty in my
country, Yorkshire honesty, which differs very much
from that which is found in these southern parts, about
London: then there is a sort of Scots honesty, which
they fay is a meaner sort than that of Yorkshire: and
in New England, I have heard, they have a kind of
honesty, which is worse than the Scotish,and little bet-
ter than wild honesty, called cunning, which I men-
tioned before. On the other hand, they tell us, that
in some parts of Asia, at Smyrna, and at Constantino-
ple, the Turks have a better sort of honesty than any of
us. I am sorry our Turkey Company have not im-
ported some of it, that we might try whether it would
thrive here 6r no. It is a little odd to me, it should
grow to such a persection in Turkey, because it has al-
ways been observed to thrive best, where it is'sowed
with a sort of grain called religion : indeed they never
thrive, in those parts of the world, so well apart as they
do together; and for this reason, I must own, I have
found that Scots honesty, as above, to be of a very good
kind. How it is in Turkey, I know not; for, in all
my
my travels, I never set my foot in the Grand Signior's
dominions.
But to wave allegories, disputes about what is, or is
not honesty, are dangerous to honesty itself; for no
case can be doubtful, which does not border upon the
frontiers of dishonesty; and he that resolves not to be
drowned, had best never come near the brink of the
water.
That man who will do nothing but what is barely
honest, is in great danger. It is certainly just for me
to do every thing the law justifies; but if 1 should only
square my actions by what is literally lawful, I must
throw every debtor, though he be poor, in prison, and
never release him till he has paid the uttermost far-
thing: I must hang every malefactor without mercy,—
I must exact the penalty of every bond, and the for-
seiture of every indenture: in short, I must be uneasy
to all mankind, and make them so to me; and, in a
word, be a very knave too, as well as a tyrant; for
cruelty is not honesty.
Therefore, the sovereign judge of every man's honesty,
has laid us down a general rule, to which all the parti-
culars are resolved, ^tfod tibi fieri non vis, alteri ne fe-
ceris. This is a part of that honesty I am treating of,
and which indeed is the more essential of the two; this
is the test of behaviour, and the grand article to have
recourse to, when laws are silent.
I have heard some men argue, that they are not
bound to any such considerations of the indigence of
persons, as lead to concessions of time, or compositions
with them for debts; that it is all cx gratia, or the ef-
sects of policy; because circumstances lead them to
Vol. III. C , judge
judge it better to take what they can get, than lose the
whole.
Speaking of the letter of the law, I allow that they
may be in the right.
On the other hand, a man who gives a bond for a
debt, pleads, he is answerable for no more than the law
will force him to; that is, he may desend a suit, stand
out to the last extremity, and at last keep out of the
way, so as not to have judgment or execution served
on him; he- may secure his estate from the execution,
as well as his person, and so never pay the debt at all,
and yet, in the eye of the law, be an honest man; and
this part of legal, literal honesty, is supported only by
the other, namely, the cruel part; for really such a man,
speaking in the sense of common justice, is a knave; he
ought to act according to the true intent and meaning
of his obligation, and in the right of a debtor to a cre-
ditor, which is to pay him his money, when it became
due, not stand out to the last, because he cannot be
forced to it sooner.
The laws of the country indeed, allow such actions
as the laws of conscience can by no means allow, as in
this- cafe of the creditor suing for his debt, and the
debtor not paying it till he is forced by law. The ar-
gument made use of to vindicate the morality of such a
practice, stands thus:
If a man trusts me with his money or goods, upon
my common credit, or upon my word, he then takes
me for his money, and depends both upon my ability
and my honesty; but if he comes and demands my
bond, he quits his dependence upon my honesty, and
takes the law for his security; so that the language of
such.an action is, He will lnve a bond, that it may be
in
in his power to make me pay him whether I will or
no; and as for my honesty, he will have nothing to
do with it. What relief then I can have against this
bond, by the fame law to which the person resers him-
self, is as legal an action on my side, as the other man's
suing for his own, is on his.
And thus the letter of the Jaw will ruin the honesty
of both debtor and creditor, and yet both shall be jus-
tisied too.
But if I may give my opinion in this case, neither of
these are the honest man 1 am speaking of; for honesty
does not consist of negatives; and it is not sufficient to
do my neighbour no personal injury, in the strict sense
and letter of the law, but I am bound, where cases and
circumstances make other measures reasonable, to have
such regard to these cases and circumstances, as reason
requires. Thus, to begin with the creditor to the
debtor : reason requires, that where a man is reduced to
extremities, he should not be destroyed for debt; and
what is unreasonable, cannot be honest.
Debt is no capital crime, nor ever was; and starving
men in prison, a punishment worse than the gallows,
seems to be a thing so severe, as it ought not to be in
the power of a creditor to inflict it: the laws of God
never tolerated such a method of treating debtors, as
we have since thought proper, I won't fay honest, to
put in practice: but since the politics of the nation
have left the debtor so much at mercy, by the letter of
the law, it is honest, with respect to the law, to pro-
ceed so; yet compassion is, in this case, thought rea-
sonable: 'Why shouldest thou take his bed from under
him?' fays the text; which implies it is unnatural and
unreasonable.
C % I have
I have heard some men insist upon it, that if a mail
be sued wrongfully at law, he ought rather to submit
to the injury, than to oppose the wrong by the fame
law; and yet I never sound those gentlemen so passive
in matters of law, but they would sue a debtor at law,
if they could not otherwise obtain their right.
I consess, I cannot blame them for the last, but I
blame them for pretending to the first: I am not ar-
guing against recovering a just debt by a just law, where
the person is able, but unwilling to be honest; but I
think, pursuing the debtor to all extremities, to the
turning his wise and children into the street, expressed
in the Scripture, by taking his bed from under him,
and by keeping the debtor in prison, when really he is
not able to pay it, there is something of cruelty in it,
and the honest man, 1 am speaking of, can never do it.
But some may abject, if I must serve all mankind, as
I would be served in like case, then I must relieve every
beggar, and release every poor debtor; for if I was a
beggar, I would be relieved; and if 1 was in prison, I
would be released; and so I must give away all I have.
This is inverting the argument; for the meaning is in
the negative still, Do not to another any thing, or put
no hardship upon another, which you would not allow
to be just, if you were in their case.
Honesty is equity,—every man is Lord Chancellor to
himself,—and if he would consult that principle within
him, would find reason as fair an advocate for his
neighbour as for himself. But I proceed:
OF
i
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ,87
O
OF THE TRIAL OF HONESTY.
NECESSITY makes an honest man a knave; and
if the world was to be the judge, according to the
common received notion, there would not be an ho-
nest poor man left alive.
A rich man is an honest man,—no thanks to him;
for he would be a double knave, to cheat mankind
when he had no need of it: he has no occasion to press
upon his integrity, nor so much as to touch upon the
borders of dishonesty. Tell me of a man, that is a
very honest man, for he pays everybody punctually,
runs into nobody's debt, does no man any wrong:
Very well, what circumstances is he in? Why, he has
a good estate, a sine yearly income, and no business to
do. The Devil must have full possession of this man,
if he should be a knave; for no man commits evil for
the fake of it; even the Devil himself has some farther
design in sinning, than barely the wicked part of it: no
man is so hardened in crimes, as to commit them for
the mere pleasure of the fact; there is always some vice
gratisied; ambition, pride, or avarice, make rich men
knaves,—and necessity, the poor: but to goon with
this rich honest man.—His neighbour, a thriving mer-
chant, and whose honesty had as untainted a character
as he can pretend to, has a rich ship cast-away, or a
factor abroad broke in his debt, and his bills come
back protested, and he fails, is fain to abscond and make
a composition: our rich honest man flies out upon
him presently ;-r-he is a knave, a rogue, and don't pay
C 3 people
people what he owes them, and we should have a law,
That he that runs into debt farther than he is able to
pay, should be hanged, and the like. If the poor man
is laid hold on by some creditor, and put in prison;
aye, there let him lie, he deserves it; it will be an ex-
ample to keep others from the like; and now, when all
is done, this broken merchant may be as honest a man
as the other.
You fay you are an honest man,—how do you know
it? Did you ever want bread, and had your neighbour's
loaf in your keeping, and would starve rather than eat
it? Was you ever arrested, and not being able, by your-
self or friends, to make peace with your plaintiff, and at
the fame time having another man's money in your
cash chest, committed to your keeping, suffered your-
self to be carried to gaol,. rather than break bulk, and
break in upon your trust? God himself has declared,
That the power of necessity is irresistible, and that so,
as to our integrity, that he has bid us not despise the
thief that steals in such a case; not that the man is less
a thief, or the fact less dishonest: but the text is most
remarkably worded for instruction, in this point;—.
Don't you despise the man; but remember, if you
were driven to the fame exigence, you would be the
fame man, and do the fame thing, though now you
fancy your principle so good ; therefore, whatever his
crime may be, as to God, don't reproach him with it
here; but you, that think you stand, take heed least
you fall.
I am of the opinion,' that I could state a circum-
stance, in which there is not one man in the world
would be honest: necessity is above the power of hu-
man nature; and for Providence to suffer man to fall
into
into that necessity, is to suffer him to sin; because na-
ture is not furnished with power to desend itself, nor is
grace itself able to fortify the mind against it.
What shall we fay to five men in a boat at sea, with-
out provision, calling a council together, and resolving
to kill one of themselves for the others to seed on, and
eat him? "With what face could the four look up, and
crave a blessing on that meat? With what heart give
thanks after it? And yet this has been done by honest
men; and, I believe the honestest man in the world
might be forced to it: yet here is no manner of pre-
tence, but necessity, to palliate the crime. If it be
argued, it was the loss of one man to fave the four, it
is answered, But what authority to make him die to
fave their lives r How came the man to owe them such
a debt? It was robbery and murder; it was robbings
him of his lise, which was his property, to preserve
mine; it is murder, by taking away the lise of an in-
nocent man; and, at best, it was doing evil that good
may come, which is expressly forbidden. .
But there is a kind of equity pleaded in this cafe;
generally when men are brought to such a pass, they
cast lots who ssiall be the man, and the voluntary con-
sent of the party makes it lawful, God himself being
supposed to determine who shall be the man, which I
deny; for it is in no man's power legally to consent to
such a lot; no man has a right to give away his own
lise; he may forseit it to the law, and loose it; but that
is a crime against himself, as well as against the law;
and the four men might, by our law, have been tried
and hanged for murder. A.U that can be faid is, that
necessity makes the highest crimes lawful; and things
evil in their own naturt, are made practicable by it.
C 4 From
40
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
From these extremes of necessity, we come to lighter
degrees of it; and so let us bring our horrest man to
some exigencies. He would not wrong any man of a
farthing; he could not sleep if he should be in any-
body's debt, and he cannot bean honest man that can.
That we may see now, whether this man's honesty
lies any deeper than his neighbour's, turn the scale of
his fortune a little: his father left him a good estate,
but here comes some relations, and they trump up a
title to his lands, and serve ejectments upon his tenants;
and so the man gets into trouble, hurry of business,
and the law: the extravagant charges of the Jaw sink
him of all his ready money, and his rents being stop-
ped, the first breach he makes upon his honesty, (that
is, by his former rules) he goes to a friend to borrow
money, tells him this matter will be over he hopes
quickly, and he shall have his rents to receive, and then
he will pay him again; and really he intends to do so:
but here comes a difappointment,—the trial comes on,
and he is cast, and his title to the estate proves desec-
tive; his father was cheated, and he not only loses the
estate, but is called upon for the arrears of the rent he
has received; and, in short, the man is undone, and
has not a penny to buy bread, or help himself; and be-
sides this, cannot pay the money he borrowed.
Now, turn to his neighbour, the merchant, whom
he had so loudly called knave, for breaking in his trade:
he by this time has made up with his creditors, and got
abroad again; and he meets him in the street in his de-
jected circumstances : Well, fays the merchant, and
why don't you pay my cousin, your old neighbour, the
money you borrowed of him? Truly, fays he, because
I have lost all my estate, and cannot pay; nay, I have
nothing
nothing to live on. Well, but, returns the merchant,
was not you a knave to borrow money, and now can-
not pay it? Why truly, fays the gentleman, when I
borrowed it, I really designed to be honest, and did hot
question but I should have my estate again, and then I
had been able also, and would have paid him to a
penny; but it has proved otherwise; and though I
would pay him, if I had it, yet I am not able. Well,
but, fays the merchant again, did you not call me
knave, though I lost my estate abroad, by unavoidable
difasters, as you have lost your's at home f Did you
not upbraid me, because I could not pay? I would
have paid everybody, if I could, as well as you. Why
truly, fays the gentleman, I was a fool; I did not con-
sider what it was to be brought to necessity ; I ask your
pardon.
Now, let us carry on this story: the merchant com-
pounds with his creditors, and paying every one a just
proportion, as far as it will go, gets himself discharged;
and being bred to business, and industrious, falls into
trade again, and raises himself to good circumstances;
and, at last, a lucky voyage, or some hit of trade, sets
him above the world again: the man, remembering his
former debts, and retaining his principle of honesty,
calls his old creditors together, and though he was for-
merly discharged from them all, voluntarily pays them
the remainder of their debts. The gentleman, being
bred to no business, and his fortune desperate, goes
abroad, and gets into the army, and behaving himself
well, is made an officer; and still rising by his merit,
becomes a great man ; but, in his new condition, trou-
bles not his head with his former debts in his native
country, but settles in the court and favour of the
prince
prince tinder whom he has made his fortunes, and
there sets up for the fame honest man he did before.
I think I need not ask which of these two are the
honest man, any more than which was the honest peni-
tent, the Pharisee or the Publican.
Honesty, like friendship, is tried in affliction; and
he that cries out loudest against those who, in the time
of this trial, are forced to give ground, would perhaps
yield as far in the like shock of misfortune.
To be honest when peace and plenty flows upon our
hands, is owing to the blessings of our parents; but to
be honest, when circumstances grow narrow, relations
turbulent and quarrelsome, when poverty stares at us,
and the world threatens, this blessing is from Heaven,
and can only be supported from thence. God Al-
mighty is very little. beholden to them who will serve
him just as long as he seeds them. It was a strong ar-
gument the Devil used in that dialogue between Satan
and his Maker, about Job: ' Yes, he is a mighty good.
man, and a mighty just man; and well he may, while
you give himevery thing he wants: I would serve you
myself, and be as true to you as Job, if you would be
as kind and as bountiful to me as you are to him: but
now, do but lay your finger on him; do but stop your
hand a little, and cut him short; strip him a little, and
make him like one of those poor sellows that now bow
to him, and you will quickly see your good man be like
other men; nay, the passion he will be in at his losses,
will make him curse you to your face.' It is true, the
Devil was mistaken in the man ; but the argument had
a great deal of probability in it, and the moral may be
drawn both from the argument and .from the xonse-
quenccs.
I. That
I. That it is an easy thing to maintain the character
of honesty and uprightness, when a man has no busi-
ness to be employed in, and no want to press him.
II. That when exigencies and distresses pinch a
man, then is the time to prove the honesty of his prin-
ciple.
The prosperous honest man can only by boasting
tell the world he is honest, but the distressed and ruined
honest man hears other people tell him he is honest.
In this case therefore, since allowance must be made
for human infirmities, we are to distinguish between an
accident and a practice. I am not pleading to encou-
rage any man to make no scruple of trespassing upon
his honesty in time of necessity; but I cannot condemn
every man for a knave, who, by unusual pressures,
straits, difficulties, or other temptation, has been left to
slip and do an ill action, as we call it, which perhaps
this person would never have stooped to, if the exigence
had not been too great for his resolution. The Scrip-
ture fays of David, 'He was a man after God's own
heart;' and yet we have several things recorded of him,
whiqh, according to the modern way of censuring peo-
ple in this age, would "have given him the character of
a very ill man: but, I conceive, the testimony of
David's uprightness, given us so authentically from the
Scripture, is given from this very rule, That the in-
clination of his heart, and the general bent of his prac-
tice, was to serve and obey his Great Sovereign Bene-
factor, however human frailty, backed with extremities
of circumstances, or powerful temptations, might be-
tray him to commit actions which he would not other-
wise have done. The falling into a crime, will not de-
nominate a man dishonest; for, bumanum est errare.
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 43
The character of a man ought to be taken from the
general tenor of his behaviour, and from his allowed
practice. David took the shew-bread from the priests,
which it was not lawful for him to eat. David knew,
that God, who commanded the shew-bread should not
be eaten, had however commanded him, by the law of
nature, not to be starved; and therefore, pressed by his
hunger, he ventures upon the commandment. And
the Scripture is very remarkable in expressing it,—
* David, when he was hungry:' and the occasion for
which our Blessed Lord himself quoted this text, is
very remarkable, viz. to prove, that things, otherwise
unlawful, may be made lawful by necessity : Matik.
xii. 4.
Another time, David, in his passion, resolves the de-
struction of Nabal and all his family, which, without
doubt, was a great sin; and the principle which he
went upon, to wit, revenge for his churlish and faucy
answer to him, was still a greater sin; hut the tempta-
tion, backed by the strength of his passion, had the
better of him at that time: and this upright, honest
man had murdered Nabal and all his house, if God
had not prevented him.
Many instances of like nature the Scripture has left
upon record, giving testimony to the character of good
men, from the general practice and bent cf their
hearts, without leaving any reproach upon them for
particular failings, though those sins have been extra-
ordinary provoking, and in their circumstances scan-
dalous enough.
If any man would be so weak, as from hence to
draw encouragement to allow himself in easy trespasses
upon his honesty, on the pretence of necessities, let
him
him go on with me to the further end of this observa-
tion* and sind room for it if he can.
If ever the honest man I speak, of, by whatsoever exi-
gence or weakness, thus slips from the principle of his
integrity, he never fails to express his own dislike of it;
he acknowledges, upon all occasions, both to God and
to man, his having been overcome, and been prevailed
upon to do what he does not approve of; he is too
much ashamed of his own infirmity, to pretend to vin-
dicate the action, and he certainly is restored to the
first regulation of his principles, as soon as the tempta-
tion is over. No man is fonder to accuse him, than he
is to accuse himself, and he has always upon him the
sincere marks of a penitent.
It is plain from hence, that the principle of the
man's integrity is not destroyed, however he may have
fallen, though seven times a day; and I must, while I
live, reckon him for an honest man.
Nor am I going about to suppose, that the extremi-
ties and exigencies which have pressed men of the best
principles to do what at another time they would not
do, make those actions become less sinful, either in
their nature or circumstances. The guilt of a crime,
with respect to its being a crime, viz. an offence against
God, is not removed by the circumstances of necessity.
It is without doubt a sin for me to steal another man's
food, though it was to supply starving nature; for how
do I know whether he, whose food I steal, may not be in
as much danger of starving for want of it as I; and if not,
it is taking to my own use what I have no right to, and
taking it by force or fraud; and the question is not as
to the right or wrong, whether I have a necessity to
eat this man's bread or no; but whether it be his or
my
my own? If it be his, and not my own, I cannot do it
without a manisest contempt of God's law, and break-
ing the eighth article of it, * Thou shalt not steal.'
Thus, as to God, the crime is evident, let the necessity
be what it will.
But when we are considering human nature, subject-
ed, by the consequences of Adam's transgression, to
frailty and infirmity, and regarding things from man to
man, the exigencies and extremities of streightened cir-
cumstances, seem to me to be most prevailing argu-
ments, why the denomination of a man's general cha-
racter ought not, by his sellow mortals, (subject to the
fame infirmities) to be gathered from his mistakes, his
errors, or failings; no, not from his being guilty of
any extraordinary sin, but from the manner and me-
thod of his behaviour. Does he go on to commit
frauds, and make a practice of his sin? Is it a distress?
Is it a storm of affliction, and poverty has driven him
upon the lee-shore of temptation? Or is the sin the
port he steered for? A ship may, by stress of weather,
be driven upon fands and dangerous places, and the
ikill of the pilot not be blamable; but he that runs
against the wind, and, without any necessity, upon a
shelve which he sees before him, must do it on purpose
to destroy the vessel, and ruin the voyage.
In short, if no man can be called honest, but he who
is never overcome to fall into any breach of this rec-
titude of lise, none but he who is sufficiently fortisied
against all possibility of being tempted by prospects, or
driven by distress, to make any trespass upon his inte-
grity; woe be to me that write, and to most that read:
"Where shall we find the honest man?
The
The Scripture is particularly expressive of this, in
the Prov. xxiv. 16. 4 A just man falleth seven times
a day, and riseth again.' Why, this is very strange, if
a man come to commit seven crimes in a day, that is,
many, for the meaning is indesinite, can this be an
honest man? What fays the world of him? Hang him,
he is a knave, a rascal, a dishonest sellow; this is the
judgment of men: but, in the judgment of Scripture,
this may be a righteous man.
The main design of this head, and the proper appli-
cation of it, is to tell us, we ought not to be too hasty to
brand our brother for his sins, his infirmities, or mis-
fortunes; since he that is dishonest in your eyes, by a
casual or other crime which he commits, may rise from
that difaster by a sincere repentance, and be to-morrow
an honester man than thyself in the eyes of his Maker.
But here I am assaulted with another censorious ho-
nest man :—Here you talk of falling to-day, and rising
again to-morrow; sinning and repenting; why, here
is a sellow has cheated me of 500I. and he comes cant-
ing to me of his repentance; tells me, he hopes God
has forgiven him, and it would be hard for me to call
to remembrance what God has wiped out; he is hear-
tily sorry for the fault, and the like, and begs my par-
don; that is, begs my estate indeed: for what is all
this to my money; let him pay me, and I will forgive
him too; God may forgive him the sin, but that is-
nothing to my debt.
Why truly, in answer to this in part, you are in the
right, if the man be able to make you any fatisfaction,
and does not do it; for I question not, but every tres-
pass of this nature requires restitution, as well as re-
pentance; restitution as far as the possible power of the
party extends; and if the last be hot found, the first ifl
not likely to be sincere.
But, if the man either is not able to make you any
restitution at all, or does make you restitution to the
utmost of his capacity, and then comes and fays as be-
fore, then the poor man is in the right, and you are in
the wrong; for 1 make no question likewise to affirm,
and could prove it by unanswerable arguments, he
may be an honest man who cannot pay his debts, but
he cannot bean honest man, who can, and does not.
Innumerable accidents reduce men from plentiful
fortunes to mean and low circumstances; some pro-
cured by their own vices and intemperance; some by
insirmities, ignorance, and mere want of judgment to
manage their affairs; some by the frauds and cheats of
other men; some by mere casualty and unavoidable ac-
cidents, wherein the sovereignty of Providence shews
us, that the race is not to the swift, or the battle to the
strong, or riches to men of understanding.
First, Some by vices and intemperance are reduced
to poverty and distress: our honest man cannot fall in
the misfortunes of this class, because there the very
poverty is a sin, being produced from a sinful cause.
As it is far from being allowed as an excuse to a mur-
derer, to fay he was in drink, because it is excusing a
crime with a crime: so for a man to ruin his fortune,
as the Prodigal in the Gospel, with riotous living, all
the effects are wicked and dishonest, as they partake of
the dishonesty of the cause from whence they proceed;
for he cannot be an honest man, who wants wherewith
to pay his debts, after having spent what should have
discharged them in luxury and debauches.
Secondly,
49
Secondly, Some by ignorance and want of judgment
to manage their affairs, are brought to poverty and
distress; these may be honest men* notwithstanding
their weakness; for I will not undertake that none of
our honest men shall be fools: It is true, the good
man is the wise man, as to the main part of wisdom,
which is included in his piety; but many a religious
man, who would not do any wrong wilfully to his
neighbour, is obliged, at last, to injure both his own
family, and other people's, for want of discretion to
guide him in his affairs, and to judge for himself; and
therefore, I dare not tax all our fools with being
knaves, nor will I fay but such a mail may be honest.
Some will fay, but such a man should not venture into
business which he is not able to manage, and there*
fore it was the vice of his understanding* and like the
case in the first article, is excusing a fault with a fault.
I cannot allow this; for if I am asked why a fool
Ventures into trade ? I answer, because he is a fool, not
because he is a knave.
If fools could their own ignorance discern,
They'd be no longer fools,—because they'd learni
If you would convince a man that he wants discre-
tion, you must give him discretion to be convinced:
until then he cannot know he has it not, because he
has it not. No man is answerable, either to God or
man, for that which he never was master of: the most
proper expression that ever I met with in this nature,
was of a certain ideot or natural, which a gentleman
of my acquaintance kept in his family, who, being on
his death-bed, was observed to be very pensive, and
much concerned about dying; the gentleman sent a
Vol. III. D minister
minister to him, who, as well as he could to his un-
derstanding, discoursed with him about death and
judgment to come; the poor creature, who was hardly
ever able to give a rational answer to a question before,
after hearing him very attentively, broke out into tears,
with this expression, That he hoped God would not
require any thing of him that he had not given him
judgment to understand. Whatever it may be as to
the foul, I am positive, in the case of human affairs, no
man is answerable to man for any more than his dis-
cretion ; events are not in our power; a man may be
nicely honest in lise, though he may be weak enough
in judgment.
Thirdly, Some are ruined, and are yet merely passive,
being either defrauded and cheated by knaves, or plun-
dered and rifled by thieves, or by immediate casualties,
as fire, enemies, storms, floods, and the like; these are
things which neither touch the man's honesty nor his
discretion. Thus Job was, by God's permission, and
the agency of the Devil, reduced, in a moment, from a
plentiful estate, to be as naked as he came out of his
mother's womb. I would fain ask those who fay no
man can be an honest man if he does not pay his debts,
who paid Job's debts, if he owed any, and where was
his dishonesty, if he did not pay them? I still readily
grant, that he cannot be an honest man, who does not
pay his debts, if he can; but, if otherwise, then the
words ought to be altered, and they should fay, he can-
not be an honest man who borrows any money, or
buys any thing upon his credit; and this cannot be
trufc.
But since I have led myself into the argument, I
cannot but make a small digression concerning people
. .. . who
5i
foil in trade: I conceive the greatest error of such, is
their terror about breaking, by which they are tempt-
ed, while their credit is good, though their bottom be
naught, to push farther in; expecting, or at least ho-
ping, by the profits of some happy voyage, or some
lucky hit, as they call it, to retrieve their circumstances,
and stand their ground.
I must consess, I cannot vindicate the honesty of
this; for he, who knowing his circumstances to be
once naught, and his bottom worn out, ought not in
justice to enter into any man's debt; for then he trades
on their risk, not on his own, and yet trades for his
own profits, not theirs : this is not fair ; because he de-
ceives the creditor, who ventures his estate on that
bottom which he supposes to be good, and the other
knows is not: nay, though he really pays this credi-
tor, he is not honest; for, in conscience, his former
creditors had a right to all his effects, in proportion to
their debts; and if he really pays one all, and the rest
but a share, it is a wrong to the whole.
I would therefore advise all tradesmen, who sind
their circumstances declining, as soon, at least, as they
.first discern themselves to be incapable of paying their
debts, if not while yet they can pay every one all, to
make a full stop, and call all people together; if there
is enough to pay them all, let them have it; if not, let
them have their just shares of it. By this means you
will certainly have God's blessing, and the character of
an honest man left, to begin again with; and creditors
are often prevailed with, in consideration of such a gene-
rous honesty, to throw back something to put such a man
in a posture to live again, or by further voluntary credit
and friendship, to uphold him. This is much better also
D a with
with respect to interest, as well as honesty, than to rust
on to all extremities, till the burthen falls too heavy,
either for debtor or creditor to bear: this would pre-
sent many of the extremities, which, I fay, puts the
honesty of a man to so extraordinary a trial.
An honest principle would certainly dictate to the
man, if it were consulted with, that when he knows
he is not able to pay, it is not lawful for him to bor-
row. Taking credit, is a promise of payment; a pro-
mise of payment is tacitly understood, and he cannot be
honest, who promises what he knows he cannot per-
form, as I shall note more at large on another head.
But if the man be paid, yet it was not an honest act;
it was deceiving the man, and making him run a great-
er rifle than he knew of, and such a risk as he would not
have run, had he known your circumstances and bot-
tom, as you do; so that here is deceit upon deceit.
This I know is a disputed point, and a thing which
a great many practise, who pass for very honest men in
the world; but I like it not the better for that: I am
very positive, that he who takes my goods on the foot
of his credit, when, if he should die the next day, he
knows his estate will not pay me five shillings in the
pound; though he should not die, and does pay me at
the time appointed, is as much guilty of a fraud, as if
he actually robbed my house. Credit is a received
opinion of a man's honesty and ability, his willingness
to pay, and his having wherewith to pay; and he who
wants either of these, his credit is lame. Men will not
sell their goods to a litigious, quarrelsome man, though
he be never so rich; nor to a needy man, though he
be never so honest. Now, if all the world believe I
am honest and able, and I know I am not the last, I
cannot
cannot be the first, if I take their goods upon credit.
It is in vain to pretend, men trade upon the general
risk of mens appearance, and the credit of common
fame, and all men have an equal hazard. I fay no:
men may venture their estates in the hands of a flou-
rishing bankrupt, and he, by virtue of his yet unshaken
credit, is trusted; but he cannot be honest that takes
this credit, because he knows his circumstances are
quite otherwise than they are supposed to be; that the
man is deceived, and he is privy to the deceit. *
This digression is not so remote from the purpose,
as I expected when I began it; the honesty that I am
speaking of, chiefly respects matters of commerce, of
which credit and payment of debt, are the most consi-
derable branches.
There is another article in trade, which many very
honest men have made familiar to themselves, which
yet I think is in no case to be desended; and that is
relating to counterseit money. Custom, before the
old money was suppressed in England, had prevailed
so far upon honesty, that I have seen some men put all
their brass money among their running cash, to be told
over in every sum they paid, in order to have some-
body or other take it: I have heard many people own
they made no scruple of it, but I could never sind
them give one good reason to justify the honesty of it.
First, They fay, it comes for money, and it ought
to go so. To which I answer, that is just as good a
reason as this: A. has cheated me, and therefore I
may cheat B. If I have received a sum of money for
good, and knowing not that any of it is otherwise, offer
it in payment to another, this is just and honest; but, if
on this other man's telling it over, he returns me a piece
of
of brass or counterseit money, which I change again,
and afterwards knowing this to be such, offer the fame
piece to another, I know no worse fraud; in its de-
gree, in the world, and I doubt not to prove it so be-
yond contradiction.
If the first person did not take this piece of money,
it was, because being both watchful and skilful, he
could discover it; and if I offer it to another, it is
with an expectation, that he being either less watchful
or less skilful, shall overlook it; and so I shall make an.
advantage of my neighbour's ignorance, or want of
care.
I will put some parallel cases to this, to illustrate it:
Suppose a blind man comes into my shop to buy goods
of me, and giving me a guinea to change, I shall give
him the remainder in bad money; would not every-
body fay it was a barbarous thing? Why the other is
all one; for if the person be ignorant of money, he is
blind as to the point in hand; and nothing can be
more unfair than to take the advantage.
Suppose again, a young boy, or a servant newly
entered in trade, is sent to buy goods, and by his mas-
ter's order, he asks for such a commodity; and you
presuming upon the rawness of the messenger, deliver
a fort of a meaner quality, and take the full price of
him; would you grudge to be used scurvily for such a
trick? Why, no less or better is offering brass for sil-
ver; presuming only the want of care or skill in the
receiver, shall pass it unobserved.
Aye, but, fays a learned tradesman, who would be
thought honester than ordinary, I always change it
again, if it be brought back: Yes, Sir, so does,a pick-
pocket give you your handkerchief again, when you
have
have fastened on him, and threatened him with the
mob. The matter, in short, is this; if the man whom
you have cheated, can cheat nobody else, then no
thanks to you, when he comes to you, and charges
the fraud upon you, you will make fatisfaction; he-
cause, if you will not, the law will compel you to it.
But if the fraud may be carried on, as you are mani-
sestly willing, consenting, and instrumental in it that it
should, behold the consequence; your first sin against
honesty, is multiplied in all the hands through whom
this piece of bad money knowingly so passes, till, at
last, it happens to go single to a poor man that cannot
put it off, and the wrong and injury may issue where it
was wanted to buy bread for a starving family.
All the excuses I could ever meet with could never
fatisfy me, that it can consist with honesty, to put brass
or copper away for gold or silver, any more than it
would, to give a blind messenger farld instead of sugar,
or brown bread instead of white.
OF
ft
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
OF HONESTY IN PROMISES,
MAN is known by his word, and an ox by his
stand the true meaning of it, it is, that the honesty of a
man is known by his punctually observing his word, as
naturally and plainly as any creature is known by the
most obvious distinction. It is the peculiar quality of
an honest man,—the distinguishing mark to know him
by. His word or promise is as facred to him in all his
affairs in the world, as the strongest obligation which
can be laid on him; nor is it a thing formed by him
from settled resolutions, or measures of policy, taken,
up of course, to raise or fix his reputation ; but it is the
native produce of his honest principle; it is the conse-
quence, and his honesty is the cause; he ceases to be
honest, when he ceases to preserve this solemn regard
to his word.
If he gives his word, any man may depend upon it,
for the fasety of his lise or estate; he scorns to preva-
ricate, or shift himself off from the punctual observance
. of it, though it be to his loss.
I cannot abate an honest man an inch in the punc-
tual observance of a promise made upon parole, if it be
in the man's possible power to perform it; because there
» seems to be something too base to consist with honesty,
. in the very nature of a man that can go back from his
word.
The reverence our ancestors paid to their promises,
or word past, I am of the opinion, gave that remarkable

brand
brand of infamy and scandal upon the affront of giving
the lie: a gentleman, which is, in short, the modern
term for an honest man, or a man of honour, cannot
receive a greater reproach, than to be told, he lies; that
is, that he forseits his word,—breaks his veracity; for
the minute he does that, he ungentlemans himself, dis-
graces the blood of his family, degenerates from his
ancestors, and commences rake, scoundrel, and any
thing.
Some people, who have run their points of honour
to the extremes, are of the opinion, that this affront of
the lie Ought not to be given to any thing they call a
gentleman, or that calls himself so, till he has so far
exposed himself to all other degrees of infamy, as to
bear kicking, or caning, and the like; that after this,
when he breaks his word, he may be told he lies, or
anything else; but till then, the very thing itself is so
intolerable an abuse, that the person who ventures to
trespass so foully on the rules of good manners, de-
serves not the honour of fair play for his lise; but as
some beasts of prey are refused the fair law of the field,
and are knocked down in every hedge,—so these, like
bullies and mere rakes, may be pistolled in the dark,
and slabbed at the corner of an alley; that is to fay,
any measure may be used with them, to dismiss them
from the society of mankind, as sellows not sufFerable
in the common-wealth of good manners.
I do not argue for these extremes; but I instance in
this, to testify the veneration all good men have for the
word or promise of an honest man, and the esteem
which the integrity of the mind, expressed by a zealous
regard to the words of the mouth, have obtained in the
world. The French, when they express themselves in
vindication
vindication of their honour, always bring it about by
this, Je suis homme de parole, I am an honest man, or a
man of my word; that is, I am a man that may be
trusted upon my parole; for I never break my word.
Such was the value put upon the promises of men
in former time, that a promise of payment of money-
was recoverable in our courts by law, till the inconve-
niencies proved so many, that an act was made on pur-
pose to restrain it to a sum under ten pounds: but to
this day, if a man promises marriage to a woman, espe-
cially if file has granted him any favours upon that
condition, the laws of the land, which therein have re-
gard to the laws of honour, will oblige him to make it
good, and allow it to be a sufficient plea to forbid his
marrying with anybody else.
There are innumerable instances of the veneration
all nations pay to the expressive article of human vera-
city. In the war, you meet with frequent instances of
prisoners dismissed by a generous enemy, upon their
parole, either to pay their ransom, or to procure such
or such conditions, or come back and surrender them-
selves prisoners; and he that should forseit this parole,
would be posted in the enemy's army, and hissed out of
his own.
I know nothing a wise man would not chuse to do,
rather than by breaking his word, give the world such
an undeniable testimony of his being a knave: this is
that good name which Solomon fays is better than lise,
and is a precious ointment, and which, when a man
has once loft, he has nothing left worth keeping. A
man may even hang himself out of the way; for no
man that looks like a man, will keep his company.
When
When a man has once come to breaking his word,
no man, that has any value for his reputation, cares to
be seen in his company; but all good men shun him,
as if he were insected with the plague.
There are men indeed, who will be exceeding punc-
tual to their words and promises, who yet cannot be
called honest men, because they have other vices and
excursions that render them other ways wicked: these
give their testimony to the beauty of honesty, by
chusing it as the best mask to put a gloss upon their
actions, and conceal the other deformities of their lives;
and so honesty, like religion, is made use of to disguise
the hypocrite, and raise a reputation upon the shadow,
by the advantage it takes of the real esteem the world
has of the substance. I fay of this counterseit honesty,
as is faid of religion in like cases: if honesty was not
the most excellent attainment, it would not be made
use of as the most specious pietence ;'nor is there a
more exquisite way for a man to play the hypocrite, than
to pretend an extraordinary zeal to the performance of
his promises; because, when the opinion of any man's
honesty that way, has spread in the thoughts of men,
there is nothing so great, but they will trust him with,
nor so hard, but they will do it for him.
All men reverence an honest man; the knaves stand
in awe of him, fools adore him, and wise men love
him; and thus is virtue its own reward.
Honest men are in more danger from this one hypo-
crite, than from twenty open knaves; for these have a
mark placed upon them by their general character, as a
buoy upon a rock, to warn strangers from venturing
upon it: but the hypocrites are like a pit covered over,
like shoals under water, and danger concealed, which
cannot
cannot be seen. I must consess, I have found theso
the most dangerous, and have too deeply suffered by
throwing myself on their protestations of honesty: the
esteem I always entertained of the most beautiful gift
God has bestowed, or man could receive, has made me
the easier to be deceived with the resemblance of it.
So much as I, or any -one else, by the viciousness of
our own nature, or the prevailing force of accidents,
snares, and temptations, have deviated from this shin-
ing principle, so far we have been foolish, as well as
wicked; so much we have to repent of towards our
Maker, and be ashamed of towards our neighbour.
For my part, I am never backward to own, let who
will be the reader of these sheets, that, to the dishonour
of my Maker, and the just scandal of my own honesty,
I have not paid that due regard to the rectitude of this
principle, which my own knowledge has owned to be,
its due; let those who have been juster to themselves,
and to the Giver of it, rejoice in the happiness, rather
than triumph over the infirmity.
But let them be sure they have been juster on
their own parts; let them be positive, that their own
.integrity is untainted, and would abide all the trials
and racks that a ruined fortune, strong temptations,
and deep distresses, could bring it into; let them not
boast till these dangers are past, and they put their ar-
mour off; and if they can do it then, I will freely ac-*
knowledge, they have less need of repentance than I.
Not that I pretend, as I noted before, and shall often
repeat, that these circumstances render my failing, or
any man's else, the less a sin ; but they make the reason
why we that have fallen, should rather be pitied than
reproached by those who think they stand; because,
when
When the fame assaults are made upon the chastity of
their honour, it may be every jot as likely to be prosti-
tuted as their neighbours.
And such is the folly of scandal, as well as the blind-
ness of malice, that it seldom fixes reproach upon the
right foot: I have seen so much of it, with respect to
other people, as well as myself, that it gives me a very
scoundrel opinion of all those people whom I find for-
ward to load their neighbours with reproach. Nothing
is more frequent in this case, than to run away with a
piece of a man's character, in which they err, and do
him wrong, and leave that part of him untouched
which is really black, and would bear it; this makes
me sometimes, when, with the humblest and most
abasing thoughts of myself, I look up, and betwixt
God and my own soul, cry out, What a wretch am I!
at the fame time smile at the hair-brained enemy,
whose tongue, tipped with malice, runs a-head of his
understanding, and missing the crimes for which I de-
serve more than he can inflict, reproaches me with
those I never committed. Methinks I am ready to call
him back, like the huntsman, when the dogs run upon
the foil, and fay, Hold, hold, you are wrong; take
him here, and you have him.
I question not, but it is the fame with other people;
for when malice is in the heart, reproach generally goes
a mile before consideration; and where is the honesty
of the man all this while? This is trampling upon my
pride, fed majori fajlu, but with greater pride; it is ex-
posing my dishonesty, but with the highest knavery; it
is a method no honest man will take, and when taken,.-
no honest man regards; wherefore, let none of these
sons of slander take fatisfaction in the frequent ac-
know-
6?
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
knowledgements I am always ready to make of my
own failing; for that humility with which I always find
cause to look into my own heart, where I fee others
worse, and more guilty of crimes than they can lay to
my charge, yet makes me look back upon their weak-
ness with the last contempt, who fix their impotent
charges where there is not room to take hold, and run
away with the air and shadow of crimes never com-
mitted.
I have instanced this, not at all on my own account,
for it is not worth while; for if 1 am injured, what is
that to troubling the world with, when I am forgotten;
but while I am examining the nicest article in the
world, honesty, I cannot but lay down these three heads
from the preceding observations.
I. He who is forward to reproach the insirmities of
other mens honesty, is very near a breach of his
own.
II. He that hastily reproaches another without suf-
ficient ground, cannot be an honest man.
III. Where there may be sufficient ground of re-
proach, yet an honest man is always tender of his
neighbour's character, from the sense of his own
frailty.
But I return to honesty, as it affects a man's pledging
his word, which is the counterpart of his principle; and
this because, as I faid, I should chiefly regard his ho-
nesty as it concerns human affairs, converfation, and
negotiation.
And here I meet with a tradesman, just come in
from dunning one of his neighbours : Well, I have
been at a place for money, fays he, but I can get none;
there is such a one, he passes for an honest man, but I
am
5
am sure he is a great rogue to me, for he has promised me
my money a long time, but puts me off still from time
to time; he makes no more of breaking his word, than
of. drinking a glass of beer; I am sure he has told me
forty lies already; this is one of your honest men! If
all such honest men were hanged, we should have a
better trade; and thus he runs on.
If all such honest men were hanged, they that were
left might have a better trade; but how many of them
would there be?
Now, though I shall no way vindicate mens hasty
promises, absolutely to perform what is doubtful in the
event, yet I cannot agree, that every man, who having
promised a payment, does not perform it to his time,
is a knave or a lyar; if it were so, the Lord have mercy
upon three parts of the city!
Wherefore, to state this matter clearly, it must be
taken a little to pieces, and the articles spoken to apart.
First, Without question, when a man makes a pro-
mise of payment to another on a set day, knowing, in
his own thoughts, that it is not probable he should be
capable to comply with it, or really designing not to
comply with it, or not endeavouring to comply with it,
it is a deceit put upon the party; it is a premeditated,
formal lie; the man that made it, is a stranger to ho-
nesty ; he is a knave, and every thing that is base and
bad. But,
Secondly, Promises ought to be understood, both by
the person to whom, and the person by whom they
are made, as liable to those contingencies that all hu-
man affairs and persons are liable to; as death, acci-
dents, difappointments, and disorder: thus, if a man,
who ought to pay me to-day, tells me,—rSir, I cannot
comply
64
Serious reflections
comply with you to-day, but if you call for it nctff
week, you shall have it.
If I may put this answer into plainer English, and
I suppose the man to be an honest man, I cannot
understand his meaning otherwise than thus:
"Sir, I acknowledge your money is due; I have
not cash enough by me to pay you to-day; but I have
several running bills, and several persons who have;
premised me money, which I doubt not I shall receive
against such a time; and if you call then, I make no
question but I shall be able to do it; and if it is possible
for me to pay you, I will do it at that time, without
fail."
I consess, it were as well to express themselves thus
at large, in all the appointments people make for pay-
ment ; and would the persons who make them, consider
it, they would do so: but custom has prevailed in our
general way of speaking, whereby all things that are
subject to the common, known contingencies of lise, or
visible in the circumstances of the case, are understood
without being expressed. For example:
I make an appointment of meeting a man positively
at such a town, such a certain day or hour: if I were
talking to a Turk or a Pagan, that knows nothing, or
believes nothing of Supreme Providence, I would fay,
If the Lord of Heaven or Earth, that governs all my
actions, please to preserve and permit me; but when I am
talking to a Christian, it should seem to be so univerfally
supposed that every appointment is subjected, and sub-
mits to the government of Providence, that the repeti-
tion would be needless; and that when a man promises
positively to meet, it is with a generalsub-intelligitnr, a
reserve, as natural as nature itself, to the divine permis-
sion.
fion. All men know, that unless I am alive, I cannot
come there; or if I am taken lick, both which may
easily happen, I shall difappoint him: and therefore, if
he should urge me again to come without fail, and I
should reply, I won't fail, if I am alive and well, the man
ought to take it for an affront, and ask me if I took him
for a fool, to think, if I am taken fick, I should come
with my bed at my back; or if death should intervene,
he had occasion to speak with my ghost F
In this sense, a tradesman who promises payment of
money at a set time; first, it is supposed he has it not
now in his hands, because he puts off the person de-
manding to a further day, and promises to comply with
it then: this promise, therefore, can be understood no
otherwise than that he expects to receive money by
that time: now, if this man, from the like difappoint-
ments from other men, or any other involuntary ca-
sualty, is really and bonafide unable to comply with the
time of promised payment, I cannot see but this may
befal an honest man, and he neither designing to fail
when he promised, nor being able to prevent the acci-
dent that obliged him to do it, nor any way voluntary
in the breach, is not in my opinion guilty of a lie, or
breach of his honour, though he did not make those
verbal reserves in the promises he had given.
If every man, who cannot comply with promised
payments, should be thus branded with lying and dis-
honesty, then let him who is without the sin, cast the
stone, for nobody else ought to do it.
It is true, there is a difference between an accident
and a practice; that is, in short, there is a difference
between him who meets with a great many occasions
thus to break his word, and he fhat meets with but a
, Vol. III. E sew;
sew; but, if it be a crime, he that commits it once, r*
no more an honest man, than he that commits it forty
times; and if it be not a crime, he that does it forty-
times, is as honest as he that has occasion to do it but
once.
But let no man take encouragement from hence, to
be prodigal of his word, and slack in his performance;
for this nice path is so near the edge of the pit of kna-
very, that the least flip lets you fall in.
These promises must have abundance of circumstances
to bring the honest man out of the scandal.
As, first, The difappointments which occasioned this
breach of his word, must have been unforeseen and
unexpected, otherwise the expectation of perform-
ing his promise was ill grounded, and then his
honesty is answerable for the very making the
promise, as well as the breaking it.
Secondly, No endeavours must be wanting to com-
ply with the promise; otherwise, it is wrong to
fay, I am difappointed, and cannot make good my
word; the man ought to fay, Sir, I have difap-
pointed myself by my negligence or wilfulness,
and have obliged myself to break my word; orr
in English, Sir, I am a knave; for though I made
you a promise which I might have performed, I
took no care about it, not valuing the forseiture
of my word.
If then the case is so nice, though, in the strictness
of speaking, such a difappointment may oblige an ho-
nest man to break his word, yet every honest man, who
would preserve that character to himself, ought to be
the more wary, and industriously avoid making such
absolute,.
67
absolute, unconditional promises, because we are to
avoid the circumstances of offence. .
But, as to the nature of the thing, it is plain to me,
that a man may, in such cases, be obliged to break his
word unwillingly; and nothing can be a fraud, or dis-
honest action, in that case, which is not either volun-
tary in itself, Or the occasion voluntarily procured.
OF RELATIVE HONESTY.
AS honesty is simple and plain, without gloss and
pretence, so it is univerfal; he that may uphold
an untainted reputation in one particular, may be justly
branded with infamy in another. A man may be
punctual in his dealings, and a knave in his relations;
honest in his warehouse, and a knave at his fire-side;
may be a faint in his company, a devil in his family;
true to his word, and false to his friendship: but, who-
soever he be, he is no honest man. An honest man is
all of a piece, the whole contexture of his lise; his ge-
neral conduct is genuine, and squared according to the
rules of honesty; he never runs into extremes and ex-
cesses on the one hand or the other.
I consess, I sind this thing, which they call relative
honesty, very little thought of in the world; and that
which is still worse, it is very little understood: I will
bring it down to but a sew examples, some of which
E 2 frequently
frequently happen among us, and will therefore be the
more familiarly received.
There are relative obligations entailed on us in our
family circumstances, which are just debts, and must be
paid; and which, in a word, a man can no more be
honest, if he does not make conscience of discharging,
than he can in the most unquestionable debts between
man and man.
The debts from children to parents, and from wives
to their husbands, are in a manner relatively changed,
and the obligation transferred into the order of reli-
gious duties. God, the guide and commander of all
subordination, has, as it were, taken that part into his
own hand; it is rather called a duty to him, than a re-
lative duty only: but if men take this for a discharge
to them of all relative obligations to wives and to
children, or that God had less required one than the
other, they must act upon very wrong principles.
Nature indeed dictates, in general, a man's provid-
ing subsistence for his family, and he is declared to be
so far from a christian, that he is worse than an infidel
that neglects it: but there are other parts of our'obli-
gations, which honesty calls upon us to perform.
A wise and children are creditors to the father of the
family; and he cannot be an honest man that does not
discharge his debt to them, any more than he could, if
he did not repay money borrowed, to a stranger; and
not to lead my reader on to intricate and disputed par-
ticulars, I instance principally in those that nobody can
dispute: as,
First, Education; by this I mean, not only putting
children to school, which, some parents think, is all
they have to do with, or for their children; and indeed,
with
69
with some, is all that they know how to do, or are fit
to do: I fay, I do not mean this only, but several
other additional cares; as, directing what school, what
parts of learning is proper for them, what improve-
ments they are to be taught; studying the genius and
capacities of their children, in what they teach them:
some children will voluntarily learn one thing, and can
never be forced to learn another; and for want of
which observing the genius of children, we have so
many learned blockheads in the world, who are mere
scholars, pedants, and no more : but the main part of
this debt, which relative honesty calls upon us to pay
to our children, is the debt of instruction,—the debt of
government,^the debt of example; he that neglects to
pay any of these to his family, is a relative knave, let
him value himself upon his honesty, in paying his
other debts, as much as he will.
It is a strange notion men have of honesty, and of
their being honest men, as if it related to nothing but
tradesmen, or men who borrow and lend; or that the
title was obtained by an ordinary observance of right
and wrong between man and man. It is a great mis-
take; the name of an honest man is neither so easily
gained, or so soon lost, as these men imagine. David
was a very honest man, notwithstanding his passion
and revenge in the case of Nabal, his murder in the
case of Uriah, or his adultery in the case of Bathsheba.
The intent and main design of his lise was upright;
and whenever he sell by the power of that temptation
that overcame him, he rose again by repentance.
Let no vain men flatter themselves with the pride of
their honesty, in mere matters of debtor and creditor,
E 3 though
7o
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
thpugh that is also absolutely necessary and essential to.
an honest man.
But trace this honest man home to his family: Is he
a tyrant or a churl to his wise? Is he a stranger to the
conduct and behaviour of his children? Is he an Eli to
their vices? Are they uninstructed, uncorrected, unex-
horted, ungoverned, or ill-governed? That man is a
knave, a relative knave; he neither does his duty to
God, or pays the debt of a husband or of a parent to
his wise or his family.
Secondly, After the debt of education, there is a
debt of Induilion due from us to our children. The
debt from a parent is far from ending when the chil-
dren come from school, as the brutes who turn their
young off from them when they are just able to pick
for themselves: it is our business, doubtless, to intro-
duce them into the world, and to do it in such a man-
ner, as suits the circumstances we are in, as to their
supply, and the inclinations and capacities of our chil-
dren: this is a debt, the want of paying which, makes
many children too justly reproach their parents with
neglecting them in their youth, and not giving them
the necessary introduction into the world, as might
have qualisied them to struggle and shift for them-
selves.
Not to do this, is to ruin our children negatively on
one hand, as doing it without judgment, and without
regard to our family circumstances, and our childrens
capacities, is a positive ruining them on the other. I
could very usefully run out this part into a long dis-
course on the necessity there is of consulting the incli-*
nations and capacities of our children, in our placing
them out in the world. How many a martial spirit do.
vre
71
we find damned to trade, while we spoil many a good
porter, and convert the able limbs and bones of a
blockhead, into the sigure of a long robe, or a gown
and cassock?
How many aukward, clumsy sellows do we breed to
surgery, or to mufic, whose fingers and joints, nature
originally designed, and plainly mewed it us by their
size, were better suited for the blacksmith's sledge, cr
the carpenter's axe ; the waterman's oar, or the car-
man's whip?
Whence comes it to pass, that we have so many
young men brought to the bar, and to the pulpit, with
stammering tongues; hesitations and impediments in
their speech; unmufical voices, and no common utter-
ance; while, on the other hand, Nature's cripples,
bow-legged, battle-hamnred, and half-made creatures,
are bred tumblers and dancing-masters?
I name these, because they occur most in our com-
mon observation, and are all miserable examples, where
the children curse the knavery of their fathers, in not
paying the debt they owed to them as parents, in put-
ting them to employments that had been suitable to
their capacities, and suitable to what nature had cut
them out for.
I came into a public-house once in London, where
there was a black mulatto-looking man sitting, talking
very warmly among some gentlemen, who, I observed,
were listening very attentively to what he faid; and I
fat myself down, and did the like: it was with great
pleasure I heard him discourse very handsomely on
several weighty subjects; I found he was a very good
scholar, had been very handsomely bred, and that
learning and study was his delight; and, more than
E 4 that,
72
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
that, some of the best os science was at that time his
employment: at length, I took the freedom to ask him
if he was born in England.
He replied, with a great deal of good humour in the
manner, but with an excess of resentment at his father,
and with tears in his eyes, ' Yes, yes, Sir, I ama true-
born Englishman, to my father's shame be it spoken;
who, being an Englishman himself, could find in his
heart to join himself to a negro-woman, though he
must needs know, the children he should beget, would
curse the memory of such an action, and abhor his
very name for the fake of it. . Yes, yes, fays he, repeat-
ing it again, I am an Englishman, and born in lawful
wedlock; happy had it been for me, though my father
had gone to the Devil for whoredom; had he lain with
a cook-maid, or produced me from the meanest beggar-
woman in the street. My father might do the duty of
nature to his black wise; but, God knows, he did no jus-
tice to his children. If it had not been for this damned
black face of mine, fays he, then smiling, I had been
bred to the law, or brought up in the study of divi-
nity: but my father gave me learning to no manner of
purpose; for he knew I should never be able to rise by
it to anything but a learned valet de chambre. What
he put me to school for, I cannot imagine; he spoiled
a good tarpaulin, when he strove to make me a gentle-
man: when he had resolved to marry a slave, and lye
with a slave, he should have begot slaves, and let us
have been bred as we were born: but he has twice
ruined me; first, with getting me a frightful face, and
then going to paint a gentleman upon it.'
It was a most affecting discourse indeed, and as such
I recorded it; and I found it ended in tears from the
person,
73
person, who was, in himself, the most deserving, mo-
dest, and judicious man, that I ever met with under a
negro countenance in my lise.
After this story, I persuaded myself I need fay no
more to this case; the education of our children, their
instruction, and the introducing them into the world,
is a part of honesty, a debt we owe to them; and he
cannot be an honest man, that does not, to the utmost
of his ability and judgment, endeavour to pay it.
All the other relative obligations, which family cir-
cumstances call for the discharge of, allow the fame
method of arguing for, and.are debts in their propor-
tion, and must be paid upon the fame principle of in-,
tegrity'. I have neither room, nor is there any occasion
to enlarge upon them.
CHAP.
74
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
CHAP. III.
OF THE
IMMORALITY of CONVERSATION*
AND THE
VULGAR ERRORS OF BEHAVIOUR.
CONVERSATION is the brightest and most beau-.
tiful part of lise; it is an emblem of the enjoy-
ment of a future state; for suitable society is a heaven-
ly lise; it is that part of lise, by which mankind are
not only distinguished from the inanimate world, but
by which they are distinguished from one another.
Perhaps I may be more particularly sensible of the be-
nefit, and of the pleasure of it, having been so effectual-
ly mortified with the want of it; but, as I take it to be
one of the peculiars of the rational lise, that man is a.
converfable creature; so it is his most complete blessing
in lise, to be blessed with suitable persons about him to
converse with. Bringing it down from generals to
particulars, nothing can recommend a man more,—
nothing renders him more agreeable,—nothing can be
a better character to give of one man to another, next
to that of his being an honest and religious man, than.
to fay of him, that he is very good company.
How delightful is it to see a man's face always cover-
ed with smiles, and his foul shining continually in the
goodness of his temper; to see an air of humour and
pleafantness fit ever upon his brow, and to find him on
all
all occasions the fame; ever agreeable to others and to
himself; a steady calm of mind, a clear head, and
serene thoughts always acting the mastership upon
him: such a man has something angelic in his very
countenance; the lise of such a man, is one entire
scene of composure; it is an anticipation of the future
state, which we well represent by an eternal peace.
To such a man to be angry, is only to be just to him-
self, and to act as he ought to do; to be troubled or
fad, is only to act his reason; for as to being in a
passion, he knows nothing of it; passion is a storm in
the mind, and this never happens to him; for all ex-
cesses, either of grief or of resentment, are foreigners,
and have no habitation with him; he is the only man
that can observe that Scripture, heavenly dictate, 'Ba
angry and sin not;' and if ever he is very angry, it is
with himself, for giving way to be angry with any one
else.
This is the truly agreeable person, and the only one
that can be called so in the world; his company is a
charm, and is rather wondered at, than imitated: it is
almost a virtue to envy such a man; and one is apt in-
nocently to grieve at him, when we see what is so de-
sirable in him, and cannot either sind it, or make it in
ourselves.
But take this with you, in the character of this happy
man, namely, that he is always a good man, a religious
man. It is a gross error to imagine, that a soul black-
ened with vice, loaded with crime, degenerated into
immorality and folly, can be that man,—can have this
calm, serene soul,—those clear thoughts,—thole con-
stant smiles upon his brow, and the steady agreeable-
r;ess and pleafantry in his temper that I am speaking
of;
76
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
os; there must be intervals of darkness upon such 3
mind; storms in the conscience will always lodge
clouds upon the countenance, and where the weather
is hazy within, it can never be fun-shine without; the
smiles of a disturbed mind are all but seigned and
forged ; there may be a good disposition, but it will be
too often and too evidently interrupted by the recoils
of the mind, to leave the temper untouched, and the
humour free and unconcerned; when the drum beats
an alarm within, it is impossible but the disturbance
will be discovered without.
Mark the man of crime,—sit close to him in com-
pany ; at the end of the most exuberant excursion of his
miith, you will never fail to hear his reflecting facul-
ty whisper a sigh to him; he will shake it off; you will
see him check it and go on; perhaps he sings it off;
but, at the end of every song, nay, perhaps of every
stanza, it returns; a kind of involuntary fadness breaks
.upon all his joy; he perceives it, rouzes, despises it,
and goes on ;—but in the middle of a long laugh, in
drops a sigh ; it will be,—it can be no otherwise; and I
never conversed closely with a man of levity in my
lise, but I could perceive it most plainly; it is a kind
of respiration natural to a stifled conviction; a hesita-
tion, that is the consequence of a captivated virtue; a
little insurrection in the soul against the tyranny of
profligate principles.
But in the good man the calm is complete; it is all
nature, no counterseit; he is always in humour, be-
cause he is always composed.
He's calm without, because he's clear within.
A stated
A stated composure of mind, can really proceed from
nothing but a fund of virtue; and this is the reason
why it is my opinion, that the common faying, ' That
content of mind is happiness,' is a vulgar mistake, un-
less it be granted, that this content is first founded on
such a basis as the mind ought to be contented with;
for otherwise, a lunatic in Bedlam is a completely
happy man; he sings in his hutch, and dances in his
chains, and is as contented as any man living; the pos-
session or power which that vapour or delirium has
upon his brain, makes him fancy himself a prince, a
monarch, a statesman, or just what he pleases to be; as
a certain Duchess is faid to have believed herself to be
an Empress, has her footmen drawn up, with javelins,
and dressed in antic habits, that lhe may see them
through a window, and believe them to be her guards;
is served upon the knee; called her Majesty, Imperial
Majesty, and the like; and with this splendor her dis-
tempered mind is deluded, forming ideas of things
which are not, and, at the fame time, her eyes are stiut
to the eternal captivity of her circumstances, in which
she is made a property to other persons, her estate ma-
naged by guardianship, and ssie a poor demented crea-
ture to the last degree; an object of human compassion,
and completely miserable.
The only contentment which entitles mankind to
any selicity, is that which is founded upon virtue and
just principles; for contentment is nothing more or
less than what we call peace; and what peace, where
crime possesses the mind, which is attended, as a natu-
ral consequence, with torment and disquiet? What
peace, where the harmony of the soul is broken by
constant regret and self-reproaches? What peace, in a
S mind
I
i
mind under constant apprehensions and terrors of some-
thing yet attending to render them miserable? And all
this is inseparable from a lise of crime.
For where there's gililt, there always will be fear.
Peace of mind makes a halcyon upon the counten-
ance; it gilds the face with a cheerful aspect, such as
nothing else can procure, and which, indeed, as above^
it is impossible effectually to counterseit.
Bow, mighty Reason, to thy Maker's name,
For God and peace are just the fame;
Heaven is the emanation of his face,
And want of peace makes Hell in every place.
Tell us, ye men of notion, tell us why
You seek for bliss and wild prosperity,
In storms and tempests, feuds and war;
Is happiness to be expected there?
Tell us, what fort of happiness
Can men in want of peace possess >
Blest charm of peace, how sweet are all those hourr
We spend in thy society!
Afflictions lose their acid powers,
And turn to joys when join'd to thee. J
The darkest article of life with peace,
Is but the gate of happiness;
Death, in its blackest shape, can never frights
Thou can'st see day beyond his night;
The smile of peace can calm the frown of fate,
And, spight of death, can life anticipate:
Nay, Hell itself, could it admit of peace,
Would change its nature, and its name would cease.
The bright transforming blessing would destroy
The life of death, and damn the place to joy;
The metamorphosis would be so strange,
'Twould fright the Devils, and make them bless the change;
Or else the brightness would be so intense,
They'd shun the light, and fly from thence.
Let
Let Heaven, that unknown happiness,
Be what it will, 'tis best describ'd by peace:
No storms without, of storms within;
No fear, no danger there, because no fin:
"Tis bright essential happiness,
Because He dwells within, whose name is Peace.
Who would not sacrifice for thee,
i All that men call felicity!
Since happiness is but an empty name,
A vapour, without heat or flame;
But what from thy original derives,
And dies with thee, by whom it lives.
But I return to the subject of converfation, from
which this digression is made, only to shew that the
fund of agreeable converfation is, and can only be
sounded in virtue; this alone is the thing that keeps a
man always in humour, and always agreeable.
They mistake much, who think religion, or a strict
morality, discomposes the temper, fours the mind, and
unfits a man for converfation. It is irrational to think
a man cannot be bright unless he is wicked; it may as
well be faid, a man cannot be merry till he is mad; not
agreeable till he is offensive; not in humour till he is
out of himself. It is clear to me, no man can be truly
merry, but he that is truly virtuous: wit is as consistent
with religion, as religion is with good manners; nor is
there any thing' in the limitation of virtue and religion,
I mean the just restraints which religion and virtue lay
upon us in converfation, that should abate the pleasure
of it; on the contrary, they encrease it: for example,
restraints from vicious and indecent discourses. There
is as little manners in those things, as there is mirth in
them; nor, indeed, does religion or virtue rob conver-
fation of one grain of true mirth; on the contrary, the
religious man is the only man fully qualified for mirth
5 and
and good humour; with this advantage, that when the
vicious and the virtuous man appear gay and merry,
but differ, as they must do, in the subject of their
mirth, you may always observe the virtuous man's
mirth is superior to the other; more suitable to him as
a man, as a gentleman, as a wise man, and as a good
man; and, generally speaking, the other will acknow-
ledge it; at least afterward, when his thoughts cool,
and as his reflections come in.
But what shall we do to correct the vices of conver-
fation? How shall we shew men the picture of their
own behaviour? There is not a greater undertaking in
the world, or an attempt of more consequence to the
good of mankind than this; but it is as difficult also
as it is useful, and, at best, I shall make but a little
progress in it in this work;—let others mend it.
OF
*
- »- OF UNFITTING OURSELVi*
FOR CONVERSATION.
BEFORE I enter upon the thing which I call the
immorality bf conversation, let me lay a little ,
about the many weak and foolish ways by which men
strive, as it were, to unfit themselves for converfation^
Human infirmities furnish us with several things that
help to make us unconverfable, we need not study to
encrease the difadvantages we lay under on that score;
vice and intemperance, not as a Crime only, that I
should speak of by itself, but even as a distemper, un-
fit us for converfation; they help to make us cynical,
morose, surly, and rude. Vicious people boast of their
polite carriage, and their nice behaviour, how gay,
how good-humoured, how agreeable: for a while it
may be so; but trace them as men of vice, follow them
till they come to years, and observe, while you live, you
never see the humour last; but they grow fiery, morose,
positive, and petulant. An ancient drunkard is a thing
indeed not often seen, because the vice has one good
faculty with it, viz. That it seldom hands them on to
old age; but an ancient and good-bumoured drunkard
I think I never knew.
It seems strange that men should affect unfitting
themselves for society, and study to make themselves
unconverfable; whereas, their being truly sociable as
men, is the thing which would most recommend them,
and that to the best of men, and best answers to the
highest selicity of lise. Let no man value himself upon
being morose and cynical, sour and unconverfable; it is
Vol. III. F the
the reverse of a good man: a truly religious man fol-
lows the rule of the Apostle, * Be affable, be courteous,
be humble; in meekness, esteeming every man better
than ourselveswhereas, converfation now is the re-
verse of the Christian rule; it is interrupted with con-
ceitedness and affectation; a pride, esteeming ourselves
better than every man; and that which is worse still,
this happens generally when the justice of the case is-
against us; for where is the man, who thus over-ruling
himself, is not evidently inserior in merit to all about
him? Nay, and frequently those who put most value
upon themselves, have the least merit to support it.
Self-conceit is the bane of human society, and, gene-
rally speaking, is the peculiar of those who have the
least to recommend them; it is the ruin of converfa-
tion, and the destruction of all improvement; for how
should any man receive any advantage from the con-
verfation of others, who believes himself qualisied to
teach them, and not to have occasion to learn any thing
from them?
Nay, as the fool is generally the man that is conceit-
ed most of his own wit, so that very conceit is the ruin
of him; it confirms him a fool all the days of his lise;
for he that thinks himself a wise man, is a fool, and
knows it not; nay, it is impossible he should continue
to be a fool, if he was but once convinced of his folly.
If fools could their own ignorance discern,
They'd be no longer fools,—because they'd learn.
It will be objected here indeed, that folly and conceit
may be hurtful to converfation, may rob men of the
advantage of it, unfit one side for conversing, and make
it unprofitable, as well as unpleafant to the other; but
that
that this is nothing to the immorality of converfation;
that ignorance and conceit may be an infirmity, but is
not always a crime; that the mischief of mens being
fools is generally their own, but the mischief of their
being knaves i» to other people,—and this is very true.
But certainly, Egregious folly merits one paragraph of
rebuke; perhaps it may touch the senses of some weak
brethren one time or other, and the labour may not be
lost.
1 never faw a more simple, or yet a more furious,
irreconcilable quarrel, than once between two of the
most empty, conceited people that ever I knew in the
world; and it was upon one calling the other fool,
which, on both sides, was unhappily very true; they
fought upon the spot, but were parted by the company;
they challenged, and could not meet, their friends get-
ting notice of it; in short, it ruined them both; they
made new appointments, and at last deceived their
friends, and fought again; they were both wounded,
and one died, the other fled his country, and never re-
turned. The first owned he was a fool, which was in-
deed some diminution of his folly; I fay, he knew
himself to be a fool, but could not bear the other
should tell him so, who was more a fool than himself.
The other boldly asserted his own capacities to be
insinitely greater than they were, and despised the first
to the last degree, who indeed, if he had not more wir$
had more modesty than the other; but both, like fools,
fought about nbihirig, for such indeed the question
about their wit might very well have been called.
But it is true, after all, the want of a converfable
temper, if from a want or desect of sense, may be an
infirmity, not an immorality; that is to fay, the cause
F 2 is
84 SERldUS REFtECflCJNS
h not so in itself, but it may be so in its consequence's,,
that way also: for the conversation of fools is vanity
in the abstract. I might here indeed sind subject for a
large tract, upon the insinite diversity of fools, and by
consequence, the wonderous beauty of their conver-
fation: T have, on this occasion, reckoned up a list of
about seven and thirty several' sorts of fools, besides So-
lomon's fool, whom I take to be the wicked fool only;
these I have diversified by their tempers and humours,
and in the insinite variety of their follies of several
sorts, in every one of which they rob themselves, and
all that keep them company, of the selicity of conver-
fation, there being nothing in them but emptiness, or a
fulness of what is ridiculous, and only qualisied to be
laughed at, or found fault with.
I have likewise described some of their converfation,
their vain repetitions, their catch-words, their laughings
and gestures, and adapted them to make the world
merry. I have thoughts of running it on into foreign
characters, and describe French, Spanish, Portuguese
fools, and fools of Russia", China, and the East Indies;
but as this is something remote from the design in
hand, which is more serious, and done on a much
better view, and likewise of an unmeasurable length,
like the weighty subject it is upon, (for folly is a large
field J so I reser it to another opportunity.
The truth is, that part of converfation which I Sm
now to speak of, or which I mean by what I hare faid
upon this subject, is the weighty and serious part, and
is not the mere common talk, or a converfation which
fools are capable of; it is exercised in a solid and well-
tempered frame, and when regulated, as it ought to be,
by virtue and good morals, is qualisied to make man-
kind
85
kind happy in the enjoyment of the best things, and of
the best company; and therefore, the evils that creep
into, and corrupt this part pf our converfation, are of
the most fatal quality, and worth our exposing, tha{
people may see and shun them, and that converfation
may be restored among us to what it should be.
OF THE IMMORALITY OF
CONVERSATION in GENERAL.
*
SOME may object against the term, the immorality
of conversation, and think the word improper to
the subject; but to fave any critic the dearly beloved
labour of cavilling in favour of ill-manners and unbe-
coming behaviour, 1 shall explain myself before I go
any farther.
I call converfation immoral, where the discourse is
indecent,—where it is irreligious or profane,—where it
is immodest or scandalous,—or where it is slanderous
and abusive: in these, and such cases, loqui e/1 agere,
thus talking lewdly, or talking profanely, is an immo-
dest action. Such is the power pf words, that man-
kind is able to act as much evil by their tongues as by
their hands; the ideas that are formed, in the mind
from what we hear, are most piercing and permanent,
and the force of example, in this case, is, not more
powerful than the force of argument.
F 3 Some
Some of the worst sins are not to be committed but
by the tongue; as the sin of blasphemy, speaking trea-
son against the majesty of God, cursings and impreca-
tions among men, lies, slanders, and a vast variety of
petty excursions, which are grown modish by custom,
and seem too small to be reproved.
We are here in England, after many years degene-
racy, arrived to a time, wherein vice is in general dif-r
countenanced by authority; God, in mercy to the age,
has inspired our government with a resolution to dis-
courage it. The King, now his wars are over, and his
foreign enemies allow him some rest, will, we hope,
declare war against this domestic enemy.
The late Queen Mary, of heavenly memory, for her
piety and blessed example appeared, in her time, gal-
lantly in the cause^of virtue: magistrates were encou-
raged to punish vice, new laws made to restrain it, and
justice seemed to be at work to reclaim it; but what
can Kings, or Queens, or Parliaments do? Laws and
proclamations are weak and useless things, unless some
secret influence can affect the practices of those whom
no laws can reach.
To make laws against words, would be as fruitless as
to make a shelter against the lightning, there are so
many inlets to the breach, that the informers would be
as numerous as the criminals, and the trespass as fre-
quent as the minutes we live in.
Converfation has received a general taint, and the
disease is become a charm; the way to cure it is not by
forcible restraints on particulars, but by some general
influence on the public practice; when a distemper be-
comes pleafant to a patient, he is the harder to be cured;
he has a fort of aversion to the remedy, because he has
5 »?n?
87
none to the disease. Our modern people have such a
passion for the mode, that, if it be but the fashion to be
lewd, they will scandalize their honour, debauch their
bodies, and damn their fouls to be genteel; if the
beaux talk blasphemy, the rest will set up for atheists,
and deny their Maker, to be counted witty in the de-
sence of it; when our tradesmen would be thought
wise, and make themselves appear nice and learned in
their converfation, nothing will fatisfy them but to cri-
ticise upon things facred; run up to discuss the in-
scrutables of religion; search the arcana even of Hea-
ven itself: the divinity of the Son of God, the hyposta-
tic union, the rational description of the state everlast-
ing; nay, the demonstration of undemonstrable things,
are the common subject of their fancied, affected capa-
cities.
Hence come heresies and delusions, men affecting to
search into what is impossible they fliould clearly dis-
cover; learn to doubt, because they cannot describe;
and deny the existence, because they cannot explain the
manner of what they enquire after; as if a thorough
impossibility of their acting, by their sense, upon ob-
jects beyond its reach, was an evidence against their
being. Thus, because the Trinity cannot appear to
their reasoning, they oppose their reasoning to its rea-
lity; they will divest the Son of God of his divinity,
and of the hypostatic union of the godhead in the per-
son of Christ, because they cannot distinguish between
the actions done by him in his mediatorial capacity, in
virtue of his office, and those actions which he did in
virtue of his omnipotence and godhead.
This is not an immorality and error in converfation
, pnly, or not so much so, as I think it is a judgment
F 4 upon
upon it, a blast from Heaven upon the arrogance of the
tongue; when proud men give themselves a loose to
talk blasphemously to bethought witty, their Maker
gives them up to suggest damnable error;, till they be-
gin to believe them, and to broach their own wicked
hints, till they, by custom, learn to espouse and desend
them, as children tell seigned stories till they believe
them to be true. If our town fopperies were visible
only in the little excursions of drels and behaviour, it
would be fatisfaction enough for a wise man either to
pity or laugh at them; but when wit is set on work,
and invention racked, to find out methods how they
may be more than superlatively wicked; when all the
endowments of the mind, and helps of art, with the
accomplishments of education, are ranged in battle
against Heaven, and joined in consederacy to make
mankind more wicked than ever the Devil had the im-
pudence to desire of them; this calls out aloud for the
help of all the powers of government, and all the
strength of wit and virtue to detect and expose it.
Indeed I had some thoughts to leave upon record a
melancholy kind of genealogy of this horrid persection
of vice, which so increases in our age, I mean as it re-
spects this nation, in which it is too ancient indeed to
trace it back to its original; yet, since its visible increase
has been within the reach of our own memory, and it
is, as I may fay, the adopted child of our age, we may
judge of the exrent of its influence, and may take a
short view of it in miniature. None indeed can judge
of the extent of its influence, but such as have con-
versed with all sorts of people, from the court to the
plough tail, where you may too fadly see the effect of
H, in the general debauching both the principles and.
practice
practice of all forts and degrees of this nation: but it
will be an ungrateful task; it would lead me to the cha-.
rasters of persons, and to write fatires upon the times,
as well those past as these present, which indeed is not
my business in this work, and therefore I throw by
some keen observations which I had made upon this
subject ; my business here, or at least my design, being
rather to instruct the age than to reproach it; and as
for the dead,—they are gone to their place!
St. Augustin observes, de Civhate Del, that the An-
cients justisied their liberty in all excesses of vice, which
they practised in those times, from the patterns of their
Gods; that the stories of the rapes and incest of Ju-
piter, the lewdness of Venus and Mars, and the like,
made those crimes appear less heinous, since people had
them frequently in the histories of the Deities they
worshipped; and that they must of necessity be lawful,
seeing they were practised by those famous persons,
whom they had placed above the skies, and thought fit
to adore.
If modern times have received unhappy impressions
from vicious courts, and princes have not taken the
needful caution not to guide to evil by their example;
instead of turning this into fatire upon those that arc
past, I choose to give it another turn, which our kings
and people too, in time to come, may make good use
of, and I hope will not be offended at supposing that
they will do so.
I. To Kings or Sovereigns in future reigns, for I
am not in this intending the present roign, it may,
without offence, be faid, that they have a glorious
example put into their hands to, honour their
Maker and benesit their people, to the immortal
glory
go
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
glory of their own memory, by prompting virtue
and discouraging vice by their happy examples;
by removing the vicious habits of converfation
from the court modes, and making vice as unfa-
shionable as it is unseemly: why may not the Royal
example, go as far to reform a nation, as it has
formerly done to debauch and ruin it? But as this
respects the heads* of the people, I desire to speak
it with the deserence os a subject, and close this
discourse with only faying, that I pray and wish
it may be so.
II. To the people, with more freedom, I apply it
thus; let past examples be what they will, the
present reign encourages no crime [ why jhen
should our modern converfation receive this taint?
Why should we be volunteers^ in the Devil's ser-
vice? While the power we are under gives us nei-
ther precept or example; if we are guilty, it is by
mere choice; the crime is all our own, and we are
patterns to ourselves.
* This was all written in King William's reign, and refers to
that time.
OF REFORMING THE
3ERRORS of CONVERSATION.
BUT I leave this part as less grateful, and perhaps
not more signisicant than what I have yet to fay
upon this subject; it is not so absolutely material to
enquire how this converfation came first to be corrupt-
ed, as how it shall be reformed or recovered: the ques-
tion before us is, by what method to retrieve this mi-
serable desection, and to bring back the nation to some
tolerable degree of good manners, that morality at least
may regain its authority, and virtue and sobriety be va-
lued, again as it ought to be; this, I fay, is a difficult
thing to direct.
. Facilis descenfus Averni:
Sed revocare gradum,
Hoc opus, hie labor est.
Virg. Æneid. vi.
Englished thus:
"Tis easy into Hell to fall,
But to get back from thence is all.
The method might be easier prescribed than prac-
tised, though it cannot be persectly prescribed neither;
something may however be faid by way of observation;
perhaps other well-wishers may hereafter throw their
mites into this treasury, and some zealous reformers
may at last make the. attempt upon these foundations.
I. A strict execution of the laws against vice; we
Jiaye already, and are every day making very good laws
to
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
to reform the people; but the benesit of laws consists
in the executive power, which if not vigorously put
forth, laws become useless, and it were better they were
not made at all. I was once going to have added here
a treatise, intituled, An Essay upon the Insignificancy
of Laws and Acts of Parliament in England; but, up-
on second thoughts, resolving to mingle no fatire with
my serious observations, I omitted this also. The de-
ficiency of our laws* is chiefly in the want of laws to
reform the law-makers, that the wheel of executive
justice might be kept going; of what use else can
laws be?
II. An exemplary behaviour in our gentry, after
whose copy the poor people generally write; not but
that I acknowledge, it willbe harder to reform a na-
tion, than itwouldto debauch it, though virtue should
obtain upon custom, and become the fashion, because
inclination does not stand neuter; but it would be a
great step to this reformation, if we could all join to
discourage immorality by example; that if a man will
be drunk or lewd, he shall, as a thief robs a house, do
it in the dark, and be ashamed of it. If these two heads
were brought to pass, I question not but reformation
would come to such art height, that if a poor man hap-
pened to be drunk, he should come and desire the con-
stable to set him in the stocks, for sear of worse punish-
ment; and if a rich man swore an bath in his passion,
he should send his footman to the next justice of the
peace with his sine, and get a discharge, for sear of being
informed against and exposed.
In order to the furthering this great work, it would
be very necessary, if possible, to draw the picture of our
modern vices, to let mankind see, by a true light, what
they
they arc doing, and how ugly a phiz the mistress they
court really appears with, when inclination, which,
paints her in different colours, is taken off.
It will be impossible to bring vice out of fashion, if we
cannot bring men to an understanding of what it really
is; but could we prevail upon a man to examine his vice,
to dissect its parts, and view the anatomy of it; to see
how difagreeable it is to him as a man, as a gentleman,
or as a Christian; how despicable and contemptible in
its highest fruition; how destructive to his senses,
estate, and reputation; how dishonourable, and how
beastly, in its public appearances, such a man would
certainly be out of love with it; and be but mankind
once out of love with vice, the reformation is half
brought to pass.
I shall not pretend to invade the province of tho
learned, nor offer one argument from Scripture or Pro-
vidence, for I am supposed to be talking to men that
doubt or deny them both. Divinity is not my talent,
nor ever like to be my prosession,—the charge of priest-
craft and schoolmen would not lie against me; besides,
it is not the way of talking that the world relishes at
this time; in a word, talking Scripture is out of
fashion: but I must crave leave to tell my reader, that
if there were no God or Providence, Devil or future
state, yet they ought not to be drunken and lewd, pas-
sionate, revengeful, or immoral; it is so unnatural, so
unruly, so ungenteel, so foolish and foppish, that no
wise man, as a man, can justify it so much as to his
own reason, or the memory of his ancestors. I sup-
pose myself talking to men that have nothing to do
with God, and desire he should have nothing to do
with them; and yet, even to such, a vicious converfa-
tion,
tion, looked on without the gust of inclination, would
appear too brutish to be meddled with, if we will but
chuse like men, not to fay like Christians. Virtue and
morality is more agreeable to human nature, more
manly, than vice and intemperance; it is more suit-
able to all the ends of lise, to the Being of society, td
the public peace of families, as well as nations: man-
kind would rather be virtuous than vicious, if they
were to chuse only for their own ease and convenience:
vice tends to oppression, war, and confusion; virtue is
peaceable and honest; vice is a poison to society; nc<
man is fase, if men have neither sobriety or honesty;
for the innocent will be robbed by the thief, ravished
by the lewd, and murdered by-the drunkard.
It might not be a needless digression, if I should ex-
amine here whether whoring and drunkenness be not
the two mother sins of the times, the spring and ori-
ginal of all our fashionable vices: I distinguish these,
because other sins, as murders, thefts, rapes, and the
like, are now come so much in vogue, we are content
the laws should be executed on them; but should think
it very hard, a man should be hanged for whoring, or
transported for being drunk.
I would not have any of our gentlemen think, that
my laying the charge of our debauchery on the exam-
ples of the Gods, has taken off any thing of the blafne
from those who have industriously propagated the
spreading evil among their tenants and neighbours, by
their own vicious example; and I could turn the whole
observation into a fatire on the manners- of our gen-
tlemen, and describe with what easiness our magistrates
let fall the reins of their authority, and connive at the
practice of all manner of intemperance and excess
among
among the people; with what eagernete the poor coun-
trymen are called in to be made drunk upon every oc-
casion; with what contempt any person is looked upon,
either in town or country, that either will not be drunk,
or cannot bear an excessive quantity of wine: how our
common mirth is silled with songs and poems recom-
mending drunkenness and lewdness, and rampant vice
rides riot through the nation: but, as above, I avoid
fatire; I shall endeavour to treat this foul subject in as
civil terms as the case will bear, and only examine ge-
neral converfation in particular heads, with some vul-
gar errors of behaviour which are crept in, and which
seem authorized by custom.
OF ATHEISTICAL AND
PROFANE DISCOURSE.
GOD Almighty himself is the least beholden to this
age, of any that ever was from the beginning of
time; for that, being arrived to a degree of knowledge
superior to all that went before us, or at least fancying
it to be so, whereby the greater glory might accrue io
himself, the Author of all wisdom, that very gift, the
brightest of all the heavenly blessings, is made use of to
put the greatest contempt upon his Majesty that man-
kind is capable of,—to deny his eflence; such an af-
front, that the Devils themselves never had the impu-
dence to suggest to the world, till they found man ar-
rived to a degree of hardness fit for something never
done before. All the heathen nations in the world
came short of this; the most resined philosophers own-
ed a First Cause of all things, and that Something was
superior, whose influence governed, and whose being
was facred to be adored. The Devil himself, who is
allowed to be full of enmity against the Supreme Being,
has often set up himself to be worshipped as a God, but
never prompted the most barbarous nations to deny the
being of a God; and it is thought, that even the Devil
himself believed the notion was too absurd to be im-
posed upon the world: but our age is even with him for
his folly; for since they cannot get him to join in the
denial of a God, they will deny his Devilship too, and
have neither one nor other.
It
97
. It is worth observation, after the most convincing
arguments that nature and reason can produce for the
existence of a Deity, what weak, foolish, ridiculous
shifts the most resined of our atheistical disputants fly
to in desence of their notion; with what senseless pains
they labour to reason themselves into an opinion,
which their own constitution, nature, and way of liv-
ing, gives the lie to every moment; with how little
consistency they solve all the other phenomena of na-
ture and creation; that when in all .other points they
are capable of arguing strenuously, and are not to be
fatisfied but with strength of reason and sound argu-
ment, here they admit sophisms, delusive suppositions,
and miserable shams and pretences to prevail upon their
own judgments. This is touched at in the following
lines upon the system of Prometheus, which I could
not omit upon this occasion, relating to the heathens
ignorance in the great doctrine of first causes:
The great Promethean artist, poets fay,
First made the model of a man in clay;
Contriv'd the form of parts, and when he'd done,
Stole vital heat from the prolific Sun:
But not a poet tells us to this day,
Who made Prometheus first, and who the clay;
Who gave the great prolific to the Sun,
And where the first productive work begun.
Also Epicurus's philosophy will fatisfy some peo-
ple, who fancy the world was made by 5a strange
fortuitous conjunction of atoms, without any pre-ex-
istent influence, or without any immediate power;
which Mr. Creech very well translates thus;
But some have dreamt of atoms strangely hurl'd
Into the decent order of the world,
And so by chance combin'd; from whence began
The earth, the heaven, the sea, and beast, and man.
Vol. III. G To
53
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
To which I crave leave to subjoin one compliment:,
by way of confutation of this folly.
Forgetting first that something must bestow
Existence on those atoms that did so.
The arguments for the existence of a Deity, are so
many, so nicely handled, and so unanswerable, that it
is needless to attempt any thing that way; no man in
his wits needs any further demonstration of it, than
what he may find within himself; nor is it any part of
the work I am upon; I have only a sew things to ask
of our modern atheists.
I. Whether their more serious thoughts do not re-
flect upon them in the very act, and give the lie to
their arguments? My Lord Rochester, who was ar-
rived to an extraordinary pitch in this insernal learn-
ing, acknowledged it on his death-bed: the sense na-
ture has upon her of the certainty of this great truth,
will give some convulsions at so horrid an act.
Nature pays homage with a trembling bow,
And conseious men but faintly disallow;
The secret trepidation racks the soul,
And while he fays, No God,—replies, Thou fool!
II. I would ask the most confident atheist, what
assurance he has of the negative, and what a risk he
runs if he should be mistaken? This we are sure of, if
we want demonstration to prove the i being of a God,
they are much more at a loss for a demonstration to
prove the negative. Now, no man can answer it to
his prudence to take the risk they run, upon an un-
certain, supposititious notion; for if there be such a
thing as a first cause, which we call God, they have
very little reason to expect much from him, who have
5 made
9f
made it their business to affront him, by denying his
existence; nor have they acted in their denial like wife
men, for they have not used so much as the caution of
good manners; but, as if they were as sure of his non-
entity as of the strongest demonstration, they have
been witty upon the thing, and made a jest pf the sup-
position, turned all matters of faith into ridicule, bur-
lesqued upon religion itself, and made ballads and songs
on the Bible; thus Rophester has left us a long, lewd
fong, beginning thus:
Religion's a politic cheat,
Made up of many a fable;
Ne'er troubles the wife or the great,
But only amuses the rabble.
Now, I am not, in this discourse, entering into any
of the arguments in these grand questions on one side
or other ; that would be to make this work a collection
of polemics; nor am I casuist enough for such a work;
but I am observing or remarking upon the wickedness
of treating these subjects with levity and ignorance in
the common road of converfation.
Methinks these gentlemen act with more courage
than discretion; for if it should happen at last, that
there should be a God, and that he has the power of
rewards and punishments in his hand, as he must have,
or cease to be Almighty, they are but in an ill case.
If it should so fall out, as who can tell,
But there may be a God, a Heaven, a Hell;
Mankind had best" consider well,—for fear
It stiou'd be too late when their mistakes appear.
Nor do they, in my opinion, discover any great wit
in it; there is, if I might pass for a judge, something
G 2 flat,
flat, something that shocks the fancy, in all the fatire
upon religion that ever I faw; as if the muse was not
so much an atheist as the poet,.but baulks the hint,
and could not favour a blasphemous flight with so
jnuch freedom and spirit that at other times it has
ihown; which is a notice, that there is a tacit sense of
the Deity, though they pretend to deny it, lodged in
the understanding; that it is not stifled without some
.difficulty, and struggles hard with the fancy, when the
party strives to be more than ordinarily insolent with
his Maker.
In the next place, as it is one of the worst immora-
lities of converfation when it is profane, so blasphemy
is the extreme of profaneness; you cannot come into
company with an atheist, but you have it in his com-
mon discourse; he is always putting some banter or
foolish pun upon religion, affronting the invisible
power, or ridiculing his Maker; all his wit runs out
into it, as all diseases run into the plague in a time of
insection, and you must have patience to hear it, or
quarrel with him.
Below these we have a sort of people who will ac-
knowledge a God, but he must be such a one as they
please to make him; a fine, well-bred, good-naturedj
gentleman-like Deity, that cannot have the heart to
damn any of his creatures to an eternal punishment,
nor could not be so weak as to let the Jews crucify his
own Son: these men expose religion, and all the doc-
trines of repentance, and faith in Christ, with all the
means of a Christian falvation, as matters of banter
and ridicule. The Bible, they fay, is a good history
in most parts, but the story "of our Saviour, they look
upon
upon as a mere novel, and the miracles of the New
Testament as a legend of priestcraft.
Further, besides these, we have Arians and Socinians,
the disciples of an ancient heretic, who went out of
the church always at the singing the Gloria Patri, that
he might be out of the noise; and would sit down at
the doxology of the prayers, to denote his disowning
the godhead of Jesus Christ.
* These are iniquities,' as Job faid, ' should be pu-
nished by the Judges,' chap. xxii. v. 20. and these are
the things which have given such a stroke to the ruin
of the nation's morals; for no method can be so direct
to prepare people for all sorts of wickedness, as to per-
suade them out of a belief of any supreme power to re-
strain them; make a man once cease to believe a God,
and he has nothing left to limit his appetite but mere
philosophy; if there is no supreme judicature, he must
be his own judge and his own law, and will be so; the
notion of hell, devil, and insernal spirits, are empty
things, and have nothing of terror in them, if the be-
lief of a power superior to them be obliterated.
But to bring this particular case nearer to the point
of converfation, the errors of which lie before me;
though we live in an age where these horrid degrees of
impiety are too much practised, yet we live in a place
where religion is prosessed, the name of God owned
and worshipped, religion and the doctrines of Christi-
anity established) and, as it is so, it ought as much to
-be preserved by the civil power, from the horrid inva-
sions of atheists, deists, and heretics, as the public
peace ought to be desended against free-booters, thieves,
and invaders.
G 3 It
,.
It is very improbable any reformation of manners
should be brought to pass, if the debauching the reli-
gious principles of the nation, goes on with an unre-
strained liberty. How incongruous is it to the deco-
ration of government, that a man shall be punished for-
drunkenness, and set in the stocks /or swearing, but
shall have liberty to deny the God of Heaven, and dis-
pute against the very sum and substance of the Chris-
tian doctrine; shall banter the Scripture, and make
ballads of the Pentateuch; turn all the principles of
religion, the falvation of the soul, the death of our
Saviour, and the revelation of the Gospel, into ridicule.
And shall we pretend to reformation of manners, and
suppressing immoralities, while such as this is the ge-
rieral mixture of converfation? If a man talk against
the government, or speak scurriloufly of the King, he
is had to the Old Bailey, and from thence to the pil-
lory, or whipping-post, and it is fit it should be so;
but he may speak treason against the Majesty of Hea-
ven, deny the godhead of his Redeemer, and make a
jest of the Holy Ghost, and thus affront the Power we
all adore, and yet pass with impunity. Perhaps some
in the company may have courage enough to blame
him, and vindicate their religion with a ' Why do ye
talk so?' But where is the man, or the magistrate, that
ever vindicated the honour of his Maker with a re-
sentment becoming the crime? If a man gives the lie
to a gentleman in company, he takes it as an affront,
flies into a passion, quarrels, sights, and perhaps mur-
ders him; nay, some have done it for an absent friend,
whom they have heard abused: but where is the gen-
tleman that ever thought himself so much concerned in
the quarrel of his Maker, but that he couid hear hiro-
asirontedr
affronted, his being denied, the lie given to his divine
authority, nay, to his divine being, and all his com-
mands ridiculed'and exposed, without any motion of
spirit to punish the insolence of the party, and without
drawing his sword in the quarrel, or letting him know
he does not like it.
Methinks I need not make an apology for this, as if
I meant, that quarrelling and sighting was a proper
practice in the case; the law does not admit it in any
case, nor is it reasonable it should; and God Almighty
is far from defiring us to run any risle in his service:
but I chuse to bring the cases into a parallel, to signify,
that I think it is a vulgar error in our behaviour, not
to (how our resentment when we heir the honour and
essence of God slighted and denied, his majesty abused,
and religion bantered and ridiculed in common dis-
courses. I think it would be very reasonable to tell a
gentleman he wants manners, when he talks reproach-
fully of his Maker, and to use him scurvily if he re-
sented it. It would very well become a man of quality
to cane a lewd fop, or kick him down stairs, when his
Insolence took a loose at religion in his company; else
men may be bullied out of their Christianity, and lam-
pooned into profaneness, for sear of being counted
fools.
Besides, it is in this, as in all other like cases; he
that will talk atheisiically in my company, either be-
lieves me to be an atheist like himself, or ventures to
impose upon me; and, by imposing upon me, either
accounts me a fool, that cannot tell when I am put
upon, or a coward, that dares not resent it.
Upon which account, even in good manners, it
Ought to be avoided; for it cannot be introduced into
G 4 any
any part of converfation, where the company are not
all alike, without the greatest affront upon the rest that
can be offered them.
OF LEWD AND IMMODEST DISCOURSE.
TALKING bawdy, that sodomy of the tongue, has
the most of ill-manners, and the least of a gen-
tleman in it, of any part of common discourse. Sir
George Mackenzie has very handsomely exposed it in
its proper colours: but it may not be an intrenchment
at all upon his province, to fay something of it in these
observations. 1
This part is the peculiar practice of such persons as
are hardened to a degree beyond other men; proficients
in debauchery, whose lives are so continually devoted
to lewdness, that their mouths cannot contain it; who
can govern their tongues no better than their tails, and
are willing to be thought what really they are. In
these, it is neither so strange, nor so much a crime as
in others; these are persons not to be reclaimed: this
part of my observation is not designed for their use;
they are not to be talked out of their vice; they must
go on, and run their length; nothing but a gaol or an
hospital ever brings them to a reformation; they re-
pent sometimes in that emblem of Hell, a fluxing-
house, and under the surgeon's hands, wish a little they
had
had been wiser; but they follow one sin with another,
till their carcase stinks as bad as their discourse, and the
body becomes too nasty for the foul to stay any longer
in it: from these, no discourse is to be expected, but
what is agreeable to the tenor of their lives; for them
to talk otherwise, would be strained and eccentric, and
become them as little, as it would be tedious to them;
but for a gentleman, a man of seeming modesty, and a
man of behaviour, not arrived to that class in the
Devil's school; for such a one to mix his discourse with
lewd and filthy expressions, has something in it of
sigure which intends more than is expressed.
Either we must believe such a one to be very lewd in
his practice, or else, that not being able yet to arrive to
such a degree of wickedness as he desires, he would sup-
ply that desect with a cheat, and persuade you to be-
lieve he is really worse than he is.
Which of these two characters I would chuse to
wear, I cannot tell; for he that desires to be worse than
he thinks he is, is certainly as bad as he desires to be;
and he that is so bad as to let fly the excrescences of it
at his mouth, is as wicked as the Devil can in reason
desire of him.
But I descend from the wickedness, to the indecency
of the matter: its being a sin against God, is not so
much the present argument, as its being unmannerly, a
fin against breeding and society, a breach of behaviour,
and a faucy, insolent affront to all the company.
I do not deny, but that modesty, as it respects the
covering our bodies, was at first an effect of the fall of
our parents into crime, and is therefore faid still to b*
the consequences of criminal nature, and no virtue in
itselfbecause no part of the body had been unfit to
'be
be exposed, if vice had not made the distinction neces-
fary.
But from this very argument, lewd discourse appears
to be a fin against custom and decency; for why must
the tongue industriously expose things and actions at
which nature blushes, and which custom, let the ori-
ginal be what it will, has dedicated to privacy and re-
tirement? What, if it be true, that shame is the conse-
quence of sin, and that modesty is not an original virtue,
it cannot but be allowed, that sin has thereby brought
us to a necessity of making modesty be a virtue; and fiii
- would have a double influence upon us, if, after it had
made us ashamed, it should make us not asltamed again.
It is, in my opinion, a mistake, when we fay, {jn was
the immediate cause of shame; it was fin indeed gave a
nudity to our natures and actions; the innocence which
served as a glory and covering being gone, then shame
came in as the effect of the conscious sinner; so the text
fays, ' They knew that they were naked:' shame was
the effect of nakedness, as nakedness was the effect
of sin.
From hence then I argue, and this is the reason of
my naming it, that to be ashamed of our nakedness, is
a token of our wisdom, and a monument of our just
sense of the first fin that made it so, and as much a
duty now, as any other part of our repentance.
To give the tongue then a liberty in that which there
is so much reason to blush at, argues no sense of the
original degeneracy. Where is the man that partakes
not of Adam's fall; has no vicious, contracted habit
and nature conveyed to him from his grand predecessor?
Let him come forth, let him go naked, and live by
himself, and let his posterity partake of his innocence;
Jiis tongue cannot offend, nothing can be Indecent foi
him to fay, nothing uncomely for him to see.
But if these gentlemen think it proper to cover their
nakedness with their cloaths, methinks they should not
be always uncovering it again with their tongues; if
there are some needful things which nature requires to
be done in secret, and which they by inclination chuse
to act in private, what reason can they give for speaking
of them in public?
There is a strange incongruity in the behaviour of
these people, that they fill their mouths with the foul
repetition of actions and things, which their own prac-
tising in private condemns them for, nay, which they
would be ashamed to do in public; such men ought to
act the common requirements of nature in the most
public places of the streets, bring their wives or whores
to the exchange, and to the market-places, and lie with
.them in the street, or else hold their tongues, and let
their mouths have no more the stench of their vices in
public than their actions.
And why, of all the rest of the parts of lise, must tha
tongue take a peculiar licence to revel thus upon na-
ture, as if she had a mind to reproach her with the1
infirmities she labours under? The customs we are
obliged to, though they are clogs upon nature, and a
.badge of original desection, yet neither is there any-
thing so odious, or so burdensome, that these gen-
tlemen should triumph over the nurle that brought
them up.
Take the lewdest and most vicious wretch that ever
gave his tongue a loose in this hateful practice, and turn
him about to his mother, you shall hardly prevail upon
him to talk his lewd language to her; there is some-
thing
thing nauseous and surseiting in that thought. This
talking bawdy;, is like a man going to debauch his own
mother; for it is raking in the arcana, and exposing
the nakedness of nature, the common mother of us all.
If, as a famous man of wit pretended, lying with a
woman was the homeliest thing that man can do; it is
much more true, that talking of it is the homeliest thing
that man can fay.
Nor is there to me any jest in these things; no ap-
pearance of mirth: there may be some pleasure in
wicked actions, as the world rates pleasure, but I must
prosess it is dull, and for want of other more regular
tastes, that there mould be pleasure in the discourse; it
is profaning of nature, and bringing forth those things
she has hallowed to secrecy and retirement, to the scan-
lous indecency of public banter and jest.
But men, who have always something to fay for their
folly, tell us, it is custom only which has made any of
these things uncommon, and there is no sin in speak-
ing that which there is no sin in doing.
Let us grant them that custom only has done this:
but if custom has made these things uncommon and
concealed, or at least banished them from the voice of
converfation, it is a sin then against custom to expose
them again: lawful customs become allowed virtues,
and ought to be preserved. Custom is a good reason
in such concealments ; if custom has locked them up,
let them remain so; at least till you can give a better
reason for calling them abroad again, than custom has
given for restraining them. Custom has made these
things uncommon, because that fin which first made
nature naked, left her so captivated by some of her
parts more than others, that she could not but blusa
at
at those where sin had taken up its peculiar residence.
Now, as I noted ^before, no man can, with any toler-
able fatisfaction, expose the parts, till he has first ab-
stracted and' separated the fin which, having possessed
them, covered them at first with shame: he that can
do this, may go naked and talk any thing.
And, for the fame reason, no man can justify talking
lewdly, but he at the fame time throws away his
ploaths; for to cover himself with his hands, and un-
cover himself with his tongue, are contradictions in
their own nature, and one condemns the other. He
that scorns the decency of words, should also scorn the
decency of cloaths; let his body be as bald as his dis-
course, and let him scorn the shame of one, as well as
the shame of the other.
It is no sin, they fay, to talk of what it is no sin to
do; and I may add, it is no sin at all, to shew what it
is no sin to describe. Why is the eye to be less offend-
ed than the ear? since both are but the common organs
of the understanding.
But the weather, and inconveniencies of the climate,
are urged for cloathing our bodies; and I urge decency
and good manners for the government of our tongues;
and let any one contend it with me, that thinks he can
prove, that the obligation of the first is greater than the
obligation of the last.
Much more might be faid to this, but I make but an
essay, and am unwilling to run out into a long dis-
course.
OF
OF TALKING FALSELY.
BY talking falsely, I do not design to enter upon a
long dissertation upon the sin of lying in general;
I suppose all men that read me, will acknowledge lying
to be one of the most scandalous sins between man and
man; a crime of a deep dye, and of an extensive na-
ture, leading into innumerable sins; that is, as lying
is practised to deceiye, to injure, betray, rob, destroy,
and the like: lying, in this sense, is the concealing of
all other crimes; it is the sheep's cloathing hung upon
the wolve's back; it is the Pharisee's prayer, the whore's
blush, the hypocrite's paint, the murderer's smile, the
thief's cloak; it is Joab's embrace, and Judas's kiss;
in a word, it is mankind's darling sin, and the Devil's
distinguishing character.
But this is not the case I am upon; this is not the
talking falsely I am upon; but a strange liberty which,
particularly in converfation, people take to talk falsely,
without charging themselves with any offence in it,
either against God or man: this is to be considered in
two or three parts, not but that it has many more.
I. The liberty of telling stories,—a common vice in
discourse: the main end of this extraordinary part of
tittle-tattle, is to divert the company, and make them
laugh; but we ought to consider whether that very
empty fatisfaction, either to ourselves or friends, is to
be purchased at so great an expence as that of con-
science, and of a dishonour done to truth.
It
It is scarce fit to fay how far some people go in this
/oily, to call it no worse, even till sometimes they bring
the general credit of their converfation into decay; and
people that are used to them, learn to lay no stress upon
any thing they fay.
For once we will suppose a story to be in its sub-
stance true; yet to what a monstrous bulk doth it grow,
by that frequent addition put to it in the relation, till
not only it comes to be improbable, but even impossible
to be true; and the ignorant relater is so tickled with
having made a good story of it, whatever it was when
he found it, that he is blind to the absurdities and in-
consistencies of fact in relation, and tells it with a full
face, even to those that are able to confute it, by prov-
ing it to be impossible.
I once heard a man, who would have taken it very
ill to be thought a liar, tell a story, the facts of which
were impossible to be true; and yet assert it with so
much assurance, and declare so positively that he had
been an eye-witness of it himself, that there was no-
thing to do, in respect to the man, but let him alone,
and fay nothing: a gentleman who fat by, and whose
good-breeding restrained his passion, turned to him,
and faid, ' Did you see this thing done, Sir?' * Yes, I
did, Sir,' fays the relater: * Well, Sir,' replies the gentle-
man, ' since you affirm that you did see it, I am bound,
in regard to you, to believe it; but, upon my word, it
is such a thing, that if I had seen it myself, I would
not have believed it:' this broke the silence, set all the
company a laughing, and exposed the falsehood more
than downright telling him it was a lie, which might
besides have made a broil about it.
I........ . It
It is a strange thing, that we cannot be content to
tell a story as it is, but we must take from it on one
side, or add to it on another, till the fact is lost among
the addenda, and till, in time, even the man himself,
remembering it only as he told it last, really forgets how
it was originally; this being so generally practised now,
nothing is more common than to have two men tell
the fame story quite different one from another, yet
both of them eye-witnesses to the fact related. These
are that fort of people, who having once told a story
falsely, tell it so often in the fame or like manner, till
they really believe itto.be true.
This supplying a story by invention, is certainlv a
most scandalous crime, and yet very little regarded in
that part; it is a fort of lying, that makes a great hole
in the heart, at which, by degrees, a habit of lying
enters in: such a man comes quickly up to a total dis-
regarding the truth of what he fays, looking upon it as
a trifle, a thing of no import, whether any story he tells
be true or no, so it but commands the company, as
they call it; that is to fay, procures a laugh, or a kind
of amazement,—things equally agreeable to these story-
tellers; for the business is to affect the company, either
startle them with something wonderful, never heard of
before, or make them laugh immoderately, as at some-
thing prodigiously taking, witty, and diverting.
It is hard to place this practice in a station equal to
its folly; it is a meanness below the dignity of com-
mon sense : they that lie to gain, to deceive, to delude,
to betray, as above, have some end in their wickedness;
and though they cannot give the design for an excuse
of their crime, yet it may be given as the reason and
foundation of it: but to lie for sport, for fun, as the

boys express it, is to play at shuttle-cock with your
foul, and load your conscience for the mere fake of
being a fool, and the making a mere buffoonery of a
story, the pleasure of what is below even madness it-
self.
And yet, how common is this folly? How is it the
character of some men's converfation, that they are
made up of story? And how mean a figure is it they
bear in company? Such men always betray their emp-
tiness by this; and having only a certain number of
tales in their budget, like a pedlar with his pack, they
can only at every house shew the fame ware over again,
tell the fame story over and over, till the jest is quite
worn out; and to convince us that much of it, if not
all, is born of invention, they seldom tell it the fame
way twice, but vary it even in the most material facts:
so that though it may be remembered that it was the
fame story, it ought never to be remembered that it
was told by the fame man.
With what temper should I speak of these people?
What words can express the meanness and baseness of
the mind that can do thus? that fin without design,
and not only have no end in the view, but even no re-
flection in the act; the folly is grown up to a habit,
and they not only mean no ill, but indeed mean no-
thing at all in it.
It is a strange length that some people run in this
madness of lise; and it is so odd, so unaccountable, that
indeed it is difficult to describe the man, though not
difficult to describe the fact. What idea can be form-
ed in the mind, of a man who does ill without mean-
ing ill; that wrongs himself, affronts truth, and im-
poses upon his friends, and yet means no harm; or, to
Vol. III. H use
use his own words, means nothing? That, if he thinks
any thing, it is to make the company pleafant; and
what is this but making the circle a stage, and himself
the merry Andrew?
The best step such men can take, is to lie on,—and
this (hews the singularity of the crime; it is a strange
expression, but I shall make it out; their way is, I fay,
to lie on, till their character is completely known, and
then they can lie no longer; for he whom nobody be-
lieves, can deceive nobody, and then the essence of
lying is removed; for the description of a lie is, that it
is spoken to deceive, or it is a design to deceive: now,
he that nobody believes, can never lie any more, be-
cause nobody can be deceived by him. Such a man's
character is a bill upon his forehead, by which every-
body knows, Here dwells a lying tongue: when every-
body knows what is to be had of him, they know what
to expect, and so nobody is deceived; if they believe
him afterwards, it is their fault as much as his.
There are a great many forts of those people, who
make it their business to go about telling stories; it
would be endless to enumerate them; some tell formal
stories, forged in their own brain, without any re-
trospect either to persons or things j I mean, as to any
particular person, or passage known, or in being, and
only with the ordinary introduction of, There was a
man; or, there was a woman, and the like.
Others again, out of the fame forge of invention,
hammer out the very person, man or woman, and be-
gin, I knew the man, or, I knew the woman; and
these ordinarily vouch their story with more assurance
than others; and vouch also, that they knew the per-
sons who were concerned in it.
The
The selling dr writing a parable, or an allusive alle-
goric history, is quite a different case, and is always dis-
tinguished from this other jesting with truth; that it
is designed and effectually turned for instructive and
upright ends, and has its moral justly applied: such are
the historical parables in the Holy Scripture; such the
Pilgrim's Progress; and such, in a word, the adven-
tures of your fugitive friend, Robinson Crusoe.
Others make no scruple to relate real stories, with
innumerable omissions and additions; I mean, stories
which have a real existence in fact, but which, by the
barbarous way of relating, become as romantic and
false as if they had no real original. These tales, like
the old galley of Venice, which had been so often new
vamped, doubled, and redoubled, that there was not
one piece of the first timber in her, have been told
wrong so often, and so many ways, till there would not
be one circumstance of the real story left in the re-
lating.
There are many more kinds of these, such, namely,
as are personal and malicious, full of slander and abuse;
but these are not of the kinds I am speaking of; the
present business is among a kind of white devils, who
do no harm or injury to any but to themselves; they
are like the grashopper, that spends his time to divert
the traveller, and does nothing but starve himself. The
converfation of these men is full of emptiness, their
words are levity itself, and, according to the text, they
not only tell untruths, but the truth is not in them.
There is not a settled awe or reverence of truth upon
their minds; it is a thing of no value to them; it is
not regarded in their discourse, and they gire.them-
H a selves
selves a liberty to be perfectly unconcerned about the
thing they say, or the story they tell, whether it be true
or no.
This is a most abominable practice on another ac-
count, namely, that these men make a jest of their
crime; they are a fort of people that sin laughing; that
play upon their fouls as a man plays upon a fiddle, to
make other people dance, and wear itself out j they may
he said to make some sport indeed, but it is all at them-
selves; they are the hearers comedy, and their own
tragedy; and, like a penitent jack-pudding, they will
at last fay, I have made others merry, but I have been
the fool.
I would be glad to shame men of common sense out
of this horrid piece of buffoonery; and one thing I
would warn them of, namely, that their learning to lie .
so currently in story, will insensibly bring them to a
bold entrenching upon truth in the rest of their con-
verfation: the Scripture command is, * Let every man
speak truth unto his neighbour;' if we must tell stories,
tell them as stories, add nothing wilfully to illustrate or
set it forth in the relation; if you doubt the truth of it,
fay so, and then every one will be at liberty to believe
their share of it.
Besides, there is a spreading evil in telling a false
story as true, namely, that you put it into the mouths
of others, and it continues a brooding forgery to the
end of time; it is a chimney-corner romance; and has
in it this distinguishing article, that whereas parables,
and the inventions of men published historically, are
once for all related, and the moral being drawn, the
history remains allusive only, as it was intended, as in
several
several cases* maybe instanced within our times, and
without; here the case alters, fraud goes unto the
world's end, for story never dies; every relater vouches
it for truth, though he knows nothing of the matter.
These men know not what foundations they are lay-
ing for handing on the sport of lying,—for such they
make of it,—to posterity; not only leaving the example,
but dictating the very materials for she practice; like
family-lies, handed on from father to son, till what be-
gun in forgery, ends in history, and we make our lies
be told for truth, by all our children that comes
after us.
If any man object here, that the preceding volumes
of this work seem to be hereby condemned, and the
history which I have therein published of myself, cen-
sured; I demand, injustice, such objector stay his cen-
sure, till he sees the end of the scene, when all that
mystery shall discover itself; and I doubt not, but the
work shall abundantly justify the design, and the design
abundantly justify the work.
* The Pilgrim's Progress:
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
AN
H8
SERIOUS REFLECTION*
CHAP. IV.
AN ESSAY
On the present State of Religion in the World.
IN that part of my work which may be called history,
I have frequently mentioned the unconquerable
'impressions which dwelt upon my mind, and filled up
all my del res, immovably pressing me to a wandering,
travelling lise, and which pushed me continually on,
from one adventure to another, as you have heard.
There is an inconsiderate temper which reigns in our
minds, that hurries us down the stream of our affec-
tions, by a kind of involuntary agency, and makes us
do a thoufand things, in the doing of which, we pro-
pose nothing to ourselves but an immediate subjection
to our will; that is to fay, our passion, even without
the concurrence of our understandings, and of which
we can give very little account after it is done.
You may now suppose me to be arrived, after a long
course of insinite variety on the stage of the world, to
the scene of lise we call Old Age; and that I am wri-
ting these sheets in a season of my time, when, if ever,
a man may be supposed capable of making just reflec-
tions upon things past, a true judgment of things pre-
sent, and tolerable conclusions of things to come.
In the beginning of this lise of composure; for now,
and not till now, I may fay, that I begun to live, that
is
If to fay, a sedate and composed lise, I enquired of my-
self very seriously one day, what was the proper busi-
ness of old age? The answer was very natural, and in-
deed returned quick upon me; namely, that two things
were my present work, as follows:
I. Reflections upon things past,
II. Serious application to things suture.
Having resolved the business of lise into these heads,
I began immediately with the first; and as sometimes I
took my pen and ink to diiburthen my thoughts, when
the subject crouded in fast upon me, so I have here
communicated some of my observations, for the benefit
of those that come after me.
About the time that I was upon these enquiries, be-
ing at a friend's house, and talking much of my long
travels, as you know travellers are apt to do, I observed
an ancient gentlewoman in the company, listened with
a great deal of attention, and, as I thought, with some
pleasure, to what I was faying: and after I had done,
* Pray, Sir,' fays she, turning her speech to me, * give
me leave to ask you a question or two?' With all my
heart, Madam,' faid I; so we began the following short
dialogue:
Old Gent. Pray, Sir, in all your travels, can you tell
what the world is a-doing? What have you observed
to be the principal business of mankind?
Cru. Truly, Madam, it is very hard to answer
such a question, the peqple being so differently em-
ployed, some one way, and some another; and parti-
cularly, according to the several parts of the world
through which our observations are to run, and ac-
cording to the different manners, customs, and cir-
cumstances of the people in every plaee.
H 4 Old
Old Gent. Alas! Sir, that is no answer at all to me,
because I am not a judge of the different customs and
manners of the people you may speak of: but, is there
not one common end and design in the nature of men,
which seems to run through all their actions, and to
be formed by nature, as the main end of lise, and, by
consequence, is made the chief business of living?
Pray, how do they spend their time ?.
Rob. Cru. Nay now, Madam, you have added a
question to the rest, of a different nature from what, if
I take you right, you meant at first.
Old Gent. What question, Sir?
Rob. Cru. Why, how mankind spend their time;
for I cannot fay, that one half os mankind spend their
their time in what they themselves may acknowledge
to be the main end of lise.
Old Gent. Pray, do not distinguish me out of my
question; we may talk ef what is the true end of lise,
as we understand it here, in a Christian country, ano-
ther time; but take my question as I offer it: What
is mankind generally adoing as their main business?
Rob. Cru. Truly, the main business that mankind
seems to be doing, is to eat and drink,—that is their
enjoyment; and to get food to eat, is their employ-
ment; including a little, their eating and devouring
one another.
Old Gent. That is a description of them as brutes.
Rob. Cru. It is so, in the first part, namely, their
living to eat and drink; but in the last part, they are
worse than the brutes; for the brutes destroy not their
own kind, but all prey upon a different species; and
besides, they prey upon one another for necessity, to
fatisfy their hunger, and for food; but man, for baser
ends,
121
ends, such as avarice, envy, revenge, and the like, de-
vours his own species, nay, his own flesh and blood,
as my Lord Rochester very well expresses it.
But judge yourself, I'll bring it to the test,
Which is the basest creature, man or beast.
Birds feed on birds, beasts on each other prey,
But savage man alone does man betray.
Press'd-by necessity, they kill for food,
Man undoes man, to do himself no good.
With teeth and claws, by nature arm'd, they hunt
Nature's allowance, to supply their want:
But man, with smiles, embraces, friendship, praise,
Inhumanly his fellow's life betrays:
With voluntary pains works his distress,
Not for necessity, but wantonness.
Old Gent. All this I believe is true; but this does
not reach my question yet. There is certainly some-
thing among them, which is esteemed as more particu-
larly the end of lise and of living than the rest, to
which they apply in common, as the main business,
and which it is always esteemed to be their wisdom to
be employed in: is there not something that is appa-
rently the great business of living?
Rob. Cru. Why really, Madam, I think not. For
example, great part of the world, and a greater part by
far than we imagine, is resolved into the lowest dege-
neracy of human nature,—I mean the favage lise;
where the chief end of lise seems to be merely to eat
and drink, that is to fay, to get their food, just as the
brutal life is employed, and indeed with very little dif-
serence between them; for except only speech and
idolatry, 1 see nothing in the life of some whole na-
tions of people, and for ought I know, containing
millions of fouls, in which the lise of a lion or an
elephant, in the Dcfarts of Arabia, is not equal.
Old
Old Gent. I could mention many things, Sir, irt
which they might differ; but that is not the present
thing I enquire about: but pray, Sir, is not religion
the principal business of mankind in all parts of the
world? for I think you granted it when you named
idolatry, which they, no doubt, call religion.
Rob. Cru. Really, Madam, I cannot fay it is; be-
cause, what with ignorance on one hand, and hypocrisy
on the other, it is very hard to know where to find re-
ligion in the world.
Old Gent. You avoid my question too laboriously,
Sir; I have nothing to do either with the ignorance or
hypocrisy of the people; whether they are blindly de-
vout, or knavishly and designedly devout, is not the-
cafe; but whether religion is not apparently the main
business of the world, the principal apparent end of
lise, and the employment of mankind?
Rob. Cru. What do you call religion?
Old Gent. By religion, I mean the worshipping and
paying homage to some supreme being, some God;
known or unknown, is not to the case, so it be but to
something counted supreme.
Rob. Cru. It is true, Madam, there are scarce any na-
tions in the world so stupid, but they give testimony
to the being of a God, and have some notion of a su-
preme power.
Old Gent. That I know also; but that is not the main
part of my question: but my opinion is, that paying a
divine worship, acts of homage and adoration, and par-
ticularly, that of praying to the Supreme Being which
they acknowledge, is derived to mankind from the
light of nature, with the notion or belief itself.
Rob.
Rob. Cru. I suppose, Madam, you mean by the ques-
tion then, whether the notion or belief of a God in
general, and the sense of worship in particular, are not
one and the fame natural principle.
Old Gent. I do so; if you and I do but agree about
what we call worship.
Rob. Cru. By worship, I understand adoration.
Old Gent. But there you and 1 differ again a little;
for by worship, I understand supplication.
Rob. Cru. Then you must take them both in toge-
ther; for some part of the Indian favages only adore.
Old Gent. I consess there is much adoration, where
there is little supplication.
Rob. Cru. You distinguish too nicely, Madam.
Old Gent. No, no; I do not distinguish in what I
call worship; I allege, that all the adoration of those
poor favages is mere supplication: you fay, they lift up
their hands to their idols, for sear they should hurt
them.
Rob. Cru. I do fay so, and it is apparent.
Old Gent. Why, that is the fame thing, for then they
lift up their hands to him, that is to fay, pray to him
not to hurt them; for all the worship in the world, es-
pecially the outward performance, may be resolved into
supplication.
Rob. Cru. I agree with you in that, if you mean the
apparent end of worship.
Old Gent. Why, did itot your man Friday, and the
favage woman you tell us of, talk of their old idol they
called Benamuckee? And what did they do?
Rob. Cru. It is very true, they did.
Old Gent. And did not Friday tell you, they went up
to the hills and faid O to him? Pray, what was the
meaning
meaning of faying O to him,—but, O do not hurt ns;
for thou art omnipotent, and can'st kill Us: O, heal
our distempers; for thou art insinite, and can'st do all
things: O, give us what we want; for thou art boun-
tiful: O, spare us; for thou art merciful: and so of
all the other conceptions of a God?
Rob. Cru. Well, Madam, I grant all this: Pray, what
do you inser from it? What is the reason of your ques-
tion?
OM Gent. O, Sir, I have many inserences to draw
from it for my own observation; I do not set; up to
instruct you.
I thought this serious old lady would have entertain-
ed a farther discourse with me on so fruitful a subject j
but she declined it, and left me to my own meditation,
which indeed she had raised up to an unusual pitch :-
and the first thing that occurred to me, was to put me
upon enquiring after that nice thing, I ought to call
religion in the world; seeing really, I sound reason to,
think, that there was much more devotion than reli-,
gion in the world; in a word, much more adoration
than supplication; and I doubt, as I come nearer home,
it will appear, that there is much more hypocrisy than
sincerity: of which I may speak by itself.
In my fiist enquiries, I looked back upon my own
travels; and it afforded me but a melancholy reflection,
that in all the voyages and travels which I have em-
ployed two volumes in giving a relation of, I never set
my foot in a Christian country,—no, not in circling
three parts of the globe; for, excepting the Brasils,
where the Portuguese indeed prosessed the Roman Ca-
tholic principles, which, however, in distinction from
paganism, I will call the Christian religion; I fay, ex-
cept
cept the Brasils, where also I made little stay, I could
not be faid to set foot in a Christian country, or a
country inhabited by Christians, from the bay of La-
rache, and the port of Sallee, by the Straits mouth,
where I escaped from slavery, through the Atlantic
ocean, the coasts of Afric on one side, and of Caribbea
on the American shore, on the other side; from thence
to Madagascar, Malabar, and the bay and city of Ben-
gal, the coast of Sumatra, Malacca, Siam, Cambodia,
Cochin-China, the empire and coast of China, the de-
farts of Karakathay, the Mogul Tartars, the Siberian,
the Samoiede barbarians, and till I came within four
or five days of Archangel in the Black Russia.
It is, I fay, a melancholy reflection to think, how all
these parts of. the world, and with insinite numbers of
millions of people, furnished with the powers of rea-
son and gifts of nature, and many ways, if not every
way, as capable of the reception of sublime things as we
are, are yet abandoned to the grossest ignorance and de-
pravity; and that not in religion only, but even in all
the defirable parts of humane knowledge, and especially
science and acquired knowledge.
What the divine wisdom has determined concerning
the fouls of so many millions, it is hard to conclude,
nor is it my present design to enquire; but this I may
be allowed here, as a remark,—If they are received to
mercy in a future state, according to the opinion of
some, as having not sinned against faving light, then
their ignorance and pagan darkness is not a curse, but
a selicity, and there are no unhappy people in the
world, but those lost among Christians, for their sins
against revealed light; nay, then being born in the re-
gions of Christian light, and under the revelation of the
5 , oioel
gospel doctiines, is not so much a mercy to be ac-
knowledged, as some teach us; and it may, in a nega-
tive manner, be true, that the Christian religion is an
efficient in the condemnation of sinners, and loses more
than it faves,—which is impious to imagine: on the
other hand, if all those nations are concluded under the
sentence of eternal absence from God, which is hell in
the abstract, then what becomes of all the sceptical doc-
trines of its being inconsistent with the mercy and
goodness of an insinite and benesicent Being, to con-
demn so great a part of the world, for not believing in
him of whom they never had any knowledge or in-
struction? But I defire not to be the promoter of un-
answerable doubts, in matters of religion; much less
would I promote cavils at the foundations of religion,
either as to its prosession or practice,—and therefore I
only name things. I return to my enquiry after reli-
gion, as we generally understand the word.
And in this I consine myself, in my present enqui-
ries,to the particular nations prosessing the Christian re-
ligion only; and I shall take notice afterward, what in-
fluence the want of religion has upon the manners, the
genius, and the capacities of the people, as to all the
improvable parts of human knowledge.
The Moors of Barbary are Mahometans, and that of
the most degenerate and unpolished sort, especially of
that part of the world where they live: they are cruel
as beasts, vicious, insolent, and inhuman as degene-
rated nature can make them: moral virtues have so
little recommended themselves to any among them,
that they are accounted no accomplishment, and are
in no esteem; nor is a man at all respected for being
grave, sober, judicious or wise, or for being just in his
dealings,
dealings, or most easy in his converfation; but rapine
and injury is the custom of the place; and it is to re-
commend a great man, that he is rich, powerful in
slaves, merciless in his government of them, and im-
periously haughty in his whole houshold: every man
is a king within himself, and regards neither justice or
mercy, humanity or civility, either to them above him,
or them below him, but just as his arbitrary passions
guide him.
Religion here is confined to the Biram and the Ra-
madan, the seast and the fast, to the mosque and the
bath; reading the alcoran on one hand, and perform-
ing the warnings and purisications on the other, make
up their religious exercises; and for the rest, conver-
fation is eaten up with barbarisms and brutish customs;
so that there is neither society, humanity, considence
in one another, or converfation with one another; but
men live like the wild beasts,—for every man here
really would destroy and devour the other if he could.
This guided me to a just reflection in honour of
the Christian religion, which I have often since made
use of, ard which, on this occasion, I will make a di-"
gression to, viz. That it is to be faid for the reputation
of the Christian religion in general, and by which it is
justly distinguished from all other religions, thatwhere-
ever Christianity has been planted or prosesied nation-
ally in the world, even where it has not had a faving
influence, it has yet had a civilizing influence: it has
operated upon the manners, the morals, the politics,
and even the tempers and dispositions of the people;
it has reduced them to the practice of virtue, and to
the true methods of living; has weaned them from the
barbarous customs they had been used to, infusing a
kind
kind of humanity and softness of disposition into their
very natures; civilizing and softening them, teaching
them to love a regularity of lise, and silling them with
principles of generous kindness and benesicence one to
another; in a word, it has taught them to live like
men, and act upon the foundations of clemency, hu-
manity, love, and good neighbourhood, suitable to the
nature and dignity of God's image, and to the rules of
justice and equity, which it instructs them in.
Nay, farther I must observe also, that as the Chris-
tian religion has worn out, or been removed from any
country, and they have returned to heathenism and
idolatry, so the barbarisms have returned; the customs
of the heathen nations have been again restored; the
very nature and temper of the people have been again
lost; all their generous principles have forfaken them;
the softness and goodness of their dispositions have
worn out; and they have returned to cruelty, inhuma-
nity, rapine, and blood.
It is true, and it may be named as an objection to
this remark of mine, that the Romans, though hea-
thens, and the Grecians, by the study of philosophy in
particular persons, and by the excellency of their go-
vernment in their general or national capacity, were
filled with notions of virtue and honour, with most
generous and just principles, and acted with an heroic
mind on many occasions; practising the most sublime
and exalted, height of virtue, such as facrisicing their
lives for their country, with the utmost zeal; descendr
ing to great examples of humanity and benesicence;
scorning to do base or vile actions, as unworthy the
Roman name, to fave their lives; and a great many
most
most excellent examples of virtue and gallantry, arc
found in the histories of the Roman empire.
This does not oppose, it rather indeed illustrates
what I fay; for with all the philosophy, all the huma-
nity and generosity they practised, they had yet their
remains of barbarity; were cruel and unmerciful in
their natures, as appeared by the barbarity of their cus-
toms,—such as throwing malefactors to wild beasts,
the fightings of their gladiators, and the like; which
were not only appointed as punishments and severities,
by the order of public justice, but to shew it touched
the very article I am upon, it was the subject of their
sport and diversion; these things were exhibited as
shews to entertain the ladies; the cutting in pieces forty
or fifty slaves, and the seeing twenty or thirty miserable
creatures thrown to the lions and tygers, was no less
pleafant to them, than the going to see an opera, a~
masquerade, or a puppet-show, is to us; so that I think
the Romans were very far from a people civilized and
softened in their natures by the influences of religion:
and this is evident, because, that as the Christian reli-
gion came among them, all those cruel customs were
abhorred by them, the famous theatres and circles for
their public sports were overthrown, and the ruins of
them testify the justice of my observation at this very
day.
Nor will it be denied, if I should carry this yet fur-
ther, and observe, that even among Christians, those
who are more reformed, and farther and farther chris-
tianized, are still in proportion rendered more humane;
more soft and tender; and we do find, without being
partial to ourselves, that even the Protestant countries
are much distinguished in the humanity and softness of
Vol. III. I theie
their tempers: the meek, merciful disposition extend*
more among Protestants than among the Papists, as I
could very particularly demonstrate from history and
experience.
But to return back to the Moors, where I left off;
they are an instance of that cruelty of disposition which
was anciently in their nature, and how a country
abandoned of the true Christian religion, after it has
been first planted and prosessed among them, the re-
turn of Heathenism or Mahometanism has brought
back with it all the barbarisms of a nation void of reli-
gion and good-nature.
I faw enough of these dreadful people, to think
them, at this time, the worst of all the nations of the
world; a nation, where no such thing as a generous
spirit, or a temper with any compassion mixed with it,
is to be found; among whom nature appears stripped
of all the additional glories which it derives from reli-
gion, and yet whereon a Christian Nourishing church
had stood several hundred years.
From these, I werit among the negroes of Africa;
many of them I faw without any the least notion of a
Deity among them, much less any form of worship;
but I had not any occasion to converse with them on
shore, other than I have done since by accident, but
went away to the Brasils. Here I found the natives, and
that even before the Portuguese came among them,
and since also, had abundance of religion, such as it
was; but it was all so bloody, so cruel,—consisting of
murders, human facrisices, witchcrafts, sorceries, and
conjurings,—that I could not so much as call them
honest Pagans, as I do the negroes.
M
As for the cannibals, as I have observed In the dis-
course of them, on account of their landing on my
island, I can fay but very little of them: as for their
eating human flesh, I take it to be a kind of martial
rage, rather than a civil practice; for it is evident, they1
eat no human creatures but such as are taken prisoners
in .their battles; and as I have observed, in giving the
account of those things, they do n6t esteem it murder;
no, nor so much as unlawful. I must consess, faving
its being a practice in itself unnatural, especially to us,
I fay, saving that part, I see little difference between
that and our way, which, in the war, is frequent in
heat of action, viz. refusing quarter; for as to the dif-
serence between eating and killing those that offer to
yield, it matters not much: and this I observed at the
fame time, that in their other conduct, these favages
were as humane, as mild, and gentle, as most I have
met with in the world, and as easily civilized.
From these sort of people I come to the Indians;
for as to the Madagascar men, I faw very little of them,
but that they were a kind of negroes, much like those
of the coast of Guinea, only a little more used to the
Europeans, by their often landing among them.
The East Indians arc generally Pagans or Mahome-
tans, and have such mixtures of favage customs with
them, that even Mahometanism is there in its corrup-
tion; neither have they there the upright, just dealing,
in matters of right and wrong, which the Turks in
Europe have, with whom it is generally very fafe
trading: but here they all act the parts of thieves and
cheats, watching to deceive you, and proud of being
thought able to do it.
I Z Tha
The subjects of the Great Mogul have a seeming
polite government; and the inhabitants of Ceylon are
under very strict discipline; and yet what difficulty do
we find to trade with them! Nay, their very economy
renders them fraudulent; and in some places they can-
not turn their thoughts to being honest.
China is famous for wisdom; that is to fay, that
they, having such a boundless conceit of their own
wisdom, we are obliged to allow them more than they
have: the truth is, they are justly faid to be a wise na-
tion among the foolish ones, and may as justly be
called a nation of fools among the wise ones.
As to their religion, it is all summed up in Confu-
cius's maxims, whose theology I take to be a rhapsody
of moral conclusions; a foundation, or what we may
call elements of polity, morality, and superstition, hud-
dled together in a rhapsody of words, without consist-
ency, and indeed with very little reasoning in it: then
it is really not so much as a resined paganism, for there
are, in my opinion, much more regular doings among
some of the Indians that are Pagans in America, than
there are in China: and if I may believe the account
given of the government of Montezuma in Mexico,
and of the Incas of Cusco in Peru, their worship and
religion, such as it was, was carried on with more re-
gularity than these in China. As to the human in-
genuity, as they call it, of the Chinese, I shall account
for it by itself; the utmost discoveries of it to me, ap-
peared in the mechanics, and even in them insinitely
short of what is found among the European nations.
But let us take these people to pieces a little, and ex-
amine into the great penetration they are so famed for:
First of all» their knowledge has not led them that
length
133
length in religious matters, which the common notions
of philosophy would have done, and to which they did
lead the wise heathens of old among the Grecian and
Roman empires; for they, having not the knowledge
of the true God, preserved, notwithstanding, the no-
tion of a God to be something immortal, omnipotent,
sublime; exalted above in place, as well as authority;
and therefore made Heaven to be the seat of their
gods; and the images by which they represented the
gods and goddesses, had always some persections that
were really to be admired, as the attendants of their
gods; as Jupiter was called the thunderer, for his
power; father of gods and men, for his seniority;
Venus adored for her beauty; Mercury for swiftness;
Apollo for wit, poetry, and music; Mars for terror and
gallantry in arms, and the like: but when we come to
these polite nations of China, which yet we cry up for
fense, and greatness of genius, we see them grovelling in
the very sink and silth of idolatry; their idols are the
most frightful, monstrous shapes, not the form of any
real creature, much less the images of virtue, of chastity,
of literature; but horrid shapes of their priests inven-
tion; neither hellish or human monsters ; composed of
invented forms, with neither face or sigure, but with
the utmost distortions; formed neither to walk, stand,
fly, or go; neither to hear, see, or speak, but merely to
instil horrible ideas of something nauseous and abo-
minable, into the minds of men that adored them.
If I may be allowed to give my notions of worship,
I mean, as it relates to the objects of natural homage,
where the name and nature of God is not revealed, as
in the Christian religion; I must acknowledge, the
fun, the moon, the stars, the elements, in the Pagan
I 3 and
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
and Heathen nations of old; and above all these, the
representations of superior virtues and excellencies
among men, such as valour, fortitude, chastity, pati-
ence, beauty, strength, love, learning, wisdom, and the
like,—the objects of worship in the Grecian and Roman
times, were far more eligible and more rational objects
of divine rites, than the idols of China and Japan;
where, with all the economy of their state maxims, and.
rules of civil government, which we insist so much on,
as tests of their wisdom, their great capacities, and
Understandings, their worship is the most brutish, and
the objects of their worship the coarsest, the most un-
manly, inconsistent with reason, or the nature of reli-
gion, of any the world can shew; bowing down to a
mere hobgoblin, and doing their reverence, not to
the work of mens hands only, but the Ugliest, basest,
frightfullest things that man could make; images, so
far from being lovely and amiable, as in the nature of
worship is implied, that they are the most detestable
arid nauseous, even to nature.
How is it possible these people can have any claim to
the character of wise, ingenious, polite, that could
suffer themselves to be overwhelmed in an idolatry re-
pugnant to common sense, even to nature, and be
brought to chuse to adore that which was iii itself the
most odious and contemptible to nature; not merely
terrible, that so their worship might proceed from sear,
but a complication of nature's aversions?
I cannot omit, that being in one of their temples, or
rather in a kind of oratory or chapel, annexed to one
part of the great palace at Pekin, there appeared a
mandarin, with his attendants, or, as we may fay, a
great lord and his retinue, prostrate before the image,
not
not of any one of God's creatures, but a creature of
mere human forming, such as neither was alive, nor
was like any thing that had lise, or had ever been seen
or heard of in the world.
The like image, or something worse, if I could give
it a true representation, may be found in a garden cha-
pel, if not defaced by wiser heads, of a great Tartarian
mandarin, at a small distance from Nanquin, and to
which the poor abandoned creatures pay their most
blinded devotions.
It had a thing instead of a head, but no head; it had
a mouth distorted out of all manner of shape, and not
to be described for a mouth, being only an unshapen
chasm, neither representing the mouth of a man, beast,
fowl, or fish,—the thing was neither any of the four,
but an incongruous monster; it had seet, hands, singers,
claws, legs, arms, wings, ears, horns, every thing
mixed one among another, neither in the shape or
place that nature appointed, but blended together, and
fixed to a bulk, not a body, formed of no just parts,
but a shapeless trunk or log,—whether of wood or
stone I know not; a thing that might have stood with
any side forward, or any side backward; any end .up-
ward, or any end downward; that had as much vene-
ration due to it on one side, as on the other; a kind of
celestial hedge-hog, that was rolled up within itself, and
was every thing every way; that, to'a Christian, could
not have been worthy to have represented even the
Devil; and to men of common sense, must have been
their very souls aversion: in a word, if I have not re-
presented their monstrous deities right, let imagina-
tion supply any thing that can make a mishapen image
horrid, frightful, and surprizing; and you may, with
I 4 justice,
justice, suppose those fagacious people, called the Chi-
nese, whom, forsooth, we must admire; I fay, you may
suppose them prostrate on the ground, with all their
pomp and pageantry, which is in itself not a little,
worshipping such a mangled, promiscuous gendered
creature.
Shall we call these a wise nation, who represent God
in such hideous, monstrous figures as these, and can
prostrate themselves to things ten thoufand times more
disfigured than the Devil? Had these images been con-
trived in the Romans time, and been set up for the
god of ugliness, as they had their god of beauty, they
might indeed have been thought exquisite; but the
Romans would have spurned such an image out of
their temples.
Nothing can render a nation so completely foolish
and simple,as such an extravagance in matters of reli-
gious worship; for if gross ignorance in the notion of
a god, which is so extremely natural, will not demon-
strate a nation unpolished, foolish, and weak, even next
to idiotism, I know nothing that will.
But let me trace this wise nation that we talk so
much of, and who not only think themselves wise, but
have drawn us in to pay a kind of homage to their
'low-prized wit.
Government, and the mechanic arts, are the two
main things in which our people in England, who
have admired them so much, pretend they excel. As to
their government, which consists in an absolute ty-
ranny, which, by the way, is the easiest way of ruling
in the world, where the people are disposed to obey as
blindly as the mandarin commands or governs imperi-
ously; what policy is required in governing a people,
of
of whom it is faid, that if you command them to hang
themselves, they will only cry a little, and submit im-
mediately? Their maxims of government may do well
enough among themselves, but with us they would be
all confusion. In their country it is not so, only be-
cause whatever the mandarin fays is a law, and God
himself has no power or interest among them to con-
tradict? it, unless he pleases to execute it, brevt manut
from Heaven.
Most of their laws consist in immediate judgment,
swift executions, just retaliations, and fair protection
from injuries: their punishments are cruel and exor-
bitant, such as cutting the hands and the seet off for
theft; at the fame time releasing murders, and other
flagrant crimes.
Their mandarins are their judges in very many
cases, like our justices of the peace; but then they
judge by customs, oral tradition, or immediate opinion,
and execute the sentence immediately, without room
or time to reflect upon the justice of it, or to consider
of mitigations, as in all Christian countries is practised,
and as the sense of human frailty would direct.
But let me come to their mechanics, in which their
ingenuity is so much cried up: I affirm there is little or
nothing sufficient to build the mighty opinion we have
of them upon, but what is founded upon the compa-
risons which we make between them and other Pagan
nations, or proceeds from the wonder which we make
that they should have any knowledge of mechanic arts,
because we find the remote inhabitants of Africa and
America so grossly ignorant, and so entirely destitute
in such things; whereas, we do not consider, that the
Chinese inhabit the continent of Asia; and though
they
they are separated by defarts and wildernesses, yet they
are a continuous continent of land, with the parts of
the world once inhabited by the politer Medes, Per-
sians, and Grecians; that the first ideas of mechanic
arts were probably received by them from the Persians,
Assyrians,and the banished, transplanted Israelites, who
are faid to be carried into the regions of Parthia, and
the borders of Karakathay, from whence they afe also
faid to have communicated arts, and especially handi-
crafts, in which the Israelites excelled, to the inhabi-
tants of all those countries, and consequently in time
to those beyond them.
But let them be received from whom they will, and
how long ago soever; let us but compare the improve-
ment they have made, with what others have made;
and except in things peculiar to themselves, by their
climate, we shall find the utmost of their ingenuity
amounts but to a very trifle, and that they are outdone,
even in the best of their works, by our ordinary artists,
whose imitations exceed their originals, beyond all
comparison. ,
For example: They have gunpowder and guns;
whether they have learned to make them by direction
of Europeans, which is most likely, or that they sound
it out by mere strength of invention, as some would
advance, though without certainty, in their favour; be
it which it will, as I fay, it matters not much; their
powder is of no strength for the needful operations of
sieges, mines, batteries, no, nor for shooting of birds,
as ours is, without great quantities put together; their
guns are rather an ostentation than for execution,—
clumsy, heavy, and ill-made; neither have they ar-
rived to any tolerable degree of knowledge in the art
'"of
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
of gunnery and engineering; they have no bombs,
carcasses, hand-grenades; their artisicial fireworks arc
in no degree comparable, or to be named with ours;
nor have they arrived to any thing in the military skill,
in marshalling armies, handling arms, discipline, and
the exercise in the field, as the Europeans have; all
which is depending on the improvement of fire-arms,
&c.; in which, if they ha.ve had the use of gunpowder
so many ages, as some dream, they must be unaccount-
able blockheads, that they have made no farther im-
provement; and if it is but lately, they are yet appa-
rently dull enough in the managing of it, at least com-
pared to what ought to be expected of an ingenious
people, such as our people cry them up to be.
I might go from this to their navigation, in which,
it is true, they outdo most of their neighbours: but
what is all their skill in failing compared to ours?
Whither do they go? And how manage the little and
foolish barks and jonks they have? What would they
do with them to traverse the great Indian, American,
or Atlantic oceans? What ships, what failors! What
poor, aukward, and ignorant doings is there among
them at sea! And when our people hire any of them,
as sometimes they are obliged to do, how do our sailors
kick them about, as a parcel of clumsy, ignorant, un-
handy sellows.
Then for building of ships, what are they? And
what are they able to do towards the glorious art of
building a large man of war? It is out of doubt with
me, that all the people of China could not build such
a ship as the Royal Sovereign, in a hundred years; no,
not though she was there for them to look at, and take
pattern by.
I might
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
I might go on to abundance more things, such as
painting, making glafies, making clocks and watches,
making bone-lace, frame-work knotting; of all which,
except the two first, they know little or nothing; and
of the two first, nothing compared to what is done in
Europe.
The height of their ingenuity, and for which we
admire them with more colour of cause than in other
things, is their porcelain or earthen-ware work; which,
in a word, is more due to the excellent composition of
the earth they make them of, and which is their pecu-
liar, than to the workmanship; in which, if we had
the fame clay, we should soon outdo them, as much as
we do in other things. The next art is, their manu-
facturing in fine silks, cotton, herba, gold and silver,
in which they-have nothing but what is in common
with our ordinary poor weavers.
The next mechanic art, is their lacquering, which
is just, as in the China ware, a peculiar to their coun-
try in the materials, not at all in the workmanship:
and as for the cabinet-work of it, they are manisestly
outdone by us; and abundance is.every year sent thi-
ther framed and made in England, and only lacquered
in China, to be returned to us.
I might run the like parallel through most of the
things these people excel in, which would all appear to
be so desicient, as would render all their famed wisdom
and capacity most scandalously impersect: but I am
not so much upon their cunning in arts, as upon thek
absurdity and ridiculous folly in matters religious, ar^d
in which I think the rudest barbarians outdo them.
From this wise nation we have a vast extent of
ground, near two thoufand miles in breadth, partly
under
Under the Chinese government, partly under the Mus-
covite, but inhabited by Tartars of Mongul Tartary,
Karakathay, Siberian and Samoiede Pagans; whose
idols are almost as hideous as the Chinese, and whose
religion is all nature; and not only so, but nature
under the greatest degeneracy, and next to brutal.
Father La Comte gives us the pictures of some of their
house idols, and an account of their worship ; and this
lasts, as I have observed, to within a sew days of Arch-
angel : so that, in a word, from the mouth of the
Straits, that is to fay, from Sallee over to Caribbea,
from thence round Africa by the Cape of Good Hope,
across the vast Indian ocean, and upon all the coast of
it, about by Malacca and Sumatra, through the Straits
of Sincapore, and the coast of Siam northwards to
China, and through China by land over the Defarts
ef the Grand Tartary, to the river Dwina, being a cir-
cuit three times the diameter of the earth, and every
jot as far as the whole circumserence, the name of God
is not heard of, except among a sew of the Indians
that are Mahometan; the word of God is not known,
or the Son of God spoken of.
Having some warmth in my search after religion,
occasioned by this reflection, and so little of it appear-
ing in all the parts which I had travelled, I resolved to
travel over the rest of the world in books,—for my
wandering days are pretty well over; I fay, I resolved
to travel the rest in books; and sure, faid I, there must
appear abundance of serious religion in the rest of the
world, or else I know nothing at all of where I shall
find it.
But I sind by my reading, just as I did in travelling,
that all the customs of nations, as to religion, were
„ .< much
much alike; that, one with another, they are morS
devout in their worship of something, whatever it be,
than inquisitive after what it is they worship; and most
of the altars of worship in the world, might, to this
day, be inscribed to the unknown God.
This may seem a strange thing; but that wonder
may cease, when farther inquiry is made into the par-
ticular objects of worship, which the several nations of
the world bow down to; some of which are so horrid,
so absurd, as one would think human nature could not
fink so low, as to do her homage in so irrational a
manner.
And here, being to speak of religion as idolatrous,
it occurs to me, that it seemed strange, that except in
Persia, and some part of Tartary, I faw none of the
people look up for their gods, but down; by which it
came into my mind, that even in idolatry itself, the
world was something degenerated, and their reason was
more hood-winked than their ancestors.
By looking up, and looking down, I mean, they do
not, as the Romans, look up among the stars for their
idols, place their gods in the skies,-and worship, as we
might fay, like men; but look down among the brutes,
form idols to themselves out of the beasts* and sigure
things like monsters, to adore them for their ugliness
and horrible deformity.
Of the two, the former, in my opinion, was much
the more rational idolatry,—as particularly, the Per-
sians worshipping the Sun; and when I had a particu-
lar account of that at Bengal, it presently occurred* tc*
my thought, that there was something awful, some-
thing glorious and god-like in the Sun, that, in the
ignorance of the true God, might rationally bespeak
the
the homage of the creatures; and to whom it seemed
reasonable, where reason was its own judge only, with-
out the helps of revelation, to pay an adoration, as the
parent of light, and the giver of lise to all the vegeta-
tive world ; and as,.in a visible manner, enlivening and
influencing the rational and sensitive lise, and which
might, for ought they knew, at first create, as it did
since so plainly affect, all things round us.
Certain it is, that the Persians, who thus paid their
adoration to the Sun, were, at that time, some of the
wisest people in the world. Some tell us, that the great
image that Nebuchadnezzar set up for all his people to
worship, was represented holding the Sun in his right
hand; and that it was to the representation of the Sun,
that he commanded all nations and kindreds to bow
and to worship: if so, then the Assyrians were wor-
shippers also of the Sun, as well as the Persians, which
is not at all improbable; we read also in the Scripture,
of those nations who worshipped all the host of Hea-
ven; a thing much more rational, and nearer of kin to
worshipping the great God of Heaven, than worship-
ping the whole host of the earth, and worshipping the
most abject and loathsome creatures, or but even the
representatives of those creatures, which was still worse
than the other.
But what are all the absurdities of heathenism, which
at last are resolved into the degeneracy of mankind,
and their being fallen from the knowledge of the true
God; which was once, as we have reason to believe,
diffused to all mankind.
. I fay, what are these? And how much ground for
just reflection do they afford us, compared to the gross
things in practice, which we find every day among
i 5 those
those nations who prosess to have had the clear light of
gospel revelation?
How many self-contradicting principles do they
hold? How contrary to their prosession do they act?
How does one fide burn for what another side abhors?
And how do Christians, taking that venerable name
for a general appellation, doom one another to the
Devil, for a sew difagreeing clauses of the fame reli^
gion, while all prosess to worship the fame Deity, and
to expect the fame falvation?
With what preposterous enthusiasms do some mingle
their knowledge, and with as gross absurdities others
their devotion? How blindly superstitious? How fu-
rious and raging in their zeal? How cruel, inexorable,
and even inhuman and barbarous to one another,
when they differ? As if religion divested us of huma-
nity, and that in our worshipping a God of mercy, and
in whose compassions alone it is that we have rdom to
hope, we should, to please and serve him, banish hu-
manity from our nature, and shew no compassion to
those that fall into our hands.
In my travelling through Portugal, it was my lot to
come to Lisbon, while they held there one of their
courts of justice, called Auto da fe; that is to fay, a
court of justice of the Inquisition: it is a subject that
has been handled by many writers,' and indeed exposed
by some of the best Catholics; and my present business
is not to write a history, or engage in a dispute, but to
relate a passage.
They carried in procession all their criminals to the
great church, where eight of them appeared first, dres-
Jed up in gowns and caps of canvass, upon which was
painted all that man could devise of hell's torments,
devil*
145
devils broiling and roasting human bodies, and a
thoufand such frightful things; with flames and devils
besides in every part of the dress.
Those, I found, were eight poor creatures con-
demned to be burnt, and for they scarce knew what;
but for crimes against the Catholic faith, and against
the Blessed Virgin,—and they were burnt. One of
them, it was faid, rejoiced that he was to be burnt;
and being asked, Why? answered, That he had much
rather die, than be carried back to the prison of the In-
quisition, where their cruelties were worse than death:
of those eight, as I was told, some were Jews, whose
greatest crime, as many there did not scruple to fay,
was, that they were very rich; and some Christians
were in the number at the fame time, whose greatest
misery was, that they were very poor.
It was a sight that almost gave me a shock in my no-
tion of Christianity itself, till I began to recollect, that
it might be possible that inquisitors were scarce Chris-
tians, and that I knew many Catholic countries do not
suffer this abominable judicature to be erected among
them.
I have seen much, and read more, of the unhappy
conduct, in matters of religion, among the other na-
tions of the world, prosessing the Christian religion;
and, upon my word, I sind some practices insinitely
scandalous; some which are the common received cus-
toms of Christians, which would be the abhorrence of
Heathens; and it requires a strong attachment to the
foundation, which is indeed the principal part in reli-
gion, to guard our minds against being offended, even
at the Christian religion itself; but 1 got over that
part afterwards.
Vol. III. K Let
Let it not offend the ears of any true lover of the
Christian religion, that I observe some of the follies of
the prosessors of the Christian religion; assuring you,
it is far from being my design to bring the least scandal
upon the prosession itself.
And here therefore let me give the words of a judi-
cious person, who travelled from Turkey through
Italy; his words are these:
"When I was in Italy, I ranged over great part of
,e the patrimony of St. Peter, where one would think.
"indeed, the face of religion would be plainest to be,
"seen, and without any disguise; but, in short, I
"found there the face of religion,—and no more.
"At Rome, there was all the pomp and glory of
"religious habits: the Pope and the Cardinals walked
"with a religious gravity, but lived in a religious.
"luxury; kept up the pomp of religion, and the dig-
"nity of religious titles: but like our Lord's obscr-
"vation on the Pharisees, I found within they were
"all ravening wolves.
"The religious justice they do there, is particularly
"remarkable, and very much recommends them.
"The church protects murders and assassins, and then
"delivers the civil magistrates over to Satan, fordoing
'' justice. They interdict whole kingdoms, and shut
"up the churches for want of paying a sew ecclesias-
"tical dues, and so put a stop to religion for want of
"their money. I sound the courtezans were the most
"constant creatures at the church, and the most cer-
"tain place for an assignation with another man's
wise, was at prayers.
"Tlie court of Inquisition burnt two men for
'' speaking dishonourably of the Blessed Virgin; and
"the
** the missionaries in China tolerated the worshipping
"the Devil by their new converts. A Jew was like-
M wise burnt for denying Christ; while the Jesuits
*' joined the paganism of the heathen with the high
"mass, and fung anthems to the immortal idols of
f* Tonquin. .
"When I faw this, I resolved to enquire no more
"after religion in Italy; till, by accident, meeting with
-*' a Quietist, he gave me to understand, that all reli-
"gion was internal; that the duties of Christianity
** were summed up in reflection and ejaculation. He
<c inveighed bitterly against the game of religion*
*' which, he faid, was playing over the whole world
"by the clergy; and faid Italy was a theatre, where
** religion was the grand opera, and the Popish clergy
** were the stage players. I liked him in many of his
*' notions about other people's religion; "but when I
"came to talk with him a little closely about his own,
'" it was so wrapped up in his internals, concealed in
u the cavities and dark parts of the soul, viz. medita-
"tion without worship, doctrine without practice,
«* reflection without reformation, and zeal without
*' knowledge,—that I could come to no certainty with %
* him, but in this, that religion in Italy was really
"invisible."
This was very agreeable to my notions of Italian re-
ligion, and to what I had met with from other people
that had travelled the country: but one observation of
blindness and superstition I must give, within my own
knowledge, and nearer home. When passing through
Flanders, I found the people in a certain city there, in
a very great commotion; the case was this-: a certain
federate, so they call an abandoned wretch given up to
K a a ll
til wickedness, had broken into a chapel in the city's
and had stolen the pix or casket wherein the facred
host was deposited; which host, after being rightly con-
secrated, they believe to be the real body of our Bles-
sed Saviour, being transubstantiated, as they call it,
from the substance of bread.
The fact being discovered, the city, as I faid above,
was all up in a tumult; the gates were shut up, and
nobody suffered to go out; every house was searched,
and the utmost diligence used; and, at length, as it
was next to an impossibility he should escape, he was
discovered, . -
His execution was not long deserred: but first he
was examined, and I think by torture, what he had
done with the facred thing which was in the pix, which
he had stolen? And at length he consessed, that he had
thrown it into an house of office; and was carried with
a guard to shew them the place.
As it was impossible to find a little piece of a wafer
in such a place, though no pains was spared, in a most
filthy manner to search for it; but, as I fay, it could
not be found: immediately the place was judged con-
secrated ipso facto, turned into an oratory, and the de-
vout people flocked to it, to expiate, by their prayers,
the dishonour done to the Lord God, by throwing his
precious body into so vile a place. It was determined,
by the wiser part, that the body would not fall down
into the place, but be snatched up by its inherent
power, or by the holy angels, and not be suffered to
touch the excrements in that place. However, the
people continued their devotions for some time, just in
the place where it was, and afterwards a large chapel
was
449
"Wits built upon it, where the fame prayers are conti-
nued, as I suppose, to this day.
I had a particular occasion to come at a very accu-
rate account of Poland, by a Polish gentleman, in
whose company I travelled, and from whom I learned
all that was worth enquiring of about religious affairs
in Prussia on one side, and Muscovy on the other.
As for Poland, be told me they were all confusion,
both in church and in state; that', notwithstanding
their wars, they were persecutors of. the worst kind;
that they let the Jews live among them undisturbed, to
such a degree, that in the country about Lemberg and
Kiow, there were reckoned above thirty thoufand Jews:
that these had not toleration only, but many privi*
leges granted them, though they deny Christ to be the
Messiah, or that the Messiah was come in the flesh, and
blasphemed his name upon frequent occasions; and, at
- the fame time, they persecuted the Protestants, and de-
stroyed their churches, wherever they had power to
dp it.
On the other hand, when I came to enquire of those
Protestants, and what kind of people they were, who
suffered so severely for their religion, I found they were
generally a sort of Protestants called Socinians; and
that Lelius Socinus had spread his errors so univerfally
over this country, that our Lord Jesus Christ was re-
duced here to little more than a good man sent from
Heaven to instruct the world, and far from capable of
effecting, by the influence of his spirit and grace, the
glorious work of redeeming the world: as for the divi-
nity of the Holy Ghost, they have no trouble about it.
Having given this account of knowledge and piety
in the countries inhabited by Christians of the Roman
„' K 3 church,
it seems natutal to fay something of the GreeH
church.
There ate,' in the Czar of Muscovy's dominions,
abundance of wooden churches; and had not the'
country been as full of wooden priests, something
might have been faid for the religion of the Musco-
vites ; for the people are wonderfully devout there/
Which would have been very well, if it had not beer*
attended with the profoundest ignorance that was evec
heard of in any country where the name of Chris-
tian was so much as talked of.
But when I came to enquire about their worship, I
found our Lord Jesus Christ made so much a meaner
figure among them than St. Nicholas, that I concluded
religion was swallowed up of superstition; and so in-
deed I found it was upon all occasions; as to the con-
duct of the people in religious matters, their ignorance
is so established upon obstinacy, which is the Musco-
vite's national sin, that it would be really to no purpose
to look any longer for a reformation among them.
In short, no man will, I believe, fay of me, that I
do the Muscovites any wrong, when I fay they are the
most ignorant and most obstinate people in the-Chris-
tian world, when I tell the following story of them.
It was after the battle of Narva, where the late King
of Sweden, Charles XII. deseated their great army, and
after the victory, extended his troops pretty far into
their country, and perhaps plundered them a little, as
he advanced; when the Muscovites, we may be sure,
being in the utmost distress and confusion, sell to their
prayers. We read of nothing they had to fay to God
Almighty in that case; but to their patron faint they
addressed this extraordinary prayer.
f Otho4
. *' O thou, our perpetual comforter in al! our adver-
*' sities! Thou infinitely powerful St. Nicholas, by
V what sin, and how have we highly offended thee in
"our facrifices, genuflections, reverences, and actions
"of thanksgiving, that thou hast thus forfaken us?
"We had therefore fought to appease thee entirely,
"and we had implored thy presence and thy succour
** against the terrible, insolent, dreadful, enraged, and
"undaunted enemies and destroyers; when, like lions,
'* bears, and other favage beasts, that have lost their
*' young ones, they attacked us after an insolent and
"terrible manner; and terrisied and wounded, took
"and killed us by thoufands,—us, who are thy peo-
"pie: now, as it is impossible that this mould happen
w without witchcraft and enchantment, seeing the
great care that we had taken to fortify ourselves
"after an impregnable manner, for the desence and
"security of thy name,—we beseech thee, O St. Ni-
"cholas, to be our champion, and the bearer of our
"standard; to be with us both in peace and in war,
"and in our necessities; and, at the time of our death,
%t to protect us against this horrible and tyrannical
*' crew of sorcerers, and to drive them far enough off
from our frontiers, with the recompence which they
"deserve."
It may be hoped, I may give a better account of re-
ligion among Protestants than I have among the
Roman and Grecian churches; and I will, if in justice
it is possible.
The next to the nations I have been mentioning, I
mean, in geographical order, are those reformed Chris-
tians called Lutherans. To fay no worse of them, the
face of religion indeed is altered much between these
K 4 and
and the latter: but I scarce know what name to gfao
it, at least as far as I have enquired into it, or what it
is like.
It was Popery and no Popery; there was the con-
sub, but not the transub.: the service differed indeed
from the mass, but the deficiency seemed to be made
up very much with the trumpets, kettle-drums, fiddles,
hautboys, &c. and all the merry part of the Popish de-
votion; upon which it occurred to me presently, that
if there was no danger of Popery among the Lutherans,
there was danger of superstition; and as for the pious
part, I faw very little of it in either of them.
By religion therefore, the reader is desired to under-
stand here, not the principles upon which the several
nations denominate themselves, so much as the manner
in which they discover themselves to be sincere in tho
prosession which they make. I had no inclination
here to enter into the enquiry after the creeds which
every nation prosesied to believe, but the manner in
which they practised that religion which they really
prosessed; for, what is religion to me without practice?
And although it may be true, that there can be no true
religion, where it is not prosessed upon right princi-
ples; yet that which I observe here, and which to me
is the greatest grievance among Christians, is the want
of a religious practice, even where there are right prin-
ciples at bottom, and where there is a prosession of the
orthodox faith..
In brief, 1 am not hunting after the prosession of
religion, but the practice: the first I find almost in
every nation, nulla gens tarn lariara: but the last I
am hke to travel through the histories of all Christen-
dom,
133
Jom with my search, and perhaps may hardly be able,
when I have done, to tell you where it is.
All the fatire of this enquiry will look this way";
for where God has not given a people the blessing of a
true knowledge of himself, it would call for our pity,
not reproach. It would be very dull fatire indeed, that
a man should be witty upon the negroes in Africafor
not knowing Christ, and not understanding the doc-
trine of a Saviour: but if turning to our modern
Christians of Barbadoes and Jamaica for not teaching
them, not instructing them, and for refusing to baptize
them,—there the fatire would be pointed and season-
able, as we shall hear farther, by and by.
But to return to the Lutherans, for there I am sup-
posed to be at this time, I mean, among the courts and
cities of Brandenburg, Saxony, &c. I had opportu-
nity here to view a court, affecting gallantry, magni-
ficence, and gay things, to such a height, and with such
a passion, to exceed the whole world in that empty part
of human selicity, called show, that I thought it was
impossible to pursue it with such an impetuous torrent
of the affections, without facrisicing all things to it
which wise men esteem more valuable. ,
Nor was my notion wrong -, for the first thing I
found facrisiced, as I fay, to this voluptuous humour,
was the liberties of the people; who, being by consti-
tution, or custom rather, under absolute government,
and at the arbitrary will of the Prince, are sure to pay,
not all they can spare, but even all they have, to gra-
tify the unbounded appetite of a court given up to
pleasure and exorbitance.
By all I have read of the manner of living there,
both court and people, the latter are entirely given up
to
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
to the former; not by necessity only, but by the con*
sent of custom, and the general way of management
through the whole country; nay, this is carried to such
a height, that, as I have been told, the King's coffers
are the general cess-pools of the nations, whither all
the money of the kingdom flows, and only disperses
again as that gives it out; whether by running over,
or running out at its proper vent, I do not enquire:
so that as all the blood in the human body circulates in
twenty-four hours through the ventricles of the heart,
so all the money in the kingdom is faid to pass once a
year through the King's treasury.
How far poverty and misery may prompt piety and
devotion among the poor inhabitants, I cannot fay:
but if luxury and gallantry, together with tyranny and
oppression to support it, can subsist with true religion
in the great men, then, for ought I know, the courts
of Prussia and Dresden may be the best qualisied in the
world to produce this thing called religion, which I
have hitherto seen is hard to be found.
It is true, that the magnisicence of the wisest King
in the world, in Jerufalem, was esteemed the selicity of
his people: but it seems to be exprefied very elegantly,
not as a testimony of his glory only, but of the
flourishing condition of his people at the fame time,
under the prosperous circumstances which his reign
brought them to, viz. That he made gold to be for
plenty, like the stones in the streets; amply expressing
the flourishing condition of his people under him.
I have likewise read indeed, and heard much of the
fame kind of the King of Prussia, and that even from
'his own subjects, who were always full of the generous
and truly royal qualities of that Prince: he was the first
153
King of the country, which before was a dukedom or
electorate only. The sum of their discourse is, That
his Majesty was so true a father of his country and of
his people, that his whole care was the flourishing of
their trade, establishing their, manufactures, encreasing
their numbers, planting foreigners, French, Swiss, and
other nations, among them, to instruct and encourage
them; and being no way accessary to any of their op-
pressions, but relieving and redressing all their grie-
vances, as often and as soon as they came to his know-
ledge; and indeed, I could not but entertain a great
regard to the character of so just and good a Prince:
but all I could inser from that was, that a government
may be tyrannical, and yet the King not be a tyrant;
but the grievances to the people are oftentimes much
the fame: and every administration, where the consti-
tution is thus stated, as it seems to be in most, if not
all of the northern courts, Protestant as well as others,
seems inconsistent with the true ends of government.
The thing we call government, was certainly established
for the prosperity of the people; whereas, on the con-
trary, in all those German courts, where I have made
my observations, the magnificence of the court, and
the prosperity of the people, stand like the two poles,—
what excess of light you see at one, is exactly balanced
by so much darkness at the other. «
An(J where, pray, is the religion of all this? That a
whole nation of people should appear miserable, that
their governors may appear gay; the people starve, that
the prince may be sed; or rather, the people be lean,
that their sovereign may be fat; the subjects sigh, that
he may laugh; be empty, that he may be full; and all
this for mere luxury; not for the needful desence of the
govern-
$
government, resisting enemies, preserving the public:
peace, and the like; but for mere extravagance, luxury,
and magnisicence, as in Prussia; or for ambition, or
pushing at crowns, and the lust of domination, as in,
Saxony.
But to come back to the religious tranfactions of
these countries: how are the ecclesiastics jealous of their
hierarchy afraid to reform farther, least, as they gave
a mortal stab to the perquisites and vails of God Al-
mighty's service in the Roman church, modern refor-
mation might give the like to them. For this reason
they set a pale about their church, and there, as well as
in other places, they cry to their neighbours, Stand off!
I am holier than thou; and with what persecution and
invasion, persecuting for religion, and invading the
principles of one another: if there was any peace
among them, it was that only which passes all under-
standing. It presently occurred to me, what charity
can here be, where there is no peace? And what reli-
gion, where there is no charity ? And I began to sear
I should find little of what I looked for in those odd
climates.
I had travelled personally through the heart of
"France, where I had occasion to look round me often
enough in my route from the foot of the Pyrenean
mountains to Thoulouse, from thence to Paris and
Calais. Here I found the people so merry, and yet so
miserable, that I knew not where to make any judg-
ment. The poverty of the poor was so great, that it
seemed to leave them no room to sigh for any thing
but their burthens, or to pray for any thing but bread:
but the temper of the people was so volatile, that t
thought.
thought they went always dancing to church, and came
singing out of it.
I found a world of teachers here, but nobody taught;
the streets were every where full of priests, and the
churches full of women; but as for religion, I found
most of the clergy were so far from having much of it,
that sew of them knew what it was. Never sure was a
nation so full of truly blind guides; for nothing can be
more grossly ignorant of religion, than many of their
clergy are; nothing more void of morals, than many
of those to whom other people go to consess their sins.
I made some enquiry about religion; and, -among
the rest, I happened to fall in company with a good
honest Hugonot incognito; and he told me very ho-
nestly, that the state of religion in France stood thus:
First, That for some years ago it was put to the test
by the King, and that was, when the edicts came out
to banish and ruin the Hugonots; at which time, faid
he, we thought there had been a great deal of religion
jn it; but really, when it came to the push, faid he, it
was hard to tell where we should find it. The perse-
cution, as it was thought at first, would be ungrateful
to the more religious Roman Catholics, and that some
Would be found too good to do the drudgery of the
Devil: but we were mistaken; the best sell in with
persecution, when it was done by other hands, and not
their own; and those that would not do it, acknow-
ledged they rejoiced that it was done; which shewed,
faid he, that the Catholics either had no principle, or
acted against principle,—which is much as one: and
as for us Hugonots, faid he, we have shewn that we
have no religion lost among us; for, first, some run
&way for theif religion, and yet left it behind them;
and
and we that stayed behind, did it at the price of our
principles: for now, faid he, we are mere hypocrites,
neither Papists nor Hugonots, for we go to mass with
Protestant hearts; and while we call ourselves Pro-
testants, we bow in the house of Rimmon. Where
then, faid I, is the religion, once boasted of here, to
be found? Indeed, faid he, it is hard to tell you, and
except a little that is in the galleys, I can give you no
good account of it. This indeed was confining the
remains of a nourishing church to about three hun-
dred and fifty consessors, who really suffered martyr-
dom for it,—for it was no less: so I minuted down
French religion tugging at the oar, and would have
come away.
But it came into my thought to afk him, what he
meant by telling me, that those who run away for
their religion out of France, left most of it behind
them? He answered, I should judge of it better, if I
observed them when I came into my own country;
where, if I found they lived better than other people,
or shewed any thing of religion suitable to a people that
suffered persecution for their prosession, I should send
word of it; for he had heard quite otherwise of them,
which was the reason why he and thoufands of others
did not follow them.
It happened, while I was warm in my enquiries thus
after religion, a proclamation came out in London, for
appointing a general thanksgiving for a great victory
obtained by the English forces and their consederates,
over the French, at ;I care not to put names
to the particular times of things.
I started at the noise, when they cried it in the
streets : Ha! faid I, then I have foundit at last; and I
rejoiced
rejoiced in particular, that having looked so much,
abroad for religion, I should find it out at home: then
I began to call myself a thoufand fools, that I had not
faved myself all this labour, and looked at home first;
though, by the by, I had done no more in this than
other travellers often, or indeed generally do, viz. go
abroad to see the world, and search into the curiosities
of foreign countries, and know nothing of their own.
But to return to my observations: I was resolved to
see the ceremony of this pious piece of work; and as
the preparations for it were prodigious great, I en-
quired how it would be; but nobody could remember
that the like had ever been in their time before; every
one faid it would be very sine; thaf the Queen would
be there herself, and all the nobility; and that the like
had never been seen since Queen Elizabeth's time.
This pleased me exceedingly; and I began to form
ideas in my mind of what had been in former times
among religious nations: I could sind nothing of
what I was made to expect, unless it was Solomon's
dedication of the temple, or Josiah's great seast of the
reformation; and I expected God would have a most
royal tribute of praise.
But it shocked me a little, that the people faid there
had never been such a thanksgiving since Queen Eli-
zabeth's time. What, thought I, can be the reason of
that? and musing a little, O, fays I to myself, now I
have found it: I suppose, nobody gives God thanks in
our country, but Queens: but this looked a little
harsh; and I rummaged our histories a little for farther
fatisfaction, but could make nothing of it. At last,
talking of it to a good old cavalier, that had been a
soldier for King Charles; O, fays he, I can tell you
the'
.
i Go
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
the reason of it: they have never given thanks, fays
he, because they have had nothing to give thanks for.
Pray, fays he, when have they had any victories in
England since Queen Elizabeth's time, except two or
three in Ireland, in King William's time? And then
they were so busy, had so many other losses with them
abroad, that they were ashamed to give thanks for
them. ,
This I found had too much truth in it, however bit-
ter the jest of it; but still heightened my expectation,
and made me look for some strange seriousness, and
religious thankfulness, in the appearance that was to
be on the occasion in hand; and, accordingly, I se-
cured myself a place, both without and- within the
church, where I might be a witness to every part of
the devotion and jov of the people.
But my expectations were wound up to a yet greater
pitch, when I faw the insinite crowds of people throng
with so much zeal, as I, like a charitable coxcomb,
thought it to be, to the place of the worship of God;
and when I considered, that it was to give God thanks
for a great victory, I could think of nothing else than
the joy of the Israelites, when they landed on the
banks of the sea, and faw Pharoah's army, horses, and
chariots swallowed up behind them; and I doubted
not I should hear something like the song of Moses
and the children of Israel, on the occasion, and should
hear it sung with the same elevation of soul.
But when I came .to the point, the first thing I ob-
served was, that nine parts of ten of all'the company,
came there only to see the Queen and the show; and
the other tenth part, I think, might be faid to make
the show.
When
When the Queen came to the rails, and descended
from the coach, the people, instead of crying out Ho-
fannah, blessed be the Queen that comcth in the name
of the Lord; I fay, the people cried murder, and help,
for God's fake; treading upon one another, and stifling
one another at such a rate, that in the rear of the two
lines, or crowds of people, through which the Queen,
passed, it looked something like a battle, where the
wounded were retired to die, and to get surgeons to
come to them; for there lay heaps of women and
children dragged from among the seet of the crowd,
and gasping for breath. I went among some of them,
and asked them, what made them go into such a crowd?
And their answers were all the/ fame,—O, Sir, I had a
mind to see the Queen, as the rest did.
Well, I had my answer here indeed; for, in short,
the whole business of the thanksgiving without doors,
was to see the Queen,—that was plain; so I went away
to my stand, which, for no less than three guineas, I
had secured in the church.
When I came there, it was my fate to be placed be-
tween the scats, where the men of God performed the
service of his praise, and sung out the anthems and the
Te Deum, which celebrated the religious triumph of
the day.
As to the men themselves, I liked their office, their
vestments, and their appearance; all looked awful and
grave enough, suitable in some respects to the solem-
nity of a religious triumph; and 1 expected they would
be as solemn in their performances, as the Levites that
blowed the trumpets at Solomon's seast, when all the
people shouted and praised God.
Vol. III. L But
But I observed these grave people, ;n the intervals of
their worshipping God, when it was not their turn to
sing, or read, or pray, bestowed some of the rest of
their time in taking snuff, adjusting their perukes,
looking about at the fair ladies, whispering, and that
not very softly, to one another, about this fine lady,
and that pretty woman; this fine duchess, and that great
fortune; and not without some indecencies, as well of
words as of gestures. Well, fays I, you are none of
the people I look for; where are they that give God
thanks?
Immediately the organ struck up for the 7e Deum;
up starts all my gentlemen, as if inspired from above,
and from their talking together, not over modestly, fall
to praising God with the utmost precipitation; sing-
ing the heavenly anthems with all the grace and mufic
imaginable. ,
In the middle of all this mufic, and these exalted
things, when I thought my soul elevated with divine
melody, and began to be reconciled to all the rest, I
faw a little rustling motion among the people, as if
they had been disturbed or frightened: some faid it
thundered, some faid the church shook. The true
business was, the le Deum within, was answered with-
out by the thunder of one hundred pieces of cannon,
and the noise of drums, with the huzzas and shouts of
great crowds of people in the streets. This I did not
understand, so it did neither disturb or concern me; I
found, indeed, no great harmony in it; it bore no
concert in the mufic, at least, as I understood it; but
it was over pretty soon, and so we went on.
When the anthem was fung, and the other services
succeeded them, I, that had been a little disturbed with
the
the lucid intervals of the choristers, and the gentlemen
that fat crowded in with them, turned ray eyes to other
places, in hopes I should sind some faints among the
crowd, whose fouls were taken up with the exalted
raptures of the day.
But, alas! it was all one; the ladies were busy singling
out the men, and the men the ladies. The star and
garter of a sine young nobleman, beautiful in person,
rich in habit, and sparkling in jewels; his blue ribband
intimating his character, drew the eyes of so many
women off of their prayer books, that I think his
Grace ought to have been spoken to by the vergers,
to have withdrawn out of the church, that he might
not injure the service, and rob God Almighty of the
homage of the day.
As for the Queen, her Majesty was the star of the
day, and insinitely more eyes were directed to her,
than were lifted up to Heaven, though the last was the
business of the whole procession.
Well, faid I, this is mighty sine, that is true: but
where is the religion of all this? Heaven bless me,
faid I, out of this crowd, and I will never mock God
any more here, when the Queen comes again. Can-
not these people go and see the Queen where the
Queen is to be seen, but must they come hither to pro-
fane the church with her, and make the Queen an
idol? And in a great passion I was, both at the people,
and at the manner of the day, as you may easily see by
what follows: ,
N. B. I had made some other fatirical reflections
upon the conduct of the day; but as it looks too near
home, I am not willing that poor Robinson Crusoe
should disoblige anybody.
La I consess,
I consess, the close of the day was still more extra-1
vagant; for there the thanksgiving was adjourned from
the church to the tavern, and to the street; and instead
of the decency of a religious triumph, there was indeed
a triumph of religious indecency; and the anthems,
fTc Deum, and the thanksgiving of the day, ended in
the drunkenness, the bonfires, and the squibs and
crackers of the street.
How far religion is concerned in all this, or whether
God Almighty will accept of these noisy doings for
thanksgivings, that I have nothing to do with; let
those people consider of it that are concerned in it.
OF DIFFERENCES JN RELIGION.
IT is known alone to the divine Wisdom, why he has
been pleased to suffer any part of religion, and the
adoration paid to his Majesty, the supplications made
to him, and the homage which his creatures owe to his
glorious being, to be so doubtfully directed, or so dif-
serently understood by, his creatures, as that there
should be any mistakes or difagreements about them.
How comes it to pass, that the paying a reverence to
the name and being of God, mould not be as incapable
of being disputed in the manner of it, as in the thing
itself? That all the rules of worshipping, believing in,
and serving the great God of heaven and earth, should
be
165
be capable of being understood any more than one
way? And that the infallible Spiritof God, who is our
guide to Heaven, should leave any one of its dictates
in a state of being misunderstood? £
Why have not the rules of religion, as well those of
doctrine as of lise, been laid down in terms so plain,
and so impossible to be mistaken, that all men in the
world, in every rage, should have the fame notions of
them, and understand them, in every tittle of them,
exactly alike? Then, as Heaven is but one blessed great
port, at which all hape to arrive, there would have
been but one road to travel the journey in; all men
would have gone the fame way, steered the fame course,
and brethren would no more Jiave fallen out by the
way.
God alone, who for wise and righteous reasons, be-
ause he can do nothing but what is wise and righteous,
has otherwise ordered it,—and that is all we can fay of
it: as to the reason and justice of it, that is a thing, of
which, like as of the times and of the seasons, We may
fay, knoweth no man.
In the state of uncertainty we are now in, so it is;
two men believing in the fame God, holding the fame
faith, the fame Saviour, the fame doctrine, and aiming
at the fame Heaven, yet cannot agree to go to that
Heaven, or worship that God, or believe in that Sa-
viour, the fame way, or after the fame manner:, nay,
they cannot know, or conceive of God, or of Heaven,
or of the Redeemer, or indeed of any one principle of
the Christian religion, in the fame manner, or form
the fame ideas of those things in their minds.
It is true, the different capacities and faculties of
gien, are, in part, a reason for this; by which it is oc-
L 3 casionedj
366
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
casioned, that scarce two men together have the fame
notions and apprehensions even of one and the fame
thing, because their understandings are led by different
guides, and <they see by different lights.
But this is not all; they are not alike honest to the
light they have: three men read the fame doctrinal ar-
ticles fay it be of the Trinity, or of any other, and they
all examine the foundation of it in the Scripture: one
thinks verily he has found out the mystery effectually,
goes on with his enquiries, and brings every scripture,
and every passage, to correspond* exactly with his first
notion; and thus he confirms himself immovably in
his opinion; and it is so clear to him, that he cannot
only never be argued out of it, but can entertain no
good opinion of any man that conceives of it in any
other way; but takes him for an enemy to the ortho-
dox doctrine, and that he merits to be expelled out of
Christ's church, denied the Christian communion,
and, in short, treats him with no respect, no, nor
thinks'of him with charity.
Another comes to the fame scripture, and in quest
of the fame doctrine, and he reads over the fame texts,
and receives notions from them directly opposite to the
other, or, at least, very remote from them: he follows
in his search through all the corroborating texts, and
is consirmed in his first opinion from them all. He
grows as immovable in his received construction of the
Scripture, as the other; and all is so clear to him, that
he not only can never be argued out of his opinion,
but can entertain no good opinion of any man that
conceives of it any other way, but takes him for an
enemy to the orthodox doctrine.
The
The third man, he reads over all the fame texts of
Scripture, but doing it with an indifference as to the
substance, and whether he receiyes right, information
or no, truly he comes away with a calmness of mind
as to the substance; and as he went with no great con-
cern about being certain, so he comes back as uncer-
tain as he went.
These three men are enough to sill the whole world
- full of disputes about religion. The first two meet,
and being equally positive of their being infallibly
guided, equally warm in desending their opinions, and
equally tenacious of them ; and, above all, equally void
of charity to the other; truly they fall out, part, con-
demn, censure, revile, and, as opportunity and power
offers, at last persecute one another] and all one an-
others adherents.
The third, half informed, indifferent man, he comes
in between these two, laughs at them both, fays they
are a parcel of furious Christians, that the thing is not
absolutely necessary to be known, that it is no article
of faith, so as that without deciding it, a man cannot
be faved; fays they are a parcel of fools, to fall out
thus about what they cannot be certain of; and that
they may go to Heaven, though they should not under-
stand it till they come there: and thus the world comes
to be divided.
Could they differ with humility, they would differ
with charity; but it is not to be in religion, whatever
it may be in civil or political affairs; for there is a
thing called zeal, which men call a grace in religion,
and esteem a duty; and this makes men fall out in
religious matters, with a more fatal warmth, and
L 4 more
168
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
more animosity, than in other cases: according to
Htidibras;
"Zeal makes men fight like mad or drunk,
"1 or dame religion as for punk."
Nor is this the fate only of the Christian religion,
though if is more so there than in any other; but it is
the fame in other cases, as between the Persians and
the Tu ks, about the successors of their prophet Ma-
homet. It was so of old between the Heathens and
the Jews: and the Assyrian monarch prepared a fiery
furnace for thole that would not fall down and wor-
ship the great image that he had set up.
In the primitive times of God's church, the heathen
did the fame by the Christians, and Chrijiianos adLeones,
was the common cry: but when the church came to
its halcyon days, Constantino the Great gave peace to
the Christians; and it was but a little while that they
enjoyed that peace, before they sell out by the way;
the Arian heresies rose up, and differing opinions rent
the state into factions, the church into schisms, and, in
the space of two reigns, the Arians persecuted the Or-
thodox, and the Orthodox the Arians, almost with the
fame fury as the heathens had persecuted them both
before.
From thence to our time, persecution has been the
practice even of all parties, as they have been cloathed
with power, and as their differences have moved them.
For example: In all the Christian countries, there is
a mortal seud between Papist and Protestant; and
though indeed the former have carried their zeal far-
thest, yet the latter have not been able to fay, they
have
169
have not persecuted in their tu n, though not with fire
and sagc,ot.
What wars and bloodshed molested Europe on the
account of religion in Germany? especially till the
general pacisic ition of those troubles at the treaty of
Westphalia; when the Protestants, having had the ap-
parent advantage of the war, obtained the everlasting
settlement of their religion, as well as liberties, through
the whole Empire.
Since those times, what persecution in the fame
country, between the Lutheran and Calvinist chur-
ches? And how little charity is among them? Inso-
much, that the Lutherans to this day will not allow the
reformed Evangelic churches, (so the Calvinists are
called) liberty to assemble for worship within the gates
of their cities, or give them Christian burial.
I avoid looking too near home, or searching in Scot-
land and England among the unhappy divisions of
Episcopal and Presbyterian, church of England and dis-
senter, and this I do, because it is at home: but it is
too evident, that all these come either from mens being
negligent of right informations, or too tenacious when
they have it; for it is evident, if all men would be ho-
nest to the light they have, and favourable to their
neighbours, we might hope, that how many several
ways soever we chose to walk towards Heaven, we
should all meet there at last.
I look upon all the seeds of religious dissension, as
tares sowed by the Devil among the wheat: and it
may be observed, that though, as I have already faid,
the Assyrians persecuted the Jews, and the Romans
the Christians, yet, where the Devil is immediately
and personally worshipped, there we meet with little
OX
or no persecution; for Satan, having a kind of peace-
able dominion there, offers them no disturbance; he
defires no innovation; he finds the sweetness of it,
and lets it alone.
But if once they talk of other gods before him, he is
far less easy; there he is continually sowing strise, and
hatching divisions among them; for, like all other
monarchs, the Devil likes to reign alone.
It would be too long a task here, to reckon up the
several sorts of differences in religion, even among us
in England ; where, if two happen to differ, presently,.
like St. Paul to St. Peter, they withstand one another
to the face; that is to fay, carry on the dispute to the
-utmost extremity.
But there is another question before me, and that is
not only, Why there are such differences in the points
of religion? And why are religious differences hotter
and more irreconcilable than other breaches? But,
why are there more differences of this kind among us,
than among any other nations in the world?
Certainly, this pushing on our religious broils to
the extremity, is the peculiar of this country of Eng-
land, and is not the fame thing in other places; and
the variety is such here, that, it is faid, there are more
several communions or communities of religious kinds
in England, than in all the other Protestant countries
in the world.
The best and most charitable answer that I can think
of to give for this, is to compliment ourselves, and fay,
it is because we are the most religious nation in the
world; that is to fay, that we, in general, set more
seriously to work, to enquire into the substance and
nature of religion; to examine principles, and weigh
the reasons of things, than other people; being more
concerned for, and anxious about the affairs of God,
of Heaven, and our fouls; that thinking, as we ought
to do, that religion is of the utmost concern to us, and
that it is of the last moment to us to be certain about
it, and well grounded in the points before us, particu-
larly whether we are rightly informed or not; this
anxious concern makes us jealous of every opinion,
and tenacious of our own, breaks much in upon the
custom of submitting our judgments to the clergy, as
is the case in countries where people are more indiffe-
rent in their search after these things, and more un-
concerned in the certainty or uncertainty of them.
I must acknowledge, that I think the true, and the
only just reason that can be given for this matter, is
not, that we are more furious than other people, more
censorious and rash in our judgments; that we have
less charity, or less patience, in debating religious
points, than other people: but the truth is, that.we
have less indifference about them, and we cannot sit
down contented with a slight and overly enquiry, or a
cursory or school answer to the doubts in question:
but we make it a thing of absolute necessity to be fully
informed of, and therefore are earnest in the enquiry;
and knowing the Scripture to be the great rule of faith,
the standard for lise and doctrine, we fly thither and
search for ourselves; not having Popery enough to ex-
pect an infallible judge, nor indifference enough to ac-
quiesce in the judgment of the clergy; and perhaps a
little too tenacious of our own interpretation, even in
things we are uninstructed about.
This indeed I take to be the true reason why reli-
gious disputes encrease so much here, and why there
are
2
are such separations and schisms among us, more than
they are in any other nation in the world.
I know much of it is laid to the door of the confu-
sions they were all in here, during the bloody intestine
wars in the years 1640 to 1656, and the liberty given
to all opinions, to set up themselves at that time: but
I wave that, as a question that tends to more division.
I believe, the reason I have given for it, stands as well
grounded, and as likely to be approved, as any I can
give, or as any that has been given in this case.
There is another difficult question, which still re-
mains before us; and that is, What remedy can we
apply to this malady? And first, I must answer nega-
tively; not to have us be less religious, that we might
differ less about it; but to have us exercise more cha-
rity in our disputes, that we might differ more like
men of temper, and more like Christians, than we do.
This is striking at the root of religious differences; for
if they were carried on mildly, with a peaceable spirit,
willing to be informed; a disposition to love as bre-
thren, though in every thing not like minded; our
variety of opinions would not then have the name of
differences, we should not separate in communion and
in charity, though we did not agree in every thing we
were to believe, or not believe, about religion.
It is hard that we should fay, these differences are the
consequences of a nation having more religion than
their neighbours, since we have still this one part too
little; and, as I suppose us to have more religion, I
must be obliged to grant, we have not enough more;
for if, as we have just so much more religion, as is sufr
ficient to make us quarrelsome in religious disputes, if
we had yet as much more as were susficient to make us
peaceable
peaceable again after it, then we should be religious to
the purpose.
So that, in a word, our being so religious, as above,
is only an unhappy middle composition between the
enquiring and fully informed Christian, on one hand,
and the careless, indifferent, unconcerned temper, that
takes up with any thing, on the other hand: and this
1 take to be a just, though short account of our differ-
ences in England about religion.
It might be a very useful question to start here,
namely, where all our unhappy religious differences
will end? I, that am not willing to give the worst na-
tured answer, where the best and kindest will hold
water, am, for the present, disposed to answer in ge-
neral, rather than descend to particulars, viz.' in Hea-
ven; there all our unkind, unchristian, unneighbour-
Jy, unbrotlierly differences will end; we shall freely
shake hands there, with many a pardoned sinner, that
here we bid stand off; embrace many a publican, that
here we think it a dishonour to converse with; sec
many a heart, that we have broken here with censures,
reproachings, and revilings, made whole again by the
balm of the fame Redeemer's blood.
There we shall see, that there have been other flocks
than those of our fold, other paths to Heaven than
those we shut men out from; that those we have ex-
communicated, have been taken into that superior
communion; and those we have placed -at our left-
hands, have been there summoned to the right-hand;
all separations will be there taken away, and the mind
of every Christian be entirely reconciled to one an-
other; no divisions, no differences, no charging sin-
cere minds with hypocrisy, or embracing painted hy-
pocrites
pocritcs for faints; every thing to be seen, and to be
known, as it really is, and by a clear light; none will
desire to deceive, none be subject to be deceived.
There we shall look upon all we have done and faid
in prejudice of the character of our brethren, with a
just change, and sufficiently repair to one another all
the injurious things we have faid, or indeed but
thought of one another, by rejoicing in the common
selicity, and praising the sovereign glory, that had re-
ceived those we had foolishly rejected, and let those
into tfie fame Heaven, whom we had in the abundance
of our pride, and the penury of our charity, shut out.
How many actions of men, which we, seeing only
their outside, have now censured, shall we find there,
by that penetration that cannot err, be accepted for
their inside sincerity? How many an opinion, that we
condemn here, shall we see then to be orthodox? In a
word, how many contradicting notions and principles,
which we thought inconsistent with true religion, shall
we find then to be reconcilable to themselves, to one
another, and to the fountain of truth?
All the difficulties in our conceptions of things in-
visible, will then be explained; all the doctrines of the
immutability of the divine councils, will then be recon-
cilable to the changeable events of things, and to the
varieties often happening in the world: the unchange-
ableness of the eternal decrees will then appear; and
yet the efficacy of praying to God to do this, or not do
that, to pardon, forgive, spare, and forbear, which we
now fay is inconsistent with those unchangeable decrees,
-sliall be reconcilable to that unchangeableness, in a
manner to us now inconceiveable.
And
And this is the foundation of what I now advance,
viz. That in Heaven all our differences in religion will
be reconciled, and will be at an end. If any man ask
me, whether they cannot be ended before? I answer,
If we were all thoroughly convinced that they would -
be reconciled then, we should certainly put an end to
them before: but it is impossible to be done. Mens
convictions of the greatest and most certain truths, are
not equal to one another, or equal to the weight and
signisicancy of those truths; and therefore, such a ge-
neral effect of this affair cannot be expected on this side
of time.
There is one very great reconciler of religious dif-
ferences in this world, which has sometimes been made
use of by Brovidence to heal the breaches in Christian
charity among religious people; and it is, generally
speaking, very effectual: but it is a bitter draught, a
potion that goes down with great reluctance, and that
is persecution. This generally reconciles the differences
of Christians, about the lesser matters in religion: the
primitive churches, while under the Roman persecu-
tions, had a much greater harmony among themselves,
and very sew schisms and divisions broke out among
them. When they did differ in any particular points,
they wrote healing epistles to one another, contended
with modesty and with charity, and reserred willingly
their notions to be decided by one another: they did
not separate communion, and excommunicate whole
churches and nations, for a dispute about the celebra-
tion of Easter; or unchurch one another for the ques-
tion of receiving and rebaptizing of penitents, as was
afterwards the case. The furnace of affliction burnt
up all that dross; the fury of their persecutors kept
their
their minds humble, their zeal for religion hot; and
their affection for, and their charity to one another en-
creased, as their liberty and their number were les-
sened.
Thus Bishop Ridley, and Bishop Hooper; the first
a rigid church of England bishop; the other, almost a
Presbyterian, or at least a Calvinisl, like Peter and
Paul, differed hotly, and withstood one another to the
face, in the very beginning of the Reformation: but
when they came to burn for their religion, fire and
faggot shewed them the reconcilableness of all their
disputes; convinced them that it was possible for both
to hold fast the truth in sincerity, and yet entertain
differing notions of the rites and outsides of the divine
economy; and at the stake they ended all their dis-
putes, wrote healing letters to one another, and became
fellow-martyrs and consessors for that very prosession
which was so intermixed with censure and dislike
before.
And let all that think of this remedy remember, that
whenever these quarrelsome Christians come, by per-
secution, or any other incident, to be thus reconciled
in their charity, they find always a great deal to alk
pardon of one another for, with respect to what is past;
all their violence, heat of zeal, and much more heat of
passion; all their breach of charity, their reproaches
and censures, and hard words, which have passed be-
tween them, will.only then serve to bring them toge-
ther with more affection, and to embrace more warm-
ly; for, depend upon it, all the differences in religion
among good men, (for I do not mean essentials doc-
. trinal, and fundamental differences) serve only to make
them all ashamed of themselves at last.
OF
177
OF THE WONDERFUL EXCELLENCY OF
Negative Religion and negative Virtue.
NEGATIVE virtue sets out like the Pharisee, with
God, I thank thee; it is a piece of religious pa-
geantry; a jointed baby, dressed up gay; but stripped of
its gewgaws, it appears a naked lump, fit only to please
children and deceive fools; it is the hope of the hypo-
crite; it is a cheat upon the neighbourhood, a dress for
without doors, for it is of no use within; it is a mask
put on for a character, and as generally it is used to cheat
others, it is so ignorantly embraced, that we cheat even
ourselves with it.
In a word, negative virtue is positive vice, at least,
when it is made use of in any of the two last cases;
namely, either as a mask to deceive others, or as a mist
to deceive ourselves. If a man were to look back upon
it, to see in what part he could take up his nest, or lay
a foundation of hope for the fatisfaction of his mind,
as to future things, he would sind it the nfost uncom-
fortable condition to go out of the world with, that
any man in the world can think.
The reason Is plain; compare it with the publican,
whom such a man despises: here is my landlord is a
drunkard, one of my tenants is a thief, such a poor
man is a swearer, such a rich man a blasphemer, such
a tradesman is a cheat, such a justice of the peace is an
Vol. III. M atheist,
atheist, such a rakish sellow is turned highwayman,
such a beau is debauched; but I!—I that am cloathed
in negatives, and walk in the light of my own vanity,—
I live a sober, regular, retired lise; I am an honest man;
I defraud nobody; no man ever heard me swear, or an
ill word come out of my mouth; I never talk irreli-
giously or profanely, and I am never missed out of my
seat at church. God, I thank thee! I am not debauch-
ed, I am no highwayman, no murderer, &c.: now,
what is the difference of all these? I must consess,
speaking of all these together, and of what is usually
the end of them, I think a man had better be any
of them, nay, almost all of them together, than the
man himself; and my reason is, in a sew words, as
follows:
All these know themselves to be wicked persons;
conscience, though for a time oppressed and kept
under, yet upon all occasions tells them plainly what
their condition is, and oftentimes they repent. It is
true, sometimes they do not; God is pleased sometimes
to treat them in the vindictive attribute, and they are
cut off in their crimes, insensible and stupid, without a
space or a heart to repent; and therefore, let none take
hope in their profligate living, from what I am going
to fay.
Again; others, though they do repent, and God is
pleased to give them the grace to return to him as pe-
nitents, come to it very late, and sometimes under a
severe hand, as perhaps on a death-bed, or under some
difaster, and oftentimes at the gallows.
But still I fay, those men, though they sin, they do
it as a crime, and when they come to be told of it
often, they are brought to repent: but the negative
Christian
Christian I speak of, is so full of himself, so persuaded
that he is good enough, and religious enough already,
that he has no thoughts of any thing, unless it be to
pull off his hat to God Almighty now and then, and
thank him, that he has no need of him; this is the
opiate that doses his foul, even to the last gasp; and it
is ten thoufand to one, but the lethargic dream shoots
him through the gulph at once, and he never opens his
eyes, till he arrives in that light where all things are
naked and open; where he sees, too late, that he has
been a cheat to himself, and has been hurried by his
own pride, in a cloud of negatives, into a state of posi-
tive destruction, without remedy.
I am reading no particular man's fate; God forbid!
I restrain it to no circumstances; I point out no persons;
it is too solemn a thing to make it a fatire; it is the
state, not the man, I speak of; let the guilty apply it
to themselves, and the proud, good man humble him-
self, and avoid it.
I have observed, that many fall into this case by the
excessive vanity of being thought well of by their
neighbours, obtaining a character, &c.; it is a delu-
sion very fatal to many; a good name is indeed a pre-
cious ointment, and, in some cases, is better than lise:
but, with your pardon, Mr. Negative, it must be a
good name for good deeds; or otherwise, a good name
upon a bad lise, is a painted whore, that has a gay
countenance upon a rotten, diseased, corrupted car-
case.
Much to be preserred is the general slander of a pre-
judiced age, and a state of univerfal calumny, where
the mind is free from the guilt they charge: soch a
M 2 man,
man, though the world spits upon and despises him,
looks in with comfort, and looks up with hope.
Hie murus Aheneus esto,
Nil conscire fibi, nulla pallescere culpa.
Virc.
General contempt, universal reproach, is a life that
requires a world of courage and steadiness of mind to
support: but, be this my portion in this world, with a
heart that does not reproach me with the guilt, much
rather than to be a man of negatives only, and whom all
the world caresses with their good wishes, and good
opinion, but is himself empty of real virtue, a hypo-
crite at bottom, a cheat, and under the delusion of it;
whose portion is with hypocrites, and who can neither
look in, or look up with pleasure, but must look with-
out himself for all that can be called good, either by
others, or by himself.
As at the great and last day, the secrets of all hearts
ihall be disclosed, so I am persuaded, the opinion we
have of one another here, will be one of the things
which will be there, and perhaps not till then fully
rectisied; and as we shall be there thoroughly enlight-
ened, we shall find room to see, that we have been
much mistaken in our notions of virtue and vice, reli-
gion and irreligion, in the characters of our neigh-
bours: and I am persuaded, we shall see many of our
acquaintances placed at the right-hand of a righteous
Judge, whose characters we have oppressed with slan-
ders, and whom we have censoriously placed at his left-
hand here : and many a painted hypocrite, who has in-
sulted his neighbour with, Stand off! I am holier than
thou; or whom he has turned from with disdain, and
with
181
with a This publican! placed at the left-hand, whom
we made no doubt we should have seen at the right-
hand in triumph.
This is a support to the mind of a good man, even
when his enemies, as David fays, gnash upon him with
their teeth, and have him in derision; that is to fay,
when he is run down by univerfal clamour, and
damned by the tongues of men, even for this world
and another.
Happy the man, who with exajted soul,
Knows how to rate the great and prosp'rdus fool;
Who can the insults of the street contemn,
And values not the rage or tongues of men?
He, like the Sun, exists on his own flame,
And when he dies, is to himself a fame.
But take this with you, as you go, that as negativ*
praise will build no man comfort, so negative virtue
will not support the mind under univerfal contempt.
Scandal is much worse than slander; for the first is
founded upon real guilt, the other attacks innocence.
Nothing is a scandal, but what is true; nothing is a
slander, but what is false.
He that fortisies himself against reproach, must do it
with a certain reserve of real, solid virtue and piety;
it must be uprightness and integrity, that must pre-
serve him; nothing but a fund of what is good, can
support the mind under the reproach of being all that
is bad; I do not mean neither, that the man must be per-
fect, have no follies or failings, have made no excursions,
have nothing to be laid to the charge of his character;
for where then shall the man be sound I am speaking
of? And I may be faid to be describing the black-swan,
a person that is not, and never was to be found: but
M 3 the
the right way of judging men, and the way which alone
can be just, is to judge of them by their general con-
duct; and so a man may, in his own mind, justly de-
nominate himself: as every good action does not de-
nominate me to be a good man, so neither does every
failing, every folly, no, nor every scandalous action,
denominate me a hypocrite, or a wicked man; other-
wise, some of the most eminent faints in Scripture,
and of every age since the Scripture was written, are
gone to the Devil; and it will be hard to fay, there
was ever a good man in the world.
But I return to my subject, the negative good man;
and let me examine him a little in his just character,
in his conduct, public and private: he is no drunkard,
but is intoxicated with the pride of his own worth; he
is a good neighbour, a common arbitrator and peace-
maker in other families, but a cursed tyrant in his own;
he appears in a public place of worship for a show, but
never enters into his closet and shuts the door about
him, to pray to Him that sees in secret; he is covered
with the vain-glorious and ostentatious part of cha-
rity, but does all his alms before men, to be seen of
them; he is mighty eager in the duties of the second
table, but regardless of the first; appearing religious, to
be seen and taken notice of by men ; ^but between God
and his own foul, no intercourse, no communication:
What is this man? And what comfort is there of the
lise he lives? He knows little, or perhaps nothing of
faith, repentance, and a Christian mortisied lise; in a
word, he is a man persect in the circumstances of reli-
gion, and persectly a stranger to the essential part of
religion.
Takq
183
Take this man's converfation apart, enter into the
private and retired part of it, what notions has he of
mispent hours, and of the natural reflux of all our mi-
nutes, on to the great center and gulph of lise, eternity?
Does he know how to put a right value upon time?
Does he esteem it the Jise-blood of his foul, as it really
is, and act in all the moments of it, as one that must
account for them? Alas! this is of no weight with such
a man; he is too full of himself to enter into any no-
tions about an account, either for mispent time, or any
thing else misdone; but, persuading himself that he
never did any thing amiss, entertains no notion of
judgment to come, eternity, or any thing in it.
What room has a man to expatiate in his thoughts
upon so immense and inconceivable a subject as that
of eternal duration, whose thoughts are all taken up,
and swelled top-full with his own extraordinary self.
It would be impossible for any man in the world to
entertain one proud thought of himself, if he had but
one right idea of a future state. Could such a man
think, that any thing in him, or any thing he could do,
could purchase for him a selicity that was to last to
eternity? What! that a man should be capable, in one,
moment, (for lise is not that in length, compared to
eternity) to do any thing for which he should deserve to
be made happy to eternity?
If then you can form no equality between what he
can do, and what he shall receive, less can it be found-
ed upon his negative virtue, or what he has forborne to
do; and if neither his negative nor his positive piety
can be equal to the reward, and to the eternity that
reward is to last for, what then is become of the Pha-
risee? He must think no more of himself, for all his
M 4 boasts;
-
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
boasts; neither of his negatives nor his positives, but
of a rich, unbounded grace, that rewards according to
itself, not according to what we can do; and that to be
judged at the last day according to our works, if lite-
rally understood, would be to be undone; but we are
to be judged by the sincerity of our repentance; be re-
warded according to the insinite grace of God, and
purchase of Christ, with a state of blessedness to an end-
less eternity.
Indeed this eternity is not a meditation suitable to
the man I am talking of; it is a sublime thought,
which his bloated imagination has never descended to,
or engaged in; and when it comes, he is like to have
as little comfort of it, as he has had thought about it.
Now let us bring him more nearly and seriously
to a converse with the invisible world: he looks
into it with horror and dreadful apprehensions, as
Fcelix, when St. Paul reasoned of temperance,
righteousness, and- of judgment to come. Fcelix was
a moral heathen,' that is to fay, a man of negatives,
like him I am speaking of. What was then the
case? He trembled. Pray, what is it reasonable to
think Fcelix trembled at? If I may give my opinion,
who am but a very mean expositor of texts, it was
this, or something like it.
Fcelix was a philosopher, as well as a man of power,
and by his wisdom, as also by his reverence of the
Gods,'which, at that time, was the sum of religion,
had been a man of morals, a man that had practised
temperance and righteousness, as the lise which was'
unquestionably to be rewarded by the powers above,
with an Elysian selicity; that is to fay, according to the
Roman
185
Roman maxim, that the Gods were the rewarders of
virtue.
But when the blessed Apostle came to reason with
Fœlix, how unlikely it was that these negatives should
purchase our happiness hereafter, he shewed him, that'
the Gods could not be in debt to us for the practice of
virtue, which was indeed no more than living most
suitable to our reason; that a lise of virtue and temper-
ance was its own reward, by giving a healthy body, a
clear head, a composed lise, &c. fitting the man for all
other worldly enjoyments; adequate to his reason, and
his present selicity as a man: but eternal happiness
must come from another spring; namely, from the in-
sinite, unbounded grace of a provoked God, who hav-
ing erected a righteous tribunal, where every heart
should be searched, and where every tongue would
consess itself guilty, and stand self-condemned, Jesus
Christ, whom Paul preached, would separate such as by
faith and repentance he had brought home, and united
to himself by the grace of adoption, and on the foot of
his having laid down his lise a ransom for them, had
appointed them to falvation.
When poor negative Fœlix heard this, and that all
his philosophy, his temperance, and righteousness, if it
had been ten thoufand times as great, could weigh no-
thing, and plead nothing for him at that judicature;
and that he began to see the justice and reason of this,
for Paul reasoned him into it; I fay, when he faw this,
he trembled indeed, as well he might, and as all nega-
tive people will.
"What a strange idea, must that Pharisee have of God,
who went up with the publican to the temple to pray:
it is observable, he went with a good stock of assurance
in
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
in his face, that could come to the altar, as he did, not
to offer any facrifice; we do not find he carried any
offering, or bespoke the priest to make any atonement;
he wanted no priests to make any consession to; good
man, as he thought he was, he had no fins to consess;
he rather came up to the altar to even accounts with
Heaven; and, like the other man in the gospel, tell
God that he had fulsilled the whole law, and had done
all those things that were commanded, even from his
youth: so, as before, he only pulled off his hat to his
God, and let him know, that there was nothing be-
tween them at present, and away he goes about his bu-
siness.
But the poor wretch whom he despised, and whom
he had left behind him, for he durst come no farther,
acted quite another part. He had, at first indeed, in
sense of his duty, resolved to go up to the temple; but
when he faw the splendor and majesty of God repre-
sented by the glory of that elevated building; I fay,
when he faw that, though a great way off, and then
looked into his own heart, all his negative confidences
failing him, and a sense of miserable circumstances
coming upon him, he stops short, and with a blow of
reflection, and persectly unmixed with any of the Pha-
risee's pride, he looks down in humility, but lifts up
his heart in a penitential faith, with a,' Lord be merci-
ful to me a sinner!'
Here was faith, repentance, duty, and consession, all
conjoined in one act, and the man's work was done at
once,—he went away justified; when the negative
Pharisee.went home the fame self-vain wretch that he
came out, with God, I thank thee, in his mcuth, and a
mass of pride in his heart, that nothing could convince.
In
187
In what glorious colours do the Scriptures, upon all
occasions, represent those two hand-in-hand graces,
faith arid repentance? There is not one mention of
faith in the whole Scripture, but what is recommend-
ing some way or other to our admiration, and to our
practice; it is the foundation and the top-stone of all
religion, the right-hand to lead, and the left-hand to
support, in the whole journey of a Christian, even
through this world, and into the next: in a word, it is
the sum and substance of the gospel foundation.
Religion seems to have been founded upon three
establishments in the. world; in all which, the terms
of lise are laid down at the end of our acceptance
of it.
The first establishment was with Adam in Paradise;
the terms of which were,—Forbear, and live.
The second establishment was with the children of
Israel, in the giving of the law; the terms of which
were,—Do, and live.
The third establishment is that of the gospel of Jesus
Christ; the terms of which are,—Believe, and live.
So that, in a word, faith "im the substance and ful-
silling of gospel religion, the plan of righteousness, and
the great efficient of eternal lise.
Now let us follow this poor negative wretch to his
death-bed; and there, having very little other notion
of religion, for it is the fate of those that trust to their
negative, to have little else in their thoughts, if a good
man come to talk with him, if he talks out of that way,
he puts him all into copfusion; for if he cannot swim
upon the bladders of his negatives, he drowns immedi-
ately, or he buoys himself up above your reprooss, and
goes on as before: he is a little like the Polish Captain,
Uratz,
Uratz, who was executed for the murder of Mr.
Thynne, who, when they talked to him of repentance,
and of Jesus Christ, said, he was of such and such a
family, and he hoped God would have some respect to
him as a gentleman.
But what must a poor minister do, who being filled
with better principles, prays for this vain-glorious
man? Must he fay, Lord, accept this good man, for he
has been no drunkard, no swearer, no debauched per-
son; he has-been a just, a charitable man, has done a
great deal of good among his neighbours, and never
wilfully wronged any man; he has not been so wicked
as it is the custom of the times to be; nor has he shewn
bad examples to others; Lord be merciful to this ex-«
cellent good man!
No, no, the poor sincere minister knows better
things; and if he prays with him, he turns him quite
inside out ; represents him as a poor mistaken creature,
who now sees that he is nothing, and has nothing in
himself, but casts himself entirely, as a miserable lost
sinner, into the arms of a most merciful Saviour, pray-
ing to be accepted on the merits of Jesus Christ, and
no other; so that there is all his negative bottom un-
ravelled at once; and if this is not his case, it must be
worse.
»
CHAP.
139
CHAP. V.
i
Of listening to the Voice of Providenck.
WE are naturally backward to Inform ourselves of
our duty to our Maker, and to ourselves; it is
a study we engage in with great reluctance, and it is
but too agreeable to us, when we meet with any diffi-
culty which we think gives us a just occasion to throw
off any farther enquiries of that kind.
Hence I observe the wisest of men often run into
mistakes about the things, which, speaking of religion,
we call duty, taking up slight notions of them, and be-
lieving they understood enough of them; by which
they rob themselves of the advantage, as well as com-
fort of a farther search: or, on the other hand, taking
up with the general knowledge of religious principles,
and the common duties of a Christian lise, are fatisfied
with knowing what they fay is sufficient to carry them
to Heaven, without enquiring into those things which
are helpful and assistant to make that strait path easy
and pleafant to themselves, and to make them useful to
others by the way.
Solomon was quite of another opinion, when he bid
us cry after knowledge, and lift up our voice for under-
standing; dig for her as for silver, and search for her as
for hidden treasure. It is certain here, that he meant reli-
gious knowledge; and it is explained in the very next
words,
words, with an encouraging promise to those that shall
enter upon the search, viz. Then shalt thou under-
stand the sear of the Lord, and find the knowledge of
God.
I am of opinion, that it is our unquestioned duty
to enquire after every thing in our journey to the eter-
nal habitation, which God has permitted us to know;
and thus to raise difficulties in the way of our just
search into divine discoveries, is to act like Solomon's
sluggard, who faith, 'There is a lion without, I shall
be slain in the streets:' Prov. xxii. 13. that is, he fits
down in his ignorance, repulsed with imaginary diffi-
culties, without making one step in the search after the
knowledge which he ought to dig for, as for hidden
treasure.
Let us then be encouraged to our duty; let us bold-
ly enquire after every thing that God has permitted us
to know: I grant, that secret things belong to God,
and I shall labour to keep my due distance. But I
firmly believe, that there are no secret things belong-
ing to God, and which, as such, we are forbidden to
enquire into, but what also are so preserved in secrecy,
that by all our enquiries we cannot arrive to the know-
ledge of them; and it is a most merciful, as well as
wise dispenfation, that we are only forbid enquiring
after these things which we cannot know; and that all
those things are effectually locked up from our know-
ledge, which we are forbidden to enquire into. The
case is better with us than it was with Adam; we
have not the tree of knowledge first planted in our
view, as it were tempting us with its beauty, and with-
in our reach, and then a prohibition, upon pain of
death: but, blessed be God, we may eat of all the trees
irs
5
in the garden; and all those of which we are not al-
lowed to take, are placed both out of our fight and
out of our reach.
I am making way here to one of the trees of facred
knowledge, which, though it may grow in the thickest
of the wood, and be surrounded with some briars and
thorns, so as to place it' a little out of sight, yet I hope
to prove that it is our duty to taste of it, and that the
way to come at it is both practicable and plain.
But to wave the allegory, as I am entering into the
nicest search of divine things, that perhaps the whole
scheme of religion directs us to; it is absolutely neces-
fary at our entrance, if possible, to remove every dif-
ficulty, explain every principle, and lay down every
foundation so undeniably clear, that nothing may ap-
pear dark or mysterious in our first conceptions of
things; no stumbling-block lie at the threshold, and
the humble reader may meet with no repulse from his
own apprehensions of not understanding what he is
going to read.
Listening to the voice of Providence, is my subject:
I am willing to suppose, in the first place, that I am
writing to those who acknowledge the two grand prin-
ciples upon which all religion depends.
I. That there is a God, a first great moving cause of
all things, an eternal power, prior, and consequently
superior to all power and being.
II. That this eternal power, which I call God, is
the creator and governor of all things, viz. of heaven
and earth.
To avoid needless distinctions concerning which of
the persons in the godhead arc exercised in the creat-
ing power, and which in the governing power, I offer
that
tgt
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
that glorious text, Psalm xxxiii. 6. as a repulse to all
such cavilling enquiries, where the whole Trinity is
plainly entitled to the whole creating work :—' By the
Word (God the Son) of the Lord (God the Father)
were the Heavens made, and. all the host of them, by
the Breath (God the Holy Ghost) of his mouth.'
Having thus presupposed the belief of the being, and
the creating work of God, and declared that I am
writing to such only who are ready to own they be-
lieve that God is, and that he created the heaven, and
the earth, the sea, and all that in them is, I think I
need not make any preamble, to introduce the follow-
ing propositions, viz.
I. That this eternal God guides by his providence
the whole world, which he has created by his power.
II. That this providence manisests a particular care
over, and concern in the governing and directing man,
the best and last created creature on earth.
Natural religion proves the first, revealed religion
proves the last of these beyond contradiction. Natural
religion intimates the necessity of a providence guiding
and governing the world, from the consequence of
the wisdom, justice, prescience, and goodness of the
Creator.
It would be absurd to conceive of God exerting in-
sinite power to create a world, and not concerning his
wisdom, which is his providence, in guiding the ope-
rations of nature, so as to preserve the order of his
creation, and the obedience and subordination of con-
sequences and causes throughout the course of that
nature, which is, in part, the inserior lise of that
creation. -
Revealed
Revealed religion has given such a light into the
dare and concern of this providence, in an especial
manner, in and over that part of the creation called
Man, that we must likewise deny principles, if we enter
into dispute about it.
For him the peace of the creation is preserved, the
climates made habitable, the creatures subjected and
made nourishing, all vegetable lise made medicinal; so
that indeed the whole creation seems to be entailed
"Upon him as an inheritance, and given to him for a
possession, subjected to his authority, and governed by
him, as viceroy to the King of all the earth; the ma-
nagement of it is given to him as tenant to the great
proprietor,' who is lord of the manor, or landlord of
the foil. And it cannot be conceived, without great
inconsistency of thought, that this world is left entire-
ryto man's conduct, without the supervising influence
and the secret direction of the Creator^
This I call Providence; to which I give the whole
power of guiding and directing of the creation, and
managing of it, by man, who is his deputy or substi-
tute; and even the guiding, influencing, and over-
ruling man himself also.
Let critical annotators enter into specisic distinctions
of Providence, and its way of acting, as they pleases
and as the formalities of the schoolmen direct. The
short description I shall give of it is this> That it is
that operation of the power, wisdom, justice, and good-
ness of God, by which he influences, governs, and
directs, not only the means, but the events of all things
which concern us in this world.
I fay, it is that operation, letthem call it what they
will, which acts thus; I am no way concerned to shew
Vol. III. N' how
Low it acts, or why it acts thus and thus in particular;
we are to reverence its sovereignty, as it is the finger
of God himself, who is the sovereign director; and we
are to observe its motions, obey its dictates, and listen
to its voice, as it is, and because it is particularly em-
ployed for our advantage.
It would be a very proper and useful observation
here, and might take up much of this work, to illus-
trate the goodness of Providence, in that it is, as I fay,
particularly employed for the advantage of mankind:
but, as this is not the main design, and will come in
naturally in every part of the work 1 am upon, I rcfeF
it to the common inserences which are to be drawn
from the particulars, as I go on.
It is indeed, the most rational foundation of the
whole design before me; it is therefore, that we should
listen to the voice of Providence, because it is princi-
pally determined, and determines all other things for
our advantage.
But I return to the main subject, The voice of Pro-
vidence, the language or the meaning of Providence.
Nothing is more frequent, than for us to mistake
Providence, even in its most visible appearances: how
easy then must it be, to let its silent actings, which
perhaps are the most pungent and significant, pass our
observation.
I am aware of the error many fall into, who deter-
mining the universal currency of events to Provi-
dence, and that not the minutest thing occurs in the
course of lise, but by the particular destination of
Heaven; by consequence, entitle Providence to the
efficiency of their own follies: as if a person, pre-
suming to smoke his pipe in a magazine of gunpow-
der,
der, should reproach Providence with blowing up
the castle, for which indeed he ought to be hanged;
Or a man leaving his house or shop open in the
night, should charge Providence with appointing him
to be robbed,—and the like: nay, to carry it farther,
every murderer or thief may allege Providence, that
determines and directs every thing, directed him to
such wickedness; whereas, Providence itself, notwith-
standing the crimes of men, is- actively concerned in
no evil.
But I pass all these things; the subject I am
treating upon, is of another nature i the design here,
is to instruct us in some particular things relating to
Providence, and its government of men in the world,
which it will be worth our while to observe, with-
out enquiring how far it does or does not act in
other methods.
There is, it is true, a difficulty to shake off* all the
wry steps which people take to amuse themselves
about Providence; and for this reason, I take so
much pains at first to avoid them. Many men en-
title Providence to things which it is not concerned
about, speaking abstractedly; but, which is a much
worse error, many also take no notice of those things
which Providence particularly, and even in a very-
remarkable manner, distinguishes itself by its con-
cern in.
If Providence guides the world, and directs the
issues and events of things; if it commands causes,
and forms the connection of circumstances in the
world, as no man that owns the principles men-
tioned above, will deny; and above all, if the general
scope of Providence, and of the government of the
N 2 w«rld
World by its influence, be for our advantage; then it
follows necessarily, that it is our business, and our
interest, to listen to its voice.
By listening to the voice of Providence, I mean, to
study its meaning in every circumstance of lise, in
every event; to learn to understand the end and de-
sign of Providence in every thing that happens; what
is the design of Providence in it respecting ourselves,
and what our duty to do upon the particular occasion
that offers. If a man were in danger of drowning in
a shipwrecked vessel, and Providence presented a boat
coming towards him, he would scarce want to be told,
that it was his business to make signals of distress,
that the people in the faid boat might not pass by
ignorant of his condition, and give him no assistance;
if he did, and omitted it, he would have little cause
to concern Providence in his ruin.
There is certainly a rebellion against Providence,
which Heaven itself will not always concern itself to
over-rule; and he that throws himself into a river to
drown himself, he that hangs himself up to a beam,
he. that shoots himself into the head with a pistol, shall
die, in spite of all the notions of decree, destiny,
fate, or whatever we weakly call Providence: in such
cases, Providence will not always concern itself to
prevent it; and yet it is no impeachment of the so-
vereignty of Heaven, in directing, decreeing, and go-
verning all events in the world.
Providence decrees that events shall attend upon
causes in a direct chain, and by an evident necessity,
and has doubtless left many powers of good and evil
seemingly to ourselves, and, as it Were, in our hands,
as the natural product of such causes and conse-
quences,
quences, which we are not to limit, and cannot ex-
pressly determine about, but which we are account-
able for the good or evil application of; otherwise, we
were in vain exhorted and commanded to do any good
thing, or to avoid any wicked one: rewards and pu-
nishments would be incongruous with sovereign jus-
tice; and promises and threatenings, be persectly un-
meaning, useless things; mankind being no free agent
to himself, or entrusted with the necessary powers,
which those promises and threatenings imply.
But all these things are out of my present enquiry;
I am for freely and entirely submitting all events to
Providence; but not to be supinely and unconcerned-
ly passive, as if there was nothing warning, instructing,
or directing in the premonitions of God's providence,
and which he expected we should take notice of, and
take warning by. 'The prudent man fpreseeth the
evil, apd hideth himself:' How does he foresee it, since
it is not in man to direct himself? There are inti-
mations given us, by which a prudent man may some-
times foresee evil, and hide himself; and I must take
these all out of the Devil's hands, if possible, and
place Providence at the head of the invisible world,
as yve\\ as at the helm of this world; and though I
abhor superstitious and sceptical notions of the world
of spirits, of which I purpose to speak hereafter, either
in this work, or in some other by itself; I fay, though
I am not at all sceptic, yet I cannot doubt but that
the invisible hand of Providence, which guides and
governs this world, does with a secret power likewise
influence the world, and may, and I believe does,
direct from thence silent messengers on many occa-
sions, whether steeping or waking, whether directly
N 3. of
-
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
or indirectly; whether by hints, impulses, allegories,,
mysteries, or Otherwise, we know not; and does think
fit to give us such alarms, such previous and particular
knowledge of things, that if listened to, might many
ways be useful to the prudent man to foresee the evil,
and hide himself.
The only objection, and which I can see no me-
thod to give a reason for, and no answer to, is, Why,
if it be the work of Providence, those things should
be so impersect, so broken, so irregular, that men may
either never be able to pass any right judgment of
them, as is sometimes the case; or make a persect
judgment of them, which is often the case; and so
the end of the intimation be entirely deseated, without
any fault, neglect, or omission of the man.
This we can no more account for, than we can for
the hand-writing upon the wall at the great seast of
Belshazzer, viz. Why it was written in a character
which none could understand; and which, if the Pro-
phet had not been found, had perhaps never been
known; or at least, not till the King's fate, which was
•ven then irretrievable, had been over.
This, indeed, we cannot account for, and can only
fay, it is our duty to study these things, to listen to the
voice of them, and obey their secret dictates, as far as
reason directs, without an over superstitious regard to
them, any more than a total neglect; leaving the reason
of Providence's acting thus, to be better understood
hereafter.
But to'.describe a little what I mean by listening to
the voice of Providence: it is the reverse of the su-
pine, stupid man, whose character I shall come to by
and by. The man I would recommend, lives first in
"' a general
a general belief, that Providence has the supreme
direction of all his affairs, even of his in particular, as
well as those of the world; that it is his mercy that it
is so; that it is the effect of an insinitely wise and
gracious disposition from above, that he subsists; and
that it is not below the dignity, any more than it is
remote from the power of an insinite, wife, and good
Being, to take cognizance of the least thing concerning
him.
This, in the consequence, obliges him to all I fay;
for, to him who firmly believes that Providence stoops
to concern itself for him; and to order the least article
of his affairs, it necesfarily follows, that he should
concern himself in every thing that Providence does,
which comes within his reach, that he may know
whether he be interested in it or no.
If he neglects this, he neglects himself; he aban-
dons all concern about himself, since he does not
know, but that the very next particular act of Provi-
dence, which comes within his reach to distinguish,
may be interested in him, and he in it.
It is not for me to dictate here to any man, what
particular things, relating to him, Providence is con-
cerned in, or what not; or how far any incident of
lise is or is not the particular act and deed of the go-
vernment of Providence: but as it is the received opi-
nion of every good man, that nothing befals us with-
out the active or passive concern of Providence in it;
so it is impossible this good man can be unconcerned
in whatever that Providence determines concerning
him.
If it be true, as our Saviour himself fays, < That
not a hair falls from our heads without the will of
N 4 our
our heavenly Fatherthen not a hair ought to fall
from our heads, without pur having our eyes up to
our heavenly Father in \t.
I take the text in its due latitude, namely, that not
the minutest incident of lise befals us, without the
active will of our Father directing it, or the passive
will of our Father suffering it; so I take the deduction
from it in the fame latitude; that nothing, of how
mean a nature soever, can befal us, but we ought to
have our eyes up to our heavenly Father in it, be
resigned to him in the event, and subjected to him in,
the means; and he that neglects this, lives in conr
tempt of Providence, and that in the most provoking
manner possible.
I am not answerable for any extremes these things
may lead weak people into; I know some are apt to
entitle the hand of God to the common and most
ridiculous trifles in nature; as a religious creature I
knew, seeing a bottle of beer, being over ripe, burst
out, the cork fly up against the ceiling, and the froth
follow it like an engine, cried out, ' O! the wonders
of omnipotent power:' but I am representing how a
Christian, with an awful regard to the government
of Providence in the world, and particularly in all his
own affairs, subjects his mind to a constant obedience
to the dictates pf that Providence, gives an humble
preserence to it in ajl his conclusions, waits the issues
pf it with a chearful resignation; and, in a word, listens
carefully to the voice of Providence, that he may be.
always obedient to the heavenly vision.
Whether this divine emanation has any concern in
the notices, omens, dreams, voices, hints, forebodings,
impulses, &c which seem to be a kind of communi-
2 cation
cation with the invisible world, and a converse between
the spirits embodied and those vinembodied; and how
far, without prejudice to the honour and our rever-
ence of Providence, and without danger of scepticism,
and a kind of radicated infidelity, those things may be
regarded, is a nice and difficult thing to resolve, and I
shall treat of it by itself.
It has been the opinion of good men of all ages,
that such things are not to be totally disregarded;
to fay how far they are to be depended upon, I am
not to take upon me; how far they may or may not
be concerned in the influence of Providence, I also
dare not fay: but as the verity of astronomy is evi-
denced by the calculation of eclipses, so the certainty
of this communication of spirits is established by the
concurrence of events with the notices they sometimes
give; and if it be true, as I must believe, that the
divine Providence takes cognizance of all things be-
longing to us, I dare not exclude it from having some
concern, how much I do not fay, in these things also:
but of this in its place.
Whenever Providence discovers any thing of this
arcanum, I desire to listen to the voice of it; and this
is one of the things I recommend to others. Indeed,
I would be very cautious how I listen to any other
voices from that country, than such as I am sure are
conveyed to me from Heaven, for my better under-
standing the whole mystery.
If then we are to listen to the voice of nature, and
to the voices of creatures, viz. to the voice of the
invisible agents of the world of spirits, as above, much
snore are we to listen to the voice of God.
I have
T have already hinted, that lie that made the world;
we are sure guides it; and his providence is equally
wonderful as his power: but nothing in the whole
course of his providence is more worthy our regard,
especially as it concerns us, his creatures, than the
silent voice, if it maybe allowed me to call it so, of
his managing events and causes; he that listens to
the providence of God, listens to the voice of God, as he
is seen in the wonders of his government, and as he is
seen in the wonders of his omnipotence.
If then the events of things are his, as well as the
causes, it is certainly well worth our notice, when the
sympathy or relation between the events of things and
their causes most eminently appears; and how can any
man, who has the least inclination to observe what is
remarkable in the world, shut his eyes to the visible
discovery which there is in the events of Providence,
of a supreme hand guiding them? For example, when
visible punishments follow visible crimes, who can
refrain consessing the apparent direction of supreme
justice? When concurrence of circumstances directs to
the cause, men that take no notice of such remarkable
pointings of Providence, openly contemn Heaven, and
frequently stand in the light of their own advantages.
The concurrence of events, is a light to their causes,
and the methods of Heaven in some things, are a
happy guide to us to make a judgment in others; he
that is deaf to these things, shuts his ears to instruct
tion, and, like Solomon's fool, hates knowledge.
The dispositions of Heaven to approve or condemn
our actions, are many of them discovered by observa-
tion; and it is easy to know when the hand of Pro^
vidence opens the door for, or shuts it against our
measures,
pleasures, if we will bring causes together, and comn
pare former things with present, making our judgment
by the ordinary rules of Heaven's dealing with men.
How, and from what hand come the frequent in-
stances of severe judgment, following rash and helliih
imprecations? When men call for God's judgment.
Providence, or Justice rather, obeys the summons,
and comes at their call. A man calls God to witness to
an untruth, and wishes himself struck dumb, blind, or
dead, if it is not true; and is struck dumb, blind, or
dead :—Is not this a voice? Does pot Heaven, with the
stroke, cry, Castigo te; Be it to thee as thou hast faid?
He must be deaf who cannot hear it, and worse than
deaf that does not heed it: such executions from Hea-
ven are in terrorem; as offenders among men are pu-
nished, as well for example to others, as to prevent
their doing the like again.
Innumerable ways the merciful disposition of Pro-
vidence takes, to discover to us what he expects we
should do in difficult cases; and doubtless then, it ex-
pects at the fame time we should take notice of those
directions.
We are short-sighted creatures at best, and can-see
but a little way before us; I mean, as to the events of
things; we ought, therefore, to make use of all the
lights and helps we can get; these, if nicely regarded,
would be some of the most considerable to guide us in
many difficult cases.
Would we carefully listen to the concurrence of
Providence, in the several parts of our lives, we should
stand in less need of the more dangerous helps of
visions, dreams, and voices, from less certain in-
telligences.
A gen-
20'4
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
A gen.tle,Hian of my. acquaintance, being to go a
journey into the North, was twice taken very ill the
day he had appointed to begin his journey, and so was
obliged to put off going; this he took for a direction
from Heaven, that he should not go at all; and in a
very setor days after, his wise was taken sick and died,
which made it absolutely necessary for him to be at home,
to look after his affairs:; and had he gone away before,
must certainly have been obliged tq come back again,
The Romans had certainly the foundation of this
principle, in their prudent observation of days, and
circumstances of days; nor is Scripture itself void of.
the like, but rather points out to the observation, par-
ticularly that of the children of Israel; who, after four
hundred and thirty years were expired, from their
coming into Egypt, ' even in the selfsame day de-
parted they thence:' Exod. xii. 41*42. Several other
scriptures mention periodical times, (dies infauftm) in
which the prudent.lhall keep silent; for it is an evil
time.. "- - -' !' -.v".
We find, Providence stoops to restrain not the ac-
tions of men only, but even its own actiqns to days
and times; doubtless for our observation, and in some
things for our instruction. I do not so much refer to
the revolutions- of things and families on particular
days, which are therefore by some people called lucky
and unlucky days, as I do to the observing how Pro-
vidence causes the revolutions of days to form a con-
currence between the actions of men, which it does
not approve, or does approve, and the reward of these
actions in this world; by which men may, if they
think fit to distinguish, and observe right upon them,
see the crime or merit of those actions in the divine
resent-
resentment; may read the sin in the punishment -, and
may learn conviction from the revolution of circum-
stances, in the appointment of Heaven.
I have seen several collections of such things made
by private hands, some relating to family circum-
ffences, some to public: also, in the unnatural wars in
England, between the King and the Parliament, I
have heard many such things have been observed: for
example, the fame day of the year and month, that
Sir John Hotham kept out Hull against King Charles
the First, and refused him entrance, was the fame Sir
John Hotham put to death, by the very Parliament
that he did that exploit for; that King Charles him-
self was sentenced to die by the High Court of Justice,
as it was then called, the fame day of the month that
he signed the warrant for the execution of the Earl of
StrafFord; which, as it was then faid by some of his
friends, was cutting off his own right-hand. The
fame day that King James the Second came to the
crown, against the design of the bill of exclusion, the
fame day he was voted abdicated by Parliament, and
the throne filled with the Prince of Orange and his
Princess.
These, or such as these, seem to be a kind of silent
sentence of Providence upon such actions, animadvert-
ing upon them in a judicial manner, and intimating
plainly, that the animadversion had a retrospect to
what was past; and those that listen to the voice of
Providence in such things, should at least lay them up
in their hearts.
Eminent deliverances in sudden dangers, are of the
most significant kind of providences, and which ac-
cordingly have a loud voice in them, calling upon us
to
to be thankful to that blessed hand that has beeit
pleased to spare and protect us. The voice of such
signal deliverances, is frequently a just call upon us
to repentance, and looks directly that way; often it is
a caution against falling into the like dangers we were1
exposed to, from which nothing but so much goodness
could deliver us again. In how many occasions of
lise, if God's providence had no greater share in our
fasety than our own prudence, should we plunge and
precipitate ourselves into all manner of misery and
distress? Ahd how often, for want of listening to those
providences, do we miscarry?
Innumerable instances present themselves to us every
day, in which the providence of God speaks to us, in
things relating to ourselves: in deliverances, to excite
our thankfulness; in views of dangers, to awaken our
caution, and to make us walk wisely and circumspectly
in every step we take; those that are awake t6 these
things, and have their ears open to the voice of them,
many times reap the benesit of their instruction, by
being protected; while those who neglect them, are of
the number of the simple, who pass on, and are
To be utterly careless of ourselves in such cases, and
talk of trusting Providence, is a lethargy of the worst
nature; for as we are to trust Providence with our
estates, but to use, at the fame time, all diligence in our
callings; so we are to trust Providence with our fasety,
but with our eyes open to all its necessary cautions,
warnings, and instructions; many of which Provi-
dence is pleased to give us in the course of lise, for
the direction of our conduct, and which we should ill
place to the account of Providence, without acknow-
ledging
punished
kdging that they ought to be regarded, and a due re-
verence paid to them upon all occasions.
I take a general neglect of these thing*, to be a kind
of practical atheism, or at least a living in a kind of
contempt of Heaven, regardless of all that share which
his invisible hand has in the things that befal us.
Such a man receives good at the hand of his Maker,
but unconcerned at the very nature or original of it,
looks not at all to the benefactor. Again, he receives
evil, but has no sense of it as a judicial dispensing of
punishment from Heaven; but insensible of one or
other, he is neither thankful for one, nor humble
under the other, but stupid in both; as if he was out
of God's care, and God himself out of his thoughts:
this is just the reverse of the temper I am recommend-
ing, and let the picture recommend itself to any, ac-
cording to its merits.
When Prince Vaudemont commanded the confe-
derate army in Flanders, the fame campaign that King
William was besieging Namur, some troops were or-
dered to march into the flat country towards Nieuport,
in order to make a diversion, and draw down the
Count de Montalt, who commanded a flying body
about Menin, and to keep him from joining Marshall
de Villeroy, who commanded the main body of the
French army.
The soldiers were ordered, upon pain of death, not
to stir from their camp, or to plunder any of the
country people: the reason was evident; because, pro-
visions being somewhat scarce, if the boors were not
protected, they would have fled from their houses, and
the army would have been put to great straits, being
just entered into the enemies country.
It
It happened, that five English soldiers, straggling
beyond their bounds, were fallen upon, near a farm-
house, by some of the country people (for indeed the
boors were oftentimes too unmerciful to the soldiers)
as if they had plundered them, when indeed they had
not: the soldiers desended themselves, got the better,
and killed two of the boors; and being, as they
thought, justly provoked, by being first attacked, they
broke into the house, and then used them roughly
enough indeed.
They found in the house a great quantity of apples,
(the people being fled, had left them in pdstemon) and
they made no haste to go away, but sell to work with
the apples, and heating the oven, put a great quantity
of apples into the oven, to roast. In the mean time,
the boors, who knew their number to be but five, and
had got more help on their side, came down upon
them again, attacked the house, forced their way in,
mastered the Englishmen, killed two, and took a third,
and barbarously pat him into the oven, which he had
heated, where he Was smothered to death: it seems, it
was not hot enough to burn him.
The other two escaped; but, on coming back to the
camp, they were immediately. apprehended by the
provosts, and brought to a court-martial; where they
were sentenced, not for plundering, for that did not
appear, but for being out of the bounds appointed by
the general order, as above.
When the sentence came to be executed, the General
was prevailed upon to spare one of them, and to order
them to cast lots for their lives. This, as it is known,
is usually done by throwing dice upon a drum-head,
and he that throws highest or lowest, as is appointed
before,
before, is to die; at this time, he that threw lowest
was to live.
When the sellows were brought out to throw, the
first threw two sixes, and sell immediately.to wringing
his hands, crying he was a dead man; but was as
much surprized with joy, when his comrade throwing,
there came up two sixes also.
The officer appointed to see execution, was a little
doubtful what to do; but his orders being positive, he
commanded them to throw again; they did so, and
each of them threw two fives; the soldiers that stood
found, shouted, and faid neither of them was to die.
The officer, being a sober, thinking man, faid it was
strange, and looked like something from Heaven, and
he would not proceed without acquainting the coun-
cil of war, which was then sitting; they considered a
while, and at last ordered them to take other dice, and
throw again; which was done, and both the soldiers
threw two fours.
The officer goes back to the council . of war, who
were surprized very much; and looking on it as the
voice of Heaven, respited the execution till the Ge-
neral was acquainted with it.
The General sends for the men, and examines them
strictly; who, telling him the whole story, he pardon-
ed them; with this expression to those about him: I
love, faid he, in such extraordinary cases, to listen to
the voice of Providence.
While we are in this uninformed state, where we
know so little of the invisible world, it «vould be
greatly our advantage, if we knew rightly, and without
the bondage of enthusiasm and superstition, how to
Vol. III. O maktf
make use of the hints given us from above, for our
direction in matters of the greatest importance.
It has pleased God very much to straiten the spe-
cial and particular directions which he gives to men
immediately from himself, but I dare not fay they are
quite ceased; we read of many examples in Scripture,
how God spake to men by voices immediately from
heaven, by appearance of angels, or by dreams and
visions of the night; and by all these, not in public
and more extraordinary cases only, but in private,
personal, and family concerns.
Thus God is faid to have appeared to Abraham, to
Lot, and to Jacob; angels also have appeared in many
other cases, and to many several persons; as to Ma-
roah and his wise, to Zachariali, to the Virgin Mary,
and to the Apostles: others have been warned in a
dream; as King Abimelech, the false prophet Balaam,
Pontius Pilate's wise, Herod, Joseph, the Apostles
also, and many others.
We cannot fay but these, and all the miraculous
voices, the prophetic messages prefaced boldly by the
Ancients, with 'thus faith the Lord,' are ceased; and
as we have a more sure word of prophesy handed to
us by the mission of gospel ministers, to which the
Scripture fays, ' We do well that we take heed;' and
to whom our blessed Lord has faid, ' Lo, I am with
you to the end of the world;' I fay, as we have this
Gospel backed with the spirit and presence of God,
we are no losers, if we observe the rule laid down, viz.
that we be obedient to the heavenly vision; for such
it is, as well as that of the apostle Peter's dream of the
meet let down from Heaven.
J men-
I mention this, to pay a due reverence to the suf-
ficiency of gospel revelation, and to the guiding of the
Spirit of Godi who, in spiritual things j is given to lead
us into all truth; nor would I have any thing which
I,am going to fay; tend to lessen these great efficients
of our eternal falvation.
But I am chiefly upon our conduct in the inferior
lise, as I may call it; and in this, I think, the voice
of God, even his immediate voice from heaven, is not
entirely ceased from us, though it may have changed
the mediums of communication.
I have heard the divines tell os, by way of distinc-
tion, that there is a voice of God in his word, and a>
voice of God in his work; the latter I take to be a
subject very awful and instructing.
This voice of God in his works, is either heard in
his works which are already wrought, such as of crea-
tion, which sills us with wonder and astonishment, ad-
miration and adoration; 'When I view the heavens*
the work of thy hands, the moon, and the stars whioh
thou hast made, then I fay, What is man,' ^cc. Or
his work of government and providence, in which
the insinite variety affords a pleasing and instructing
contemplation; and it is, without question, our wis-
dom and advantage to study and know them, and to
listen to the voice of God in them: for this listening
to the voice of Providence, is a thing so hard to direct,
and so little understood, that I find the very thought
pf it is treated with contempt, even by many pious arid
good people, as leading to superstition, to enthusiasm,
and vain fancies, tainted with melancholy, and amu-
sing the mind with vapours of the head.
212
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
It is true, an ill use may be made of these things;
and to tie people too strictly down to a rule, where
their own observation is to be the judge, endangers the
running into many foolish extremes, entitling. a dis-
tempered brain too much to the exposition of the sub-
limest things, and tacking the awful name of Provi-
dence to every fancy of their own.
From hence I think, too much proceeds the extra-
ordinary (note, I fay extraordinary) homage paid to
omens, flying of birds, voices, noises, predictions, and
a thoufand foolish things, in which I shall endeavour
to state the case fairly between the devil and mankind:
but at present I need fay no more here, than that they
have nothing to do with the subject I am now upon,
or the subject I am upon with them.
But as my design is serious, and I hope pious, I shall
keep strictly to the exposition I give of my own mean-
ing, and meddle with no other.
By the voice of Providence therefore, I shall consine
myself to the particular circumstances, incident and
accident, which every man's life is full of, and which
are, in a more extraordinary manner, faid to be peculiar
to himself or to his family.
By listening to them, I mean, making such due ap-
plication of them to his own circumstances, as be-
comes a Christian, for caution in his conduct, and all
manner of instruction; receiving all the hints as from
Heaven, returning all the praise to, making all the
improvement for, and reverencing the sovereignty of
his Maker in every thing, not disputing ot reproach-
ing the justice of Providence; and, which is the mail*
thing I aim at, taking such notice of the several pro-
vidence? that happen in the course of our lives, as
by
5
by one circumstance to learn how to behave in an-
other.
For example: supposing, from my own story, when
a young sellow broke from his friends, trampled upon
all the wise advices, and most affectionate persuasions
of his father, and even the tears and entreaties of a
tender mother, and would go away to sea; but is
checked in his first excursions, by being shipwrecked,
and, in the utmost distress, faved by the assistance of
another ship's. boat, seeing the ship he was in, soon
after sink to the bottom: ought not such a young man
to have listened to the voice of this providence, and
have taken it for a summons to him; that when he was
on more, he should stay on shore, and go back to the
arms of his friends, hearken to their counsel, and not
precipitate himself into farther mischiess? What hap-
piness might such a prudent step have procured! What
miseries and mischiess would it have prevented in the
rest of his unfortunate lise!
An acquaintance of mine, who had several such cir-
cumstances besel him, as those which I am inclined to
call warnings, but entirely neglected them, and laughed
at those that did otherwise, suffered deeply for his
disregard of omens. He took lodgings in a village
near the city of London, and in a house, where either
he sought bad company, or at. best could meet with
little that was good. Providence, that seemed to ani-
madvert upon his conduct, so ordered it, that some-
thing or other mischievous always happened to him
there, or as he went thither: several times he was
robbed on the highway going thither; once or tivice
taken very ill ; at other times, his affairs in the world
went ill, while he was diverting himself there: several
O 3 of
of his friends cautioned him of it, and told him, he
ought to consider that some superior hand seemed tq
hint to him, that he should come there no more. He
slighted the hint, or at least. neglected it after some
time, and went to the fame place again; but was so
terrisied with a most dieadful tempest of thunder and
lightening, which sell, as it were, more particularly
Vpon that part of the country than upon others, that
he took it as a warning from Heaven, and resolved not
to go there again; and some time after, a fire destroyed
that house, very sew escaping that were in it.
It would be an ill account we should give of the
government of divine Providence in the world, if we
should argue, that its events are so unavoidable, and
every circumstance so determined, that nothing can be
altered; and that, therefore, these warnings of Provi-
dence are inconsistent with the nature of it. This,
besides that I think it would take from the sovereignty
of Providence, and deny even God himself the privi-
lege of being a free agent, it would also so contradict
the experience of everj man living, in the yarieties of
his respective lise, that he should be unable to give any
account for what end many things, which Providence
directs in the world, are directed; and why so many
|hings happen, which do happen; why are evils at-
tending us, so evidently foretold, that by those fore-
tellings they are avoided, if it was not determined be-
fore, that they should be avoided, and should not be-
fal us?
People that tie up all to events and causes, strip the
providence of God, which guides the world, of all its
sipcrintendency, and leaves it no room to act as a wife
disposer of things.
It
It seems to me, that the immutable wisdom and
power of the Creator, and the notion of it in the minds
of men, is as dutifully preserved, and is as legible to our
understanding, though there be a hand left at liberty
to direct the course of natural causes and events: it is
sufficient to the honour of an immutable dicty, that for
the common incidents of lise, they be left to the dis-
position of a daily agitator, namely, divine Provi-
dence; to order and direct them as it shall see good,
within the natural limits of cause and consequence.
This seems to me a much more rational system,
than that of tying up the hands of the supreme Power
to a road of things, so that none can be acted or per-
mitted, but such as was so appointed before to be acted
and permitted.
But what, if, after all, we were to sit down and ac-
knowledge, that the immutability of God's being, and
the unchangeableness of his actings, are not easy to
be comprehended by us, or that we may fay we are
not able to reconcile them with the insinite variations
of his providence, which, in all its actings, seems to
us to be at full liberty to determine anew, and give
events a turn this way or that way, as its sovereignty
and wisdom mail direct; does it follow, that these things
are, not reconcilable, because we cannot reconcile
them? Why mould we not as well fay, nothing of
God is to be understood, because we cannot understand
it? Or that nothing in nature is intelligible, but what
we can understand?
Who can understand the reason, and much less the
manner, of the needle tending to the pole, by being
touched with the loadstone, and by what operation the
magnetic virtue is conveyed with a touch? Why that
virtue is not communicable to. other metals, such as
O 4 gold,
gold, silver, or copper, but to iron only? What sympa-
thetic influence is there between the stone and tho
star, or the pole? Why tending to that point in the
whole arch, and not to any other? And why face
about to the south pole as soon as it has passed the
equinox? Yet we see all thele things in their opera-
tions and events; we know they must be reconcilable
ia nature, though we cannot reconcile them; and in-
telligible in nature, 'though we cannot understand
them: sure it is as highly reasonable then for us to ber
lieve, that the various actions of Providence, which to
us appear changeable, one decree, as it were, reversing
another, and one action superseding another, may be
as reconcilable to the immutability of God, and to the
unchangeableness of his purposes, though we cannot
understand how it is brought to pass, as it is to be-
lieve, that "there is a reason to be given for the agree-
ment and sympathetic correspondence between the
magnet and the pole, though at present the manner of
it is not discovered, and cannot be understood.
If then the hand of divine Providence has a spon-
taneous power of acting, and, directed by its own so-
vereignty, proceeds by such methods as it thinks fit,
and as we daily see in the course of human things;
our business is to converse with the acting part of
Providence, with which we more immediately have to
do, and not confound our judgment with things which
we cannot fully comprehend; such as the why, to
what end, and the how, in what manner it acts so
and so.
As we are then converfant with the immediate ac-
tions of divine Providence, it is our business to study
jf, as much as may be, in that part of its actings Where-
ill
ici it is to be known; and this includes the silent
actingsyof Providence, as well as those which are more
loud, and which being declared, speak in public.
There are several silent steps which Providence
takes in the world, which summon our attention; and
he that will not listen to them, shall deprive himself of
much of the caution and counsel, as well as comfort,
which he might otherwise have in his passage through
this lise: particularly, by thus listening to the voice, as
J call it, of Providence, we have the comfort of seeing,
that really an in. iiible and powerful hand is employ-
ed in, and concerned for our preservation and pros-
perity in the world 5 and who can look upon the
manisest deliverances which be meets with in the in-
finite variety of lise, without being convinced that they
are wrought for him, w thout hs own asiifiance, by the
wise and merciful dispositions of an mvi ble and
friendly power.
The bringing good events to prss by the most
threatening causes, as it testisies a power that has the
government of causes and effects in its hand, lo it gives
a very convincing evidence of that power bring on
good terms with us; as, oh the contrary, when the
like Providence declares against us, we ought to make
a suitable use of it another way; that is to lay, take the
just alarm, and apply to the necessary duties of humi-
liation and repentance.
These things may be jested with by the men of
fashion; but I am supposing myself talking to men
that have a sense of a future state, and of the economy of
an invisible world upon them; and neither to afheists,
sceptics, or persons indifferent, who are indeed near of
kin to them both.
As
As there are just reflections to be made upon the
various conduct of Providence in she several passages
of man's lise, so there are infinite circumstances, in?
which we may furnish ourselves with directions in the
course of lise, and in the most sudden incidents, as well
to obtain good, as to avoid evil.
Much of the honour due to the goodness of Provit
dence, is unjustly taken away from it, by men that
give themselves a loose in a general neglect of these
things: but that which is still more absurd to me is,
that some men are so obstinately resolved against paying
the homage of their deliverances to their Maker, or
paying the reverence due to his terrors, in any thing
that befals them ill, where it ought to be paid, that
they will give all that honour to another. If it was
well, they tell you they know not how, but so it hap-
pened; or it was so by good chance, and the like. This
is a sort of language I cannot understand: it seems to
be a selonious thought in its very design; robbing
Heaven of the honour due to it, and listing ourselves
in the regiment of the ungrateful.
But this is not all; for one crime leads on to an-
other. If this part is selony or robbery, the next is
treason; for resolving first to deny the homage of
good or evil events to God, from whose hands they
come, they go on, and pay it to the Devil,—the enemy
of his praise, and rival of his power.
Two of these wretches travelled a little journey with
me some years ago; and in their return, some time
after I was gone from them, they met with a very dif-
ferent adventure, and telling me the story, they ex-
pressed themselves thus: They were riding from Hun-
tingdon towards London; and in some lanes betwixt
. Hun-
Huntingdon and Caxton, one happened, by a flip of
Jiis horse's foot, which lamed him a little, to stay about
Jialf a mile behind the other, was set upon by some
highwaymen, who robbed him, and abused him very
much; the other went on to Caxton, not taking care
of his companion, thinking he had stayed on some par-
ticular occasion, and escaped the thieves; they making
off across the country towards Cambridge.
Well, fays I to -the first, How came you to escape i
I don't know, not I, fays he; I happened not to look
behind me when his horse stumbled, and I went for-
ward; and, by good luck, adds he again, I heard no-
thing of the matter. Here was, it happened, and by good
luck; but not the least sense of the government of
Providence in this affair, or its disposition for his
good; but an empty idol of air, or rather an imaginary,
nonsenfical nothing,—an image more inconsistent than
those I mentioned among the Chinese; not a mon-
ster indeed of a frightful shape, and ugly sigure, loath-
some and frightful,—but a mere phantasm, ah idea, a
non-entity, a name without being; a Miscalled, unborn
nothing; a hap-luck chance; that is to fay, a name put
tipon the medium, which they set up in their imagi-
nation, for want of a will to acknowledge their Maker*
and recognize the goodness which had particularly pre-
served him.
This was the most ungrateful piece of folly, or, to
speak more properly, the maddest and foolishest piece
ps ingratitude that ever I met with.
Well, if this was foolish and preposterous, the other
was as wicked and detestable: for when the first had
told his tale, I turned to the other, and asked him,
jfhat was the matter? Why, how came it to pass?
said
faid I; why, this difaster has fallen all upon you: How
was it?—Nay, fays he, I do not know; I was a little
behind, and my horse chanced to slip, and lame him-
self, and he went forward and left me; and, as the
Devil would have it, these, fellows came across the
country, and chopped upon me, &c.
Here was first Chance, the fame mock goddess, as
before, lamed his horse; and next, the Devil ordered
the highwaymen to chop upon him that moment.
Now, though it may be true, that the highwaymen
were, even by their employment, doing the Devil's
office of going to- and fro, seeking whom they might
plunder; yet, it was a higher hand than Satan's that
delivered this poor blind sellow into their power. -
We have a plain guide for this in Scripture language,
in the law of manslaughter ordeath, as we call it foolishly
enough, by misadventure: it is in Exod. xxi. 13. in the
case of casual killing a man, it is expressed thus: 'If a
man lie not in wait, but God deliver him into his hand.'
This was not to be accounted murder, but the slayer was
to fly to the city of refuge.
Here it is evident, that God takes all these mifad-
ventures into his own hand; and a man killed by ac-
cident, is a man whom God has delivered up (for what
end in his providence, is known only to himself) to be
killed in that manner; perhaps vindictively, perhaps
not.
With what face can any man fay, this was as the
Devil would have it, or as bad luck would have it; or
it happened, or chanced, or fell out? All which are our
simple and empty ways of talking of things that are
erdered by the immediate hand or direction of God's
Providence.
The
The words last quoted from the Scripture, of * God's
delivering a man into another man's hand, to be killed
unwillingly,' are fully explained in. another place:
Deut. xix. 5. * •
* As when a man goeth into the wood with his
neighbour, to hew wood, and his hand setches a stroke
with the axe to cut down the tree, and the head slip-
peth from the helve, and lighteth upon his neighbour,
that he die; he shall flee unto one of those cities, and
live.*
The wicked, thoughtless creature, I have just men-
tioned, whole horse sell lame, and stopped his travel-
ling, till he might come just in the way of those
thieves, who, it seems, were crossing the country,
perhaps upon some other exploit, ought to have re-
flected, that Providence, to chastise him, and bring
him to a sense of his dependence upon, and being sub-
jected to his power, had directed him to be separated
from his companion, that he might fall into the hands
that robbed and abused him; and the other had no less
obligation to give thanks for his deliverance: but how
contrary they acted in both cases, you have heard.
We have had abundance of collections, in my re-
membrance, of remarkable providences, as they are
called; and many people are forward to call them so:
but this does not come up to the case in hand.
Though contemning Providence, and giving the
homage due to it, as above, to the Devil, or to chance,
fate, and I know not what embrios of the fancy, are
impious; yet every one that avoids this evil, does not
come up to the particular point I am speaking of; for
there is a manisest difference between acknowledging
the being and operations of Providence, and listening
to
to its voice; as many people acknowledge a God, that
obey none of his commands, and concern themselves*
in nothing of their duty to him.
To listen to the voice of Providence, is to take strict
notice of all the remarkable steps of Providence which
lelate to us in particular, to observe if there is nothing
in them instructing to our conduct; no warning to us
for avoiding some danger; no direction for the taking
some particular steps for our fasety or advantage; no
hint to remind us of such and such things omitted; no
conviction of something committed; no vindictive step,
-byway of retaliation, marking out the crime in. the
punishment: you may easily observe the differences
between the directions and warnings of providence,
when duly listened to, and the notices of spirits from
..an invisible world, viz. that these are dark hints of evil,
with very little direction to avoid it: but those notices,
which are to be taken from the proceedings pf Provi-
dence, though the voice be a kind of silent or soft
whisper, yet it is generally attended with an ofter of
the means for escaping the evil; nay, yery often leads
by the hand to the very proper steps to be taken, and
even obliges us, by a strong conviction of the reason
of it, to take those steps.
It is in vain for me to run into a collection of
stories; for example, where the variety is infinite, and ,
things vary as every particular man's circumstances
vary: but as every event in the world is managed by
the superintendency of Providence, so every provi-
dence has in it something instructing; something that
calls upon us to look up, or look out, or look in.
Every one of those heads are big with particular ex-
planations; but my business is not preaching; I am
making
making observations and reflections; let those make
enlargements who read it: in a word, there is scarce
any particular providence attends our lives, but we shall
find, if we give due weight to it, that it calls upon us
cither,
First, To look up,—and acknowledge the goodness
of God in sparing us, the bounty of God in pro-
viding for us, the power of God in delivering and
protecting us; not forgetting to look up, andac-
. ,'knowledge, and be humble under the justice of
God, in being angry with, and afflicting us.
Secondly, Or to look out,—and take the needful cau-
tion and warning given of evil approaching, ami
prepare either to meet or avoid it.
Thirdly, Or to look in,—and reflect upon what we
find Heaven animadverting upon, and afflicting us
for ; taking notice of the summons to repent and
reform.
And this is, in a word, what I mean by listening t»
the voice of Providence*
OF
1
CHAP. VI.
• F THE PROPORTION BETWEEN THE.
HRISTIAN and PAGAN WORLD,
[ HAVE faid something of this already, in my En-
i- quiry after the State of Religion in the World; but,
ipon some reflections which sell in my way since, I
hink it may offer further thoughts, very improving, as
well as diverting.
When we view the world geographically, take the
plan of the globe, and measure it by line, and cut it
out into latitude and longitude, degrees, leagues, and
miles; we may see indeed, that a pretty large spot of
the whole, is at present under the government of
Christian powers and princes, or under the influence
of their power and commerce, by arms, navies, colo-
nies, and plantations; or their factories, missionaries,
residences, &c.
But I am loth to fay we should take this for a ful-
filling the promise made to the Messiah, that his king-
dom should be exalted above all nations, and the gospel
be heard to the end of the earth; I was going to fay»
and yet without any profaneness, that we hope God
will not put us off so. I must acknowledge 1 expect,
in the fulsilling of these promises, that the time will
come, when the knowledge of God shall cover the*
earth,
<eirth, as the waters cover the sea ; that the church of
God shall be set open to the four winds; that the
mountain of the Lord's house shall be exalted above
the tops of the mountains, and all the nations shall
flow into it:' Isa. ii. 2. that is to fay, that the Chris-
tian religion, or the prosession of the doctrine of the
Messiah, shall be made national over the whole globe,
according to those words, Matth. xxiv. 14. Mark. xiii.
13. Luke xxiv. 17. But this may be a little too apo*-
calyptical, or visionary for the times; and it is no
business of mine to enter upon the interpretation of
Scripture difficulties, whatever I may understand or
believe myself about them; but rather to make my
observations as 1 have begun, upon things which now
are, and which we have seen and know, let what is to
come, be as He pleases, who has ordered things past,
and knows what is to follow.
The present case is, to speak of the mathematical
proportion that there is now to be observed upon the
plane of the globe, and observe how small a part of the
world it is, where the Christian religion has really pre-
vailed, and is nationally prosessed: I speak of the
Christian religion, where it is, as I call it, national,
that is, in its utmost latitude; and I do so, that I may
give the utmost advantage, even against myself, in what
I am going to fay; and therefore, when I come to
make deductions for the mixtures of barbarous na-
tions, I shall do it fairly also.
I have nothing to do with the distinctions of Chris-
tians: I hope none will object against calling the
Roman church a Christian church, in this respect, and
the professors of the Popish church, Christians; nei-
ther do I scruple to call the Greek church Christian,
Voti. III. P though
though in some places so blended with superstition
and barbarous customs, as in Georgia, Armenia, and
the borders of Persia and Tartary; likewise in many
parts of the Czar of Muscovy's dominions, that (as
before) the name of Christ is little more than just
spoken of, and literally known, without any material
knowledge of his person, nature, and dignity; or of
the homage due to him as the redeemer of the world.
The nations of the world then, where Christ is ac-
knowledged, and the Christian religion is prosessed
nationally," be it Romish church, or Greek church, or
even the Protestant church, including all the several
sub-divisions and denominations of Protestants, take
them all as Christians; I fay, these nations are as
follow:
J. In Europe: Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Great
Britain, Denmark, Sweden, Muscovy, Poland, Hun-
gary, Transylvania, Moldavia, and Wallachia.
II. InAJia: Georgia and Armenia.
III. In Africa: Noplace at all, the sew factories of
European merchants only excepted.
IV. In America: The colonies of Europeans only, as
follow:
i. The Spaniards in Mexico and Peru, the coasts of
Chili, of Carthagena, and St. Martha, and a small
colony at the Buenos Ayves, on the Rio de la
Plata.
a. The Portuguese in the Brasils.
3. The British on the coast of America, from the
Gulph of Florida to Cape Breton, on the mouth of
the Gulph of St. Laurence, or the great river of
Canada; also a little in Newfoundland, and Hud-
son's Bay.
4. The
4. The French in the river of Canada, and the
great river of Mississippi.
5. The English, French, and Dutch, on the islands
called the Caribbees, &c.
The chief seat of the Christian religion is at present
in Europe: but if we measure the quarter of the world
we call Europe, upon the plane of the globe', and cast
up the northern, frozen, and indeed uninhabitable part
of it, such as Laponia, Petzora, Candora, Obdora, and
the Samoiedes, with part of Siberia, they are all
Pagans; with the eastern unpeopled defarts, bordering
upon Asia, on the way to China, and the vast extent
of land on that side, which, though nominally under
the dominion of Muscovy, is yet all Pagan, even na-
tionally so; under no real government, but of their
own Pagan customs.
If we go from thence to the south, and take out of
it the European Tartars, viz. of Circassia, the Crimea,
and Budziac; if you go on, and draw a line from the
Crim Tartary to the Danube, and from thence to the
Adriatic Gulph, and cut off all the Grand Signior's
European dominions; I fay, take this extent of land
out of Europe, and the remainder does not measure
full two-thirds of land in Europe, under the Christian
government, much of which is alsc-defart and unin-
habited, or at least inhabited by such as cannot be
called Christians, and do not concern themselves about
it, as particularly the Swedish and Norwegian Lap-
land; the more eastern and southern Muscovy, beyond
the Wolga, even to Karakathay; and to the borders
of Asia, and the side of India;' I fay, taking in this
part, not above one half of Europe is really inhabited
by Christians.
P 2 The
The Czar of Muscovy, of the religion of.whose sub-
jects I have faid enough, is lord of a vast extended
country; and those who have measured it critically,
fay his dominions are larger than all the rest of Eu-
rope; that is to fay, that he possesses a full half as much
as Europe; and in those dominions, he is master of
abundance of nations, that are Pagan or Mahometan;
as, in particular, Circassia being conquered by him, the
Circassian Tartars, who are all Mahometans, or the
most of them, are his subjects.
However, since a Christian monarch governs them,
we must, upon the plan I laid down, call this a Chris-
tian country; and that alone obliges me to give two-
thirds of Europe to the Christians.
But this will bring another account upon my hands
to balance it, viz. That excepting this two-thirds,
there will not come one Christian to be accounted for
in any of the other three parts of the world, except
Georgia and Armenia; as for Africa, there is nothing
to be mentioned on that side: all the Christians that
are on the continent of Africa, consisting only of a sew
merchants residing at the coast towns on the Mediter-
ranean ; as at Alexandria, Grand Cairo, Tunis, Tri-
poli, Algier, &c.; the factories of the English and
Dutch, on the coast of Guinea, the Gold-Coast, the
coast of Angola, and at the Cape of Good Hope; all
which put together, as I have calculated them, and as
they have been calculated by a better judgment than
mine, will not amount to five thoufand people, ex-
cepting Christian slaves in Sallee, Algier, Tunis, Tri-
poli, &c. which are not so many more.
America is thronged with Christians, God wot, such
as they are; for I must consess, the European inha-
bitants
bitants of some of the colonies there, as well French
and English, as Spanish and Dutch, very fll merit that
name.
Some part of America is entirely under the domi-
nion and government of the European nations; and
having indeed destroyed the natives, and made desolate
the country, they may be faid to be Christian coun-
tries in the sense as above.'
But what numbers do these amount to, compared to
the inhabitants of so great a part of the world as that
of America, which at least ,is three times as big as
Europe, and in which are still vast extended countries,
insinite numbers of people of nations unknown and
even unheard of, which neither the English, French,
Spanish, or Portuguese have ever seen; witness the po-
pulous cities and innumerable nations, which Sir
Walter Raleigh met with in his voyage up the great
river Oroonoque; in one of which they talk, of two
millions of people:—witness the nations insinitely
populous, spread on both sides the river De Amazones,
and all the country between these two prodigious
rivers, being a country about four hundred miles in
breadth, and one thoufand six hundred miles in length;
besides its extent south, even to the Rio Paraguay, and
south-east to the Brasils, a rich, fruitful, and populous
country; and in which, by the accounts given, there
must be more people inhabiting at this time, than in
all the Christian part of Europe put together; being
the chief, if not the only part of America, into which
the Spaniards never came, and whither the frightened
people fled from them, being so fortisied with rivers
unpassable bays, and rapid currents, and so in-
accessible by the number ©f inhabitants, the heat of the
P 3 climate
230
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
climate, and the mountains, waterfalls, and such other
obstructions, that the Spaniards durst never attempt to
penetrate that way.
What are the numbers of Christians in America,
put them altogether, to the inhabitants of these parts
of America, besides the northern parts of America not
enquired into?
But we are not calculating of people yet, but the
extent of land that the Christians possess: the British
colonies in the north, are by far the most populous,
even more than the Spaniards themselves, though the
latter extend themselves over more land.
The British colonies in the north of America, are
supposed to contain three hundred thousand souls, in-
cluding Nova Scotia, New England, New York, New
Jersey, East and West Pennsylvania, Maryland, Vir-
ginia, and Carolina; and these lie extended upon the
coast from the latitude of thirty-two degrees to forty-
seven, or thereabouts, being about seven hundred and
fifty miles in length: but then much of this is very
thinly peopled, and the breadth they lie west into the
country is little or nothing,—fifty miles, or sixty miles,
is in many places the most; and except some planta-
tions on the Rapahannock and James' rivers in
Virginia, occasioned by the great inlet of the bay
there, and of the rivers that fall into it, we can see
nothing an hundred miles within that land, but waste
and woods, whose inhabitants seem to be fled farther
up into the country, from the face of their enemies,
the Christians.
So that all this planting, though so considerable,
amounts to no more, compared to the country itself,
than a long narrow slip of land upon the sea-coast;
there
231
there being very sew English inhabitants planted any
where above twenty miles from the sea, or from some
navigable river, and even that sea-coast itself very
thinly inhabited, and particularly from New England
to New York, from New England north to Anna-
polis, from Virginia to Carolina; so that all this great
colony, or collection of colonies, nay, though we in-
clude the French at Canada, are but a point, a handful,
compared to the vast extent of land lying west and
north-west from them, even to the South Sea; an extent
of continent full of innumerable nations of people un-
known, undiscovered, never searched into, or indeed
heard of, but from one another, much greater in its
extent than all Europe.
If we take the north part of America, exclusive of
all the country which the Spaniards possess, and which
they call the empire of Mexico; and exclusive too of
what the English and French possess on the coast, and
on the two rivers of Canada and Mississippi, as above,
which indeed are but trifles; the rest of that country,
which, as far as it has been travelled into, is found ex-
ceeding populous, is a great deal larger than all Eu-
rope ; though we have not reckoned the most northern,
frozen, and almost uninhabitable part of it, where no
end can be found, and where it is no doubt, but there
is a continent contiguous with the northern part of
Asia, or so near joining, as to be only parted by a
narrow gulph and strait of sea, easily passed over both
by man or beast, or else it would be hard to give an ac-
count how man or beast came into that part of the world j
I fay, this vast continent full of people, and no doubt
inhabited by many millions of souls, is all wrapped
up in idolatry and paganism, given up to ignorance arc!
P 4 \. blind-
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
blindness; worshipping the fun, the moon, the fire,
the hills, their fathers, and, in a word, the devil.
As to the thing we call religion, or the knowledge
of the true God, much less the doctrine of the Messiah,
and the name of Christ, they not only have not, but
never had the least intimation of it on earth, or reve-
lation of it from Heaven, till the Spaniards came
among them: nay, and now Christians are come
among them, it js hard to fay whether the paganism is
much abated, except by the insinite ravages the Spa-
niards made where they came, who rooted out the
idolatry by destroying the idolaters, not by converting
them; having cruelly cut off, as their own writers
affirm, above seventy millions of people, and left the
country naked of its inhabitants for many hundred
miles together.
But what need we-come to calculations for the pre-
sent time with respect to America; let us but be at the
trouble to look back a little more than a hundred years,
which is as nothing at all in the argument; how had
the whole continent of America extended almost from
pole to pole, with all the islands round it, and peopled
with such innumerable multitudes of people, been, as
it were, entirely-abandoned to the Devil's government,
'even from the beginning of time, or at least from the
second peopling the world by Noah, to the -sixteenth
centurr, when Ferdinando Cortez, general for the
famous Charles the Fifth, first landed in the gulph of
Mexico?
We have heard much of the cruelty of the Spaniards
in destroying ^uch multitudes of the inhabitants there,
and of cutting off whole nations by fire and sword:
but as I am for giving up all the actions of men to the
-it
% govern-
government of Providence, it seems to me, that Hea-
ven had determined such an act of vengeance should
be executed, and of which the Spaniards were instru-
ments to destroy those people ; who were come up (by
the influence of the Devil no doubt) to such a dreadr
ful height in that abhorred custom of human facrifices,
that the innocent blood cried for it, and it seemed to
be a time to put a stop to that crime, lest the very race
of people should at last be extinct l5y their own
butcheries.
The magnitude of this may be guessed at, by the
temple consecrated to the great idol of Vistlipustli in
the city of Mexico ; where, at the command of Mon-
tezuma, the pagan monarch, twenty thoufand men were
sacrificed in a year, and the wall hung a foot thick
with clotted blood, dashed in ceremony against the side
of that place on those occasions.
This abomination, God, in his providence, put an
end to, by destroying those nations from the face of
the earth; bringing a race of bearded strangers among
them; cutting in pieces man, woman, and child; de-
stroying their idols, and even the idolatry itself, by the
Spaniards; who, however wicked in themselves, yet
were in this to be esteemed instruments in the hand
of Heaven, to execute the divine justice on nations,
whose crimes were come up to a full height, and called
for vengeance.
I make no doubt, to carry on this digression a little
farther, that when God cast out the heathen, (so the
Scripture calls it,) from before the Israelites, and the
iniquity of the people of the land was full, Joshua,
Moses, and the Israelites, were taxed with as much
Cruelty and inhumanity, in destroying the cities, kill-
2 ing
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
ing man, woman, and child; nay, even destroying the
very cattle, and trees, and fruits of the earth,—as ever
the Spaniards were charged with in the conquest of
Mexico.
This is apparent, hy the terror that was spread
upon the minds of the people round about them,
whereof thoufands fled to other parts of the world.
History tells us, that the first builders of the city of
Carthage, long before the Roman times, or before the
fable of Queen Dido, were some Phœnicians, that is
to fay, Canaanites ; who flying for their lives, got ships,
and went away, to sea, planting themselves on the coast
of Africa, as the first place of fafety they arrived at;
and to prove this, a pillar of stone was found not far
from Tripoli, on which was cut, in Phœnician cha-
racters, these words: 'We are of those who fled from
the face of Joshua the robber.'
The cruelties of the Israelites, in destroying the
nations of the land of Canaan, was commanded from
Heaven; and therein Joshua was justified in what was
done. The cruelties of the Spaniards, however ab-
horred by us, was doubtless an appointment of God,
for the destruction o! the wickedest and most abomin-
able people upon earth.
But this is all a digression; I come to my calcula-
tion :—It is true, that the Spaniards, whom I allow to
be Christians, have possessed the empires of Mexico
and Peru; but after all the havock they made, and the
millions of fouls they dismissed out of lise there, yet the
natives are infinu. .- the majority of inhabitants; and
though many of them are christianized, they are little
more than subjected ; and take ill the Spaniards, Chris-
tians, and all the Portuguese in the Brasils, all the
English
English and French in the North, and, in a word, all
the Christians in America, and put them together, they
will not balance one part of the Pagans or Mahome-
tans in Europe. For example, take the Crim Tartars
of Europe, who inhabit the banks of the Euxine sea,
they are more in number than all the Christians in
America: so that setting one nation against the other,
and you may reckon that there is not one Christian,
or as if there were not one Christian, in those three
parts of the world, Asia, Africa, and America, except
the Greeks of Asia.
This is a just, but a very fad account of the small
extent of Christian knowledge in the world; and were
jt considered as it ought, would put the most powerful
princes of Eur°pe upon thinking of some methods, at
least to open a way for the spreading Christian know-
ledge. I am not much of the opinion indeed, that re-
ligion should be planted by the sword; but as the
Christian princes in Europe, however sew in number,
are yet so superior to all the rest of the world in mar-
tial experience and the art of war, nothing is more
certain than that, if they could unite their interest,
they are able to beat paganism out of the world. . No-
thing is more certain than this, that would the Chris-
tian princes unite their powers, and act in concert,
they might destroy the Turkish empire, and the Per-
sian kingdom, and beat the very name of Mahomet out
of the world.
It is no boast to fay, that were there no intestine
broils among us, the Christian soldiery is so evidently
superior to the Turks at this time, that had they all
joined after the late battle at Belgrade, to have sent
eighty thoufand veteran soldiers to have joined Prince
Eugene,
Eugene, and supplied him with money and provisions
by the ports of the Adriatic Gulph, and the Archipe-
lago, that Prince would, in two or three campaigns,
have driven the Mahometans out of Europe, taken
Constantinople, and have overturned the Turkish
empire.
After such a conquest, whither might not the Chris-
tian religion have spread? The King of Spain, with
the fame ease, would reduce the Moors of Barbary,
and dispossess those sons of hell, the Algerines, Tri-
polines, Tunisians, and all the Mahometan pirates of
that coast, and plant again the ancient churches of
Africa, the sees of Tertullian, St. Cyprian, &c.
Nay, even the Czar of Muscovy, an enterprizing and
glorious prince, well assisted and supported by his
neighbours, the northern powers, who together are
masters of the best soldiery in the world, would not
find it impossible to march an army of thirty-fix thou-
fand foot, and sixteen thoufand horse, in spite of waste
and inhospitable defarts, even to attack the Chinese
empire; who, notwithstanding their insinite numbers,
pretended policy and great skill in war, would sink in
the operation: and such an army of disciplined Euro-
pean soldiers, would beat all the forces of that vast
empire, with the fame, or greater ease, as Alexander,
with thirty thoufand Macedonians, destroyed the army
of Darius, which consisted of six hundred and eighty
thoufand men.
And let no man ridicule this project on account of
the march, which I know they will call three thoufand
miles and more: while there is no obstruction but the
length of the way, it is not so difficult as some may
imagine. It is far from impossible, to furnish sufficient
provisions
provisions for the march, which is indeed the only dif-
ficulty that carries any terror in it.
Such a prince as the Czar of Muscovy cannot want
the assistance of innumerable hands, for the amassing,
or carriage for conveying to proper magazines, fuf-
ficientstores of provisions, for the maintaining a select,
chosen body of men to march over the defarts; for in
the grand march, no useless mouths should be found to
feed.
Why then mould not the Christian princes think it
a deed of compassion to the fouls of men, as well as an
humble agency to the work of Providence, and to the
fulsilling the promises of their Saviour, by a moderate,
and as far as in them lies, a bloodless conquest, to re-
duce the whole world to the government of Christian
power, and fo plant the name and knowledge of Christ
Jesus among the Heathens and Mahometans? I am
not supposing, that they can plant real religion in this
manner; the business pf power, is to open the way to
the gospel of peace; the servants of the kings of the
earth are to sight, that the servants of the King of
heaven may preach.
Let but an open door be made for the preaching of
the word of God, and the ministers of Christ be ad-
mitted, if they do not spread Christian knowledge over
the face of the earth, the fault will be theirs. Let but
the military power reduce the Pagan world, and banish
the Devil and Mahomet from the face of the earth, the
knowledge of God be diligently spread, the word of
God duly preached, and the people meekly and faith-
fully instructed in the Christian religion, the world
would soon receive the truth, and the knowledge of
divine
divine things would be the study and delight of man-
kind.
I know, some nice and difficult people would object
here, how are the present body of Christians, as you
call them, qualisiedto convert the Pagan and Maho-
metan world, when they are nbt able to settle the
main point, viz. What the Christian religion is, or,
what they would convert them to? That Christianity
is subdivided into so many parts, and particular prin-
ciples; the people so divided in their opinion; and
that which is still worse, there is so little charity
among the several sorts, that some of them would rather
side with Mahomet against their neighbours, than assist
to propagate that particular doctrine in religion which
they condemn. Thus the members of ihe Protestant
faith, would make it a point of principle, not to sup-
port or propagate the interest of Popery in such a con-
quest as this: and again, the Catholics would as much
make it a duty on them, to root out heresy, (so they ca'l
the Protestant doctrine) as they would to root out
paganism and the worship of the devils.
I would not answer for some Protestants, that they
would not be of the fame mind as to particular divi-
sions among Protestants: the difference among some
opinions is such, and their want os charity one to an-
other, sets them at such variance, that if they do not
censure one another for devil-worshippers, yet we
know they frequently call some of the opposite prin-
ciples doctrines of devils; and persecute one another
with as much fury as ever the heathen persecuted the
primitive churches.
Witness the violencies which have"reigned between
the Episcopal qnd Presbyterian parties, in the north of
Ireland,
Ireland, and in Scotland, which has so often broken
out into a flame of war, and that flame been always
quenched with blood. ~ ,
Witness the frequent persecutions, wars, massacres,
and other cruel and unnatural doings, which have been
in these parts of the world among Christians,—the
effect of a mistaken.zeal for the Christian religion;
which, as it was not planted by blood and violence, so
much less can Christians justify the endeavours to erect
this or that opinion in it, by the ruin and blood of
their brethren.
But this is far from being a reason why we should
not think it our duty to subdue the barbarous and
idolatrous nations of the world; in order to suppress
the worshipping the Devil, who is the enemy not only
of God, and of all true religion in the world, but who
is the great destroyer and enemy of mankind, and of
his future or present selicity; and whose business is
always, to the utmost of his power, to involve and
retain them either in ignorance, or in error.
I distinguish between forcing religion upon people,
or forcing them to entertain this or that opinion of
religion; I fay, I distinguish between that, and open-
ing the door for religion to come among them: the
former is a violence indeed, inconsistent with the
nature of religion itself, whose energy prevails and forces
its way into the minds of men, by another fort of
power; whereas, the latter is removing a force un-
justly put already upon the minds of men, by the ar-
tisice of the Devil, to keep the Christian religion out
of the world; so that indeed 1 propose a war, not with
men, but with the Devil; a war to depose Satan's in-
sernal tyranny in the world, and set open the doors to
religion,
religion, that it may enter, if men will receive it; if
they will not receive it, be that to themselves.
In a word, to unchain the wills of men, set their
inclinations free, that their reason may be at liberty
to influence their understandings, and that they may
have the faith of Christ preached to them; whether
they will hear or forbear, I fay, as above, is no part of
the question; let the Christian doctrine, and its spiri-
tual enemies alone to struggle about that; I am for
dealing with the temporalities of the Devil, and de-
posing that human power which is armed in the be-
half of obstinate ignorance, and resolute to keep out
the light of religion from the mind.
1 think this is a lawful and just war, and in the end*
kind both to them and their posterity: let me bring the
case home to ourselves.
Suppose neither Julius Cæfar, or any of the Roman
generals or emperors, had cast their eyes towards Bri-
tain for some ages, or till the Christian religion had
spread over the whole Roman empire. It is true, the
Britons might, at last, have received the Christian
faith in common with the rest of the northern world;
but they had yet lain above three hundred years longer
in ignorance and paganism than they did; and some
'rondred thoufands of people, who proved zealous
Christians, nay, even martyrs for the Christian doc-
trine, would have died in the prosessed paganism of
the Britons.
Now, it is evident, the invasion of the Romans was
an unjust, bloody, tyrannical assault upon the poor
Britons, against all right and property, against justice
and neighbourhood, and merely carried on for con-
quest and dominion: nor indeed had. the Romans any
just pretence of war; yet God was pleased to make this
violence be the kindest thing that could have befallen
the British nation, since it brought in the knowledge
of God among the Britons, and Was a means of re-
ducing a heathen and barbarous nation to the faith of
Christ, and to embrace the Mesllas.
Thus Heaven serves itself of mens worst designs;
and the avarice, ambition, and rage of men, have been
made use of, to bring to pass the glorious ends of Pro-
videncei without the least knowledge or design of the
actors: why then may not the great undertakings of
the princes of Europe, if they could be brought to act
in concert, with a good design, to bring all the world
to open their doors to the Christian religion, and, by
consequence, their ears? I fay, why may not such an
attempt be blessed from Heaven, with so much success
at least, as to make way for bringing in nominal Chris-
tianity among the -nations? For, as to obliging the
people to be of this or that opinion afterward, that is
another case.
There is a great pother made in the world, among
the several denominations of Christians, about coer-
cion, erecting a church, and compelling men to come
in; that is to fay, one fort of Christians persecuting
another sort of Christians, to make them worship
Christ their way,—as if Christ had no sheep but one
fold.
I distinguish much between using force to reduce
heathens and favages to Christianity, and using force to
reduce those that are already Christians, to be of this
or that opinion; I will not fay, but a war might be
very just, and the cause be righteous, to reduce the.
worshippers of the pagods in India, to the knowledge
Vol. III. CL and
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
and obedience of Christianity; when it would be a hor-
rible injustice to commence a like war, to reduce even
a Popish nation to be Protestant.
But my proposed war does not reach so far as that
neither; for though I would have a nation of Pagans
conquered, that their idols and temples might be de-
stroyed, and their idol worship be abolished, yet I
would be very far from punishing and persecuting the
people, for not believing in Christ: for if we believe
that faith, as the Scripture fays, is the gift of God,
how can we, upon any Christian foundation, punish or
persecute the man, for not exercising that which God
had not given him?
Hence, compelling men to conform to this or that
particular prosession of the Christian religion, is, to me,
impious and unchristian.
And shall I speak a word here, of the unhappy cus-
tom among Christians, of reviling one another with
words, on account of differing opinions in religion?
It was a part of apocryphal Scripture, taken from one
of the traditional sayings of the rabbies; ' Thou shalt
not mock at the gods of the Heathens:' but ribaldry,
fatire and farcasms, are the usage we give one another
every day, on the subject of religion; as if slander, and
the severities of the tongue, were not the worst kind
of violence, in matters of the Christian religion.
In a word, I must acknowledge, if I am to speak of
reproach in general, I know no worse persecution than
that of the tongue: Solomon fays, ' There are that
speak like the piercing of a sword:' and King David
was so sensible of the bitterness of the tongue, that he
is full of exclamations upon the subject; and among
the rest, he fays of his enemies, ' They have com-
passed
5
passed me about with words of hatred. He cloathed
himself with cursing, like as with his garment:'—
Psalm. cix. 3, 18.
It is, indeed, remote from the subject I am upon, to
talk of this kind of uncharitable dealing; but as just
observations are riever out of season, it may have its
uses: let no man slight the hint, though it were mearit
of religion only, for that indeed is my present subject.
There is, doubtless, as severe a persecution by the
tongue, as that of fire and faggot) and some think, it
is as hard to be borne.
I have never met with so much of this any where^
in all my travels, as in England; where the mouths of
the several sects and opinions are so effectually open
against one another, that albeit common charity com-
mands us to talk the best of particular persons, in their
failings and insirmities; yet here, censuring, con-
demning, and reproaching one another, on account of
opinions, is carried on with such a gust, that lets every
one see, nothing but death and destruction can follow,
and no reconciliation can be expected.
I have lived to see ruen of the best light be mistaken,
as well in party, as in principles; as well in politics, as
in religion; and find not only occasion, but even a
necessity to change hands or sides in both; I have seen
them sometimes run into contrary extremes, beyond
their first intention, and even without design: nay, in
those unhappy changes, I have seen them driven into
lengths they never designed, by the fiery resentment of
those whom they seemed to have leftj and whom they
differed from. I have lived to see those men acknow-
ledge, even publicly and openly, they were wrong and
mistaken, and express their regret far being mistaken,
Q..2 very"
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
very sincerely; but I cannot fay, I have lived to sec
the people they have desired to return to, forgive or
receive them. Perhaps, the age I have lived in, has
not been a proper season for charity; I hope futurity
will be furnished with better Christians; or perhaps it
is appointed so, to illustrate the divine mercy, and let
mankind see, that they are the only creatures that never
forgive. I have seen a man, in the case I speak of,
offer the most sincere acknowledgments of his having
been mistaken; and this, not in matters essential either
to the person's morals or Christianity, but only in mat-
ters of party, and with the most moving expressions,
desire his old friends to forgive what has been passed;
and have seen their return, by mocking him with what
they called a baseness of spirit, and a mean submission,
I have seen him expostulate with them, why they
should not act upon the fame terms with a penitent, as
God himself not only prescribed, but yields to; and
have seen them, in return, tell him, God might forgive
him, if he pleased, but they would never; and then ex-
pose all those offers to the first comer, in banter and
ridicule: but take me right too, I have seen, at the
fame time, that to wiser men, it has been always
thought to be an exposing themselves, and an honour
to the person.
I speak this too seelingly, and therefore fay no more.
There is a way, by patience, to conquer even the uni-
verfal contempt of mankind; and though two drams
of that drug be a vomit for a dog, it is, in my expe-
rience, the only method: there is a secret peace in it;
and, in time, the rage of men will abate: a constant,
steady adhering to virtue and honesty, and shewing the
world, that whatever mistakes he might be led into,
supposing
2 f
supposing them to be mistakes, that yet the main in-
tention and design of his lise was sincere and upright.
He that governs the actions of men by an unbiassed
hand, will never suffer such a man to sink under the
weight of univerfal prejudice and clamour.
I, Robinson Crusoe, grown old in affliction, borne
down by calumny and reproach, but supported from
within, boldly prescribe this remedy against univerfal
clamours, and contempt of mankind: patience, a steady
lise of virtue and sobriety, and a comforting depend-
ence on the justice of Providence, will, first or last, re-
store the patient to the opinion of his friends, and
justify him in the face of his enemies; and in the mean
time, will support him comfortably, in despising those
who want manners and charity, and leave them to
be cursed from Heaven with their own passions and
rage.
This very thought made me, long ago, claim a kind
of property in some good old lines of the famous
George Withers, Esq. made in prison in the Tower.
He was a poetical gentleman, who had, in the time of
the civil wars in England, been unhappy in changing
of sides too often, and had been put into the Tower by
every side in their turn; once by the King,—once by
the Parliament,—once by the Army,—then by the
Rump,—and at last again, I think, by General Monk;
in a word, whatever side got up, he had the difaster to
be down. The lines are thus:
The world and I may well agree,
As most that are offended;
For I slight her, and she slights me,
And there's our quarrel ended.
For
For service done, and love exprest,
Though very few regard it,
My country owes me bread at least:
But if I am debarr'd it,
Good conscience is a daily feast,
And sorrow never marr'd it.
But this article of verbal persecution, has hurried me
from my subject, which I must return to.
I have spoken of a project for the Czar of Muscovy,
worthy of a Monarch who is Lord of so vast an extent
of country as the Ruffian empire reaches to; which is,
in effect, as 1 have faid, much more than half Europe,
and consequently an eighth part of the world. I have
given my thoughts, how a war, to open a door for the
Christian religion, may be justisiable, and that it has not
the least tincture of persecution in it. If the Christian
princes of the world, who now spend their force so
much to an ill purpose, in real persecution, would join:
in an universal war against paganism and devil-worship,
the favage part of mankind would, in one age, be
hrought to bow their knees to the God of truth, and
would bless the enterprise itself, in the end of it, as the
best thing that ever besel them : nor could such an at-
tempt fail of success, unless Heaven, in justice, had
determined to shut up the world longer in darkness,
and the cup of their abominations was not yet full: but
I mav venture to fay, there would be much more
ground for such Christian princes to hope and expect
the concurrence of Heaven in such an undertaking-,
than in sheathing their swords in the bowels of their
brethren, and making an effusion of Christian blood
upon every slight pretence, as, we see, has been the
case in Europe, for above thirty years past.
I had
I had intended to remark here, that as the country
possessed by the Christians is but a spot of the globe,
compared to the Heathen, Pagan, and Mahometan
world; so the number of real Christians, among the
nations prosessing the Christian name, is yet a more
disproportioned part,—a mere trifle, and hardly to be
compared with the infinite numbers of those who,
though they call themselves Christians, yet know as
little of God and religion, as can be imagined to be
known where the word Christian is spoken of, and
neither seek or desire to know more; in a word, who
know but little of God or Jesus Christ, heaven or hell,
and regard none of them.
This is a large field, and being thoroughly searched
into, would, I doubt not, reduce the real faithful sub-
jects of the kingdom of Jesus Christ, to a much sewer
number than those of Mahomet; nay, than those of
the monarch of Germany; and make our Lord appear
a weaker prince, speaking in the sense of kingdoms,
than many of the kings of the earth. And if it be
true, that the old King of France should fay, ' That
he had more loyal subjects than King Jesus;' I do not
know, but in the sense his Most Christian Majesty
meant it, the thing might be very true.
But this observation is something out of my present
road, ^nd merits to be spoken of by itself. The num-
ber of true Christians will never be known on this side
the great bar, where they shall be critically separated:
no political arithmetic, can make a calculation of the
number of true Christians, while they live blended
with the false ones; since it is not only hard, but im-
possible to know them one from another in this
world.
Q_4 We
We shall, perhaps, be surprised at the last day, to fee
some people at the right-hand of the righteous Judge,
whom we have condemned with the utmost zeal, iri
our opinions, while we were cotemporary with them
in lise; for charity, as it is generally practised in this
world, and mixed with our human insirmities, such as
pride, self-opinion, and personal prejudice, is strangely
misguided, and makes us entertain notions of things,
and of people, quite different from what they really de-
serve; and there is hardly any rule to prescribe our-
selves, except it be of the text, * In meekness, every
one esteeming others better than themselveswhich,
by the way, is~difncult to do.
But though we shall thus see, at the great audit, a
transposition of persons from the station they held in
our charity, we shall only thereby see, that our judg-
ment was wrong,—that God judgeth not as man
judgeth, and that we too rashly condemn whom he
has thought fit to justify and accept.
Let then the number of Christians be more or less,
as He that makes them Christians determines; this is
not for us to enter into: and this brings me back to
what I faid before, that though we cannot make Chris-
tians, we both can and may, and, indeed, ought to
open the door to Christianity; that the preaching of
God's word, which is the ordinary means of bringing
mankind to the knowledge of religion, may be spread
over the whole world.
With what vigour do we consult, and how do the
labouring heads t)f the world club together, to form
projects, and to raise subscriptions, to extend the ge-
neral commerce of nations into every corner of the
world j but it would pass for a bubble of all bubbles,
and
and a whimsey that none would engage in, if ten mil-,
lions should be asked to be subscribed, for sending a
strong fleet and army to conquer heathenism and ido-
latry, and protect a mission of Christians, to be em-
ployed in preaching the Gospel to the poor Heathens;
fay it were on the coast of Coromandel, the island of
Ceylon, and country of Malabar, or any of the domi-
nions of the Great Mogul; and yet such an attempt
would not only be just, but insinitely advantageous to
the people who should undertake it, and to the people
of the country on whom the operation should be
wrought.
In the occasional discourses I had on this subjects in
converfation with men of good judgment and prin-
ciples, I have been often asked, in what manner I
would propose to carry on such a conquest as I spealf
of, and how it should answer the end? And that I may
not be supposed to suggest a thing impracticable in it-
self, or for which no rational scheme might be pro-:
posed, I shall make a brief essay on the manner in
which the conquest I speak of, should be, or ought to
be, carried on; and if it be considered seriously, the
difficulties, and perhaps all the reasonable objections,
might vanish in an instant. I will, therefore, first, for
the purpose only, suppose that an attempt was made by
a Christian nation, to conquer and subdue some Hea-
then or Mahometan people, at a distance from them,—-
place the conquest where, and among whom we will.
For example: Suppose it was the great island of Mada-
gascar, or that of Ceylon, Borneo in the Indies, or
those of Japan, or any other where you please.
I would first suppose the place to be infinitely popu-
lous, as any of those countries, though they are islands,
are
fcid to be; and because the Japanese are sard lo be a?
most sensible, fagacious people, under excellent forms
of government, and capable, more than ordinarily, of
receiving impressions, supported by the argument and
example of a virtuous and religious conqueror.
For this purpose you must grant me, that the island
e1r islands of Japan, were in a situation proper for the
undertaking; and that a powerful European army
being landed upon them, had, in a great battle, or in
divers battles, overthrown all their military force, and
bad entirely reduced the whole nation to their power;
as, to go back to examples, the Venetians had done by
the Turks, in the Morea, in a former war; or as the
Turks did in the isles of Candia, Cyprus, and the like.
The short scheme for establishing the government in
those countries, should be this:—
First: As the war is pointed chiefly against the king-
dom of the Devil, in behalf of the Christian wor-
ship, so no quarter should be given to Satan's ad-
ministration; and as nothing else shonld willingly
be treated with violence, so indeed no part of the
Devil's economy should have any favour; but all
the idols should immediately be destroyed, and
publicly burnt; all the pagods and temples burnt;
and the very face and form of paganism, and the
worship attending it, be utterly defaced and de-
stroyed.
Secondly: The priests, and dedicated persons of
every kind, by whatsoever names or titles known
or distinguished, should be at least removed, if not
destroyed.
Thirdly: All the exercise es profane and idolatrous
rites, ceremonies, worship, sestivals, and customs,
should
should be abolished entirely ; so as by time to be
forgotten, and clean wiped out of the minds, as
well as out of the practice of the people.
This is all the coercion I propose, and less than this
cannot be proposed; because, though we may not, by
arms and force, compel men to be religious,—because, if
we do, we cannot make them sincere,—and so by per-
secution we only create hypocrites; yet I insist, that we
may, by force, and that with the greatest justice pos-
sibly suppress paganism, and the worship of God's
enemy, the Devil, and banish it out of the world; nay,
that we ought to do it, to the utmost of our power:—
But I return to the conquest.
The country being thus entirely reduced under
Christian government, the inhabitants, if they submit
quietly, ought to be used with humanity and justice;
no cruelty; no rigour: they should suffer no oppres-
sion, injury, or injustice, that they may not receive evil
impressions of the people that are come among them;
left, entertaining an abhorrence of Christians, from
their evil conduct, cruelty, and injustice, they should
entertain an abhorrence of the Christian religion for
their fakes; as the poor wretches, the Indians in Ame-
rica, who, when they were talked to of a future state,
the resurrection of the dead, eternal selicity in heaven,
and the like, enquired where the Spaniards went after
death, and if any of them went to heaven? And being
answered in the affirmative, shook their heads, and de-
sired they might go to hell then, for that they were
afraid to think of being in heaven, if the Spaniards
were there.
A just and generous behaviour to the natives, or, at
least, to such of therm as should show themselves willing
to
submit, would certainly engage them in their interest,
and accordingly would, in a little while, bring them to
embrace that truth, which dictated such just principles
to those Who espoused it. ,
Thus, prejudices being removed, the way to instruor
tion would be made the more plain ; and then would
be the time for gospel-labourers to enter upon the har-
vest. Ministers should be instructed to teach them our
language; to exhort them to seek the blessings of reli-
gion, and of the true God; and so, gradually to intro-
duce right principles among them, at their own re-
quest.
From hence, they should proceed to teach all the
young children the language spoken by them, who
would then be their benefactors, rather than con-
querors; and a sew years wearing the old generation
jout, the posterity of them, and pf their conquerors,
would be all one nation.
In case any rejected the instruction of religious men,
and adhered obstinately to his idolatry, and would not
be reclaimed by gentle and Christian ufage, suitable me-
thods are to be taken with such, that they might not
make a religious faction in the country, and gain
others to side with them, in order to recover their li-
berty, as they might call it, to serve their own gods,—
that is to fay, idols; for it must be for ever as just,
not to permit them to go back to idolatry hy force, as
it was to pull them from it by force.
By.this kind of conquest, the Christian religion
would be most efsectually propagated among innu-
merable nations of favages and idolaters, and as many
people be brought to worship the true God, as may be
faid to do it at this time in the whole Christian world.
This
This is my crufado, and it would be a war as
justifiable, on many accounts, as any that was ever
undertaken in the world; a war, that would bring
eternal honour to the conquerors, and an eternal
blesfing to the people conquered.
It were easy now to cut out enterprises os this nature,
for other of the princes of the world than the Czar of
Muscovy; and I could lay very rational schemes for
such undertakings, and schemes that could, if tho-
roughly pursued, never fail of success. For example:
An expedition against the Moors of Africa, by the
French, Spanish, and Italian princes, who daily suffer
so much by them, and the last of whom are at perpe-
tual war with them. How easy would it be to those
powers, to join in a Christian consederacy, to plant the
Christian religion again in the Numidian and Mauri-
tanian kingdoms, where was once the famous church
of Carthage, and from whence thoufands of Christians
have gone to Heaven; the harvest of the primitive
labours of St. Cyprian, Tertullian, and many more,
whose posterity now bow their knees to that latest, and
worst of all impostors, Mahomet.
But unchristian Arise was always a bar against the
propagation of Christian religion ; and unnatural wars,
carried on among the nations I speak of, are made so
much the business of the Christian world, that I do
not expect, in our time, to see the advantages taken
hold of that the nature of the thing offers: but I am
persuaded, and leave it upon record, as my settled
opinion, that, one time or other, the Christian powers
of Europe shall be inspired from Heaven for such a
work; and then the easiness of subduing the kingdom
of Africa to the Christian power, shall shame the gene-
rations
rations past, who had the opportunity so often in their
hands, but made no use of it.
Note, In this part of the subject I am upon, I must
acknowledge there is a double argument for a war: First,
in point of the intersering interests, Europe ought to
take possession ot those shores, without which, it is ma-
nisest, her commerce is not secured; and indeed, while
that part of Africa bordering on the sea, is in the
hands of robbers, pirates cannot be secured. Now, this
is a point of undisputed right; fora war-trade claims
the protection of the powers to whom it belongs, and
we make no scruple to make war upon one another
for the protection of our trade,—and it is allowed to
be a good reason why we should do so: why then is it
not a good reason to make war upon thieves and rob-
bers? If one nation takes the ships belonging to an-
other, we immediately reclaim the prize from the cap-
tors, and require of the prince, that justice be done
against the aggressor, who is a breaker of the peace;
and if this is refused, we make war.
But shall we do thus to Christians, and scruple to
make an univerfal war, for the rooting out a race of
pirates and rovers, who live by rapine, and are conti-
nually employed, like the lions and tygers of their own
Lybia, in devouring their neighbours: this, I fay,
makes such a war not only just, on a religious account,
but both just and necessary, upon a civil account.
The war then being thus proved to be just on other
accounts, why should not, secondly, the extirpation of
idolatry, paganism, and devil-worship, be the conse-
quence of the victory? If God be allowed to be the giver
of victory, how can it be answered to him, that the
victory should not be made use of for the interest and
glory
255
glory of the God of war, from whom it proceeds? But
these things are not to be offered to the world, till
higher principles work in the minds of men, in their
making war and peace, than yet seems to take up their
minds.
I was tempted, upon this occasion, to make an ex-
cursion here, upon the subject of the very light occa-
sions princes and powers, states and statesmen make use
of, for the engaging in war and blood one against an-
other; one for being ill-fatisfied with the other, and
another for preserving the balance of power; this for
nothing at all, and that for something next to nothing;
and how little concern the blood that is necessarily spilt
in these wars produces among them: but this is not a
case that will so well bear to be entered upon in a
public manner, at this time.
All I can add is, I doubt, no such zeal for the Chris-
tian religion, will be found in our days, or perhaps in
any age of the world, till Heaven beats the drum it-
self, and the glorious legions from above come down
on purpose to propagate the work, and to reduce the
whole world to the obedience of King Jesus; a time,
which some tell us, is not far off, but of which I heard
nothing in all my travels and illuminations; no, not
one word.
A VISION
A'
VISION
OF IBE
ANGELIC WORLD.
THEY must be much taken up with the fatisfaction
of what they are already, that never spare their
thoughts upon the subject of what they shall be.
The place, the company, the employment which we
expect to know so much of hereafter, must certainly be
Well worth our while to'enquire after here.
I believe, the main interruptions which have been
given to these enquiries, and perhaps the reason why
those that have entered into them, have given them up,
and those who have not entered into them, have fatis-
fied themselves in the utter neglect, have been the wild,
chimerical notions, enthusiastic dreams, and unfatisfying
ideas, which most of the conceptions of men have led
them into, about these things.
As I endeavour to conceive justly of these things, I
shall likewise endeavour to reason upon them clearly,
and, if possible, convey some such ideas of the Invisible
World
World to the thoughts of men, as may not be confused
and indigested, and so leave them darker than I find
them.'
The locality of heaven or hell, is no part of my
search; there is, doubtless, a place reserved for the re-
ception of our souls after death; as there is a state of
being for material substances, so there must be a place;
if we are to be, we must have a where; the Scripture
supports reason in it:—Judas is gone to his place,—
Dives, in hell, lifts up his eyes, and faw Lazarus in
Abraham's bosom; the locality of bliss and misery
seems to be positively asserted in both cases.
But there is not so clear a view of the company, as
of the place; it is not so easy to enquire into the world
of spirits, as it is evident that there are such spirits,
and such a world; we sind the locality of it is natural;
but who the inhabitants are, is a search of a still sub-
limer nature, liable to more exception, encumbered
with more difficulties, and exposed to much more un-
certainty.
I shall endeavour to clear up as much of it as I can,
and intimate most willingly, how much I rejoice in the
expectation, that some other enquirers may go farther,
'till, at last, all that Providence has thought fit to dis-
cover of that part, may be persectly known.
The discoveries in the Scripture, which lead to this,
are innumerable; but the positive declaration of it,
seems to be declined. When our Saviour, walking on
the sea, frightened his disciples, and they cried out,
what do we sind terrisied them? Truly, they thought
they had seen a spirit. One would have thought, such
men as they, who had the vision of God manisest in the
flesh, should not have been so much surprised, if they
Vol. III. R had
had seen a spirit,—that is to fay, seen an apparition;
for to see a spirit, seems to be an allusion, not an ex-
pression to be used literally,—a spirit being not visible
by the organ of human sight.
But what, is it had been a spirit? If it had been a
good spirit, what had they to sear? And if a bad spirit,
what would crying out have assisted them? When peo-
ple cry out in such cases, it is either for help, and then
they cry to others -, or for mercy, and then they cry to
the subject of their terror to spare them. Either way,
it was either the foolishest, or the wickedest thing that
ever was done by such grave men as the Apostles; for
if it was a good spirit, as before, they had no need to
cry out; and if it was a bad one, who did they cry to?
For, it is evident, they did not pray to God, or cross
and bless themselves, as was afterwards the fashion;
but they cried out,—that is to fay, they either cried out
for help, which was great nonsense, to call to man for
help against the Devil; or they cried to the spirit they
faw, that it might not hurt them; which was, in short,
neither less or more than praying to the Devil.
This put me in mind of the poor favages, in many
of the countries of America and Africa, who really, in- y
structed by their sear, that is to fay, by mere nature,
worssiip the Devil, that he may not hurt them.
Here I must digress a little, and make a transition
from the story of a spirit, to the strange absurdities of
mens notions at that time; and particularly of those
upon whom the first impressions of Christ's preachings
were wrought; and if it be looked narrowly into, one
cannot but wonder what strange, ignorant people, even
the disciples themselves were, at first; and, indeed,
their ignorance continued a great while, even till after
the
the death of Christ himself; witness the foolish talk of
the two disciples going to Emaus. It is true, they
were wiser afterwards, when they were better taught;
but the Scripture is full of the discoveries of their ig-
norance,—as in the notions of sitting at his right-hand
and his left, in his kingdom, asked for by Zebedee's
children: no doubt, but the good woman, their mo-
ther, thought one of her sons should be Lord Trea-7
surer there, and the other Lord Chancellor; and she
could not but think those places their due, when she
faw them in such favour with him here. Just so, in
their notion of seeing a spirit here, which put them
into such a fright; and, indeed, they might be faid,
according to our dull way os talking, to be frightened
out of their wits; for had their senses been in exercise,
they would either have rejoiced in the appearance of a
good angel, and stood still to hear his message, as from
heaven; or prayed to God to deliver them out of the
hands of the Devil, on their supposing it, as above,
to be a vision from hell.
But I come to the subject: it is evident, that the
notion of spirits, and their intermeddling with the
affairs of men, and even of their appearing to men,
prevailed so univerfally in those ages of the world, that
even God's own people, who were instructed from
himself, believed it; nor is there any thing in all the
Old Testament institution to contradict it, though
many things to confirm it; such, particularly, as the
law against what is called a familiar spirit, which Was
esteemed no better or worse than a conversing with the
Devil; that is to fay, with some of the evil spirits of
the world I speak of.
R a The
The witch of Endor, and the story of an apparition
of an old man, personating Samuel, which is so plainly
asserted in Scripture, and which the learned opposers
of these notions, have spent so much .weak pains to
disturb our imaginations about, yet assure us, that such
apparitions are not inconsistent with nature, or with
religion; nay, the Scripture allows this woman to
paw-waw, as the Indians in America call it, and con-
jure for the raising this spectre; and when it is come,
allows it to speak a great prophetic truth, foretelling
the King, in all its terrible particulars, what was to
happen to him, and what did befal him the very next
day.
Either this appearance must be a good spirit, or a
bad; if it was a good spirit,-it was an angel, as it is
expressed in another place of the apostle Peter, when he
knocked at the good people's door in Jerufalem:
jifls xii. 15. and then it supports my opinion of the
spirits unembodied conversing with, and taking care of
the spirits embodied; if it was an evil spirit, then they
must grant God to be making a prophet of the Devil,
and making him personate Samuel, to foretel things
to come; permitting Satan to speak in the first person
of God's own prophet, and, indeed, to preach the jus-
tice of God's dealing with Saul, for rejecting his pro-
phet Samuel; which, in short, is not a little odd, put-
ting the Spirit of God into the mouth of the Devil;
and making Satan a preacher of righteousness.
When I was in my retirement, I had abundance of
strange notions of my seeing apparitions there, and
especially when I happened to be abroad by moon-
shine, when every bush looked like a man, and every
tree like a man on horse-back; and I so prepossessed
myself
myself with it, that I scarce durst look behind me for
a good while, and, after that, durst not go abroad at all
at night; nay, it grew upon me to such a degree at
last, that I as firmly believed I faw, several times, real
shapes and appearances, as L do now really believe, and
am aslured, that it was all hypochondriac delusion.
But however, that the reader may see how far the
power of imagination may go, and judge for me, whe-
ther I shewed any more folly and simplicity than other
men might do, I will repeat some little passages, which,
for a while, gave me very great disturbances; and every
one shall judge for me, whether they might not have
been deluded, in the like circumstances, as well as I.
The first case was, when I crept into the dark cave
in the valley, where the old goat lay just expiring,
which, wherever it happened, is a true history, I assure
you.
When first I was stopped by the noise of this poor,
dying creature, you are to observe, that the voice was
not only like the voice of a man, but even articulate,
only that I could not form any words from it; and
what did that amount to, more or less than this, name-
ly, that it spoke, but only it was 'in a language that I
did not understand. If it was possible to describe the
surprise of my spirits on that occasion, I would do it
here; how all my blood run, or rather stood still,
chilled in my veins; how a cold dew of sweat fat on
my forehead; how my joints, like Belshazzar's knees,
shook one against another; and how, as I faid, my
hainwould have lifted off my hat, if I had had one on
my head."
But this is not all: after the first noise of the crea-
ture, which was a stint, dying kind of imperfect bleat-
R 3 'ing,
ing, not unusual, as I found afterward; I fay, after
this, he setched two or three deep sighs, as lively, and
as like human, as it is possible to imagine, as I have
also faid.
These were so many consirmations of my surprize,
besides the sight of his two glaring eyes, and carried it
up to the extreme of fright and amazement; how I
afterwards conquered this childish beginning, and
mustered up courage enough to go into the place, with
a firebrand for light; and how I was presently fatisfied,
with seeing the creature, whose condition made all the
little accidental noises appear rational, I have already
faid.
But I must acknowledge, that this real surprize left
some relics or remains behind it, that did not wear
quite off a great while, though I struggled hard with
them: the vapours that were raised at first, were never
so laid, but that on every trifling occasion they return-
ed; and I faw, nay, I selt apparitions, as plainly and
distinctly as ever I selt or faw any real substance in my
lise.
The like was the case with me before that, when I
first found the print of a man's foot upon the fand, by
the sea-side, on the north part of the island.
'And these, I fay, having left my fancy a little peevish
and wayward, I had frequently some returns of these
vapours on differing occasions, and sometimes even
without occasion; nothing but mere hypochondriac
whimsies,—fluttering of the blood,—and rising of va-
pours, which nobody could give any account of but
myself.
For example: It was one night, after my having seen
some odd appearances in the air, of no great signisi-
cance,
263
cance, that coming home, and being in bed, but not
asleep, I selt a pain in one of my seet; after which, it
came to a kind of numbness in my foot, which a
little surprised me; and after that, a kind of tingling
in my blood, as if it had been some distemper running
up my leg.
On a sudden, I selt, as it were, something alive lie
upon me, as if it had been a dog lying upon my bed,
from my knee downward, about half way my leg, and
immediately afterwards I selt it heavier, and selt it as
plainly roll itself upon me, upwards upon my thigh,—
for I lay ori one fide; I fay, as if it had been a creature
lying upon me with all his weight, and turning his
body upon me.
It was so lively and sensible to me, and I remember it
so persectly well, though it is now many years ago,
that my blood chills and flutters about my heart at the
very writing it. I immediately flung myself out of my
bed, and flew to my musket, which stood always ready
at my hand, and, naked as I was, laid about me upon
the bed, in the dark, and everywhere else that 1 could
think of, where anybodf might stand or lie, but could
find nothing 'Lord deliver me from an evil spirit,*
faid 1,' What can this be?' And being tired with
groping about, and having broke two or three of my
earthen pots, with making blows here and there to no
purpose, I went to light my candle, for my lamp,
which I used to burn in the night, either had not been
lighted, or was gone out.
When I lighted a candle, I could easily fee there
was no living creature in the place with me, but the
poor parrot, who was wakened and frightened, and
cried out, ' Hold your tongue,' and ' What's the mat-
It 4 ter
SERTOUS REFLECTIONS
ter with you?' Which words he learned of me, from
my frequent faying so to him, when he -used to make
his ordinary wild noise and screaming, that I did not
like.
The more I was fatisfied that there was nothing in
the room, at least to be seen, the more another concern
came upon me. c Lord!' fays I aloud, 1 this is the
Devil.' 'Hold your tongue,' fays Poll. I was so
mad at the bird, though the creature knew nothing of
the matter, that, if he had hung near me, I believe I
should have killed him. I put my cloaths on, and fat
me down, for I could not sind in my heart to go to
bed again; and, as I fat down,—* I am terribly
frightened,' faid I. 'What's the matter with you?'
fays Poll. 'You toadj' faid I, * I'd knock your
brains out, if you were here.' 'Hold your tongue,'
fays he again; and then sell to chattering, Robin
Crusoe, and, Poor Robin Crusoe, as he used to do.
Had I been in any reach of a good temper, it had
been enough to have composed me; but I was quite
gone; I was fully posiessed with a belies that it was the
Devil; and I prayed most heartily to God, to be deli-
vered from the power of the evil spirit.
After some time, I composed myself a little, and
went to bed again; and lying just in the posture as I
was in before, I selt a little of the tingling in my blood
which I selt before, and I resolved to lie still, let it be
what it would; it came up as high as my knee, as be-
fore, but no higher; and now I began to see plainly,
that it was all a distemper,—that it was something pa-
ralytic, and that affected the nerves; but I had not
either experience of such a thing, or knowledge of
,diseases enough to be fully satisfied of the nature of
them,
them, and whether any thing natural, any numbness,
or dead palfey, affecting one part of the thigh, could
feel as that did: some months aster that, I selt some-
thing of the very fame again, at my first lying down
in my bed, for three or four nights together, which
at first gave me a little concern as a distemper, but at
last gave me such fatisfaction that the first was nothing
but the fame thing in a higher degree, that the pleasure
of knowing it was only a disease, was far beyond the
concern at the danger of it: though a dead palsey, to
one in my condition, might reasonably have been one
of the most frightful things in nature; since, having
nobody to help me, I must have inevitably perished for
mere want of food,—not being able to go from place
to place to setch it.
But to go back to the casein hand, and to the ap-
prehension I had been in: all the several months that
passed between the first of this and the last, I went
about, with a melancholy, heavy heart, fully fatisfied
that the Devil had been in my room, and lay upon my
bed.
Sometimes I would try to argue myself a little out
of it; asking myself whether it was reasonable to
imagine the Devil had nothing else to do, than to come
thither and only.lie down upon me, and go away about
his business, and fay not one word to me? What end
it could answer? And whether I thought the Devil was
really busied about such trifles? Or whether he had
not employment enough, of a higher nature; so that
such a thing as that could be worth his while?
But still then I was answered, with my own thoughts
returning, thus, What could it be? Or, if it was not
a Devil, what was k? This I could not answer by any
means
means at all; and so I still sunk under the belief that
it was the Devil, and nothing but the Devil.
You may be sure, while I had this fancy in my
head, I was, of course, over-run with the vapours, and
had all the hypochondriac fancies, that ever any me-
lancholy head could entertain; and what with rumi-
nating on the print of a foot upon the fand, and the
weight of the Devil upon me in my bed, 1 made no
difficulty to conclude, that the Old Gentleman really
visited the place: and, in a word, it had been easy to
have possessed me, if 1 had continued so much longer,
that it was an enchanted island,—that there were a
million of evil spirits in it,—and that the Devil was
lord of the manor.
I scarce heard the least noise, near, or far off, but I
started, and expected to see a Devil; every distant bush,
upon a hill, if I did not particularly remember it before,
was a man; and every stump, an apparition; and I
scarce went twenty yaids together, by night or by day,
without looking behind me.
Sometimes, indeed, I took a little heart, and would
fay, ' Well, let it be the Devil if it will, God is master
of the Devil, and he can do me no hurt, unless he is
permitted; he can be nowhere, but he that made him
is there too;' and, as I faid afterwards, when I was
frightened with the old goat in a cave; ' He is not fit
to live all alone in such an island, for twenty years,
that would be afraid to see the Devil.'
But all these things lasted but a short while, and the
vapours that were raised at first, were not to be laid so
easily; for, in a word, it was not mere imagination,
but it was the imagination railed up to disease: nor did
it ever quite wear off till I got my man Friday with me,
of
267
of whom I have faid so much; and then, having com-
pany to talk to, the hypo wore off, and I did not sec
any more devils after that.
Before I leave this part, I cannot but give a caution
to all vapourish, melancholy people, whose imagina-
tions run this way; I mean, about seeing the devil,
apparitions, and the like; namely, that they should
never look behind them, and over their shoulders, as
they go up stairs; or look into the corners and holes
of rooms, with a candle in their hands; or turn about,
to see who may be behind them, in any walks, or dark
fields, lanes, or the like; for, let such know, they will
see the Devil, whether he be there or no: nay, they
will be so persuaded that they do see him, that their
very imagination will be a devil to them wherever
they go.
But aster all this is faid, let nobody suggest, that be-
cause the brain-fick fancy, the vapourish, hypochon-
driac imagination represents spectres and spirits to us,
and makes apparitions for us, that therefore there are
no such things as spirits; both good and evil, any more
than we should conceive, that there is no devil, be-
cause We do not see him.
The Devil has witnesses of his being and nature,
just as God himself has of his; they are not indeed so*
visible, or so numerous, but we are all able to bring
evidence of the existence of the Devil from our own
frailties, as we are to bring evidence of the existence of
God from the faculties of our fouls, and from the
contexture of our bodies.
As our propensity to evil, rather than good, is a tes-
timony of the original depravity of human nature;
so the harmony between the inclination and the occa-r
sion.
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
fion is a testimony, which leaves the presence of the
evil spirit with us out of the question..
Not that the Devil is always the agent in our temp-
tations; for though the Devil is a very diligent sellow,
and always appears ready to fall in with the allurement,
yet the Scripture clears him, and we must do so too, of
being the main tempter; it is our own corrupt, de-
bauched inclination, which is the first moving agent:
and therefore the Scripture fays, * A man is tempted,
when he is drawn away of his own lusts, and enticed.'
The Devil, who, as I faid, is a very diligent sellow
in the insernal work, and is always ready to forward the
mischief, is also a very cunning sellow, and knows
how, most dextrously, to suit alluring objects to the
allurable dispositions; to procure ensnaring things,
and lay them in the way of the man whom he finds so
easy to be ensnared; and he never fails to prompt all
the mischief he can: full of stratagem and art to en-
snare us, by the help of our corrupt affections,—and
these are called Satan's devices.
But having charged Satan ho'me in that part, I must
do the Devil that justice, as to own, that he is the most
slandered, most abused creature alive; thoufands of
crimes we lay to his charge, that he is not guilty of;
thousands of our own insirmities we load him with,
which he has no hand in; and thoufands of our sins,
which, as bad as he is, he knows nothing of; calling
him our tempter, and pretending we did so and so, as
the Devil would have it; when, on the contrary, the
Devil had no share in it, and we were only 'led away
of our own lusts, and enticed.'
But now, having made this digression in the Devil's
desence, I return to the main question,—that of the
being
being of the Devil, and of evil spirits; this, I believe,
there is no room to doubt of: but this, as I have ob-
served, is not the thing; these are not the spirits I ain
speaking of; but I shall come directly to what I mean,
and speak plain, without any possibility of being mis-
understood.
I make no question, but that there is not only a
world of spirits, but that there is a certain knowledge
of it, though to us impossible, as to the manner of it;
there is a certain converse between the world of spirits,
and the spirits in this world; that is to fay, between
spirits uncased or unembodied, and souls of men em-
bodied, or cased up in flesh and blood, as we all are on
this side death.
It is true, that we cannot describe this converse of
spirits, as to the way of it, the manner of the commu-
nication, or how things are mutually conveyed from
one to another. How intelligences are given or re-
ceived, we know not; we know but little of their
being conveyed this way, from the spirits unembodied,
to ours that are in lise; and of their being conveyed
that way; namely, from us to them;—of that we know
nothing. The latter certainly is done without the
help of the organ; the former is conveyed by the
understanding, and the retired faculties of the soul,—
of which we can give very little account.
For Spirits, without the help of voice, converse.
Let me, however, give, as reasons for my opinion,
some account of the consequences of this converse of
• spirits; I mean, such as are quite remote from what
we call apparition, or appearance of spirits; and I omit
these, because I know they are objected much against,
.and
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
andthey bear much scandal, from the frequent imposi-
tions of our fancies and imaginations upon our judg-
ments and understandings, as above.
But the more particular discoveries of this converse
os spirits, and which to me are undeniable, are such as
follows; namely,
Dreams, Impulses, Voices,
Hints, Noises, Apprehensions,
Involuntary Sadness> &c.
Dreams are dangerous things to talk of; and we
have such dreaming about them, that, indeed, the least
encouragement to lay any weight upon them, is pre-
sently carried away by a sort of people that dream
waking; and that run into such wild extremes about
them, that indeed we ought to be very cautious what
we fay of them.
It is certain, dreams of old were the ways by which
God himself was pleased to warn men, as well what to
do, as what not to do; what services to perform, what
evils to shun. Joseph, the husband of the blessed Vir-
gin Mary, was appeared to in both these: Matt. ii. 13,
ig. He was directed of God, in a dream, to go into
Egypt; and he was bid return out of Egypt, in a
dream; and, in the fame chapter, the wise men of the
east were warned of God, in a dream, to depart into
their own country another way, to avoid the fury of
Herod.
Now, as this, and innumerable instances through the
whole Scripture, consirm, that God did once make use
of this manner to convey knowledge and instruction to
men, I wim I could have this question well answered,
viz. Why are we now to direct people to take no
notice of their dreams?
But
But farther, it appears, that this was not only the
method God himself took, by his immediate power;
but it is evident, he made use of it by the ministry of
spirits. The Scripture fays, in both the cases of
Joseph above-named, ' That the angel of the Lord
appeared to Joseph in a dream.' Now, every unem-
bodied spirit is an angel of the Lord, in some sense;
and as angels and spirits may be the fame thing, in.
respect of this influence upon us in dreams, so it is
still; and when any notice for good, or warning against
evil, is given us in a dream, I think it is no arrogance
at all for us to fay, the angel of the Lord appeared to
us in a dream; or to fay, some good spirit gave me
warning of this in a dream: take this which way you
will.
That I may support this, with such undeniable ar-
guments, drawn from examples of the fact, as no man
will, or reasonably can oppose, I first appeal to the ex-
perience of observing people; I mean, such people as
observe these things without a superstitious dependence
upon the signification of them; that look upon dreams
but with such a moderate regard to them, as may
direct to a right use of them. The question 1 would
ask of such is, whether they have never found any re-
markable event of their lives, so evidently foretold
them by a dream, as that it must, of necessity, be true,
that some invisible Being forefaw the event, and gave
them notice of it? And that, had that notice been
listened to, and the natural prudence used, which would
have been used if it had been certainly discovered, that
evil event might have been prevented?
I would ask others,' whether they have not, by
dreams, been so warned of evil really approaching, as
that
that taking the hint, and making use of the caution
given in those dreams, the evil has been avoided. If I
may speak my own experience, I must take leave to
fay, that I never had any capital mischief besel me in
my lise, but I have had notice of it by a dream; and
if I had not been that thoughtless, unbelieving crea-
ture, which I now would caution other people against,
I might have taken many a warning, and avoided many
of the evils that I afterwards sell into, merely by a total,
obstinate neglect of those dreams.
In like manner, I have, in some of the greatest dis-
tresses of my lise, been encouraged to believe, fiVmly
and fully, that I mould, one time or other, be deliver-
ed; and I must acknowledge, that in my greatest, and
most hopeless banishment, I had such frequent dreams
of my deliverance, that I always entertained a firm and
fatisfied belief, that my last days would be better than
my first: all which has effectually come to pass.
From which, 1 cannot determine, as I know some
do, that all dreams are mere dosings of a delirious head;
delusions of awaking devil, and relicts of the day's
thoughts and perplexities, or pleasures: nor do I see
any period of time fixed between the two opposite cir-
cumstances; namely, when dreams we're to be esteem-
ed the voice of God, and when the delusion of the
Devil. .
I know some have struggled hard to fix that parti-
cular article, and to settle it as a thing going hand in
hand with the Jewish institutions; as if the oracle
ceasing in the temple with the consummation of the
typical law, all the methods which Heaven was pleased
to take, in the former times, for revealing his will to
men, were to cease also at the fame time, and the
gospel
gospel revelation being fully and effectually supplied by
the mission of the Holy Spirit, dreams, and all the uses
and signisications of dreams, were at an end; and the
esteem and regard to the warnings and instructions of
dreams, was to expire also.
But the Scripture is point blank against this, in
the history of fact, relating to Ananias, and the con-
version of St. Paul; and in the story of St. Peter, and
Cornelius the devout centurion at Antioch; both of
them eminent instances of God's giving notice of his
pleasure to men, by the interposition or medium of a
dream. The first of these, is in Aiis ix. 10. ' There
was a certain disciple at Damascus, named Ananias;
to him faid the Lord in a vision,' he. : the words
spoken in this vision to Ananias, directing to go and
seek out one Saul of Tarsus, go on thus, v. 12.: 'and
hath seen in a vision, a man named Ananias com-
ing in.'
The other passage is of St. Peter, and Cornelius the
Centurion, Ails^. v. 3, 10, 11. In the third verse
it is faid,' Cornelius, fasting and praying, faw a vision
which, afterwards, in the twenty-second verse, is called
an holy angel warning him: in the thirtieth verse, it is
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 273
the fame time, v. 10. it is faid, ' St. Peter was praying,
and sell into a trance:' this we all agree to be a pos-
session of sleep, or a deep sleep; and in this trance, it
is faid, he faw Heaven opened; that is to fay, he
dreamed that he faw Heaven opened; it could be no-
thing else; for no interpreters will offer to insist, that
Heaven was really opened: also the hearing a voice,
v. 13, 15. must be in a dream. Thus it is apparent,
the will of God, concerning what we are to do, or not
Vol. III. S ta
to do ; what is, or is not to befall us; is and has been
thus conveyed by vision or dream, since the expiration
of the Levitical dispenfation, and since the mission of
the Holy Ghost.
When then did it cease? And if we do not know
when it ceased, how then are we sure it is at all ceased;
and what authority have we now, to reject all dreams,
or visions of the night, as they are called, more than
formerly?
I will not fay, but there may be more nocturnal de-
lusions now in the world, than there were in those
times; and, perhaps, the Devil may have gained more
upon mankind in these days, than he had thenj—
though we are not let into those things enough, to
know whether it is so or not: nor do we know, that
there were not as many unsignifying dreams in those
days, as now; and, perhaps, as much to be faid against
depending upon them: though, I think, there is not
one word, in Scripture, faid, to take off the regard men
might give to dreams, or to lessen the weight which
they might lay on them.
The only text, that I think looks like it, is the flout
Joseph's brethren put upon him, or threw out at him,
when they were speaking of him with contempt: Ge-
nesis xxxvii. 19. ' Behold this dreamer cometh:' and
again, v. 20. ' Let us slay him, and cast him into
some pit, and we shall see what will become of his
dreams.*
This, indeed, looks a little like the present language
against dreams; but even this is sufficiently rebuked
in the consequences; for those dreams of Joseph's did
come all to pass, and proved the superior influence
such.
such things have upon the affairs of men, in spight of
all the contempt they can cast upon them.
The maxim I have laid down to myself, for my con-
duct in this affair, is, in sew words, that we stiould
not lay too great stress upon dreams, and yet not
wholly neglect them.
I remember, I was once present where a long dis-
pute was warmly carried on, between two persons of
my acquaintance, upon this very subject; the one a
layman, the other a clergyman; but both very pious
and religious persons. The first thought there was no
heed at all to be given to dreams; that they could have
no justisiable original; that they were delusions, and no
more; that it was atheistical to lay any stress upon
them; and that he could give such objections against
them, as that no man of good principles could avoid
being convinced by; that as to there being a commu-
nication from the invisible to the visible world, it was
a chimæra; and that he faw no foundation for believ-
ing any reality in such a thing, unless I would set up
for a popish Limbus or purgatory, which had no foun-
dation in the Scripture.
I. He faid, if dreams were from the agency of any
prescient being, the notices would be more direct, and
the discoveries clear; not by allegories and emblema-
tic fancies, expressing things impersect and dark: for
to what purpose should spirits unembodied sport with
mankind, warning him of approaching-mischiess by
the most ridiculous enigmas, sigures, &c. leaving the
wretch to guess what awaited him, though of the ut-
most consequence, and to perish if he mistook the
meaning of it; and leaving him, sometimes, persectly
at a loss to know whether he was right or wrong; and
S a without
without any rule or guide to walk by, in the most dif-
ficult eases.
II. He objected, that, with the notice of evil, sup-
pose it to be rightly understood, there was not given si
power to avoid it; and therefore it could not be al-
ledged, that the notice was any way kind, and that it
was not likely to proceed from a benesicent spirit, but
merely fortuitous, and of no signisicancy.
III. He objected, that if such notices as those were
of such weight, why were they not constant; but that
sometimes they were given, and sometimes omitted,
though cases were equally important; and that there-
fore they did not seem to proceed from any agent,
whose actions were to be fairly accounted for.
IV. He faid, that oftentimes we had very distinct
and formal dreams, without any signisication at all;
that we could neither know any thing probable, or any
thing rational of them; and that it would be profane
to suggest that to come from Heaven, which was too
apparently foolish and inconsistent.
V. As men were not always thus warned, or sup-
plied with notices of good or evil, so all men were not
alike supplied with them; and what reason could we
give, why one man, or one woman, should not have
the fame hints as another.
The clergyman gave distinct answers to all these ob-
jections; and to me, I consess, very fatisfactory: whe-
ther they may be so to those that read them, is no con-
cern of mine,—let every one judge for himself.
I. He faid, that as to the signisication of dreams, and
the objections against them, because dark and doubtful,
that they are expressed generally by hieroglyphica re-
presentations, similies, allusions, and figurative emble-
matic
277
matic ways of expressing things, was true; and that, by
this means, for want of interpretation, the thing was
not understood, and, consequently, the evil not shunned.
This, he faid, was the only difficulty that remained to
him in the case; but that he could see nothing in it
against the signisication of them, because thus it was
before: for dreams were often allegoric and allusive,
when they were evidently from God; and what the end
and design of Providence in that was, we could not pre-
tend to enquire.
II. To the second, he faid, we charged God foolish-
ly, to fay he had given the notice of evil without the
power to avoid it,—which he denied; and affirmed,
that if any one had not power to avoid the evil, it was
no notice to him ; that it was want of giving due heed
to that notice, not for want of the notice being suffi-
cient, that any evil followed, and that men first neglect-
ed themselves, and then charged the judge of all the
earth, with not doing right.
III. Likewise he faid, the complaint, that these no-
tices were not constant, was unjust; for he doubted not
but they were so; but our discerning was crazed and
clouded by our negligence in not taking due notice of
it; that we hoodwinked our understanding, by pre-
tending dreams were not to be regarded; and the voice
really spoke, but we refused to hear, being negligent of
our own good.
IV. In the fame sense he answered the fourth, and
said, it was a mistake to fay, that sometimes dreams hai
no import at all; he observed, it was only to be faid, none
that we could perceive the reason of; which was owing
to our blindness and supine negligence, to be secure at
?ne time, and our heads too much alarmed at another;
S3 (•
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
so that the spirit, which we might he faid to be con.
versing with in a dream, was constantly arid equally
kind and careful; but our powers, not always in the
fame state of action, nor equally attentive to, or reten-
tive of the hints that were given; or things might be
rendered more or less intelligible to us, as the powers of
our foul were more or less dozed or fomniated with the
oppression of vapours from the body, which occasions
sleep: for though the soul cannot be faid to sleep itself,
yet how far its operations may be limited, and the un-t
derstanding prescribed, by the sleepiness of the body,
fays he, 1 will not undertake; let the anatomist judge
of.it, who can account for the contexture of the parts,
and for their operations, which I cannot answer to.
V. As to the last question, why people are not equals
ly supplied with such warnings, he faid, this seemed to
be no question at all in the case; for Providence itself
might have some share in the direction of it, and then
that rovidence might perhaps be limited by some su-
perior direction, the fame that guides all the solemn
dispositions of nature, and was a wind blowing where
it listeth . that as to the converse of spirits, though
he allowed the thing itself, yet he did not tie it up to a
stated course of conversing, that it should be the fame
always, and to all people, and on all occasions; but that
it seemed to be spontaneous, and consequently arbitra-
ry, as if the spirits linembodied had it left to them to
converse as they thought sit, how, where, and with
whom they would; that all he answered for in that
discourse, was for the thing itself; that such a thing
there was, but why there was so much of it, or why
no more, was none of his business, and, he believed, a
discovery was not yet made to mankind of that part.
J thought
I thought it would be much to the purpose, to re-
mark, this opinion of another man, because it corres-
ponded so exactly with my own; but I have not done
with my friend, for he led me into another enquiry,
which indeed I had not taken so much notice of be-
fore; and this was introduced by the following ques-
tion:
You seem, fays he, to be very inquisitive obout
dreams, and to doubt, though I think you have no
reason for it, os the reality of the world of spirits, which
dreams are such an evidence of. Pray, fays he, what
think you of waking dreams, transes, visions, noises,
voices, hints, impulses, and all these waking testimo-
nies of an invisible world, and of the communication,
that there is between us and them, which are generally
entertained with our eyes open.
This led me into many reflections upon past things,
which I had been witness to as well in myself as in
other people, and particularly in my former solitudes,
when I had many occasions to mark such things as
these; and I could not but entertain a free converfa-
tion with my friend upon this subject, as often as I had
opportunity, of which I must give some account.
I had, one day, been conversing so long with him,
upon the common received notions of the planets be-
ing habitable, and of a diversity of worlds, that I think
verily, I was for some days like a man transported into
these regions myself; whether my imagination is more
addicted to realizing the things I talk of, as if they
were in view, I know not; or whether, by the power
of the converse of spirits I speak of, I was, at that time,
enabled to entertain clearer ideas of the invisible world,
I really cannot tell; but' I certainly made a journey to
all those supposed habitable bodies in my imagination,
and I know not but it may be very useful to tell you
what I met with in my way, and what the wiser I am
for the discovery; whether you will be the wiser for
the relation at second hand, I cannot answer for that.
I could make a long discourse here of the power of
imagination, and how bright the ideas of distant things
may be found in the mind, when the foul is more than
ordinarily agitated. It is certain, the extraordinary
intelligence conveyed in this manner, is not always re-
gular; sometimes it is exceedingly confused, and the
brain being not able to digest it, turns round too fast;
this tends to lunacy and distraction, and the swiftness
of the motion these ideas come in with, occasions a
commotion in nature, the understanding is mobbed
with them, disturbed, runs from one thing to another,
and digests nothing; this is well expressed in our com-
mon way of talking of a mad-man, namely, that his
head is turned. Indeed, I can liken it to nothing so
wellj as to the wheels of a wind-mill; which, if the
fails, or wings, are set, and the wind blows a storm, run
round so fast, that they will set all on fire, if a skilful
hand be not ready to direct and manage it.
But not to enter upon this whimsical description of
lunacy, which perhaps may be nobody's opinion but
my own, I proceed thus: that when the head is strong,
and capable of the impressions; when the understand-
ing is empowered to digest the insinite variety of ideas,
which present to it from the extended fancy; then, I
fay, the soul of man is capable to act strangely upon
the invisibles in nature, and upon futurity, realizing
every thing to itself in such a lively manner, that what
it thus thinks of, it really sees, speaks to, hears, con-
's ve rfes
verses with, &c. as lively, as if the substance was really
before his face; and this is what I mean by those that
dream waking, by visions, trances, or what you please
to call them; for it is not necessary to this part, that
the man should be asleep.
I return to my share of these things. It was after
my conversing with my learned friend, about the hea-
venly bodies, the motion, the distances, and the bulk
of the planets; their situation, and the orbits they
move in; the share of light, heat, and moisture, which
they enjoy; their respect to the Sun, their influences
upon us, and, at last, the possibility of their being habit-
able, with all the arcana of the skies; it was on this
occasion, I fay, that my imagination, always given to
wander, took a flight of its own; and as I have told
you, that I had an invincible inclination to travel, so I
think I travelled as sensibly, to my understanding, over
all the mazes and wastes of insinite space, in quest of
those things, as ever I did over the defarts of Karaka-
thay, and the uninhabited wastes of Tartary; and, per-
haps, may give as useful an account of my journey.
When first my fancy raised me up in the consines of
this vast abyss, and having now travelled through the
misty regions of the atmosphere, could look down as I
mounted, and fee the world below me, it is scarce pos-
sible to imagine how little, how mean, how despicable
every thing looked; let any man but try this experi-
ment of himself, and he shall certainly find the fame
thing; let him but fix his thoughts so intensely upon
what is, and must necessarily be seen, in a stage or two
higher than where we now live, removed from the par-
ticular converse with the world, as to realize to his
imagination what he can suppose to be there, he shall
find all that is below him, as distant objects always do,
lessen in his mind as they do in his sight.'
Could a man subsist without a supply of food, and
live but one mile in perpendicular height from the sur-
face, he would despise lise and the world at such a rate,
that he would hardly come down to have it be all his
own; the foul of man is capable of being continually
elevated above the very thoughts of human things; is
capable of travelling up to the highest and most distant
regions of light; but when it does, as it rises above the
earthly globe, so the things of this globe sink to him.
When I was at first lifted up in my imaginary travels,
this was the first thing of moment I remarked; name-
ly, how little the world, and every thing about it, seem-
ed to me. I am not given to preach, or drawing long
corollaries, as the learned call them; but 1 commend it
to my friends to observe, that could we always look
upon the things of lise with the fame eyes, as we shall do
when we come to the edge of time; when one eye can,
fts it were, look back on the world, and the other look
forward into eternity, we should fave ourselves the
trouble of much repentance, and should scorn to touch
many of those things, in which now we fancy our chief
selicity is laid up: believe me, we shall see more with
half an eye then, and judge better at first glance, than we
can now, with all our pretended wisdom and penetra-
tion. , In a word, all the paslions and affections suffer
a general change upon such a view, and what we defire
before, we contemn then with abhorrence.
Having begun to soar, the world was soon out of
fight, unless that, as I rose higher, and could look at
her in a due position as to the fun, 1 could see her turn-
ed into a moon, and shine by reflection: * Aye, shine
on,'
on,' said I, » with thy borrowed rays, for thou hast but
very sew of thy own.'
When my fancy had mounted me thus beyond the
vestiges of the earth, and leaving the atmosphere behind
me, I had set my firm foot upon the verge of infinite;
when I drew no breath, but subsisted upon pure æther,
it is not possible to express fully the vision of the place;
first, you are to conceive of sight as unconfined, and
you'see here at least the whole solar system at one view.
Nor is your sight bounded by the narrow circumser-
ence of one fun, and its attendants of planets, whose
orbits are appropriated to its proper system; but above
and beyond, and on every side, you see innumerable
suns, and attending on them, planets, fatellites, and in-
serior lights proper to their respective systems, and all
those moving in their subordinate circumstances, with-
out the least confusion, with glorious light and splendor
inconceivable.
In this first discovery, it is most natural to observe,
how plainly it is to be seen, that the reason of the crea-
tion of such immense bodies as the fun, stars, planets,
and moons in the great circle of the lower heaven,. is
far from being to be found in the ftudjf of nature, on
the surface of our earth: but he that will see thorough-
ly, why God has formed the heavens the work of his
hands, and the moon and the stars which he has made,
must soar up higher; and then as he will see with other
eyes than he did before, so he will see the god of na-
ture has formed an infinite variety, which we know
nothing of, and that all the creatures are a reason to
one another for their creation. .
I could not forget myself, however, when I was got
up thus high; I fay, I could not but look back upon
the
the state of man in this lise; how consined from tllefe
discoveries; how vilely employed in biting and de-
vouring, envying and maligning one another, and all
for the vilest trifles that can be conceived.
But I was above it all here; and all those things
-which appeared so afflicting before, gave me not the
least concern now; for the foul being gone of this
errand, had quite different notices of the whole state of
lise, and was neither influenced by passions or affections
as it was before.
Here I faw into many things by the help of a sedate
enquiry, that we can entertain little or no notion of, in
a state of common superficial lise ; and I defire to leave a
sew remarks of this imaginary journey, as I did of my
ordinary travels.
When I came, I fay, to look into the solar system, as
I have hinted, I saw persectly the emptiness of our mo-
dern notions, that the planets were habitable worlds;
and shall give a brief description of the case, that others
may see it too, without the necessity of taking so long a
journey.
And first, for the word habitable, I understand the
meaning of it to be, that the place it is spoken of, is
qualified for the subsistence and existence of man and
beast, and to preserve the vegetative and sensitive lise;
and you may depend upon it, that none of the planets*
except the moon, are in this sense habitable; and the
moon, a poor little watery damp thing, not above as
bjg as Yorkshire, neither worth being called a world,
nor capable of rendering lise comfortable to mankind,
if indeed supportable; and, if you will believe one's
mind capable of seeing at so great a distance, I assure
you, I did not see man, woman, or child there, in all
my
contemplative voyage to it: my meaning is, I did not
fee the least reason to believe, there was or could be any
there. As to the rest of the planets, I will take them in
their order: Saturn, (the remotest from the fun, which,
is in the centre of the system) is a vast extended globe,
of a substance cold and moist, its greatest degree of light
is never so much as our greatest daiknefs may be laid
to be in clear weather, and its cold unfufFerable; and
if it were a body composed of the fame elements as our
earth, its sea would be all brass, and its earth all iron;
that is to fay, both would be continually frozen, as the
north-pole in the winter solstice. What man, or men,
and of what nature, could inhabit this frigid planet, un-
less the Creator must be supposed to have created ani-
mal creatures for the climate, not the climate for the
creatures. All the notions of Saturn's being a habit-
able world, are contrary to nature, and incongruous
with sense; for Saturn is at so infinite a distance from
the fun, that it has not above one ninetieth part of the
light and heat that we enjoy on our earth; so that the
light there, may be faid to be much less than our star-
light, and the cold ninety times greater than the coldest
day in our winter.
Jupiter is in the fame predicament; his constitution,
however in its degree much milder than Saturn, yet
certainly is not qualisied for human bodies to subsist,
having only one twenty-seventh part of the light and
heat that we enjoy here; consequently, its light is, at
best, as dim as our twilight, and its heat so little in the
summer of its situation, as to be as far from comfort-
able, as it is in its winter situation insupportable.
Mars, if you will believe our ancient philosophers,
is a fiery planet, in the very disposition of its influence,
as
as well as by the course of its motion; and yet even
here, the light is not above one-half, and its heat one-
third of ours. And, on the other hand, as Saturn is
cold and moist, so this planet is hot and dry, and would
admit no habitation of man, through the manisest in-
temperance of the air, as well as want of light to make
it comfortable, and moisture to make it fruitful; for, by
the nature of the planet, as well as by clear-sighted ob-
servation, there is never any rain, vapour, fog, or dew
in that planet.
Venus and Mercury are in the extreme the other
way, and would destroy nature by their heat and daz-
zling light, as the other would by their darkness and
cold; so that you may depend upon it, I could see very
clearly, that all these bodies were neither inhabited or
habitable: and the earth only, as we call it, being seat-
ed between these intemperances, appeared habitable;
surrounded with an atmosphere, to desend it from the
invasion of the inconsistent æther, in which perspiration
could not be performed by the lungs, and by which the
needful vapour it sends forth, is preserved from dissipat-
ing into the waste and abyss, and is condensed, and
timely returns in showers of rain to moisten, cool, and
nourish the exhausted earth.
It is true, the way I went, was no common road, yet
I found abundance of passengers going to and fro here,
and, particularly, innumerable armies of good and evil
spirits, who all seemed busily employed, and continual-
ly upon the wing, as if some expresses passed between
the earth, (which, in this part of my travels, I place be-
low me,) and some country insinitely beyond all that I -
could reach the sight of; for, by the way, though I take
upon me, in this sublime journey, to see a great deal of
tlie
invisible world, yet I was not arrived to a length to see
into any part of the world of light, beyond it all; that
vision is beyond all, and I pretend to fay nothing of it
here, except this only, that a clear view of this part,
with optics unclouded, is a great step to prepare the
mind for a look into the other.
But to return to my station in the highest created
world: flatter not yourselves that those regions are un-
inhabited, because the planets appear to be so. No, no,
I assure you this is that world of spirits, or, at least, is
a world of spirits.
Here I faw a clear demonstration of Satan being the
prince of the power of the air; it is in this boundless
waste he is consined: whether it be his busy, restless
inclination has posted him here, that he may affront
God in his government of the world, and do injury to
mankind in mere envy to his happiness, as the famed
Mr. Milton fays; or whether it is, that by the eternal
decree of Providence, he is appointed to be man's con-
tinual disturber, for divine ends to us unknown; this
I had not wandered far enough to be informed of,
those secrets being lodged much higher, than imagina-
tion itself ever travelled.
But here, I fay, I found Satan keeping his court, or
camp, we may call it which we please. The innumer-
able legions that attended his immediate service were
such, that it is not at all to be Wondered, that he sup-
plied every angle of this world, and had his work going
forward, not in every country only, but even in every
individual inhabitant of it, with all the dexterity and
application imaginable.
This fight gave me a just idea of the Devil, as a
tempter, but really let me into a secret which I did not
so
2
so well know before, or at least did not consider; name-
ly, that the Devil is not capable of doing half the mis-
chief in the world, that we lay to his charge; that he
works by engines and agents, stratagems and art, is
true, and a great deal is owing to his vigilance and ap-
plication; for he is a very diligent sellow in his calling;
but it is plain, his power is not so great as we imagine;
he can only prompt to the crime, he cannot force us to
» commit it; so that, if we sin, it is all our own, the
Devil is only to be charged with the art of insinuation;
just as he began with Eve, he goes on with us; in
short, he reasons us out of our resolutions to do well,
and wheedles us to an agreement to do ill; working us
up to an opinion, that what evil we are about to do is
no sin, or not so great a sin as we seared, and so draws
us by art into the crime we had resolved against; this
indeed the Scripture intimates, when it speaks of Satan's
devices, the subtilty of the wicked one, his lying in
wait, &c. But to charge the Devil with forcing us to
offend, is doing the Devil a great deal of wrong: our
doing evil, is from the native propensity of our wills;—
bumanum cji peccare. I will not enter here into the
dispute about an original corruption in nature, which
1 know many good men, and learned men, dispute;
but that there is a secret aptness to offend, and a secret
backwardness to what is good; which, if it is not born
with us, we can give no account how we came by,—
this, I think, every man will grant; and that this is
the Devil that tempts us, the Scripture plainly tells us,
when it fays, ' Every man is tempted, when he is
d/awn away of his own lust, and enticed.'
There is a secret love of folly and vanity in the mind,
and manjiind are hurried down the stream of their own
affections,
affections into crime; it is agreeable to them to do this,
and it is aforce upon nature not to do it.
Vice is down hill, and when we do offend,
"Tis nature all, we act as we intend.
Virtue's up hill, and all against the grain;
Resolv'd reluctant, and purfu'd with pain.
But to return to the Devil; his power not extend-
ing to creation, and being not able to force the world
into an open rebellion against Heaven, as doubtless he
would do if he could, he is left to the exercise of his
skill; and, in a word, we may fay of.him, that he lives
by his wits; that is to fay, maintains his kingdom by
subtilty and most exquisite cunning: and if my vision
of his politics is not a new discovery, I am very much
mistaken.
His innumerable legions, as I hinted above, like aids
du camp to a general, are continually employed to carry
his orders, and execute his commissions in all parts of
the world; and in every individual to oppose the au-
thority of God, and the selicity of man, to the utmost
of his.power..
The first and greatest part of his government, is over
those favage nations where he has obtained to set him-
self up as God, and to be worshipped instead of God;
and I observed, that though having full possession of
these people, even by whole nations at a time, that is
the easiest part of his government; yet he is far from
neglecting his interest there, but is exceeding vigilant
to keep up his authority among those people. This he
does by sending messengers into those parts, to answer
the pawawings or conjurings even of the most igno-
rant old wizard; raising storms, and making noises and
Vol. III. T shrieks
shrieks in the air; flashes of insernal fire, and any
thing to fright the people, that they may not forges
him, and that they may have no other gods but him.
He has his peculiar agents for this work, which he
makes detachments of, as his occasions require; some
to one part of the world, some to another; as to North
America, even as far as to the frozen provinces of
Greenland; to the north of Europe; to the Lapland-
ers, Samoiedes, and Mongul Tartars; also to the Gog
and Magog of Asia, and to the devil-makers of China
and Japan; again to the southern parts of Asia, to the
isles of the Indian and South Seas, and to the south
parts of America and Africa.
Through all these parts he has an uncontrouled
.power, and is either Worshipped in person, or by his
representatives, the idols and monsters which the poor
people bow down to; and Satan has very little trouble
with them.
He employs, indeed, some millions of his misiip-
naries in those countries, who labour ad propaganda
Jidem, and fail not to return, and bring him an account
of their success; and I doubt not, but some of them'
were at hand in my island, when the savages appeared
there: for if the Devil had not been in"them, they
would hardly have come straggling over the sea so far,
to devour one another.
In all these countries, the brutality, the cruelty, and'
ravenous, bloody dispositions of the people, is to me a
certain testimony, that the Devil has full possession of
them.
But to return to my observations, in the exalted state
of my fancy, I must tell you, that though the Devil
carried on his schemes of government, in those blinded
, parts
parts of the world, with great ease, and all things went
to his mind, I found he had more difficulty in the nor-
thern parts of the temperate zone; I mean, our climate,,
and the rest of Christendom; and, consequently, he
did not act here by whole squadrons, and by generals;
but was obliged to carry on his business among us by
particular solicitations; to act by particular agents, up-
on particular persons; attacking the personal conduct
of men in a manner peculiar to himself. But so far was,
this difficulty from being any advantage to the world,
or difadvantage to the Devil, that it only obliged him
to make use of the more engines; and as he had no
want of numbers, I observed, that his whole clan seem-
ed busy on this side; the number of which consists of
innumerable millions: so that, in Ihort, there was not
a devil wanting, no, not to manage every individual
man, woman, and child in the world. ,
• How, and in what manner evil angels attend us,
what their business, how far their power extends, and
how far it is restrained, and by whom, were all made
plain to me at one view, in this state of ecclaircissement
that I stood in now, and I will describe it, if I can, in
a sew heads of fact; you may enlarge upon them as
experience guides. :- . •
And first, the limitations of the Devil's power are
necessary to be understood, and how directed: for exr
ample, you must know, that though the numbers of
these evil spirits, which are thus diligently employed in
mischief, are so insinitely great, yet the numbers of
good angels or good spirits, which are employed by a
superior authority, and from a place insinitely distant
and high above the Devil's bounds, is not only equalf
I fay, equal at least in number, but insinitely superior
T a in
in power, and it is this particular which makes it plain,-
that all the Devil does, or that his agents can do, is by
continual subtilty, extreme vigilance and application,
under infinite checks, rebukes, and callings off by the
attendant spirits, who have power to correct and re-
strain him upon all occasions; just as a man does a dog
ora thief, when he is discovered.
On this account, it is first plain, I fay, that the Devil
can do nothing by force; he cannot kill, maim, hurt,
or destroy; if he could, mankind would have but a
very precarious state of lise in the world: nay, the
Devil cannot blast the fruits of the earth, cause dearth,
droughts, famine, or scarcity; neither can he spread
noxious fumes in the air, to insect the world; if any of
those things were in his power, he would soon unpeo-
ple God's creation, and put his Maker to the necessity
of a new fiat, or of having no more human creatures to
worship and honour him.
You will ask me, how I came to know all this? I
fay, ask me no questions, till the elevation of your fancy
carries you up to the outer edge of the atmosphere, as I
tell you mine did: there you will see the prince of the
air in his full state, managing his univerfal empire with
the most exquisite art. But if ever you can come to a
clear view of his person, do but look narrowly, and you
will see a great clog at his foot, in token of his limited
power; and though he is himself immense in bulk, and
moves like a fiery meteor in the air, yet you always see
a hand, with a thunderbolt, impending just over his
head; the arm coming out of a fiery cloud, which is a
token of the sentence he is under ; that at the end of his
appointed time, that cloud shall break, and that hand
strike
ftrike him with the thunder represented, down, down
for ever, into a place prepared for him.
But all this does not hinder him, who is prompted
by insernal rage against the kingdom of God and the
welfare of man, from pulhing mankind, as above, upon
all the methods of their own ruin and destruction, by
alluring baits, ^cunning artifice, night-whispers, infu-
sing wicked desires, and fanning the flames of\ mens*
Lusts, pride, avarice, ambition, revenge, and all the
wicked excursions of corrupt nature.
It would take up a long tract by itself, to form a
system of the Devils politics, and to lay down a body
of his philosophy: I observed, however, that some of
his general rules are such as these.
I. To infuse notions of liberty into the minds of
men, that it is hard they should be born into the
world with inclinations, and then be forbidden to gra-
tify them; that such and such pleasures mould be pre-
pared in the nature of things, made suitable and proper
to the senses and faculties; which, on the other hand,
are prepared in mere constitution, and placed in his
foul, and that then he should be forbidden, under the
penalty of a curse, to taste them; that to place an ap-
petite in the man, and a strong powerful gust to these
delights, and then declare them fatal to him, would be
laying a snare to mankind in his very constitution, and
making his brightest faculties be the betrayers of his
foul to misery; which would not consist with justice,
much less with the goodness of a creator,
II. To persuade from hence, that the notions of fu-
ture punishments are fables and amusements; that it
is not rational to think a just God would prepare infi-
nite and eternal punishments, for sinite and trivial of-
T 3 sences;
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
sences; that God does riot take notice of the minute
acts of lise, and lay every slip to our charge; but that
the merciful dispositions of God, who'so bountifully
directs the whole world to be assistant to the profit and
delight of mankind, has certainly given him leave to
enjoy it at sill, and take the comfort of it without sear,
III. Of late, indeed, the Devil has learned; for
devils may improve, as well as men in the arts of do-
ing ill: at last, I fay, he has learned to infuse a wild
notion into the heads of some people, who are first fit-
ted for it, by having reasoned themselves, in favour of
their loose desires, up to a pitch, that there is no such
thing as a God or a future state at all.
Now, as at first, the Devil was not fool enough to
attempt to put this jest upon man, his own antiquity
and eternity being a contradiction to it: sol found,
among my new discoveries, that the Devil took this
absurdity from man himself, and that it went among
Satan's people for a new invention. I found also, that
there was a black party employed upon this new sub-
tilty; these were a sort of devils, for Satan never wants
instruments, who were called Insinuators, and who
were formerly employed to prompt men to crimes by
dreams; and here I shall observe, that I learned a way
how to make any man dream of what I please: for ex-
ample, suppose one to be sound asleep,or, as we fay, in
a deep sleep, or dead asleep, let another lay his mouth,
eloseto his ear, and whisper any thing to him so softly as
not to awaken him, the sleeping man shall certainly
dream of what was so whispered to him.
Let no man despise this hint; nothing is more sure,
than that many of our dreams are the whispers of the
Devil; who, by his Infinuators, whisoeis into our
„ - | heads
heads what wicked things he would have our thoughts
entertain and work upon; and take this with you, as
you go, those insinuating devils can do this as well
when we are awake, as when we are asleep; and this
will bring me to what I call impulses upon the mind,
which are certainly whispers in the ear, and no other,
and come either from good angels attending us, orfrom
the Devil's insinuators, which are always at hand, and
may be judged of, according as the subject our thoughts
are prompted to work upon, are,good or evil.
From whence, but from these insinuators, come our
causeless passions, our involuntary wickedness, sinning
in desire as effectually, as by actual committing the
crime we desire to commit?
Whence comes imagination to work upon wicked
and vicious objects, when the person is fast asleep, and
when he had not been under the preparation of wicked
discourse, or wicked thoughts, previous to those ima-
ginations? Who forms ideas in the mind of man?
Who presents beautiful or terrible figures to his fancy,
when his eyes are closed with sleep? Who, but these
insinuating devils, who invisibly approach the man
sleeping or waking, and whisper all manner of lewd,
abominable things into his mind.
Mr. Milton, whose imagination was carried up to
a greater height than 1 am now, went farther into the
abyss of Satan's empire a great way, especially when he
formed Satan's palace of Pandemonium; I fay, he was
exactly of this opinion, when he represented the Devil
tempting our mother Eve, in the shape of a toad lying
just at her ear, when she lay fast asleep in her bower;
where he whispered to her ear all the wicked things
which she entertained notions of by night, and which
T 4 prompted
*9S
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
prompted her, the next day, to break the great com-
mand, which was the rule of her lise; and accordingly
he brings in Eve telling Adam what an uneasy night's
rest she had, and relating her dream to him.
This thought, however laid down in a kind of jest, is
very seriously intended sand would, if well digested, di-
rect us very clearly in our judgment of dreams, viz. not
to suggest them to be always things of mere chance; but
1 that sometimes they are to be heeded, as useful warn-
ings of evil or good, by the agency of good spirits; as
at other times they are the artful insinuations of the
Devil, to inject wicked thoughts, and abhorred, abo-
minable ideas into the mind; which we ought not
only as much as possible to guard against, but even to
repent of, so far as the mind may have entertained and
acted upon them.
From this genera! vision of the Devil's management
of his affairs, which I must own I have had with my
eyes wide open, I find a^great many useful observations
to be made; and first, it can be no longer strange, that
while the commerce of evil spirits is so free, and the in-
tercourse between this world and that, is thus open, I
fay, it can be no longer strange, that there are so many
silent ways of spirits conversing; I mean spirits of ail
kinds.
For as I hive observed already, there is a residence
of good spirits; but they are placed infinitely higher,
out of the reach, and out of the sight of this lower or-
bit of Satan's kingdom; as those pass and repass invisi-
ble, I consess, 1 have yet had no ideas of them, but
those which I have received from my first view of the
insernal region: if I should have any superior eleva-
tions, and should be able to see the economy of Hea-»
yen,
297
ven, in his disposition of-things on earth, I shall be
as careful to convey them to posterity as they come in.
However, the tranfactions of good spirits with man,
are certainly the fame; for as God has, for a protection
and faseguard to mankind, limited the Devil from
affrighting him, by visible appearances in his native and
hellish deformity, and the horrid shape he would ne-
cesfarily bear; so, for man's selicity, even the glorious
angels of Heaven are very seldom allowed, at least not
lately, to appear in the glorious forms they formerly
took, or indeed in any form, or with a voice; the re-
straint of our fouls in the case of flesh and blood we
now wear, not admitting it, and not being able to fa-
miliarize those things to us; man being by no means,
in his incorporated state, qualisied for an open and easy
converfation with unembodied spirits.
Moreover, this would be breaking into the limits
which the wisdom and goodness of God has put to our
present state; Lmean, as to futurity, our ignorance in
which, is the greatest selicity of human life; and with-
out which necesfary blindness, man could not support
lise, for nature is no . way able to support a view into
futurity; I mean not into that part of futurity which
concerns us in our state of lise in this world.
I have often been myself among the number of those
fools, that would be their own fortune-tellers; but
when I look thus beyond the atmosphere, and see a
little speculatively into invisibles, I could easily per-
ceive, that it is our happiness that we are short-sighted
creatures, and can see but a very little before us: for ex-
ample, were we to, have the eyes of our fouls opened
through the eyes of our bodies, we should spe this very
immediate region of air which we breathe in, thronged
with
spirits, to us, blessed be God, now invisible, and which
would otherwise be most frightful: we should see into
the secret tranfactions of those messengers, who are em-
ploye s when the passing foul takes its leave of the re-,
luctant body, and perhaps see things nature would
shrink back from with the utmost terror and amaze-
ment. In a word, the curtain of Providence, for the
disposition of things here; and the curtain of judgment,
for the determination of the state of fouls hereafter,
would be alike drawn back; and what heart could sup-
port here its future state in life, much less that of its
future state after life, even good or bad.
It is then our selicity, that the converse of spirits,
and the visions of futurity, are silent, emblematic, and
done by hints, dreams, and impulses, and not by clear
vision and open discovery; they that defire a fuller and
plainer sight of these things, ask they know not what.
And it was a good answer of a gipsey, when a lady of
my acquain ance asked her to tell her fortune; * Do
not ask me, Lady,' faid the gipsey, ' to tell you what
you dare not hear.' The woman was a little honester
than her prosession intimated, and freely consessed it
was all a cheat, and that they knew nothing of for-
tunes; but had a course or round of doubtful ex-
pressions, to amuse ignorant people, and get a little
money.
Even the Devil's oracles, for such no doubt they
were at Delphos, and at other places, though the Devil
seemed, at that time, to have some liberties granted him,
which, it is evident, have since been denied him, were
allowed to be given only in doubtful expressions, dour
ble entendres, echoes of words, and such like: For
example,
example, a man going to sea, and enquiring of tho
oracle, thus:
Have I just cause the seas and storms to fear?
Echo. -. '- , Fear.
Another.
Shall we, the Parthian bowmen, fight or fly?
Echo. - Fly.
Such dark replies, and other words doubtful and
enigmatic, were frequently given and taken for answers,
by which the deluded world were kept in doubt of that
futurity they hunted after: but Satan, even then, was
not permitted to speak plain, or mankind to see what
awaited him behind the dark veil of futurity; nor was
it proper, on any account whatsoever, that it should be
otherwise.
But before I come to this, let me put some limits
to the elevations and visions I have mentioned before;
for as I am far from enthusiastic in my notions of
things, so I would not lead any one to fancy them-
selves farther enlightened than is meet, or to see things
unseeable, as St. Paul heard things unutterable.
And therefore let me add here, that the highest rap-
tures, trances, and elevations of the soul, are bounded
by the eternal decree of Heaven; and let men pretend
to what visions they please, it is all romance; all be-
yond what I have talked of above, is fabulous and ab-
surd; and it will for ever be true, as the Scripture fays,
not only * those things are hid from the eye,' but even
from the conception.
Upon this occasion I must own, that I think it is
(Criminal to attempt to form ideas either of Hell or of
Heaven
Heaven in the mind, other than as the Scripture has
described them, by the state rather than the place; we
are told, in plain words, ' it hath not entered into the
heart of man to conceive,'either.of what is prepared
for the future state of the happy or miserable; it is
enough for us to entertain the general notion, the fa-
vour of God is heaven, and the loss of it the most
dreadful of all hells.
A Heaven of joy must in his presence dwell;
And in his absence every place is Hell.
My meaning is this; all visions, or propounded vi-
sions, either of Heaven or Hell, are mere delusions of
the mind, and generally are fictions of a waking, be-
wildered head; and you may see the folly of them in
the meanest of the descriptions, which generally end in
shewing some glorious place, fine walks, noble illus-
trious palaces, gardens of gold, and people of shining
forms, and the like. Alas! these are all so short, that
they are unworthy the thoughts of a mind elevated two
degrees above darkness and dirt: all these things
amount to no more than Mahomet's Alcoran, and
the glorious state of things represented by him to his
believers. In Ihort, all this makes only a heaven of
fense, but comes so infinitely short of what alone must,
or can be a heaven to an exalted glorisied spirit, that I
as much want words to express how contemptible the
best of these descriptions are, as to a true description of
heaven, as I do to express a true idea, or description of
heaven myself.
And how should this be done? We can form no idea
of any thing that we know not and have not seen, but
in the fprm of something that we have seen. How
then.
then can we form an idea of God or Heaven, in any
form but of something which we have seen or known?
JBy what image in the mind can we judge of spirits? By
what idea conceive of eternal glory? Let us cease to
imagine concerning it; it is impossible to attain; it is
criminal to attempt it.
Let me, therefore, hint here, that supposing myself,
as before, in the orbit of the fun, take it in its immense
distance as our astronomers conceive of it, or on the
edge only of the atmosphere, with a clear view of the
whole solar system, the region of Satan's empire all in
view, and the world of spirits laid open to me.
Yet let me give you this for a check to your imagi-
nation, that even here, the space between finite and in-
finite is as impenetrable as on earth, and will for ever
be so, till our spirits being uncased, shall take their
flight to the center of glory, where every thing shall be
seen as it is; and therefore you must not be surprised,
if I am come down again from the verge of the world
of spirits, the fame short-sighted wretch, as to futurity
and things belonging to Heaven and Hell, as I went
up; for elevations of this kind are meant only to give
us a clearer view of what we are, not of what we shall
be; and it is an advantage worth travelling for too.
All this I thought necessary to prevent the whimfical
building of erroneous structures on my foundation, and
fancying themselves carried farther than they are able
to go.
I come therefore back to talk of things familiar, and
particularly to mention in the next place, some of
those other ways, by which we have notice given of this
converse of spirits which I have been speaking of; for
the
the whispers and insinuators I have mentioned, g<*
sometimes farther than ordinary.
One of those other methods is; when, by strong im-
pulses of the mind, as we call them, we are directed to
do, or not to do, this or that particular thing that we
have before us to do, or are under consultation about*
I am a witness to many of these things, as well in my
own lise, as in my observation of others.
I know a man, who being at some distance from
London, not above six or seven miles, a friend that
came to visit and dine with him urged him to go to
London. What for, fays his friend, is there any busi-
ness wants me? Nay, nothing, fays the other, but for
your company; I do not know of any thing wants
you; and so gave over importuning him. But as his
friend had given it over, a strong impulse of mind
seized him, and followed him like a voice, with this,
* go to London, go to London.' He put it by several
times, but it went on still, ' go to London, go to Lon-
don;' and nothing else could come upon his thoughts,
but 'go to London.' He came back to his friend,
* hark ye,' fays he,' tell me sincerely, is all well at Lon-
don? Am I wanted there? Did you ask me to go to
London with you on any particular account?' ' Not
I,' fays his friend, * in the least; I saw all your family,
and all is very Well there; nor did they fay they had
any particular occasion for you to return ; I only ask it,
as I told you, for the fake of your company.' So he put
off going again, but could have no quiet, for it still fol-
lowed him; and, no doubt, a good spirit communica-
ted it, ' go to London; and, at length, he resolved he
would go, and did so; and when he came there,
he found a letter and messengers had been at his
house
house to seek him, and to tell him of a particular busi-
ness, which was, first and last, worth above a thoufand
pounds to him, and which, if he had not been found
that very night, would have been in danger of being
lost.
I seriously advise all sober thinking persons, not to
disregard those powerful impulses of the mind, in
things otherwise indifferent or doubtful; but believe
them to be whispers from some kind spirit, which sees
something that we cannot see, and knows something
that we cannot know.
Besides, unless infinite power should take off the
silence that is imposed upon the inhabitants of the in-
visible world, and allow them to speak audibly, nothing
tan be a plainer voice; they are words spoken to the
mind, though not to the ear; and they are a certain in-
telligence of things unseen, because they are given by
persons unseen, and the event consirms it beyond all
dispute.
I know a man, who made it his rule always to obey
these silent hints ; and he has often declared to me,
that when he obeyed them he never miscarried, and if
he neglected them, or went on contrary to them, he
never succeeded; and gave me a particular case of his
own, among a great many others, wherein he was thus
directed. He had a particular case befallen him, where-
in he was under the displeasure of the government, and
was prosecuted for a misdemeanor, and brought to
a trial in the King's Bench court, where a verdict was
brought against him, and he was cast; and times run-
ning very hard, at that time, against the party he was
of, he was afraid to stand the hazard of a sentence, and
absconded, taking care to make due provision for his
bail,
bail, arid to pay them wfiatever they might suffer. Id
this circumstance he was in great distress, and no way-
presented unto him, but to fly out of the kingdom,
which being to leave his family, children, and employ
ment, was very bitter to him, and he knew not what
to do; all his friends advised him not to put himself
into the hands of the law, which, though the offence
was not capital, yet, in his circumstances, seemed to
threaten his utter ruin. In this extremity, he selt one
morning, (just as he had awaked, and the thoughts of
his misfortune began to return upon him;) I fay, he
felt a strong impulse darting into his mind thus, ' write
a letter to them:' it spoke so distinctly to him, and, as
it were, forcibly, that, as he has often faid since, he can
scarce persuade himself not to believe but that he heard
it; but he grants that he did not really hear it, too. .
However, it repeated the words daily and hourly to
him; till at length, walking about in his chamber where
he was hidden, very pensive and fad, it jogged him
again, and he answered aloud to it, as if it had been a
voice, 1 who shall I write to?' It returned immediately,
'write to the Judge.' This pursued him again for
several days, till at length he took his pen, ink, and
paper, and fat down to write, but-knew not one word
of what he should fay; but dabitur in bac hora, he
wanted not words: it was immediately impressed on
his mind, and the words flowed upon his pen, in a
manner that even charmed himselj7, and silled him with
expectations of success.
The letter was so strenuous in argument, so pathetic
in its eloquence, and so moving and persuasive, that as
soon as the judge read it, he sent him word he should
be easy, for he would endeavour to make that matter
light
light to him; and, in a word, never left it, till he ob-
tained to stop prosecution, and restore him to his liber-
ty and to his family.
These hints^ I fay, are of a nature too significant to
be neglected; whence they come, is the next enquiry.
I answer, they are the whispers of some subsisting spirit,
communicated to the soul without the help of the or-
gan, without the assistance of a particular sound, and
Without any other communication; but take it as you
go, not without the merciful disposition of that Power
that governs that world, as well as this that we are sen-
sible of; how near those spirits are to us, who thus
foresee what concerns us, and how they convey these
hints into our minds, as well waking as sleeping, or
how they are directed, that I could not discover, nor
can yet resolve, no, not in the highest of my imaginary
elevation, any more than in what manner they are li-
mited and restrained.
I have been asked by some, to whom I have talked,
freely of my frequent applications to these things, if I
knew any thing by those observations, of the manner
of the disposition of the human foul, after its departure
out of the body? I mean, as to its middle state, and whe-
ther, as some think, it has a wandering existence in the
upper part of the waste or abyss near to, but not in a
present, state os selicity? Whether it is still confined
within the atmosphere of the earth, according to others,
as in a limbus, or purgatory? Or in the circle of the
fun? as others fay. Whether 1 knew or perceived any
thing of our Saviour's being ascended into the body of
the sun only, and not into the highest heaven, receiving
his redeemed fouls to himself, and into an incorpora-
tion with his glory there, till the restitution of all
Vol. III. U things?
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
things? Whether s perceived any thing of Satan being
possessed of the reprobate fouls as they departed; and of
his substitutes, as executioners, being empowered and
employed to torment them, according to the received
notions of the wise contemplators of such things?
I answered, as I do now, that not only nothing of
all this appears; but, on the contrary, such serious con-
templations as mine, give a great and abundant reason
to be fatisfied, that there is nothing in it all, but mere
dream and enthusiastic conjecture: I own, that the
agents I mentioned, make use of all those things to ter-
rify and affright poor ignorant people out of their
senses; and to drive them often into desperation, and
after to restore them by a cure that is worse than the
distemper; namely, by a hardness and coldness of tem-
per, rejecting entirely all the notions of eternity and fu-
turity, and so fitting them to go out of the world as they
lived in it, viz. without troubling themselves with what
is to come after it.
But I return to the article of impulses of the mind;
for I lay greater weight upon these, than upon any of
the other discoveries of the invisible world, because they
have something in them relating to what we are about,
something directing, something to guide us in'avoiding
the evils that attend us, and to accepting, or rather em-
bracing opportunities of doing ourselves good when
they present, which many times, for want of the know-
ledge of our way, we irrecoverably let slip.
Voices, apparitions, noises, and all the other affright-
ing things, which unavoidably follow the neighbour-
hood of spirits in the air we breath in, seem to have
much less signification, as to us, than these seasonable,
kind
kind whispers to our fouls, which, it is plain, are di-
rected for the advantage of lise.
It seems hard, that mankind should be so open to
the secret insinuators, the whispering devils I have been
speaking of, who are, night and day, sleeping and wak-
ing, working upon his senses by the arts and fubtilties
of hell, to fill his imagination with a thoufand devilish
contrivances, to gratify his Vanity and lust; and that
our thoughts should be always ready to receive the im-
pressions they make, pressed to follow the insernal
counsel, be awake to listen to. all his directions, but
should be deaf to the instructions of any kind spirits
that would influence us for our advantage; and insen-
sible of those impressions which are made upon us for
our immediate good, by an agent good in itself, and
acting from a principle, whatever it be, of good to us.
We have a foolish faying, though taken from some-
thing that is more significant than we imagine, when
any danger has surprised us. * Well, my mind misgave
me when I was going about it: well, I knew some mis-
chief would come of it.' Did you so? And why then
did you do it? Why did you go on? Why, when your
mind misgave you, did you not obey the friendly cau-
tion? Whence do you think your mind received the
speaking, though silent impression? Why did not you
listen to it, as to a voice? For such a one it was, no
doubt: and let all those unthinking people, who go on
in any thing they are upon, contrary to those secret
silent impressions upon their minds; I fay, let them
know and observe it, they will very seldom fail of meet-
ing some mischief in the way; they will very seldom
fail of miscarrying in the way: I fay very seldom, be-
cause I would not take upon me to prescribe things po-
U 2 * sitively,
sitively, which the reader will take me up short in, and
say, how do I know it? But I will take the liberty to
fay, I durst be positive in it, relating to myself; and I
durst be positive from the nature and reason of the
thing.
As to my own experience, I wave faying much of it,
but that, in general, I never flighted these impulses, but
to my great misfortune; I never listened to and obeyed
them, but to my great advantage: but I chuse to argue
from the reason of them, rather than from my own ex-
perience.
As they are evident warnings of what is to come,
and are testisied daily and hourly by thcathings coming
to pass afterwards; so they are undeniable testimonies
that they proceed from some being intelligent of those
things that are at hand, while they are yet to come.
If then I am fatisfied, that it is a notice given from a
something, be it what it will, which is fully informed
of what is attending me, though concealed froni me,,
why should s slight the hint given me from any thing
that knows what I know not; and especially, for ex-
ample, for avoiding evils to come?
I know a person, who had so strong an impression:
upon her mind, that the house she was in would be
burnt that very night, that she could not go to sleep;
the impulse she had upon her mind pressed her not to-
go to bed, which, however, she resisted, and went to
bed; but was so terrisied with the thought which, as
she called it, run in her mind, that the house would be
burnt, that she could not go to sleep.
She had made so much discovery of her apprehen-
sions in the family, that they were all in a fright, and
applied themselves to search from the top of the house
i to
to the bottom, and to see every fire and every candle
fase out; so that, as they all faid, it was impossible any
thing could happen in the house: and they sent to the
neighbours on both sides, to do the like. Thus far
they did well; but had she obeyed the hint which
pressed upon her strangely not to go to bed, she had
done much better; for the fire was actually kindled at
that very time, though not broken out.
In about an hour after the whole family was in bed,
the house just over the way, directly opposite, was all in
a flame; and the wind, which was very high, blowing
the flame upon the house this gentlewoman lived in, so
filled it with smoke and fire in a sew moments, the
streets being narrow, that they had not air to breathe,
or time to do any thing, but jump out of their beds
and save their lives. Had she obeyed the hint given,
and not gone to bed, she might have faved several
things of value, which she lost; but as she neglected
that, and would go to bed, the moments she had spared
to her, Were but just sufficient to get out of bed, get
some cloaths on, and get down stairs; for the house
was on fire in half a quarter of an hour.
It might be asked here, why could not the fame kind
spirit have intimated, by the fame whispers, where the
danger lay, and from what quarter it was to be expect-
ed? In what manner the fire would attack them, and
that it would come from the other side of the street, the
wind blowing it directly upon them?
To this, I answer, that it is our business the more
vigilantly to observe and listen to the hints which are
given, seeing the intimations are not so particular as
we might wish, without enquiring into the reason? why
they are given no plainer. We have a great deal of
U 3 reason
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
reason so believe, the kind spirit that gives these intima-
tions, and whispers thus to us, gives us all the light it is
permitted to give, and whispers as much either as it
knows, or as it is allowed to communicate; otherwise,
why does it give any intimations at alls But, on the
other hand, it may be alleged, that enough is intima-
ted to suffice for our fasety, if we will obey the intima-
tion; and it would be a much more reasonable ques-
tion, to ask, why we slight and disobey the impression
that we acknowledge to have received, rather than why
the intimation was no plainer.
A person of my acquaintance, being to go to New
England by sea, two ships presented, and the masters
earnestly solicited to take him as a passenger. He asked
my advice, prosessing, that as well the ships, as the cap-
tains, were persectly indifferent to him; both the men
being equally agreeable to him, and the vessels equally
good. I had my eye upon this notion of impulses,
and pressed him to observe strictly, if he had not some
secret motion of his. mind to one ship rather than an-
other; and he faid he had riot.
After some time, he accidentally met one of the cap-
tains, and falling into terms with him, agreed for his
passage, and accordingly prepared to go on board; but
from the very time that he made the agreement, nay,
even while he was making the bargain, he had a strong
impression on his mind that he should not go in that
ship.
it was some days after this, that he told me of these
impressions, which increased on him every day; upon
which I pressed him earnestly not to go, but to take
passage with the other. After he had resolved upon
this, he came to me, and told me, that he had, with
some
3U
some difficulty, and some loss, put off the first ship; but
that now he had the fame, or rather stronger aversion
to going in the second ship; and had a strong impres-
sion on his mind, that if he went in the second ship, he
should be drowned. I bid him consider it a little, and
tell me if he had any farther intimations of it; and he
continued to tell me, that he had no rest about his go-
ing in either of those ships; and yet his affairs lay so,
that he was under a necessity of going, and there was no
other ship put up upon the Exchange for going.
I pressed him, however, not to venture by any means.
I convinced him, that those impulses of his mind,
were the whispers of some kind spirits that faw things
farther than he could, and were certainly given him as
cautions to fave him from some mischief which he
might not foresee; that it could be no evil spirit, be-
cause the keeping him back could be no injury to him,
of such a nature as would gratify the Devil in any part
of his usual defires; it must therefore be something for
his good, and he ought to be very cautious how he
flighted the silent admonition. In a word, I pre-
possessed him so much in aid of the secret impulses of
his own mind, that he resolved not to go that year;
and he faw clearly afterwards, that the secret intimation.
was from a good hand, for both the ships miscarried;
the first being taken by the Turks, and the latter cast
away, and all the men lost, the ship foundering at sea,
as was supposed, for she was never heard of.
I could sill this tract with accounts of this nature;
but the reason of the case is stronger that the example;
for as it is an intimation of something future, and that
is to come to pass, it is certain there is a state in which
what is future and must come to pass is known; and
v 4 why
why should we not believe the news, if it comes from
the place where the certainty of it is known?
Some give all this to a prescience peculiar to the soul
itself, and of a-kin to that we call the second fight; but
I see no ground for this but mere presumption. Others
call it an afflatus, which, they think, is a distemper of
the brain. Others call it a sympathetic power of the
soul, foreboding its own difasters. But all this is short
of the thing; for here is not a foreboding only, which
indeed is often selt, but is expressed another way; but
here is a direct intelligence; a plain intimation of the
evil, and warning to avoid it: this must be more than
an afflatus, more than a sympathy; this must be from a
certain knowledge of a thing that ex'ijls not, by a some-
thing that does exist, and must be communicated by a
converse of spirits unembodied, with the spirit embo-
died, for its good; unless you will call it divine revela-
tion; which I see no ground for.
All these reasonings make it abundantly our concern
to regard these things, as what we are greatly concern-
ed in: however, that is not the chief use I make of
them here; but,
I. They abundantly explain the nature of the world
of spirits, and the certainty of an existence after death.
II. They consirm, that the disposition of Providence
concerning man, and the event of things, are not so
much hidden from the inhabitants of that world as they
are from us: as also,
III. That spirits unembodied see with a sight dif-
fering from us, and ave capable of knowing what at-
tends us, when we.know nothing of it ourselves.
This offered many useful reflections to my mind,
which, however, it is impossible for me tp communi-
cate
313
-cate with the same vivacity, or to express with the fame
lise, that the impressions they make on my own
thoughts came with.
The knowledge of there being a world of spirits,
may be many ways useful to us; and especially that of
their seeing into futurity, so as to be able to communi-
cate to us, by what means soever they do it, what we
shall or shall not do, or what shall or shall not befall
us; to communicate dangers before us, so as they may
be avoided; and mischiess awaiting us, so as they may
be prevented; and even death itself, so as we may pre-
pare for it: for we may certainly, if we would attend
to these things, encreasc our acquaintance with them,
and that very much to our advantage.
I would be far from prompting the crazy imagina-
tions of hypochondriac distempered heads, which run
men out to so many extravagancies, and which, in fix-
ing their thoughts upon the real world of spirits, make
this an imaginary world of spirits to them ; who think
they are talked to from the invisible world by the
howling of every dog, or the screeching of every owl.
I believe it was much of this vapourish, dreaming fancy,
by which the augurs of the Romans determined events
from the flying of birds, and the entrails of beasts. It
will be hard for me to be prevailed. on to suppose, that
even those intelligent spirits which I speak of, who are
able, by such easy ways as the impulses of our minds,
dreams, and the like, to convey the knowledge of
things to us, can be put to the necessity, or find reason
to mtike use of the agency of dogs and birds, to convey
their notices by; this would be to suppose them to be
much more consined in their converse with us, than we
evidently find they are; and, on the other hand, would
suppose
suppose the inanimate world to have more knowledge
of the invisible than we have; whereas, on the other
hand, we know they have nothing at all to do with it.
There is only this to' be faid for it, namely, that
those inanimate creatures do it involuntarily, and, as
it were, under the power of a possellion.
I will not affirm, but that the invisible inhabitants I
have been speaking of, may have power to act upon the
brute creatures, so as to employ them, or make use of
their agency in the warnings and notices which they
give to us of things to come; but that the brutes have
otherwise any farther fight of things than we have, I
can see nothing at all of that. It is true, Balaam's ass
faw the angel with the flaming sword, standing in the
road, when the prophet did not; but the reason is
plainly expressed, the angel was really there, and actual-
ly presenting terror to them, with a flaming sword in
his band; only the prophet's eyes were miraculously
withheld, that he could not see him.
I shall unriddle this mystery of the agency of beasts
and birds, as far as reason dictates; and it seems to be
easy, upon the scheme of the nearness of the spirits I
am speaking of to us, and their concern to convey in-
telligence to us. They may, I fay, have power to ter-
rify the brutes, by horrible apparitions to them, so as
to force those howlings and screechings we have been
told of, and to do this in such places, and at such times,
as shall suit with the circumstances of the family or
person concerned; and so far their faid extraordinary
howlings and screechings may be signisicant: but that
the brutes can, either by fense, or by extraordinary
sight, have any foreknowledge os things in futurity re-
lating to us or to themselves, this has no foundation
in
3i5
in reason or philosophy, any more than it has in reli-
gion. Matter may act upon material objects, and so
the understanding or sense of a brute may act upon
- visible objects : but matter cannot act upon immate-
rial things ; and so the eye of a beast cannot see a spirit,
or the mind of a brute act upon futurity, eternity, and
the sublime things of a state to come.
What use then the spirits we speak of, inhabiting the
invisible world, can make of the inanimate world to
direct them, as missionaries to us, I do not see; neither
did I, in all my altitudes, perceive they employed any-
such agents.
It is from the misunderstanding of these things, that
we place abundance of incidents merely fortuitous, to
the Devil's account, which he knows nothing of:
many a storm blows, that is none of his raising; many
a midnight noise happens, that is none of his making:
if Satan, or his instruments, had one-tenth part of the
power, either of the air, or in the air, or over the ele-
ments, that we give them, in our imaginations, we.
should have our houses burnt every night, hurricanes
raised in the air, floods made in the country; and, in
a word, the world would not be habitable. But you
remember I told you, as powerful as he is, he is chain-
ed; he has a great clog at his foot, and he can do no-
thing by violence, or without permission.
I might hint here at abundance of idle, ridiculous
Devils, that we are daily told of, that come and only
make game among us, put out our candles, throw chairs
and stools about the house, breakglasses, make a smoke,
a stink of brimstone, kc. whereas, after all, the Devil
has no more sulphur about him than other folks ; and
J pan answer for it, that Satan is not disposed for
mirth j
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
mirth; all the frolics and gambols we ascribe to him,
I dare fay, are antics of our own brain. I heard of a
house in Essex, which they told me was haunted, and
that every night the Devil, or a spirit, call it which you
will, came into such a room, and made a most terrible
knocking, as if it had a hammer or a mallet, and this
for two or three hours together. At length, upon
looking about in an empty closet in that room, there
was found an old mallet, and this was presently con-
cluded to be the mallet which the Devil made such a
noise with; so it was taken away: but the next night,
they faid, the Devil made such a racket for want of the
mallet, that they were obliged to leave the mallet there
again; and every night, the Devil would come and
knock in the window, for two or three hours together,
with that mallet. I have seen the room, and the mal-
let, in neither of which was any thing extraordinary,
but never heard the noise, though I fat up to wait for
it; nor after causing the mallet to be taken away, was
there any noise: belike the mannerly spirit would not
disturb us who were strangers.
This passed for a most eminent piece of walking or
haunting; and all the difficulty was, to enquire to what
purpose all this disturbance was made, seeing there was
no end answered in it; and 1 always thought the Deyil
was too full of business to spend his time to no man-
ner of purpose.
At last, all the cheat was discovered, viz. that a
monkey, kept in a house three or four houses from it,
had found the way into that room, and came every
night almost, about midnight, and diverted himself
with the frolic, and then went home again.
It
If these things were not frequently detected, it Would
be a great scandal upon the Devil, that he had nothing
to employ himself in, more signisicant than rapping all
night with a hammer, to frighten and disturb the neigh-
bours, making noises, putting out candles, and the like.
When we come into the invisible state, of which we
now know so little, we shall be easily convinced, that
the Devil is otherwise employed, and has business of
much more importance upon his hands.
It would be very insignisicant, to have us so fre-
quently warned against Satan's devices, to have us be
cautioned to be sober and vigilant, knowing that our
adverfary, the Devil, goes about like a roaring lion,
seeking, &c. All these things import, that he is dili*
gent jn attacking us, watching all advantages, hunting
us down, circumventing, waiting, and constantly ply-
ing us with snares, that he may trepan and devour us.
This admits not of any of those simple, ludicrous, and
senseless digressions, which we set him to work upon
in our imaginations.
Perhaps it may be expected I should enter here upon
the subject of apparitions, and discourse with equal cer-
tainty of that yet undecided question, concerning the
reality of apparitions, and whether departed fouls can
revisit the place of their former existence, take up
shapes, bodies, and visible and apparent beings; assume
voices, and concern themselves with the affairs of lise*
of families, persons, and even of estates, and the like,
as many have affirmed they have been witnesses to.
I must be allowed to leave this where I find it; there
are some difficulties which I am not yet got over in it;
nor have I been elevated high enough to determine
that
that point, and shall not venture to decide it, without
more certainty than I am yet arrived to.
I would warn all people, not to suffer their imagina-
tions to form shapes and appearances where there are
none; and I may take upon me to fay, that the Devil
himself does not appear half so often as some people
think they see him; fancy governs many people, and a
sick brain forms strange things to itself: but it does not
follow from thence, that nothing can appear, because
nothing does at that time.
However, as my design is to instruct, not amuse, so
I fay, 1 forbear to enter upon a subject, which I must
leave as doubtful as I find it, and consequently talk of
to no purpose.
I have heard of a man, that would allow the reality
of apparitions, but would have it be nothing but the
Devil; that the souls of men departed, or good spirits,
never appeared. It happened, that to this very man
something appeared, as he faid, and insisted upon it to
the last.. He faid, he faw the shape of an ancient man
pass by him in the dusk of the evening, who, holding
up his hand, as it were in a threatening posture, faid
aloud, * O wicked creature! repent, repent!' He was
exceedingly terrisied, and consulted several people about
it, who all advised him seriously to take the advice; for
his lise made it well known, it seems, that he stood in
need of it. But being seriously debating about it, one
of his friends asked what he thought of the apparition,
and whether it was any of the Devil's business to bid
him repent; this puzzled his thoughts, and, in a word,
he grew a very sober man: but, after all, it was a real
man, and no apparition that spoke to him, though his
frightened fancy made him affirm that he vanished out
of
of his fight, which he did not. And the person who
did it, being a grave and pious gentleman, met him by
mere accident, without any design, and spoke as he did,
from the knowledge he had of his being indeed a most
wretched, wicked fellow. By the way, the gentleman
had the opportunity to hear the use that was made of
it, and to hear himself mistaken for an apparition of
the Devil; but he was so prudent as not to discover it
to the man, lest the reformation, which was the conse-
quence of the fright, should wear off, when he should
know that there was nothing in the thing but what
was common.
If we would always make the like good use of Satan's
real appearances, I do not know but it would go a great
way to banish him from the visible world; for I am
well assured he would very seldom visit us, if he thought
his coming would do us any good; at least, he would
never come but when he was sent; he would never
come willingly: for he is so absolutely at the divine
dispofal, that if Heaven commands, he must go, though
it were to do the good he abhors; not that I believe
Heaven ever thinks fit to employ him in doing good;
if ever he is let loose, it is to act in judgment, as an in-
strument of vengeance; and some are of opinion, he is
often employed as a destroying angel, though I do not
grant that; I can hardly think the justice of God would
gratify Satan's gust of doing evil so far, as to suffer him
to be even so much as an executioner: but that is by
the way.
I have another turn to give this part of my obser-
vations; which, though perhaps some may not think
st> much to the purpose, as entering into a critical en-
quiry
quiry aster the Devil's particular mission in these case's;
yet I think otherwise.
I have observed, that some desperate people make a
very ill use of the general notion, that there are no ap-
paritions nor spirits at all; and really the use they
make of it, is worse than the extreme of those, who, as
I faid, make visions and devils of every thing they see
or hear: for these men persuade themselves there are
no spirit- at all, either in the1 visible or invisible world;
and carrying it on farther, they next annihilate the
Devil, and believe nothing about him, either of one
kind or another.
This would not be of so much bad consequence, if
it was not always followed by a worse; namely, that
when they have prevailed with themselves to believe
there is no Devil, the next thing is, and they soon
come to it, that there is no God ; and so atheism takes
its rise in the fame sink, with a carelessness about fu-
turity.
I have no mind to enter upon an argument to prove
the being of our Maker, and to illustrate his power by
words, who has so many undeniable testimonies in the
breasts of every rational being to prove his existence.
But I have a mind to conclude this work with a Ihort
history of some atheists, which I met with many years
ago; and whether the facts are testified or not, may be
equally useful in the application, if you do not think
them a little too religious for you.
Some years ago, there was a young gentleman, a
scholar at the University, eminent for learning and vir
tue; of prompt parts, and great proficiency; insomuch,
that he was taken great notice of by the masters and
fellows, and every one promised fair in their thoughts
for
for him, that he would be a great man. It happened,
whether from his earnest desire of more knowledge, or
the opinion of his own great capacity, 1 know not
which, that this gentleman, falling-upon the study of
divinity, grew so opinionative, so very positive and dog-
matic in his notions in religious things, that by degrees
it came to this height, that his tutor faw plainly, he
had little more than notions in all his religious pre-
tences to knowledge, and concluded he would either
grow enthusiastic, or obstinately profane and atheistic.
He had three chums, or companions, in his studies,
and they all sell into the fame error, as well by the con-
sequence of a great deal of wit and little grace, as by the
example and leading of this other young gentleman,
who was indeed their oracle, almost in every thing.
As his tutor, who was a very good man, seared for
him, so it came to pass with him, and all the rest; for
they ran up their superficial notions in divinity to such
a height, that instead of reasoning themselves into good
principles of religion, they really reasoned themselves
out of all religion whatsoever; running on to expunge
every right idea from their minds, pretending those
things really were not, of which they could not desine
both how and what they were; they proceeded to deny
the existence of their. Maker, the certainty of a future
state, a resurrection, a judgment, a heaven, or a hell.
They were not contented to fatisfy themselves with,
these impious foundations, but they set up to dispute in
private societies against all revealed religion; thereby
bringing on themselves the curse denounced in Scrip-
ture against those that do evil, and teach men so to do.
In a little time they grew so public, that more company
came in, and which was worse, many joined with them
Vol. III. X in
in principle, or, as I should rather have faid, in casting
off all principles, and they began to be famous in th»
place, though to the offence of all good men, and were
called The Atheistical Club.
They soon began to see sober, religious people shun
them; and, in some time, upon information given, they
were obliged, by authority, to separate, for sear of pu-
nishment; so that they could not hold their public dis-
putations, as they began to do ; yet they abated nothing
of their wicked custom ; and this dreadful creature, who
set up at the head of the rest, began to be so open in his
blasphemies, that he was at length obliged to fly from
the University.
However, he went a great while before it came ta
that; and though he had been often admonished, yet,
instead of reclaiming, he grew the more impious, mak-
ing the most facred things his jest, and the subject of
his ridicule. He gave out, that he could frame a new
gospel, and a much better system of religion than that
which they called Christian; and that, if he would
trouble himself to go about it, he would not fail to-
draw in as great a part of the world to run after him,
as had been after any other. 1 care not to repeat any
of his blasphemous words; it is not to be supposed,
there can be any blasphemous, abominable thing, that
this set of wicked, wretched young men did not run
into; neither any wickedness, of that kind, within
their reach, which they did not commit.
It would be too long to enter into the particular his-
tory of these men, and how it pleased God to dispose
of them ; they might be in number, before they separa-
ted, about twenty-two in all: I shall tell you os some of
them, however, who did not run such lengths as the rest.
These
There was a young man, who frequented their society,
though, as he afterwards faid, he was rather persuaded
to be among them, than to be one of them; he had,
however, too' much yielded to their delusions; and
though they made him very much their jest, because
they found he still retained some little sense of a God,
and of a future state in his mind, yet he had yielded
dreadfully to them, and began to do so more and more
every day.
It happened one day, this young man was going to
their hellish society, and not minding the weather, the
clouds gathered over his head, and he was stopped by a
sudden shower of rain in the street: it rained so very
hard, that it obliged him to stand up in the gate-way of
an inn for some time; while he was standing here, a
great flash of lightning, more than ordinarily, sur-
prized him; it seems, the fire-coming so directly in his
face, that he selt the very warmth of it, and was ex-
ceedingly startled; in the fame moment almost, as is
natural in the case, followed such a clap of thunder,
that persectly astonished him. The rain continuing,
kept him in the gate-way, as I faid, for a good while,
till he had time for such reflections as these, ' Where
am I going? What am I going about? Who is it has
stopped me thus? Why are these thunders, these rains,
and this lightning thus terrible? And whence are they?'
And with the rest, came in this thought, warm and
swift as the lightning which had terrisied him before,
'What if there should be a God? What will become of
me then?' Terrisied with these things, he starts out of
the gate-way into the street, notwithstanding the wet,
and runs back through the rain, faying to himself as he
went, * I will go among them no more.' When he
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 323
.
came home to his chambers, he sell into dreadful ago-
nies of mind, and at length broke out thus: ' What
have I been doing? Have I been denying the power
that made me? Despising that God whose fire flaflied
just now in my face; and which, had not that mercy I
have abused interposed, might have burned me to death t
What kind of creature am I?' While he was thus giv-
ing vent to his reflections, a near relation of his, a
pious, good man, who had often used to speak veryplain-
ly to him of the horrid sin he was guilty of, happened
to come to visit him.
The young man had thrown himself upon his bed,
and had, with the deepest sense of his madness, and most
serious reproaches of himself for his horrid lise, been
expressing himself to his friend, and he had been com-
forting him in the best manner he could, when, after a
while, he defired his friend to retire, that he might be a
little alone, and might give vent to his thoughts with
the more freedom; and his friend, taking a book in his
hand, staid in the outer room.
In this interval came another scholar to the door,
who was one of the wicked company I mentioned just
now: he came not to visit this first gentleman, but to
call him to go with him to the usual meeting of their
dreadful society; and knocking at his chamber door,
.the gentleman who was left in the chamber, stepped
to the door, and looking through a little grate, not only
knew the person, but knew him to be one of the wick-
ed company I have-been speaking of. Now, as he was
very loath his friend should have such an interruption
to the good disposition he was then in; so, above all,
he was loath he should be persuaded to go any more
among that miserable gang; wherefore, he opened the
door
door a little way, so as he was not very distinctly seen,
and speaks aloud, in the person of his friend, thus: 'O
Sir, beseech them all to repent; for, depend upon it,
there is a God; tell them I fay so:' and with that, he
shut the door upon him violently, giving him no time
to reply, and going back into his friend's room, took
no notice of any body having been at the door at all.
The person who knocked at the door, you may sup-
pose, was one of the leaders of the company, a young
scholar of good parts and sense, but debauched by that
horrid crew; and one that had made himself eminent
for his declared opposition to all the common notions
of religion; a complete atheist, and publicly so, with-
out God, or the desire of God in the world: however,
as he afterwards consessed, the repulse he met with at
the door, and which he thought came from his friend,
gave him a strange shock at first, and silled him with
horror. He went down the college stairs in the great-
est confusion imaginable, and went musing along a good
-way, hot knowing where he was, or whither he went;
and in that embarrassment of thought, went a whole
street out of the way; the words had made an unusual
impression upon his mind; but he had his other sur-
prises too, for he thought his friend, for he believed
firmly that it was he that had spoken to him, had treat-
ed him very rudely.
Sometimes he resented it, and reflected upon it as an
affront, and once or twice was upon the point of going
back again to him, to know the reason of his using him
so, and to demand fatisfaction. But still the words,
there is a God, dwelt upon his mind, ' And what if it
should be so?' fays he, * what then?' Upon this ques-
tion to himself, the answer immediately occurred to his
X 3 mind,
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
mind, ' What then? Why then I am undone: for
have not I declared war against the very notion; desied
all pretenders to it, as mere enthusiasts and men of
whimsy?' However, after these thoughts, his mind
cooled a little again; and it offered to him, no doubt
injected by an evil spirit, that he should not trouble
himself with enquiring into it one way or another, but
be easy.
This pacisied him for a little while, and he shook off
the surprise he was in; the hardened temper seemed to
return, and he kept on his way towards the hellish so-
ciety that he was- going to before: but still the words
returned upon him, There is a God, and began to bring
some terror with it upon his mind; and the last words
of his friend came into his mind often, tell them I fay so..
This filled him with a curiosity which he could not
withstand, viz. of going back to his friend, and en-
quiring of him, what discoveries he had made of this
kind? How he came to have changed his mind so sud-
denly? And especially, how he was arrived to acertain-
ty ofthe thing?
I told you, that there had been a great shower of
rain, which had stopped the first young gentleman in
his way out; it seems, the day was still showery, and a
little rain happening to fall again, as this gentleman
went by a bookseller's shop, he stops at the door, to
stand up a little out of the wet.
There happens to be sitting in the shop, reading a
book, a gentleman of his acquaintance, though far dif-
fering from him in his principles, being a very sober,
studious, religious young man; a student in divinity of
the fame college; who, looking up, calied him in, and
aster a sew common falutes, he whispers in his ear;—
Student-
Student. I was looking in an old book here just now,
'and began the following short dialogue; and I found
four lines written on the back of the title page, which
put me in mind of you.
Atheist. Me! Why did they put you in mind of me?
Stud. I will tell you presently; come hither.
[He retires into a back room, and
calls the other after him.
Ath. Well, now tell me.
Stud. Because I think they are very fit for such an
atheistical wretch as you to read.
Ath. You are very civil."
Stud. You know you deserve it.
Ath. Come, let me see them, however.
Stud. Let me look in your face all the while then.
Ath. No, you sha'n't.
Stud. Then you sha'n't see them.
Ath. Well, let it alone then.
Stud. Come, give me your hand, you shall see them,
if you will promise to read them over three times. .
Ath. There is my hand, I'll read them out to you.
Stud. I'll hold your hand all the while, because I'll
be sure of your performance.
Ath. I'll warrant you I'll read them.
[He reads.
But if it should fallout, as who can tell?
That there may be a God, a Heaven, and Hell:
Had I not best consider well, for fear
'T Ihou'd be too late when my mistakes appear.
[He held him by the hand till that word, and
then let it go, presting gently one of his fingers.
Stud. Well, what do you fay to them?
X 4 Ath,
Ath. I'll tell you my thoughts farther by and by;
but first tell me, what did you press my hand for when
you let it go?
Stud. Did you seel no motion within you, when you
read those words, There may be a God?
Ath. What motion? What do you talk of?
Stud. Come, do not deny it; for I am a witness
against you.
Ath. Witness, for what? I have killed nobody; I
have robbed nobody, if you would turn informer, I
value not your evidence.
Stud. No, no, I shall not turn informer of that kind;
but I am a witness in your Maker's behalf.
Ath. What can you witness I
Stud. I'll tell you what I can witness; I can testify .
that your own conscience is against you, in your im-
pious denying the existence of that God that gave you
lise; you could not conceal it; I tell you I selt it.
Ath. How do you pretend to know what my con-
science dictates to me, or what the result of secret re-
flections may be in the mind? You may be mistaken;
have a care; you know you are not to bear false wit-
ness.
Stud. It is in vain to struggle with it; it is not to be
concealed; you betrayed yourself, I tell you.
Ath. How betrayed myself? You are mighty dark in
your expreflions.
Stud. Did I not tell you, I would look in your face
all the while you read? Did I not see into the distrac-
tion of your foul? Did you not turn pale at the very
words, when your tongue faid, There may be a God?
.Was there not a visible horror in your countenance,
when you read the word Heaven? A horror, which
signified!
signified a sense of your having no share in it, or hope
about it? And did I not seel a trembling in your very
joints, as I held you by the hand, when you read the
word Hell?
Ath. And was that it you held me by the hand for?
Stud. Indeed it was; I was persuaded I should find
it; for I could never believe, but an atheist had always
a hell within him, even while he braved it out against a
hell without him.
Ath. You speak enough to frighten one:—Ho«rcanyou
say, so positively, a tiding which you cannot be sure of?
Stud. Never add sin to sin, it is in vain to deny it.
Ath. Well, well, it is none of your business ; who
made you my father consessor?
, [He is a little angry.
Stud. Nay, do not be angry with your friend; and
though you are, do but take the hint, and be as angry
as you will.
Ath. What hint? What is it you aim at? Your
hints are all so general, I can make nothing of them.
Stud. I aim at nothing but your eternal selicity; I
thought those lines very apposite to your case, and was
wishing you had them, before I happened to see you.
I thought, that such a reflection in the case of atheism,
so natural, so plain, especially blessed from Him whose
secret voice can effectually reach the mind, might be
some means to open your eyes.
Ath. Open mine eyes! to what?
Stud. To something that I am persuaded you see
already in part, though I find you struggle hard against
your own convictions.
Ath. What is this something you speak of?
Stud.
Stud. I mean, in a sew words, what the lines you
have read mean, viz. ' That perhaps there may be a
God, a heaven, and hell.
Ath. I don't know but there may.
[He observes tears Jiand in bis eyes.
Stud. Well, I see it begins to touch you; if you are
uncertain, that is a step to conviction; and the rest of
the words you have read, are a most natural inserence
in your case.
You'd best consider well, for fear
*T stiou'd be too late when your mistakes appear.
Ath. What would you have me consider?
Stud. I am not able to enter into that part now; the
first thing, is to persuade you to look in; listen to the
voice of conscience; I am fatisfied you stand convicted
at that bar; you cannot plead not guilty there.
Ath. Convicted of what?
Stud. Of having acted contrary to the light of nature,
cf reason, and indeed of common sense; most impi-
ously denied the God whose air you breathe in, whose
earth you tread on, whose food you eat, whose cloaths
you wear; who is your lise, and will be your judge.
Ath. I do not absolutely deny; I tell you, I don't
know but there may be a God.
Stud. You don't know but there may! O Sir, I be-
seechyou repent; for certainly there is a God, depend
upon it; I say so.
Ath. You frighten me.
[He Jlarts, and looks surprised.
Stud. Indeed I think it may well frighten you.
Ath. But you frighten me upon a quite different ac-
Count from what you imagine; I am indeed very mi di
3 surprised,
surprised, and so would you too, if you knew the cir-
cumstance.
Stud. What circumstance,?
Ath. Pray did you hear those words spoken any
where to day before you spoke them?
Stud. No, not I.
Ath. Was you at Mr. 's chamber about half an
hour ago?
Stud. I have not been there this month past; I have
given over visiting him, and all such as he is, long ago.
Ath. Have you seen him to-day, or when did you last
see him? Did he speak those words to you, or you to
him?
Stud. I have not seen him since I faw him with you
about fourteen days ago; when your discourse, even
both of you, was so blasphemous, and so atheistical, as
made my very heart tremble, and I resolved never to
come into company with either of you again; and it
was that very discourse, that made me think of you
when I found those lines in this book; I should think
it an evident discovery of God, and what I might hope
should best forward your conviction, if his providence
should have sent you to this door at that minute, to re-
ceive the hint on this occasion.
Ath. There is something more than common in
every thing that has happened to me to day.
Stud. If you would explain yourself a little, I might
fay more; but you know very well, I cannot make the
least guess at what you mean.
Ath. Ask me no more questions, there must be a Gon
or A Devil in being.
[He looks wildly and amazed.
Stud,
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
Stud. Dear friend, there are both, depend upon it;
but I beseech you compose your mind, and do not re-
ceive the conviction with horror, but with comfort and
hope.
Ath. One or other of them has been concerned in
what has happened to me to-day; it has been a strange
day with me.
Stud. If it relates only to these things, perhaps it
may be of use to you to communicate the particulars;
at least, it may give some vent to the oppression of
thought which you seem to be under; you cannot open
your mind to one that has more earnest desires to do
you good, though perhaps pot sufficiently furnished to
advise you.
Ath. I must tell it or burst.
[H re he gave him the whole story of his going to
his friend's chamber, in order to take him with
him to the wicked club they had kept, and how
he Lad met with him at the door, and said the
same words to him that the student had repeat-
ed; and when he had done, fays he to his
friend,
And who now do you think must dictate the fame
words to him, and afterwards to you, to fay to me on the
fame occasion.
Stud. Who do I think! Nay, who do you think?
Ath. Who! The Devil, if there is a devil.
Stud. Why, do you think the Devil preaches re-
pentance?
[Hestandsstock-still, andfays not a word, which
the other perceiving, goes on;
Pray think seriously, for I see it does a little touch
your reason; is it likely the Devil should bid either of
4
us, or both of us, intreat you to repent? Is it the Devil,
think you, that would pronounce the certainty of the
great truth I speak of? Is it his business to convince
you that there is a God?.
Ath. That's very true.
Stud. One thing, however, I will fay in Satan's be-
half; and that is, that he never came up to your height
of finning. The Devil has frequently set up himself,
and persuaded poor deluded people to worship him as
a God; but, to do him justice, he never had the impu-
dence to deny the being of a God; that is a sin purely
human, and even among men very modern too; the
invention of witty men, as they call themselves; a way
they have lately found out to cherish superlative wick-
edness, and flatter themselves, that they shall have no
audit of their accounts in a future state; of whom it
may indeed be faid, in that particular, they have out-
finned the Devil.
Ath. Indeed I think we have.
Stud. I wish you would consider a little farther of it.
Ath- What can men consider that have gone that
length?
Stud. Yes, yes, remember what St. Peter faid of
Simon the sorcerer.
Ath. What was that?
Stud. Read Acts, viii. 22. -' Repent therefore of this
thy wickedness, and pray God, if perhaps the thought
of thine heart may be forgiven thee.'
Ath. No, no; the last of your verses is against me
there most directly.
Its all too late, now my mistakes appear.
Stud.
Stud. No, no; remember what you faid, that it must
be a God or a Devil.
Ath. What is that to the purpose?
Stud. Why you seemed fatisfied that it could not be
from the Devil.
. Atb. But what the better am I for that, if the other
is my enemy?
Stud. Much the better if it was from God; if the
words you heard were from God, and that two uncon-
certed persons so eminently concurred in speaking to
you, you cannot believe God would bid you repent, if
it was too late, or if he were your irreconcilable
enemy; on the contrary, if you believe it to be the
voice of his providence, you ought'to listen to and
obey it.
Ath. You have a strange power of persuasion; there
is no resisting your argument.
Stud. It is not in me to persuade, but Heaven may
make use of me to convince.
Atb. To convince, is to persuade ; I am convinced
that I have been a dreadful wretch.
Stud. I am persuaded you were convinced of that
before.
Ath. I cannot deny but my heart always struck me;
a kind of chill horror ran through my veins, when I
have uttered the blasphemous opinions that I have been
drawn into; my very blood stagnated at the thought of
it, and I look back on it with astonishment.
Stud. I tell you, I selt a tremor even in your flesh,
when you read the words, a God, a Heaven, a Hell.
Ath. I consess to you, my very heart funk within me
at the words,' who can tellmy foul answered, that I
could tell myself, that it both is and must be so.
Stud.
Stud. Conscience is a faithful and never-failing evi-
dence in his Maker's behalf.
Ath. It is a very terrible evidence against me, and
where will it end?
Stud. I hope it will end where it began; I mean, in
a heavenly call to you to repentance.
Ath. That is not always the consequence of convic-
tion.
Stud. You must therefore distinguish again, of what
proceeds from Heaven, what from Hell; the voice of
God, and the voice of the Devil; the first calls upon
you to repent, the last prompts you to despair,
Ath. Despair seems to be the natural consequence of
denying God; for it struts out the power that can alone
restore the mind.
Stud. The greater is that love which refuses to be
shut out; that sends such a heavenly summons to you
to repent, and in so eminent a manner. It is not your
having been an enemy, a blasphemer, a denyerof God.
Peter denied Christ three times; nay, the third time he
even abjured him; and yet mark the words, * The
Lord looked on him, and immediately he repented.'
Ath. My case is worse than Peter's.
Stud. And yet you see you are called on to repent.
Ath. I think you are called to make me repent;
there is is no answering you.
Stud. Amen; may 1 have the blessing of being an in-
strument to so good a work; there seems to be some-
thing extraordinary in it all.
Ath. It is all a surprise to me :—How came I hither?
5W.*Nay, how came I hither? How came this book
here? Who writ the lines in the frontispiece? How
eame I to read them? It is all a dream to me.
Ath.
Ath. How came you to think of me upon the read-
ing them? And how came 1 here just at the moments
and out of my way too? .
'[He lifts up his hands and cries out, There is a
God! Certainly there is I I am convinced of
it s It must be so I
Stud. Nothing more certain; nor is there any doubt
but all these things are of him.
Ath. But there are yet greater things behind; I wish
you would go with me to my friend, Mr. -'s cham-
ber: I am persuaded something yet more extraordinary
must have befallen him.
Stud. With all my heart.
[They both go to the first gentleman's chamber,
and found him at home, very much out of
order, but willing enough to discourse with
them.
Ath. Well, friend of mine, I hope you are better dis-
posed to your friends than when I faw you last.
Gent. Truly, when I faw you last, I was disposed
of by the Devil, and so I doubt was you; I hope I shall
never come into that horrid place again.
Ath. What horrid place?
Gent. You know where I mean; I tremble at the
very thoughts of the place, and much more of the com-
pany; I wish I could prevail upon you to come no
more among them too; I assure you, if I know myself,
and if God would assist me to do it, I would much ra-
ther go to a stake to be burned.
Stud. I rejoice in such an alteration, Sir, upon you;
I hope our friend here is of the fame mind; lo»g may
it continue in you both.
Ath.
Ath. Well, pray tell us something of the occasion of
this happy alteration; for it will seem still more strange,
how you came to be instrumental to my change, if I
know nothing of the means that brought about your
own.
Gent. Mine, I assure you, was all from Heaven:
not the light that shone about St. Paul, was more im-
mediately from Heaven, than the stroke that touched
my foul; it is true, I had no voice without, but a voice
has spoken, 1 hope, effectually to my understanding; I
had voice enough to tell me how I was in the hands of
that Power, that Majesty, that God, whom I had wick-
edly, and with a hardness not to be expressed, disowned
and denied.
Stud. Pray, Sir, if you care to have it known, give
us some account of the particulars of this wonderful
thing.
Gent. Sir, I shall do it freely; I think I ought not
to conceal it.
\Here he gives an account of the surprise he was
'in by the lightning; how he was flopped in
his way to his wicked company, and went back
to his chamber.
Ath. Well, now I will no more wonder at the falu-
tation you gave me, when I came to call you, but thank
you for it.
Gent. What falutation?
- Ath. Why, when I was at your chamber about two
hours ago.
Gent. You at my chamber 1
Ath. Nay, you need not conceal it, for I have told
our friend here all the story.
Vol. III. Y Gent.
Gent. I know nothing of what you talk of, much
less what you mean.
Ath. Nay, what need you go about to conceal it? I
tell you, I do not take it ill; I hope I may hare reason
to be thankful for what you said to me, and look upon
it as spoken from Heaven; for I assure you, it has been
an introduction to that light in my thoughts, which I
hope shall never be extinguished.
Gent. Dear friend, as I believe you are serious, so I
hope you believe 1 am so; I prosess I know nothing of
all you talk about.
Ath. Why, was I not at your door this afternoon, a
little after the great mower of rain?
Gent. Not that I know of.
Ath. Why, did not I knock at your chamber-door,
and you come to the door yourself and speak to me?
Gent. Not to-day, I am very sure of it.
Ath. Am I awake? Are you Mr. ?Am I sore
we are all alive, and know what we are faying, and to
whom?
Gent. I beseech you unriddle yourself, for I am sur-
prised.
Ath. Why, about three o'clock this afternoon, I
came to this chamber-door; I knocked; you came and
opened the door; I began to speak ; you interrupted me,
and
[ Here he repeats the passage at large, and his
own thoughts and resentment, as before.
Gent. Depend upon it, it was some voice from Hea-
ven, it was nothing of mine; I have not been at the
door since two of the clock, when I came first in, but
have been on the bed, or in my study, ever since;
wholly
I
Wholly taken up with my own thoughts, and very much
indisposed.
[The young man turns pale, andfalls into a swoon.
There was a great deal more belonging to this story,
but it is too long for the present purpose; I have re-
lated this part on several accounts, and it hits the pur-
pose I am upon many ways.
First. Here is a visible evidence of God, and of his
being and nature fixed so in the mind, that not
the most hardened atheist can deny it; nature
recoils at every endeavour to suppress it, and
the very pulfation of his blood shall discover and
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 339
Secondly. Yet, even in this, we fee how the power
of imagination may be worked up, by the secret
agency of an unknown hand: how'many things
concurred to make this man believe he had seen
an apparition, and heard a voice; and yet there
was nothing in it, but the voice of a man unseen
and mistaken. The young man was so surprised
at his friend's declaring that he knew nothing
of his coming there, that he concluded it had
been all a vision or apparition that opened the
door, and that it was a voice that had spoken to
him, of what kind he knew not; and the reflec-
tion upon this surprised him so much, as threw
him into a swoon; and yet here was neither
vision or voice, but that of an ordinary person,
and one who meant well, and faid well.
It is not to be doubted, but that many an apparition,
related with a great deal of certainty in the world, and
of which good ends have followed, has been no more
than such a serious mistake as this.
Y 3 But
But before I leave it, let me observe, that this should
not at all hinder us from making a very good use of
such things; for many a voice may be directed from
Heaven, that is not immediately spoken from thence;
as when the children cried Hofannah to our Saviour,
they fulsilled the Scripture, which faid,' out of the
mouths of babes and sucklings, thou hast ordained
praise;' so, doubtless, He that hath made all things, and
created all things, may appoint instruction to be given
by fortuitous accidents, and may direct concurring cir-
cumstances to touch and affect the mind as much, and
as effectually, as if they had been immediate and mira-
culous.
Thus was the two persons happening to fay the fame
words to the atheist; the strange reading of those lines,
when the person came into the bookseller's shop; the
incident of his running into the shop for shelter; and
many the like things of the fame nature, and ordered
in the fame manner as the cock crowing when Peter de-
nied Christ; which, though wonderfully concurrent
with what his blessed Master had foretold, yet was no
extraordinary thing in a cock, who naturally crows at
such a time in the morning.
In a word, all these things serve to convince us of a
great superintendency of divine Providence in the
minutest affairs of this world; of a manisest exist-
-ence of the invisible world; of the reality of spirits;
and of the intelligence between us and them. I hope I
have faid nothing of it to misguide anybody, or to assist
them to delude themselves; having spoken of it with the
utmost seriousness in my design, and with a sincere de-
fire for a general good.
x
THE
TRUE-BORN ENGLISHMAN;
S A T I RE.
Statuimus pacem, et securitatem, et concordiam judicium et jusli-
tiam, inter Anglos et Normannos, Francos, et Britones Walliæ .
et Cornubiæ, Pictos et Scotos Albaniæ, iimiliter inter Francos
et Insiilanos, Provincias, et Patrias, quæ pertinent ad coro-
nam nostram, ct inter omnes nobis subjectos, firmiter et invio-
labiliter obscrvari. Charta Regis Gulielmi. Conquijitoris,
De Paris Publica.—Cap. i.
I K
QPEAK
- ° Wheth
That make
Less happy
Wfay civij f
Than all ov
F°ols ou
Jhe court r
i,he grand,
10 get s0
*0rthk ~
forth
^ florid,
agood
And
INTRODUCTION.
SPEAK, Satire, for there's none can tell like thee,
Whether 'tis folly, pride, or knavery,
That makes this discontented land appear
Less happy now in times of peace, than war;
Why civil seuds disturb the nation more
Than all our bloody wars have done before.
Fools out of favour, grudge at knaves in place,
And men are always honest in disgrace.
The court preferments make men knaves in course,
But they which would be in them, would be worse.
'Tis not at foreigners that we repine, « .
Would foreigners their perquisites resign:
The grand contention's plainly to be seen,
To get some men put out, and some put in.
For this our senators make long harangues,
And florid members whet their polish'd tongues;
Statesmen are always fick of one disease,
And a good pension gives them present ease.
That's the specisick makes them all content
With any king and any government.
Good patriots at court abuses rail,
And all the nation's grievances bewail;
Y 4 But
34* INTRODUCTION.
But when the sovereign balfam's once apply'd,
The zealot never fails to change, his side;
And when he must the golden key resign,
The railing spirit comes about again.
Who mall this bubbled nation difabuse,
While they their own selicities refuse?
Who at the wars have made such mighty pother,
And now are falling out with one another;
With needless sears the jealous nation sill,
And always have been fav'd against their will:
Who fifty millions sterling have disburs'd,
To be with peace and too much plenty curs'd.
Who their old monarch eagerly undo,
And yet uneasily obey the new.
Search, Satire, search; a deep incision make;
The poison's strong, the antidote's too weak:
'Tis pointed truth must manage this dispute,
And downright English Englishmen confute.
. Whet thy just anger at the nation's pride,
And with keen phrase repel the vicious tide.
To Englishmen their own beginnings shew,
And aikthem why they slight their neighbours so.
Go back to elder times and ages past,
And nations into long oblivion cast,
To old Britannia's youthful day; retire,
And therefor true-born Englishmen enquire.
Britannia freely will disown the name,
And hardly knows herself from whence they came
Wonders that they of all men should pretend
To birth and blood, and for a name contend!
Go back to causes where our follies dwell,
And setch the dark original from hell ;—
Speak, Satire,—for there's none like thee can tell.
TRUE-BORN ENGLISHMAN;
A
SATIRE.
PART I.
WHEREVER God erects a house of pray'r,
The Devil always builds a chapel there;
And 'twill be found upon examination,
The latter has the largest congregation;
For ever since he first debauch'd the mind,
He made a persect conquest of mankind.
With uniformity of service, he
Reigns with a gen'ral aristocracy.
No non-conforming sects disturb his reign,
For of his yoke there's very sew complain.
He knows the genius and the inclination,
And matches proper fins for every nation:
He needs no standing'army government;
He always rules us by our own consent.
His laws are easy, and his gentle sway
Makes it exceeding pleafant to obey.
The list of his vicegerents and commanders,
Outdoes your Cæfars or your Alexanders.
They never fail of his insernal aid,
And he's as certain ne'er to be betray'd.
Through
346 THE TRUE-BORN ENGLISHMAN:
Through all the world they spread his vast command,
And death's eternal empire is maintain'd.
They rule so politicly and so well,
As if they were lords justices of hell;
Duly divided to debauch mankind,
And plant insernal dictates in the mind.
Pride, the first peer and president of hell,
To his share Spain, the largest province, sell.
The subtle prince thought fittest to bestow
On these the golden mines of Mexico,
With all the silver mountains of Peru,
Wealth which in wise hands would the world undo;
Because he knew their genius to be such,
Too lazy, and too haughty to be rich.
So proud a people, so above their fate,
That if reduc'd to beg, they'll beg in state:
Lavish of money to be counted brave, ,
And proudly starve, because they scorn to fave.
Never was nation in the world before
So very rich, and yet so very poor.
Lust chose the torrid zone of Italy,
Where blood serments in rapes and sodomy:
Where swelling veins o'erflow with livid streams,
With heat impregnate from Vefuvian flames:
Whose flowing sulphur forms insernal lakes,
And human body of the soil partakes.
There nature ever burns with hot defires,
Fann'd with luxuriant air from subterranean fires.
Here undisturb'd, in floods of scalding lust,
Th' insernal king reigns with insernal gust.
Drunk'nnefs, the darling favourite of hell,
Chose Germany to rule; and rules so well,
A SATIRE.
No subjects more obsequiously obey,
None please so well, or are so pleas'd as they:
The cunning artist manages so well,
He lets them bow to heaven, and drink to hell.
If but to wine and him they homage pay,
He cares not to what deity they pray;
What God they worship most, or in what way;
Whether by Luther, Calvin, or by Rome
They fail for heaven, by wine he steers them home.
Ungovern'd passion settled first in France,
Where mankind live in haste, and thrive by chance;
A dancing nation, fickle and untrue,
Who've oft undone themselves, and others too:
Prompt the insernal dictates to obey,
And in hell's favour none more great than they.
The pagan world he blindly leads away,
And personally rules with arbitrary sway:
The mask thrown off, plain Devil his title stands,
And what elsewhere he tempts, he there commands.
There with full gust th' ambition of his mind
Governs, as he of old in heaven design'd:
Worfliipp'd as God, his Painim altars smoke,
Embru'd with blood of those that him invoke.
'The rest by deputies he rules as well,
And plants the distant colonies of hell.
By1 them his secret power he well maintains,
And binds the world in his insernal chains.
By zeal the Irish, and the Russ by folly;
Fury the Dane,—the Swede by melancholy;
By stupid ignorance the Muscovite;
The Chinese, by a child of hell, call'd wit:
Wealth makes the Persian too effeminate,
And poverty the Tartars desperate:
The Turks and Moors by Mah'met he subdues,
And God has given him leave to rule the Jews:
Rage rules the Portuguese, and fraud the Scotch,
Revenge the Pole,—and avarice the Dutch.
Satire, be kind, and draw a silent veil,
Thy native England's vices to conceal;
Or if that task's impossible to do,
At least be just, and shew her virtues too;
Too great the first; alas! the last too sew.
England, unknown as yet, unpeopled lay;
Happy! had she rcmain'd so to this day.
And not to ev'ry nation been a prey.
Her open harbours, and her sertile plains,
The merchants glory these,—and those the swains,
To every barb'rous nation have betray'd her,
Who conquer her as oft as they invade her.
So beauty, guarded but by innocence,
That ruins her which should be her desence.
Ingratitude, a devil of black renown,
Possess'd her very early for his own;
An ugly, surly, sullen, selfish spirit,
Who Satan's worst persection does inherit;
Second to him in malice and in force,
All devil without,—and all within him worse.
He made her first-born race to be so rude,
And susfer'd her to-be so oft subdu'd;
By several crowds of wandr'ing thieves o'er-run,
Often unpeopled, and as oft undone.
While every nation that her powers reduc'd,
Their language and their manners introduc'd;
From whose mix'd relicks, our compounded breed
By spurious generation does succeed;
A S A T I R E. 349
Making a race uncertain and uneven,
Deriv'd from all the nations under heaven.
The Romans first with Julius Cæfar came,
Including all the nations of that name;
Gauls, Greeks, and Lombards ; and, by computation,
Auxiliaries or slaves of every nation.
With Hengist, Saxons; Danes with Sueno came,
In search of plunder, not in search of fame.
Scots, Picts, and Irish from th' Hibernian shore,
And conquering William brought the Normans o'er.
All these their barb'rous offspring left behind,
The dregs of armies, they—of all mankind;
Blended with Britons who before were here,'
Of whom the Welsh have blest the character.
From this amphibious, ill-born mob, began
That vain, ill-natur'd thing,—an Englishman.
The customs, surnames, languages, and manners
Of all these nations, are their own explainers.
Whose relicks are so lasting, and so strong,
They've left a Shiboleth upon our tongue,
By which, with easy search, you may distinguish
Your Roman-Saxon-Danish-Norman-English.
The great invading Norman let us know
What conquerors in after-times might do;
To every musqueteer he brought to town,
He gave the lands,—which never were his own.
When first the English crown he did obtain,
He did not send his Dutchmen home again.
No re-assumptions in his reign were known;
Dav'nant might there have let his book alone.
No parliament his army could disband,
He rais'd no money,—for he paid in land.
He gave his legions their eternal station,
And made them all freeholders of the nation.
He canton'd out the country to his men,
And every soldier was a denizen.
The rascals thus enrich'd, he calf d them lords, "|
To please their upstart pride with new-made words ; I
And doomsday-book his tyranny records. J
And here begins our ancient pedigree,
That so exalts our poor nobility.
'Tis that from some French trooper they derive,
Who with the Norman bastard did arrive.
The trophies of the families appear; "j
Some shew the sword, the bow, and some the spear t
Which their great ancestor, forsooth, did wear J
These in the herald's register remain,
Their noble-mean extraction to explain:
Yet who the hero was, no man can tell,
Whether a drummer, or a colonel.
The silent record blushes to reveal
Their undescended, dark original.,
But grant the best; how came the change to pass,
A true-born Englishman of Norman race?
A Turkish horse can shew more history,
To prove his well-descended family.
Conquest, as by the moderns 'tis express'd,
May give a title to the lands posiess'd;
But that the longest swordshould be so civil
To make a Frenchman English,—that's the devil I
These are the heroes who despise the Dutch,
And rail at new-come foreigners so much;
Forgetting that themselves are all deriv'd
From the most scoundrel race that ever liv'd j
A horrid
A horrid crowd of rambling thieves and drones,
Who ranfack'd kingdoms, and dispeopled towns.
The Pict and painted Briton, treach'rous Scot,
By hunger, theft, and rapine hither brought;
Norwegian pirates, buccaneering Danes,
Whose red-hair'd offspring every where remains;
Who, join'd withNorman-French, compound thebreed
From Whence your true-born Englishmen proceed.
And, lest by length of time, it be pretended
The climate may this modern breed have mended,
Wise Providence, to keep us where we are,
Mixes us daily with exceeding care:
We have been Europe's sink,—the jakes, where she
Voids all her offal, outcast progeny.
From our fifth Henry's time, the strolling bands
Of banish'd fugitives from neighb'ring lands,
Have here a certain fanctuary-found,
Th' eternal refuge of the vagabond;
Where, in but half a common age of time,
Borr'wing new blood and manners from the clime,
Proudly they learn all mankind to contemn,
And all their race are true-born Englishmen.
Dutch, Walloons", Flemings, Irishmen, and Scots,
Vaudois, and Valtolins, and Hugonots,
In good Queen Bess's charitable reign,
Supply'd us with three hundred thoufand men:
Religion, (God, we thank thee !) sent them hither;
Priests, Protestants, the devil aud all together:
Of all prosessions, and of every trade,
All that were persecuted or afraid,
Whether for debt, or other crimes they fled, .
David at Hackelah was still their head..
The
The offspring of this miscellaneous crowd
Had not.their new plantations long enjoy'd,
But they grew Englishmen,—and rais'd their throats
At foreign shoals of interloping Scots.
The royal branch from Pict land did succeed,
With troops of Scots and scabs from North-by-Tweed j
The seven first years of his pacisic reign,
Made him and half his nation Englishmen.
Scots from the northern, frozen banks of Tay,
With packs and plods came whigging all the way:
Thick as the locusts which in Ægypt swarm'd,
With pride and hungry hopes completely arm'd;
. With native truth, diseases, and no money,
Plunder'd our Canaan of the milk and honey.
Here they grew quickly lords and gentlemen,
And all their race are true-born Englishmen.
The civil wars, the common purgative,
Which always us'd to make the nation thrive,
Made way for all that strolling congregation,
Which throng'd on pious Charles's restoration.
The royal refugee our breed restores
With foreign courtiers, and with foreign whores;
And carefully re-peopled us again,
Throughout his lazy, long, lascivious reign,
With such a blest, and true-born English fry,
As much illustrates our nobility.
A gratitude which will so black appear,
As future ages must abhor to hear,
When they look back on all that crimson flood
Which stream'd in Lindsey's and Caernarvon's blood ,
Bold Strafford, Cambridge, Capel, Lucas, Lisle,
Who crown'd in death his father's fun'ral pile.
The loss of whom, in order to supply,
With true-born English nobility,
Six bastard dukes survive his luscious reign,
The labours of Italian Castlemain, }-
French Portsmouth, Taby Scot, and Cambrian. J
Besides the num'rous bright and virgin throng,
Whose semale glories shade them from my song.
This offspring, if one age they multiply,
May half the House with English Peers supply:
There with true English pride they may contemn
Schomberg and Portland, new-made noblemen.
French cooks, Scotch pedlars, and Italian whores,
Were all made lords, or lords progenitors.
Beggars and bastards by his new creation,
Much multiply'd the peerage of the nation;
Who will be all, ere one short age runs o'er,
As true-born lords as those we had before.
Then to recruit the Commons he prepares,
And heal the latent breaches of the wars;
The pious purpose better to advance,
H' invites the banish'd Protestants of France:
Hither for God's-fake, and their own, they fled,
Some for religion came, and some for bread:
Two hundred thoufand pair of wooden shoes,
Who, God be thank'd, had nothing left to lose;
To Heav'n's great praise, did for religion fly,
To make us starve our poor in charity.
In ev'ry port they plant their fruitful train,
To get a race of true-born Englishmen:
Whose children will, when riper years they see,
Be as ill-natur'd and as proud as we:
Call themselves English, foreigners despise,
Be surly like us ail,—and just as wise.
Vol. III. Z Thus
Thus from a mixture of all kinds, began
That het'rogeneous thing, an Englishman:
In eager rapes and furious lust begot,
Betwixt a painted Briton and a Scot.
Whose gend'ring offspring quickly learn'd to bow,
And yoke their heisers to the Roman plough:
From whence a mongrel, half-bred race there came,
With neither name, nor nation, speech or fame.
In whose hot veins new mixtures quickly ran,
Infus'd betwixt a Saxon and a Dane.
While their rankvdaughters, to their parents just,
Receiv'd all nations with promiscuous lust.
This nauseous brood directly did contain
The well extracted blood of Englishmen.
Which medley, canton'd in a heptarchy,
A rhapsody of nations to supply,
Among themselves maintain'd eternal wars,
And still the ladies lov'd the conquerors.
The Western Angles all the rest subdu'd;
A bloody nation, barbarous and rude:
Who by the tenure of the sword possest
One part of Britain, and subdu'd the rest.
And as great things denominate the small,
The conqu'ring part gave title to the whole-
The Scot, Pict, Briton, Roman, Dane, submit,
And with the English-Saxon all unite:
And these the mixture have so close pursu'd,
The very name and memory's fubdu*d:
No Roman now, no Briton does remain;
Wales strove to separate, but strove in vain:
The silent nations undistinguish'd fall,
And Englishman's the common name for all.
3 Fate
Fate jumbled them together, God knows hoii);
Whate'er they were, they're true-born English now.
The wonder which remains is at our pride,
To value that which all wise men deride;
For Englishmen to boast of generation,
Cancels their knowledge, and lampoons the nation.
A true-born Englishman's a contradiction*
In speech an irony, in fact a fiction:
A banter, made to be a test of fools,
Which those that use it justly ridicules,
A metaphor, invented to express
A man a-kin to all the universe.
For as the Scot, as learned men ha' faid,
Throughout the world their wand'ring speed ha' spread;
So open-handed England, 'tis believ'd,
Has all the gleanings of the world receiv'd.
Some think of England 'twas our Saviour meant,
The gospel should to all the world be sent:
Since, when the blessed sound did hither reach,
They to all nations might be faid to preach.
'Tis well that virtue gives nobility,
How shall we else the want of birth and blood supply?
Since scarce one family is left alive,
Which does not from some foreigner derive.
Of sixty thoufand English gentlemen,
Whose names and arms in registers remain,
We challenge all our heralds to declare
Ten families which English-Saxons are*
France justly boasts the ancient noble line
Of Bourbon, Montmorency, and Lorrain.
The Germans too their House of Austria show,
And Holland their invincible Nassau.
Z 2 Lines
Lines which in heraldry were ancient grownr
Before the name of Englishman was known.
Even Scotland too, her elder glory shows,
Her Gordons, Hamiltons, and her Monroes;
Douglas, Mackays, and Grahams, names well knows,
Long before ancient England knew her own.
But England, modern to the last degree, "]
Borrows or makes her own nobility,!
And yet she boldly boasts of pedigree; J
Repines that foreigners are put upon her,
And talks of her antiquity and honour:
Her S—11s, S Is, C Is, De la, M rs, -|
M ns and M ues, D—s, and V rs, J
Not one have English names, yet all are English Peers. J
Your Houblons, Papillons, and Lethuliers, ]
Pass now for true-born English knights and 'squires, |
And make good senate members, or lord mayors. J
Wealth, howsoever got, in England makes
Lords of mechanicks, gentlemen of rakes:
Antiquity and birth are needless here;
'sis impudence and money makes a peer.
Innumerable city knights, we know,
From Bluecoat Hospitals and Bridewell flow.
Draymen and porters sill the city chair,
And foot-boys magisterial purple wear.
Fate has but very small distinction set
Betwixt the counter and the coronet.
Tarpaulin lords, pages of high renown,
Rise up by poor mens valour, not their own.
Great families of yesterday we show,
And lords, whose parents were—the Lord knows who.
357
PART II.
THE breed's describ'd : Now Satire, if you can,
Their temper show; for manners make the man.
Fierce as the Briton; as the Roman brave;
And less inclin'd to conquer, than to fave:
Eager to sight, and lavish of their blood;
And equally of sear and forecast void.
The Pict has made 'em four, the Dane morose;
False from the Scot, and from the Norman worse.
What honesty they have, the Saxons gave them;
And that, now they grow old, begins to leave them;
The climate makes them terrible and bold,
And English beef their courage does uphold:
No danger can their daring spirit pall,
Always provided—that their belly's full.
In close intrigues their faculty's but weak,
For gen'rally whate'er they know they speak:
And often their own councils undermine
Ky their infirmity, and not design;
From whence the learned fay it does proceed,
That English treasons never can succeed;
For they're so open-hearted, you may know
Their own most secret thoughts, and others too.
The lab'ring poor, in spight of double pay,
Are faucy, mutinous, and beggarly:
So lavish of their money and their time,
TJjat want of forecast is the nation's crime.
Z 3 Good
Good drunken company is their delight;
And what they get by day they spend by night.
Dull thinking seldom does their heads engage,
But drink their youth away, and hurry on old age.
Empty of all good husbandry and sense;
And void of manners most, when void of pence.
Their strong aversion to behaviour's such,
They always talk too little, or too much.
So dull, they never take the pains to think:
And seldom are good-matur'd, but in drink.
In English ale their dear enjoyment lies,
For which they'll starve themselves and families.
An Englishman will fairly drink as much
As will maintain two families of Dutch:
Subjecting all their labour to their pots,
The greatest artists are the greatest sots.
The country poor do by example live,
The gentry lead them, and the clergy drive;
What may we not from such examples hope?
The landlord is their God, the priest their Pope,
A drunken clergy, and a swearing bench,
Has giv'n the reformation such a drench,
As wise men think there is some cause to doubt,
Will purge good manners and religion out.
Nor do the poor alone their liquor prize,
The fages join in this great facrisice.
The learned men who study Aristotle,
Correct him with an explanation bottle;
Praise Epicurus rather than Lyfander,
And Aristippus more than Alexander.
The doctors too their Galen here resign,
And gen'rally prescribe specisic wine,
The graduate's study's grown an easier task,
While for the urinal they toss the flafit.
The surgeon's art grows plainer ev'ry hour,
And wine's the balm which into wounds they pour.
Poets long since Parnassus have forfaken,
And fay the ancient bards were all mistaken.
Apollo's lately abdicate and fled,'
And good King Bacchus governs in his stead;
He does the chaos of the head resine,
And atom thoughts jump into words by wine;
The inspiration's of a finer nature;
As wine must needs excel Parnassus water.
Statesmen their weighty politics resine,
And soldiers raise their courages by wine;
Cecilia gives her choristers their choice,
And let's them all drink wine—to clear their voice.
Some think the clergy first found out the way,
And wine's the only spirit by which they pray.
But others, less profane than so, agree
It clears the lungs and helps the memory:
And therefore all of them divinely think, -
Instead of study, 'tis as well to drink.
And here I would be very glad to know,
Whether our Asgilites may drink or no.
Th' enlightning fumes of wine, would certainly
Assist them much when they begin to fly:
Or if a fiery chariot should appear,
Inflam'd by wine, they'd ha' the less to sear.
Even the gods themselves, as mortals fay,
Were they on earth, wou'd be as drunk as they:
Nectar would be no more celestial drink,
They'd all take wine, to teach them how to think.
Z 4 But
But English drunkards, gods and men out-do,
Drink their estates away, and senses too.
Colon's in debt, and if his friends should fail
To help him out, must die at last in gaol;
His wealthy uncle sent a hundred nobles,
To pay his trifles off, and rid him of his troubles
But Colon, like a true-born Englishman,
Drank all the money out in bright champaign;
And Colon does in custody remain.
Drunk'ness has been the darling of the realm,
E'er since a drunken pilot had the helm.
In their religion, they are so unev'n,
That each man goes his own by-way to heaven.
Tenacious of mistakes to that degree,
That ev'ry man pursues it sep'rately,
And fancies none can sind the way but he:
So shy of one another they are grown,
As if they strove to get to heav'n alone.
Rigid and zealous, positive and grave,
And ev'ry grace, but charity, they have:
This makes them so ill-natur'd and uncivil,
That all men think an Englishman the devil.
Surly to strangers, froward to their friend;
Submit to love with a reluctant mind;
Refolv'd to be ungrateful and unkind.
If by necessity redue'd totask,
The giver has the difficultest task:
For what's bestow'd they aukwardly receive,
And always take less freely than they give.
The obligation is their highest grief;
And never love, where they accept relief.
So sullen in their sorrows, that 'tis known,
They'll rather die than their afflictions own:
And if reliev'd, it is too often true,
That they'll abuse their benefactors too:
For in distress their haughty stomach's such,
They hate to see themselves oblig'd too much;
Seldom contented, often in the wrong;
Hard to be pleas'd at all, and never long.
If your mistakes their ill-opinion gain,
No merit can their favour re-obtain:
And if they're not vindictive in their fury,
'Tis their unconstant temper does secure ye;
Their brain's so cool, their passion seldom burns;
For all's condens'd before the flame returns:
The sermentation's of so weak a matter,
The humid damps the fume, and runs it all to water.
So tho' the inclination may be strong,
They're pleas'd by fits, and never angry long.
Then if good nature shows some slender proof,
They never think they have reward enough;
But like our modern Quakers of the town,
Expect your manners, and return you none.
Friendship, th' abstracted union of the mind,
Which all men seek, but very sew can find;
Of all the nations in the universe,
None talk on't more, or understand it less:
For if it does their property annoy,
Their property their friendship will destroy.
As you discourse them, you shall hear them tell
All things in which they think they do excell:
No panegyric needs their praise record;
An Englishman ne'er wants his own good word.
His long discourses gen'rally appear
Pi ologu'd with his own wond'rous character:
But
But first, t' illustrate bis own good name,
He never fails his neighbour to defame:
And yet he really designs no wrong;
His malice goes no farther than his tongue.
But pleas'd to tattle, he delights to rail,
To fatisfy the lech'ry of a talc.
His own dear praises close the ample speech,
Tells you how wife he is; that is, how rich:
For wealth is wisdom; he that's rich is wise;
And all men learned poverty despise:
His generosity comes next,—and then
Concludes that he's a true-born Englishman;
And they, 'tis known, are generous and free,
Forgetting, and forgiving injury:
Which may be true, thus rightly understood,
Forgiving ill turns, and forgetting good.
Cheerful in labour, when they've undertook it,
But out of humour, when they're out of pocket.
But if their belly and their pocket's full,
They may be phlegmatic, but never dull:
And if a bottle does their brains resine,
It makes their wit as sparkling as their wine.
As for the gen'ral vices which we find
They're guilty of, in common with mankind,
Satire, forbear, and silently endure;
We must conceal the crimes we cannot cure.
Nor shall my verse the brighter sex defame;
For English beauty will preserve her name.
Beyond dispute, agreeable and fair,
And modester than other nations arc:
For where the vice prevails, the great temptation
Is want of money more than inclination.
In general, this only is allow'd,
They're something noisy, and a little proud.
An Englishman is gentlest in command;
Obedience is a stranger in the land:
Hardly subjected to the magistrate;
For Englishmen do all subjection hate.
Humblest when rich, but peevish when they're poor,
And think whate'er they have, they merit more.
The meanest English plowman studies law,
And keeps thereby the magistrates in awe;
Will boldly tell them what they ought to do,
And sometimes punish their omissions too.
Their liberty and property's so dear,
They scorn their laws or governors to sear:
So bugbear'd with the name of slavery,
They can't submit to their own liberty.
Restraint from ill, is freedom to the wise;
But Englishmen do all restraint despise.
Slaves to the liquor, drudges to the pots,
The mob are statesmen, and their statesmen sots.
Their governors they count such dang'rous things,
That 'tis their custom to affront their kings:
So jealous of the pow'r their kings possess'd,
They suffer neither power nor kings to rest.
The bad with force they eagerly subdue; "j
The good with constant clamours they pursue: >
And did King Jesus reign, they'd murmur too. J
A discontented nation, and by far
Harder to rule in times of peace than war:
Easily set together by the ears,
And full of causeless jealousies and sears:
Apt to revolt, and willing to rebel,
And never are contented when they're well.
No
No government cou'd ever please them long,
Cou'd tie their hands, or rectify their tongue.
In this to ancient Israel well compar'd,
Eternal murmurs are among them heard.
It was but lately that they were opprest,
Their rights invaded, and their laws supprest:
When nicely tender of their liberty,
Lord! what a noise they made of slavery.
In daily tumults shew'd their discontent;
Lampoon'd their king, and mock'd his government.
And if in arms they did not first appear,
'Tis want of force, and not for want of sear.
In humbler tone than English us'd to do,
At foreign hands, for foreign aid they sue.
William, the great successor of Nassau,
Their prayers heard, and their oppressions faw:
He faw and fav'd them: God and him they prais'd;
To this their thanks, to that their trophies rais'd.
But glutted with their own selicities,
They soon their new deliv'rer despise;
Say all their prayers back, their joy disown,
Unsing their thanks, and pull their trophies down:
Their harps of praise are on the willows hung;
For Englishmen are ne'er contented long.
The rev'rend clergy too! and who'd ha' thought
That they, who had such non-resistance taught,
Should e'er to arms against their prince be brought?'
Who up to heav'n did regal pow'r advance,
Subjecting English laws to modes of France;
Twisting religion so with loyalty,
As one cou'd never live, and t'other die.
And yet, no sooner did their prince design
Their glebes and perquisites to undermine,
But all their passive doctrines laid aside,
The clergy their own principles deny'd:
Unpreach'd their non-resisting cant, and pray'd
To heav'n for help, and to the Dutch for aid.
The church chim'd all her doctrines back again,
And pulpit champions did the cause maintain;
Flew in the face of all their former zeal,
And non-resistance did at once repeal.
The Rabbies fay it would be too prolix, "J
To tie religion up to politics; . >
The church's fasety issuprema lex. J
And so, by a new sigure of their own,
Their former doctrines all at once disown.
As laws post fatto in the Parliament,
In urgent cases have obtain'd assent;
But are as dang'rous precedents laid by,
Made lawful only by necessity.
The rev'rend fathers then in arms appear,
And men of God became the men of war.
The nation, fit'd by them, to arms apply,
Assault their antichristian monarchy;
To their due channel all our laws restore,
And made things what they shou'd ha' been before.
But when they came to sill the vacant throne,
And the pale priests look'd back on what they'd done;
How English liberty began to thrive,
And Church of England loyalty outlive:
How all their persecuting days were done,
And their deliv'rer plac'd upon the throne;
The priests, as priests are wont to do, turn'd tail;
They're Englishmen, and nature will prevail.
Now they deplore the ruins they ha' made,
And murmur for the master they betray'd.
Excuse
Excuse those crimes they cou'd not make him mend,
And suffer for the cause they can't desend.
Pretend they'd not have carried things so high,
And proto-martyrs make for Popery.
Had the prince done as they design'd the thing,
Ha' set the clergy up to rule the king;
Taken a donative for coming hither,
And so ha' left their king and them together,
We had, fay they, been now a happy nation.
No doubt we'd seen a blessed reformation:
For wise men fay't's as dangerous a thing,
A ruling priesthood, as a priest-rid king.
And of all plagues with which mankind are curst,
Ecclesiastic tyranny's the worst.
If all our former grievances were seign'd,
King James has been abus'd, and wetrepann'd;
Bugbear'd with Popery, and power despotic,
Tyrannic government, and leagues exotic:
The Revolution's a fanatic plot,
William a tyrant, and King James was not:
A factious army, and a poison'd nation,
Unjustly forc'd King James's abdication.
But if he did the subject's rights invade,
Then he was punish'd only, not betray'd;
And punishing of kings is no such crime,
But Englishmen ha' done it many a time
When kings the sword of justice first lay down,
They are no kings, tho' they possess the crown.
Titles are shadows, crowns are empty things;
The good of subjects is the end of kings:
To guide in war, and to protect in peace;
Where tyrants once commence the kings do cease:
367
For arbitrary power's so strange a thing,
It makes the tyrant, and unmakes the king.
If kings by foreign priests and armies reign,
And lawless power against their oaths maintain,
Then subjects must ha' reason to complain.
If oaths must bind us when our kings do ill,
To call in foreign aid is to rebel.
By force to circumscribe our lawful prince,
Is wilful treason in the largest sense:
And they who once rebel, must certainly
Their God, and king, and former oaths defy,
If we allow no mal-administration
Could cancel the allegiance of the nation:
Let all our learned sons of Levi try,
This eccles'astic riddle to untie:
How they cou'd make a step to call the prince,
And yet pretend to oaths of innocence.
By th' first address they made beyond the seas,
They're perjur'd in the most intense degrees;
And without scruple, for the time to come,
May swear to all the kings in Christendom,
And truly, did our kings consider all,
They'd never let the clergy swear at all;
Their politic allegiance they'd refuse,
For whores and priests will never want excuse.
But if the mutual contract was dissolv'd,
The doubts explain'd, the difficulty solv'd:
That kings, when they descend to tyranny,
Dissolve the bond, and leave the subject free.
The government's ungirt when justice dies,
And constitutions are non-entities.
The nation's all a mob, there's no such thing
As lords or commons, parliament or king.
A great
A great promiscuous crowd the hydra lies,
Till laws revive, and mutual contract ties:
A chaos, free to chuse for their own share,
What case of government they please to wear:
If to a king they do the reins commit,
All men arc bound in conscience to submit:
But then that king must by his oath assent
To postulata* of the government;
Which if he breaks, he cuts off the entaily
And power retreats to its original.
This doctrine has the fanction of assent,
From nature's univerfal parliament.
The voice of nations, and the course of things,
Allow the laws superior are to kings.
None but delinquents wou'd have justice cease;
Knaves rail at laws, as soldiers rail at peace:
For justice is the end of government,
As reason is the test of argument.
No man was ever yet so void of sense,
As to debate the right of self-desence;
A principle so grafted in the mind,
With nature born, and does like nature bind:
Twisted with reason and with nature too;
As neither one nor t'other can undo.
Nor can this right be less when national:
Reason which governs one, shou'd govern all.
Whate'er the dialect of courts may tell,
He that his right demands, can ne'er rebel.
Which right, if 'tis by governors deny'd,
May be procur'd by force, or foreign aid.
For tyranny's a nation's term of grief;
As folks cry fire, to hasten in relief.
Arid when the hated word is heard about,
All men should come to help the people out.
Thus England cry'd, Britannia's voice was heard;
And great Nassau to rescue her appear'd
Call'd by the univerfal voice of fate*
God and the peoples legal magistrate.
Ye heav'ns regard! Almighty Jovci look down,
And view the injured monarch on the throne;
On their Ungrateful heads due vengeance take,
Who sought his aid, and then his aid forfake.
Witness, ye pow'rs! it was our call alone,
Which now our pride makes us asham'd to own.
Britannia's troubles setch'd him from afar,
To court the dreadful casualties of war;
But where requital never can be made>
Acknowledgment's a tribute seldom paid.
He dwelt in bright Maria's circling arms,
Desended by the magic of her charms,
From foreign sears, and from domestic harms.
Ambition found no fuel for her fire,
He had what God cou'd give, or man desire.
Till pity rouz'd him from his soft repose,
His lise to unseen hazards to expose;
"Till pity mov'd him in our cause t' appear;
Pity! that word which now we hate to hear.
But English gratitude is always such,
To hate the hand which does oblige too much.
Britannia's cries gave birth to his intent,
And hardly gain'd his unforeseen assent
His boding thoughts foretold him he should find
The people fickle, selfish, and unkind:
Which thought, did to his royal heart appear
More dreadful than the dangers of the war;
Vol. III. A a For
For nothing grates agen'rous mind so soon,
As base returns for hearty service done.
Satire, be silent; awfully prepare
Britannia's song, and William's praise to hear:
Stand by, and let her chearfully rehearse
Her grateful vows in her immortal verse.
Loud fame's eternal trumpet let her sound;
Listen ye distant poles, and endless round.
May the strong blast the welcome news convey
As far as sound can reach, or spirit fly.
To neighb'ring worlds, if such there be, relate
Our hero's fame, for theirs to imitate:
To distant worlds of fp'rits let her rehearse;
For spirits without the helps of voice converse.
May angels hear the gladsome news on high,
Mix'd with their everlasting symphony;
And hell itself stand in suspense, to know
Whether it be the fatal blast, or no.
BRITANNIA.
"THE fame of virtue 'tis for which I sound,
And heroes with immortal triumphs crown'd:
Fame built on solid virtue, swifter flies
Than morning light can spread my eastern skies.
The gafh'ring air returns the doubling sound,
And loud repeating thunders force it round:
Echoes return from caverns of the deep,
Old Chaos dreams on't in eternal sleep.
Time hands it forward to its latest urn,
From whence it never, never shall return:
Nothing is heard so far, or lasts so long;
'Tis heard by ev'ry ear, and spoke by ev'ry tongue
S71
"My hero, with the fails of honour furl'd,
Rises like the great genius of the world;
By fate and fame wisely prepar'd to be
The foul of war, and lise of victory.
He spreads the wings of virtue on the throne,
And ev'ry wind of glory fans them on;
Immortal trophies dwell upon his brow,
Fresh as the garlands he has won but now.
"By different steps the high ascent he gains,
And diff'rently that high ascent maintains.
Princes for pride and lust of rule make war,
And struggle for the name of conqueror.
Some sight for fame, and some for victory;
He sights to fave, and conquers to set free.
"Then seek no phrase his titles to conceal,
And hide with words what actions must reveal:
No parallel from Hebrew stories take,
Of god-like kings my similies to make:
No bprrow'd names conceal my living theme,
But names and things directly I proclaim.
His honest merit does his glory raise,
Whom that exalts, let no man sear to praise;
Of such a subject no man need be shy,
Virtue's above the reach of flattery:
He needs no character, but his own fame,
Nor any flatt'ring titles, but his name. .. -
William's the name that's spoke by ev'ry tongue,
William's the darling subject of my song.
Listen, ye virgins, to the charming found,
And in eternal dances hand it round:
Your early off'rings to this altar bring,
Make him at once a lover and a king.
A a 2 May
May he submit to none but to your arms,
Nor ever be subdu'd, but by your charms!
May your soft thoughts for him be all sublime,
And ev'ry tender vow be made for him.
May he be first in ev'ry morning thought,
And heav'n ne'er heas a pray'r, when he's left out.
May ev'ry omen, ev'ry boding dream,
Be fortunate by mentioning his name;
May this one charm insernal pow'rs affright,
And guard you from the terrors of the night.
May ev'ry chearful glass, as it goes down
To William's health, be cordials to your own.
Let ev'ry song be choruss'd with his name,
And mufic pay her tribute to his fame.
Let ev'ry poet tune his artful verse,
And in immortal strains his deeds rehearse;
Or may Apollo never more inspire
The disobedient bard with his seraphic fire.
May all my sons their grateful homage pay,
His praises sing, and for his fasety pray."
Satire return to our unthankful isle,
Secur'd by heav'n's regard, and William's toil:
To both ungrateful, and to both untrue;
Rebels to God, and to good nature too.
If e'er this nation be distress'd again,
To whomsoe'er they cry, they'll cry in vain.
To heav'n they cannot have the face to look;
Or if they should, it would but heav'n provoke.
To hope for help from man wou'd be too much,
Mankind wou'd always tell 'em of the Dutch:
How
373
How they came here, our freedoms to maintain,
Were paid, and curs'd, and hurry'd home again.
How by their aid we first dissolv'd our fears,
And then our helpers damn'd for foreigners.
'Tis not our English temper to do better,
For Englishmen think ev'ry man their debtor.
'Tis worth observing, that we ne'er complain'd
Of foreigners, nor of the wealth they gain'd,
'Till all their services were at an end.
Wise men affirm it is the English way,'
Never to grumble till they come to pay;
And then they always think, their temper's such,
The work too- little, and the pay too much.
As frighted patients, when they want a cure,
Bid any price, and any pain endure;
But when the doctor's remedies appear,
The cure's too easy, and the price too dear.
Great Portland ne'er was banter'd, when he strove
For us his master's kindest thoughts to move.
We ne'er lampoon'd his conduct, when employ'd
King James's secret counsels to divide;
Then we caress'd him as the only man
Which could the doubtful oracle explain;
The only Hushai able to repel
The dark designs of our Achitophel.
Compar'd his master's courage to his sense,
The ablest statesman, and the bravest prince.
Ten years in English service he appear'd,
And gain'd his master's and the world's regard;
But *tis not England's custom to reward.
The wars are over, England-needs him not,
Now he's a Dutchman, and the lord knows what.
A a 3 - Schomberg,
}
Schomberg, the ablest soldier of his age,
With great Nassau did in our cause engage:
Both join'd for England's rescue and desence,
The greatest captain, and the greatest prince.
With what applause his stories did we tell?
Stories which Europe's volumes largely swell:
We counted him an army in our aid;
Where he commanded, no man was afraid.
His actions with a constant conquest shine,
From Villa-Vitiofa to the Rhine.
France, Flanders, Germany, his fame consess,
And all the world was fond of him,—but us:
Our turn first serv'd, we grudg'd him the command-;
Witness the grateful temper of the land!
We blame the king, that he relies too much
On strangers, Germans, Hugonots, and Dutch;
And seldom wou'd his great affairs of state
To English counsellors communicate.
The fact might very well be answer'd thus:
He has so often been betray'd by us, *
He must have been a madman, to rely
On English gentlemen's fidelity.
For laying other arguments aside,
This thought might mortify our English pride,
That foreigners have faithfully obey'd him,
And none but Englishmen have e'er betray'd him.
They have our ships and merchants bought and sold,
And barter'd English blood for foreign gold:
First to the French they sold our Turkey fleet,
And injur'd Talmarsh next, at Camaret.
The king himself is fhelter'd from their snares,
Not by his merit, but the crown he wears:
Expe-
375
Experience tells us 'tis. the English way,
Their benefactors always to betray.
Then let us boast of ancestors no more,
Or deeds of heroes done in days of yore,
In latent records of the ages past,
Behind the rear of time in long oblivion plac'd;
For if our virtues must in lines descend,
The merit with the families would end,
And intermixtures wou'd most fatal grow;
For vice wou'd be hereditary too:
The tainted blood wou'd, of necessity,
Involuntary wickedness convey.
Vice, like ill nature, for an age or two,
May seem a generation to pursue:
But virtue seldom does regard the breed;
Fools do the wise, and wise men fools succeed.
What is't to us, what ancestors we had?
If good, what better? Or what worse, if bad?
Examples are for imitation set,
Yet all men follow virtue with regret.
Cou'd but our ancestors retrieve their fate,
And see their ofsspring thus degenerate;
How we contend for birth and names unknown,
And build on their past actions, not our own;
They'd cancel records, and their tombs deface,
And openly disown the vile degen'rate race:
For fame of families is all a cheat,
"sis personal virtue only makes us great f
THE

c
ORIGINAL POWER
O F
THE COLLECTIVE BODY
O F
THE PEOPLE OF ENGLAND,
EXAMINED AND ASSERTED..
den
a der
kgal
Y0
your
the gr
nation
listing
Prince-
Portior
the faic
as wel]
Fron
,u*. as
distribu
pr;ety.
LORDS SPIRITUAL and TEMPORAL,
AND
The COMMONS of ENGLAND. *
My Lords and Gentlemen,
THE vindication of the original right of all
men to the government of themselves, is so far from
a derogation from, that it is a confirmation of your
legal authority.
Your Lordships, who are of our Nobility, have
your original right, your titles and dignities, from
the greatness of your shares in the freeholds of the
nation; if merit has raised any of your ancestors to
distinguishing honours,—or if the royal favour of
princes has dignisied families,—it has always been
thought fit to bestow, or to enable them to purchase, a
portion of the freeholds of England, to be annexed to
the faid titles; in order to make such dignities rational,
as well as support the succession of honour.
From hence you are vested with sovereign, judica-
ture, as being the most proper to be trusted with the
distribution of justice in that country, of which you
are supposed to have, and once had, the principal pro-
38o ADDRESS TO THE LORDS AND
From hence you sit in parliament as a branch of our
constitution, being part of the collective body, repre-
senting no body but yourselves, and as a testimony that
the original of all power centers in the Whole.
The rest of the freeholders have originally a right to
sit there with you; but, being too numerous a body,
they have long since agreed, that, whenever the king
thinks fit to advise with his people, they will chuse a
certain sew out of their great body, to meet together
with your Lordships.
Here, in short, is the origin of parliaments ; and
here,—if power at any time meets with a cess,—if go-
vernments and thrones become vacant,—to this origi-
nal all power, of course, returns :—this is the happy
center in the great circle of politic order.
From hence, at the late revolution, when King
James deserted the administration, and his present
Majesty (King William) was in arms in England,
nature directed the people to have recourse to your
Lordships, and to defire your appearance as the heads
of the great collective body; and all the champions for
the great arguments of divine right could not, in that
exigence, have recourse to one precedent, nor to one
rule of proceeding, but what nature would have dicta-
ted to the meanest judgment, viz.—.That the nation
being left without a governor, the proprietors Jhould meet
to consider of another.
And you, Gentlemen of the House of Commons,
who are the representatives of your country, you are
this great collective body in miniature,—you are an
abridgement of the many volumes of the English na-
tion.
To
COMMONS OF ENGLAND. 38t
To you they have trusted, jointly with the king and
the lords, the power of making laws, raising taxes,
and impeaching criminals :—But how ?—'Tis in the
Name of all the Commons of England,—whose
representatives you are.
All their power is yours, as you are a full and free
representative :—I nowhere attempt to prove what
powers you have not: possibly the extent of your legal
authority was never fully understood, nor have you
ever thought fit to explain it:—But this I may be bold
to advance, that whatever powers you have, or may have,
you cannot exercise them but in the name of the Com-
mons of England ; and you enjoy them as their repre-
sentative, and for their use.
All this is not faid to lessen your authority,—nor can
it be the interest of any British freeholder to lessen the
authority of the Commons assembled in Parliament.
You are the conservators of our liberties, the exposi-
tors of our laws, the levyers of our taxes, and the re-
dressers of our grievances,—the king's best counsellors,
and the people's last refuge.
But if you are dissolved, for ye are not immortal; or
if you are deceived, for you are not infallible; it was
never yet supposed, till very lately, that all power dies
with you.
You may die, but the People remain;—you may be
dissolved, and all immediate right may cease ;—power
may have its intervals, and Crowns their interregnum; but
ORIGINAL POWER ENDURES TO THE SAME ETER-
NITY the world endures to:—and while there
is people, there may be a legal authority delegated,
though all succession of substituted power were at an end.
Nor
Nor have I advanced any new doctrine,—nothing
but what is as antient as nature, and born into the
world with our reason: and I think it would be z sin
against the Parliament of England, to suggest that they
would be offended either with the doctrine or the au-
thor, since it is what their own authority is built upon,
and what the laws of England have given their assent
unto, by confirming the acts of the last collective body
of the people, from whence the present settlement of
the nation does derive.
Wherefore I make no apology for protection, or
favour, as to the fact; as to language—I am ready
to ask pardon if I offend; declaring my intention is
neither for nor against either person or party.—As there
is but one interest in the nation, I wish there were but
one party, and that that party would adhere to unbiassed
justice, and pursue the honour and interest of the Pro-
testant Religion, and the English Liberty.
THE
ORIGINAL POWER. &c.
IHAVE observed, when interest obliges any person
or party to. desend the cause they have espoused,
they please themselves with fancying they conceal their
private designs, by covering their discourses with gay
titles.'
Like a certain act of parliament, which in the pre-
amble'calls itself, An Ail for the Relief of Creditors,
but in its effect was really An Ail for the Relief of
Debtor s-
Thus 'some Gentlemen place fine specious titles on
their books, as sura Populi Anglicani, A Vindication of
the Rights of the Commons of England, and A Vindica-
tion of the Rights of the Lords, and the like; and with
large and high encomiums upon the excellency of our
constitution, treat the levity of some peoples judgments
with fine notions; whereas the true end and design is
desending the interest and party they have espoused.
The desence of the rights of the representative body
of the people, understood by the name^f the Commons
of England in parliament, is a great point; and so plain
are their rights, that it is no extraordinary task to de-
send them: but for any man to advance, that they are
so august an assembly that no objection ought to be
made
384 ORIGINAL POWER OF THE PEOPLE,
made to their actions, nor no reflection upon their con-
duct, though the fact be true; and that it is not to be
examined whether the thing said be trufc, but what au-
thority the person speaking has to fay it, is a doctrine
wholly new, and seems, to me, to be a badge of more
slavery to out own representatives than ever the people
of England owes them, or than ever they themselves
expected.
This, therefore, together with some invasions of the
peoples rights, made public by several modern authors,
are the reasons why I have adventured, being wholly
disinterested and unconcerned either for persons ot
parties^ to make a short essay at declaring the rights of
the people of England, not representatively, but col-
lectively considered. * .
And with due deserence to the representative body
of the nation, I hope I may fay, it can be no diminution
of their rights, to assert the rights of that body from
whom they derive the powers and privileges of their
house, and which are the very foundation of their be-
ing. For if the original right of the people be over-
thrown, the power of the representative, which is sub-
sequent and subordinate, must die of itself.
And because I have to do rather with reason and the
nature of the thing, than with laws and precedents, I
shall make but very little use of authors, and quota-
tions of statutes; since fundamentals and principles are
superior to laws or examples.
To come directly to what I design in the following
papers, it is necessary to lay down some maxims, other
than what a late * author has furnished us with.
I; Salus
* Sir H. Molesworth's Vindication of the Commons.
Examined and asserted. 385
t. Salus Populi supr etna Lex: All government, and
consequently our whole constitution, was originally
designed, and is maintained, for the support of the peo-
ples property, who are the governed.
a. That all the members of government, whether
King, Lords, or Commons, if they invert the great end
of their institution, the public good, cease to be in the
fame public capacity;
And pow'r retreats to its original.
i
3. That no collective or representative body of men
whatsoever, in matters of politics, any more than reli-
gion, are, or ever have been infallible.
4. That reason is the test and touch-stone of laws;
and that all law or power that is contradictory to rea-
son, is, ipso fafto, void in itself, and ought not to be
obeyed.
These four generals run through the whole follow-
ing discourse.
Some other maxims, less general, are the consequence
of these; as,
First, That such laws as are agreeable to reason and
justice being once made, are binding both to King,
Lords and Commons, either separately or conjunctively^
till they are actually repealed in due form.
That if cither of the three powers do dispense with,
suspend, or otherwise break any of the known laws so
made, they injure the constitution; and the power so
acting, ought to be restrained by the other powers not
concurring, according to what is lately allowed, "That
every branch of power is designed as A check upon each other.
But if all the three powers mould join in such an
irregular action, the constitution suffers a convulsion,
dies, and is dissolved of course.
Vol, HL B b Not
Nor does it suffice to fay, that King, Lords and
Commons can do no wrong; since the mutual consent
of parties, on which that foolish maxim is grounded,
does not extend to every action King, Lords and
Commons are capable of doing.
There are laws which respect the common rights of
the people, as they are the parties to be governed; and
with respect to these, the King can do no wrong; but
all is laid upon his ministers, who are accountable.
And there are laws which particularly respect the
constitution; the King, Lords and Commons, as they
are the parties governing: in this regard each branch
may wrong and oppress the other; or altogether, may
do wrong to the people they are made to govern.
The King may invade the peoples properties, and if
the Lords and Commons omit to desend and protect;
them, they all do wrong, by a tacit approving those
abuses they ought to oppose.
The Commons may extend their power to an exor-
bitant degree, in imprisoning the subjects, dispensing
with the Habeas Corpus act, giving unlimited power to
their serjeant to oppress the people in his custody,
withholding writs of election from boroughs and
towns, and several other ways; which if they are not
checked, either by the King, or the Lords, they are alto-
gether parties to the wrong, and the subject is appa-
rently injured.
The Lords may err in judicature, and deny justice to
the Commons, or delay it upon punctilios and studied
occasions; and if neither the King nor the Commons
take care to prevent it, delinquents are excused, and
criminals encouraged; and all are guilty of the trench
of common justice.
That
.' EXAMINED AND ASSERTED. 337
. That to prevent this, it is absolutely necessary that,
in matters of dispute, the single powers should be go-
verned by the joint, and that nothing should be so insist-
ed upon as to break the correspondence.
That the three should be directed by the law; and
where that is silent, by reason.
That every person concerned in the law, is in his
measure a judge of the reason ; and therefore, in his pro-
per place, ought to be allowed to give his reason in case
of dissent.
That every single power has an absolute negative
upon the acts of the other; and if the people, who are
without doors, sind reason to object, they may do it by
petition.
But because, under pretence of petitioning, seditious
and turbulent people may foment disturbances, tumults
and disorders; the subjects right of petitioning being
yet recognized and preserved, the circumstances of
such petitions are regulated by laws, as to the numbers
and qualities of the persons petitioning.
But the laws have no where prescribed the petitioners
to any form of words ; and therefore no pretence of in-
decency of expression can be so criminal as to be de-
structive of the constitution; because, though it may
deserve the resentment of the petitioned, yet it is not
an illegal act, nor a breach of any law.
And yet the representative body of the people ought
not to be bantered or affronted neither, at the will and
pleasure of any private person without doors, who sinds
cause to petition them.
But if any expression be offensive to the House, it
seems reasonable that the persons who are concerned
therein should be required to explain themselves: and'
B b 2 if,
if, upon such explanation, the house finds no fatisfac-
tion as to the particular affront, they are at liberty to
proceed as the law directs; but no otherwise.
And to me, the silence of the law, in that case, seems
to imply, that rejecting the petition is a contempt due
to any indecency of that nature, and as much resent-
ment as the nature of the thing requires: but as to
breaking in upon personal liberty, which is a thing the
law is so tender of, and has made so strong a sence
about, I dare not affirm it is a justisiable procedure; no,
not in the House of Commons.
It is alleged, that it has been practised by all parlia*
ments ; which is, to me, far from an argument to prove
the legality of it.
I think it may pass for a maxim, that a man cannot
be legally punished for a crime which there is no law to
prosecute. Now, since there is no law to prosecute a
man for indecency of expression in a petition to the
House of Commons, it remains a doubt with me how
they can be legally punished.
Precedents are of use to the houses of parliament,
where the laws are silent, in things relating to them-
selves, and are, doubtless, a sufficient authority to act
from. But whether any precedent, usage, or custom,
of any body of men whatever, can make a thing law-
ful which the laws have expressly forbid, remains a
doubt with me.
The good of the people governed is the end of all
government, and the reason and original of governors;
and upon this foundation it is that it has been the
practice of all nations, and of this in particular, that
if the mal-administration of governors have extended
to tyranny and oppression, to destruction of right and
* i justice,
1
justice, overthrowing the constitution, and abusing the
people, the people have thought it lawful to re-assume
the'right of government in their own hands, and to
reduce their governors to reason.
The present happy restoring of our liberty and con-
stitution is owing to this fundamental maxim,
That kings, when they descend to tyranny,
Dissolve the bond, and leave the subject free.
If the people are justisiable in this procedure against
the King, I hope I shall not be censured if I fay, that
if any one should ask me, whether they have not the
fame right, in the fame cases, against any of the three
heads of the constitution? I dare not answer in the
negative.
I may be allowed to suppose any thing which is pos-
sible; and I will therefore venture to suppose, that in
the late King's reign the House of Commons, then
sitting, had voted the restoration of Popery in England,
in compliance with the King's inclination.
I doubt not but it had been lawful for the grand
juries, justices of the peace, and freeholders of any
county, or of every county, to have petitioned the
House of Commons not to proceed in giving up their
religion and laws.
And in case of refufal there, they might petition the
House of Lords not to have passed such a bill.
And in case of refufal there, they might petition the
King and put him in mind of his coronation engage-
ment.
And in case of refufal to that petition, they might
petition the King again to dissolve the Parliament, or
otherwise to protect their liberties and religion.
B b 3 And
And if these peaceable applications failed, I doubt
not but they might associate for their mutual defence
against any invasion of their liberties and religion, and
apply themselves to any neighbouring power or poten-
tate for assistance and protection.
If this be not true, 1 can give but a slender account
of our late revolution; which, nevertheless, I think to
be founded upon the exact principles pf reason and jus-
tice.
And suppose again, the people thought themselves in
danger of an invasion from France, and thereupon the
counties of Kent and Sussex should have petitioned the
House to take them into consideration; who, in such
case, were like to be the scat of the war, and first ex-
posed to the enemy; would anybody fay, the occasion
did not arise in the county from whence such petition
did proceed?
In this univerfal right os the people, consists our ge-
neral fasety: fer notwithstanding all the beauty of our
constitution, and the exact symmetry of its parts, about
which some have been so very elegant, this noble, well-
contrived system has been overwhelmed; the govern-
ment has been inverted, the people's liberties have been
trampled on, and parliaments have been rendered useless
and insignisicant:—And what has restored us? The last
resort has been to the people; vex Dei has been found
there, not in the representatives, but in their original,
the represented.
And what has been the engine that has led the na-
tion to it? The reason and nature of the thing. Rea-
son governs men, when they are masters of their senses,
ps naturally as fire flics upwards, or water descends.
For
For wbat is it that King, Lords, and Commons as-
semble? It is to reason together concerning the weighty
matters of the state, and to act and do for the good of
the people, what shall be agreeable to reason and justice.
I grant, it is reasonable that every branch should be
vested with due powers, and those powers be equally
distributed. •
But if they must be vested with power, somebody
must vest them with it; if these powers must be distri-
buted, somebody must distribute them:—So that
There must be some power prior to the power of
King, Lords, and Commons, from-which, as the
streams from the fountain, the power of King, Lords,
and Commons is derived.
And what are all the different terms which statesmen
turn so often into fine words to serve their ends; as,
reason of state, public good, the commonwealth, the
English constitution, the government, the laws of Eng-
land, the liberties of England, the fleets, the armies, the
militia of England, the trade, the manufactures of Eng-
land? All are but several terms, drawn from and redu-
cible to the great term, the People of England.
That is the general, which contains all the particulars,
and which had all power before any of the particulars
had a being. And from this consideration it is, that
some, who yet would be opposers of this doctrine, fay,
when it serves their turn, that all the great offices which
. have the title of England annexed to them, ought to be
nominated and approved by the people of England, as
the High Chancellor of England, High Admiral of
England, and the like.
That power which is original, is superior; God is
the fountain of all power, and therefore is the supreme:
B b 4 and
and if we could suppose a prior and original of the divine
power, that original would be God, and be superior;
for all subsequent power must be subject and inserior to
the precedent.
The power vested in the three heads of our constitu-
tion, is vested in them by the people of England; who
were a people before there was such a thing as a consti-
tution.
And the nature of the thing, is the reason of the
thing: it was vested in them by the people, because the
people were the only original of their power; being the
only power prior to the constitution.
For the public good of the people, a constitution and
government were originally formed; from the mutual
consent of these people, the powers and authorities of
his constitution are derived: and for the preservation
of this constitution, and enabling it to answer the ends
of its institution in the best manner possible, those
powers were divided.
The second maxim is a rational, natural consequence
of the former; that at the final, casual, or any other
determination of this constitution, the powers are dis-
solved, and all authority must derive, dt novo, from the
first fountain, original, and cause of all constitutions,—
the governed.
Now it cannot be supposed this original fountain
should give up all its waters; but that it reserves a
power of supplying the streams: nor have the streams
any power to turn back upon the fountain, and invert
its own original:—All such motions are eccentric and
unnatural.
There must always remain a supreme power in the
original to supply, in case of the dissolution of delegated
power.
The
The people of England have delegated all the execu-
tive power in the King; the legislative in the King,
Lords, and Commons; the sovereign judicature in the
Lords; the remainder is reserved in themselves, and
not committed, no, not to their representatives. All
powers delegated, are to one great end and purpose, and
no other, and that is, the public good. If either, or all
the branches to whom this power is delegated, invert
the design, the end of their power, the right they have
to that power ceases; and they become tyrants and
usurpers of a power they have no right to.
The instance has been visible, as to kings, in our
days; and history is full of precedents in all ages, and
in all nations; particularly in Spain, in Portugal, in
Sweden, in France, and in Poland.
But in England, the late revolution is a particular
instance of the exercise of this power.
King James, on the approach of a foreign army, and
the general recourse of the people to arms, sled out of
the kingdom. What must the people of England do?
They had no reason to run after him; there was no-
body to call a parliament, so the constitution was en-
tirely dissolved.
The original of power, the people, assembled in con-
vention, to consider of delegating new powers for their
future government; and accordingly made a new settle-
ment of the crown, a new declaration of right, and a
new representative of the people; and what if I should
fay, they ought to have given a new fanction to all pre-
cedent laws?
It remains to argue from hence; but what course
must the people of England take, if their representatives
exercise
txercise the power entrusted with them, to the ruin of
the constitution?
It has been advanced, that every man must submit,
and not presume to argue against it, upon any supposi-
tion of mismanagement.
I can see no reason given to confirm such a position;
for unless we will place the original of power in the
persons representing, not in the persons represented,
it cannot be made out, that there ought to be no com-
plaint upon the score of mismanagement.
It is not the design of this discourse to lessen the au-
thority of Parliament: but all power must centre some-
where. If it is in the three branches of the constitu-
tion, it is there inherently and originally, or it is there
by deputation. If it be there by deputation, then there
must be a power deputing, and that must be both prior,
and consequently superior to the deputation, as before.
If we will come off of this, we must fly to the old
weak refuge of a power jure divino; a doctrine, which
the most famed pretenders to, have lived to be asiiamed
of, and whose foundation is so weak, that it is not
worth while to expose it.
I should therefore have been very glad, that for the
persecting the desence of the English constitution, the
gentlemen who have begun so well, would have gone
forward to recognize the power of the people of Eng-
land: and their undoubted right to judge of the in-
fractions made in their constitution, by either parties
. abusing the particular powers vested in them; and in-
verting them, by turning them against the people they
are designed to desend.
That they would have stated fairly what the people of
England are to do, if their representatives lhall here-
after
after betray the liberties or religion of the people they
are intrusted with the desence of.
What by the laws of nature and reason is to be ex-
pected, and what by the laws of our constitution are
allowed.
To fay it cannot be supposed the House of Commons
can ever betray their trust, is a compliment no man is
bound to make them: Humanum eft err are. We have
seen parliaments err, and do what succeeding parlia-
ments have thought fit to undo. And as that which
has been, may be ; so that may be, which never has been
before.
We have seen parliaments comply with kings to
the ruin of the nation; and we have seen parliaments
quarrel with kings, to the overturning of the constitu-
tion, dissolving the House of Lords, and suppressing the
Monarchy.
We have seen parliaments concur so with the fate
and fortunes of princes, as to comply backward and
forward, in deposing and reinthroning alternately two
kings as often as victory put power into their hands;
I mean Henry the Sixth, and Edward the Fourth, who
were kings and prisoners five or six times, and always
the Parliament complied with the conquerors.
We have seen a parliament confirm Henry the Se-
venth, who really had rro right at all to the succession,
and rescind all the preceding parliament had done.
Afterwards, in matters of religion, King Henry the
Eighth made a Popish parliament pull down the supre-
macy of Rome, and set up the King's; and afterwards
suppress all the religious houses in the nation. His
son pulled up Popery by the roots, and planted the Re-
formation ; ftili the Parliament complied. Queen Mary
re-esta-
re-established Popery, and unravelled both the Reforma-
tion of King Edward, and all the acts of church and
state relating to her mother's divorce; and still the Par-
liament consented. One parliament voted Queen Mary
legitimate, and Queen Elizabeth a bastard: another
parliament legitimated Queen Elizabeth, and repudi-
ated Queen Mary. Queen Elizabeth undid all her
sister had done, and suppressed all the proceedings of
Popery; and all was by Authority of Parliament.
So that this parliamentary branch of power is no
more infallible than the kingly*
If then, upon the subversion of *he laws, and inter-
foption of common justice, the center of power is in
the people, a fortiori, the people are all concerned in
every degree of such a subversion. .
And it is the most reasonable thing in the world,
that those who, upon a total subversion are the suf-
ferers, and have a right to the re-establishmcnt, should
have a right to take cognizance of any degree of inva-
sion made upon their right, and which tends to that
general subversion.
It would be nonsense to suppose, that that which has
all the greater powers, should not have the less.
Can the peoples good be the main and only end of
government, and the peoples power be the last resort
when government is overwhelmed by the errors of
governors? And have these people no right, not so
much as to be sensible of the ruin of their liberties,
till it is absolutely compleated ?—It would be ridicu-
lous.
The truth is, in right reasoning, the first invasion
made upon justice, either by the tacit or actual assent
of the three heads of our constitution, is an actual
disso-
dissolution of the constitution; and, for ought I can
see, the people have a right to dispossess the incumbent,
and commit the trust of government, dt novo, upon that
first act.
But I chuse rather to put the argument upon total
subversions of right, order, and desence; and I am sure
nobody will dispute it with me there.
And here, if I have any foresight, lies an absolute
security for us against that bugbear, which so many
pretend to be frighted at,—a commonwealth.
The genius of this nation has always appeared to
tend to a monarchy,—a legal, limited monarchy; and
having had in the late revolution a full and uninter-
rupted liberty to cast themselves into what form of
government they pleased, there was not discovered the
least inclination in any party towards a commonwealth,
though the treatment they met with from their last two
kings, had all in it that could be, to put them out of
love with monarchy.
A commonwealth can never be introduced but by
such invasions of right as must make our constituted
government impracticable. The reason is, because
men never willingly change for the worst; and the
people of England enjoy more freedom in our regal,
than any people in the world can do, in a popular
government.
The people of England can never chuse a common-
wealth government, till they come to defire less liberty
than they now enjoy; that is, till they come tp be
blind to their own interest. 'Tis true, example is no
argument; but I might freely appeal to the friends of
the last republic in England, to answer this question :-—
Whether the people of England, during the short go-
vernment
vernrfient of Parliament in England, which was erro-
neously called a commonwealth, did, or whether they
taw, under any commonwealth government, sounded
ever so wisely, enjoy greater privileges and advantages
than under the present constitution, in its full and free
exercise, uninterrupted by the excesses of kings, evil
counsellors, parties and passions?
If any shall pretend, that the late parliament is aimed
at'in this, I hope I may have as much liberty to sap-
pose they are mistaken; for the days of judging by
inuendo, are at an end.
If any thing seem to lie that way, the error must be
theirs, who have so mean thoughts of them, as to
think the coat will fit them: if it does, they are wel-
come to .wear it. For my part, I declare myself to
intend only the bringing things to such a right un-
derstanding as may preserve the balance of power;
and I hope, I cannot offend any free representative
of the people of England in faying, that what power
they have, they receive from the people they represent;
and, that some powers do still remain with the people,
which they never neither divested themselves of, nor
committed to them.
Nor can I be sensible of offending, if I fay, that it is
possible for a House of Commons to be in the wrong:
'tis possible for a House of Commons to be misled by
factions and parties: 'tis possible for them to be bribed
by pensions and places, and by either of these extremes,
to betray their trust, and abuse the people who entrust
them. And, if the people should have no redress in
such a case, then would the nation be in the hazard of
being ruined by their own representatives. And 'tis a
wonder to find it asserted in a certain treatises * That
rt is not to be supposed, that ever the House of Com-
mons can injure the people who entrust them.' There
can be no better way to demonstrate the possibility of a
thing than by proving it has been already.
And we need go no farther back than to the reign
of King Charles the Second, in which we have seen
lists of 180 members who received private pensions from
the Court: and if anybody shall ask whether that Par-
liament preserved the balance of power in the three
branches of our constitution, in the due distribution
some have mentioned, I am not afraid to answer in the
negative.
And why, even to this day, are gentlemen so
fond of spending their estates to fit in that House,
that ten thoufand pounds have been spent at a time to
"be chosen; and now, that way of procuring elections
is at an end, private briberies and clandestine contri»
vances are made use of to get into the House. No
man would give a groat to Jit where he cannot get
a groat for fitting, unless there were either parties te gra-
tis, profits to bs made, or interefi to support.
If then these things are possible, it seems to me not
so improper for the people, who are the original and
end of the constitution, and have the main concern in
it, to be very felicitous that the due balance of power
be preserved; and decently, and, according to law, al'
ways to shew their dislike and resentment at any public
encroachment, which either branch of the constitution
shall make on each other, or on the whole, be it by
their own representatives, or any where else.
The excellency of our constitution consists of the
symmetry of parts, and the balance of power; and if this
; balance
balance be broken, one part grows too great for the
other, and the whole is put into confusion.
1 am not undertaking to find fault with our constitu-
tion, though I do riot grant neither, that it is capable
of no amendment; but 1 would endeavour to make
way, by retreating to originals, for every member to
perform its proper function, in order to put the general
body into its regular motion.
For, as in the natural body, if any member, either
by contraction of the organ, dislocation, or other acci-
dent, fails in the performance of its proper duty, the
locomotive faculty is either interrupted, and the body
distorted; or at least, the regularity of natural motion
is invaded. So in the body politic; if one branch of
the general union err, and that error is not corrected,
the whole constitution suffers a shock, and there is an
infraction of the general order.
To give some instances of this, it will be needful to
enter a little into history; and we need not go far to
inform ourselves, that there has been a time when the
weakness of our constitution has appeared.
Our constitution, when all the fine things in the
world have been faid of it, is not impregnable; when
power has been thrown wholly into one scale, the other
has always been trampled under-foot, and overthrown
by it.
The regal power, under King Charles the—FiHtJ
over-balanced the Lords and Commons, to the invad-
ing the right of levying taxes, vested wholly in the
Parliament, and to the discontinuing Parliaments for
fourteen years; and the many convulsions the consti-
tution selt in that time, is too melancholy a subject to
reflect upon.
The
The House of Commons, in the next settlement,
over-balanced the Lords; and power being added to
one side, tossed the upper House quite out of the scale,
absolutely annihilated the very being of the Peers, as a
House, and voted them out of the constitution.
By the restoration, the constitution returned to its
original, and the balance was poised again. What at-
tempts have since been made to overthrow it, are need-
less to be insisted upon; but the nature of the thing
leads me to make one remark,—that if the king can do
no wrong, nor is not punishable or blamable by our con-
stitution, but the ministry; then we have acted strange-
ly in the late revolution; in which the king, who must
be innocent, only suffered; and the ministry, who
must be guilty, not only were excused, but intrusted
and employed.
Not that I am of some peoples opinion neither, who
think that the late king had hard measure in being de-
posed, when he was really not accountable. For I pre-
sume I may affirm, that the deposing King James,
was founded upon his deserting the nation, not his
maladministration : for had he continued in England,
you might possibly have subdued him, and took him
prisoner, but there had been no room for transposing
the crown while he had been alive.
And 'tis allowed by all, that those persons who ad-
vised him to quit the kingdom, by flying out of it,
either wilfully betrayed him, or very ignorantly gave
him the only counsel which could compleat his ruin.
When parliaments, if ever that unhappy time shall
come again, mould be either destroyed, or which is as
bad, be corrupted, and betray the people they represent;
the people themselves, who are the original of all dele-
Vol. III. C c gated
gated power, have an undoubted right to desend their
lives, liberties, properties, religion and laws, against
all manner of invasion or treachery, be it foreign or
domestick; the constitution is dissolved, and the laws
of nature and reason act of course, according to the
follo'wing system of government:
The government's ungirt when justice dies,
And constitutions are non entities: -
The nation's all a mob; there's no such thing
As Lords and Commons, Parliament or King.
A great promiscuous croud the hydra lies,
Till laws revive, and mutual contract ties:
A chaos, free to chuse for their own share
What case of government they please to wear.
If to a king they do the reins commit,
All men are bound in conscience to submit;
But then that king must by his oath assent
To postulatas of the government:
Which if he breaks, he cuts off the intail,
And pow'r retreats to its original.
It may be objected, but who are these people to
whom power must thus retreat? It must be the whole
people. If there be one negative, every one having an
equal right, the real claim of power is impersect: And
since there can be no general collective meeting of the
whole community, there can be no execution of their
power; and therefore, this does not justify a sew of
that body in the name of the rest, to execute any part
of that power.
This may be answered:—Though, upon a dissolution
of government, all the people, collectively, cannot be
enquired of as to what they will have done, yet one ne-
gative ought not to interrupt the whole.
I will
403
1 will suppose a general dissolution of government in
any country, such as was seen in this nation at the last
revolution.
The people, assembled in a univerfal mob, to take
the rightof government upon themselves, are not to be
supposed to give their personal suffrages to every article,
but they may agree to a convention of such persons
as they think fit to intrust, to constitute it neve,
and may delegate their power, or part of it, to such a
convention; and in such case, a general concurrence
is to be supposed, unless there be a public dissent.
Now suppose the general collective body of the peo-
ple should not unanimously agree, it is owned the
power could not be univerfally delegated, and there a di-
vision would follow; but in such case, those who dis-
sented from such an agreement, must declare their dis-
sent, and agree to any other form of government for
themselves, and so divide from the other body; and if
they do not divide, they in efsect do not dissent.
But then this division must be before any members
are delegated by them to convene.
For example: Suppose the freeholders in Cornwall,
in such a case should fay, We do not approve of your
deputing men to meet and consult of a new govern-
ment and constitution; we are resolved to be governed
by such a man of our own country.
This resolution being against no law, and that coun-
try having sent no members to represent them, and to
join with the rest of the body, they cannot be legally
disturbed or punished, or forced to unite with the rest
of the nation.
Such a division might be looked upon as a misfor-
tune to the general body, and unkind in the country,
Cc 2 of
or part dividing from the rest; but in the nature of the
thing, it could not be unjust.
Because any body of men are at liberty, upon the
dislblutioh of former contracts, to be governed by such
laws and persons, and in such manner as they shall
think fit.
Yet is there no sear of such a division in a country
so depending on its several parts as this is; because the
rest would render them so uneasy, that their interest
would compel them to comply.
Note, I do not place this right upon the inhabitants,
but upon the freeholders; the freeholders are the pro-
per owners of the country: It is their own, and the
other inhabitants are but fojourners, like lodgers in a
house, and ought to be subject to such laws as the free-
holders impose upon them, or else they must remove;
because the freeholders having a right to the land, the
other have no right to live there but upon sufferance.
In former days, the freehold gave a right of govern-
ment to the freeholder; and vassalage and villainage
was derived from this right, that every man who will
live in my land shall be my servant; if he won't, let
him go about his business, and live somewhere else:
and it is the fame still, in right reasoning.
And I make no question but property of land is the
best title to government in the world: and if the king
was univerfal landlord, he ought to be univerfal gover-
nor of right; and the people so living on his lands,
ought to obey him, or go off his premises.
And if any single man in England (hould at any time
come to be landlord of the whole freehold of England,
he could indeed have no right to dispossess the king,
till the present legal settlement of the crown failed; be-
cause
cause it was settled by those that had then a right to
settle it.
But he would immediately be the full representative
of all the counties in England, and might elect him-
self knight of the mire for every county, and the she-
riff of every county must return him accordingly.
He would have all the baronies and titles of honour
which are intailed upon estates devolved upon him, and
upon any expiration of the settlement, would be king
by natural right.
And he would be king upon larger terms than ever
any man was legally King of England; for he would
be king by inherent right of property.
When therefore I am speaking os the right of the
people, I would be understood of the freeholders; for
all the other inhabitants live upon sufferance, and ei-
ther are the freeholders servants, or having money to
pay rent, live upon conditions, and have no title to
their living in England, other than as servants, but
what they must pay for.
Upon this foot it is that, to this day, our law suffers
not a foreigner to purchase any of the freeholds of
England:—For if a foreigner might purchase, your
neighbours (having money to spare) might come and
buy you out of your own country, and take possession
by a legal and indisputable right.
This original right was the first foundation of the
several tenures of land in England; some held of the
king, some of the lord, some by knight's service, soc-
cage, and'the like, and some were called freeholds.
The lords of manors had their homages, and their
services from their tenants, as an acknowledgment
that the right of the land gave a certain right of
govern-
government to the possessor over all the tenants and in-
habitants.
But he that possessed the least freehold, was as much
lord of himself and of that freehold, as the greatest no-
bleman in the nation; he owed no homage or service, no,
not to the king, other than is limited by laws of his own
making; that is, as he was represented in parliament.
And as a thing which will put this argument
out of all question, the right to lands, manors, and
lordships, was not originally a right granted by pa-
tents from kings, or acts of parliament, but a na-
tural right of possession, handed down by custom and
ancient ufage; as the inheritance from the still
still more ancient possessors, and prescription or usage
time out of mind, is to this day allowed to be a suffici-
ent title in several cases, where conveyances, deeds,
charters, and writings of estates are silent; especially as
to buttings, boundings of land, highways, footpaths,
water-courses, bridges, and the like.
This right, as all right originally, is founded upon
reason; for it would be highly unreasonable, that those
people who have no share of the house, should live in
it whether he that built it will or no. No person has
any right to live in England, but they to whom Eng-
land belongs; the freeholders of England have it in
possession; England is their own, and nobody has any
thing to do here but themselves.
If they permit other people to live here, well and
good; but no man but a freeholder lives here upon
any terms but permijsu Juper'iorum; and he pays rent
for his licence to live here.
Thus the liberties and privileges of towns and cor-
porations are founded upon acts of parliament, to con-
firm charters or grants from the crown; by which the
freeholders
freeholders give their consent that such and such bo-
dies of men living in such towns, shall enjoy certain
privileges, in consideration of their being so consi-
derably serviceable to the nation, by paying taxes,
maintaining the poor, by manufactures, trade, and the
like, notwithstanding they are not possessed of any part
of the freehold.
And it is observable, the king cannot give this pri-
vilege, so as to enable any of these corporations to send
representatives to parliament. None but the freehol-
ders of England (and such towns in conjunction, to
whom the freeholders have already granted such pri- ,
Yileges) can give a qualisication of such a nature, as is
a receiving them into an equal state of privilege with a
freeholder. ,
^Every man's land is his own property ; and it is a
trespass in the law for another man to come upon his
ground without his consent. If the freeholders should
all agree, that such a man shall not come upon their
land ; that they will not let him a house for his money;
that whose land soever he sets his foot on, the owner
shall indict him for a trespass, as by law he may, the
man must fly the nation of course.
Thus the freeholders having a right to the possession
of England, the reason must be good that they must
have the fame right to the government of themselves,
that they have to the government of the rest of the
inhabitants; and that there can be no legal power in
England, but what has its original in the pojfejfors ; for
properly is the foundation of power.
Still I allow, that of this power so derived from pro-
perty, the House of Commons are the abridgement;'
they are the freeholders of England in miniature; to
them all needful powers and privileges are committed, to
* make
make them capable of acting for the people they repre-
sent , and, extremities excepted, they are our last resort;
but if they employ those privileges and powers against
the people, the reason of those powers is destroyed,
the end is inverted, and the power ceases of course.
From hence it is reasonable to give them instruc-
tions; and though they are not conditionally chosen
as to their instructions, yet they ought in honour to
think themselves under equal obligation to stand by
those instructions.
Instructions to members are like the power given to
an arbitrator, in which, though he is left fully and
freely to act, yet it is in considence of his honour
that he will think himself bound by the directions he
receives from the person for whom he acts.
If an arbitrator inverts the design of his principal, he
destroys the end of his election, and is sure never to be
entrusted again.
- The House of Commons are our fanctuary against
the oppression of princes, the nation's treasurers, and the
desenders of their liberties; but all these titles signify,
that at the fame time they are the nation's servants.
The House of Commons also are mortal, as a house j
a king may dissolve them, they may die and be extinct;
but the power of the people has a kind of eternity with
respect to politic duration : parliaments may cease, but
the people remain; for them they were originally made,
by them they are continued and renewed; from them
they receive their power, and to them, in reason, they
ought to be accountable.
THE END.
O F
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
WITH HIS
VISION OF THE ANGELIC WORLD:
TO WHICH ARE ANNEXED
THE TRUE-BORN ENGLISHMAN,
A S A T I *R E;
AND
A POLITICAL DISSERTATION,
ENTITLED
THE ORIGINAL POWER OF THE PEOPLE OF ENGLAND
EXAMINED AND ASSERTED.
VOL. HI.
LONDON:
Printed at the ILogojjrapitc prefe;
AND SOLDBY
J. Walter, No. 169, Piccadilly, opposite Old Bond Street.
M.DCC.XC.
j
i!
tie ex
5 not
'itter
%i
Ootal;
Ua
Kti .
55 they
^ (
V
PREFACE
TO THI
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
O F
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
AS the design of every thing is faid to
be first in the intention, and last in
the execution; so I come now to acknow-
ledge to my Reader, that the present work
is not merely the product of the two first
volumes; but the two first volumes may
rather be called the product of this. The
fable is always made for the moral, not the
moral for the fable.
I have heard, that the envious and ill-dis-
posed part of the world have raised some
objections against the two first volumes, on
pretenc?, for want of a better reason, that,
as they fay, thw story is feigned,—that the
names are borrowed,—and that it is all a
romance; that there never was any such
man, or place, or circumstances in any
man's life; that it is all formed and em-
Vol. III. a bellished
bellished by invention, to impose upon the
world:
I Robinson Crusoe, being at this time in
perfect and found memory, (thanks be to
God therefore) do hereby declare, their ob-
jection is an invention, scandalous in design,
and false in fact; and do affirm, that the
story, though allegorical, is also historical;
and .that it is the beautiful representation of
a life of unexampled misfortunes; and of a
variety not to be met with in the world;
sincerely adapted to, and intended for the
common good of mankind; and designed,
at first, as it is now farther applied, to the
most serious uses possible.
Farther; that there is a man alive, and
well known too, the actions of whose Use
are the just subject of these volumes, and to
whom all, or most part, of the story most
directly alludes: this may be depended up-
on for truth; and to this I set my name.
The famous history of Don Quixote, a
work which thousands read with pleasure,
to one that knows the meaning of it, was
an emblematic history of, and a just satire
upon the Duke de Medina Sidonia; a per-
son very remarkable at that time in Spain.
To those who knew the original, the figures
were
Were lively, and easily discovered themselves,
as they are also here, and the images were
just; and, therefore, when a malicious, but
foolish writer, in the abundance of his gall,
spoke of the Quixotism of Robinson Crusoe,
as he called it, he mewed evidently that he
knew nothing of what he faid; and perhaps
will be a little startled, when I mall tell
him, that what he meant for a fatire, was
the greatest of panegyrics/,;
Without letting the Reader into a nearer
explication of the matter, I proceed to let
him know, that the happy deductions I
have employed myself to make from all the
circumstances of my story, will abundantly
make him amends for his not having the
emblem explained by the original; and that
when, in my observations and reflections of
any kind in this volume, I mention my so-
litudes and retirements, and allude to the
circumstances of the former story, all those
parts of the story are real facts in my his-
tory, whatever borrowed lights they may be
represented by. Thus the fright and fan-
cies which succeeded the story of the print
of a man's foot, and surprise of the old goat,
and the thing rolling on my bed, and my
jumping out in a fright, are all histories and
a 2 real
real stories; as are likewise the dream of
being taken by messengers, being arrested by
officers, the manner of being driven on more
by the surge of the sea, the ship on fire, the
description of starving, the story of my man
Friday; and many more most material pas-
sages observed here, and on which any reli-
gious reflections are made, are all historical
and true in fact. It is most real, that I had
a parrot, and taught it to call me by my
name; such a servant, a savage, and after-
wards a Christian, rind that his name was
called Friday; and that he was ravished
» from me by force, and died in the hands
that took him, which I represent by being
killed: this is all literally true; and should
I enter into discoveries, many alive can tes-
tify them. His other conduct and assistance
tome, also have just references, in all their
parts, to the helps I had from that faithful
savage, in my real solitudes and disasters.
The i.ory of the bear in the tree, and the
fight with the wolves in the snow, is like-
wise matter of real history: and, in a word,
the Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, are one
whole scheme of a real life of eight and
twenty years, spent in the most wandering,
desolate,
desolate, - and afflicting circumstances, that
ever man went through; and in which I
have lived so long, in a life of wonders, in
continued storms; fought with the worst
kind of favages and man-eaters, by unac-
countable, surprising incidents; fed by mira-
cles, greater than that of ravens; suffered
all manner of violences and oppressions, in-
jurious reproaches, contempt of men, at-
tacks of devils, corrections from heaven, and
oppositions on earth; have had innumer-
able ups and downs in matters of fortune;
been in flavery worse than Turkish; escaped
by an exquisite management, as that in the
story of Xury, and the boat at Sallee; been
taken up at sea in distress; raised again, and
depressed again, and that oftener perhaps in
one man's life, than ever was known be-
fore; shipwrecked often, though more by
land than by sea: in a word, there is not
a circumstance in the imaginary story, but
has its just allusion to a real 'story, and
chimes, part for part, and step for step, with
the inimitable Life of Robinson Crusoe.
In like manner, when, in these Reflec-
tions, I speak of the times and circumstances
pf particular actions done., or incidents
which
which happened in my solitude and island-
life, an impartial reader will be so just to
take it as it is; viz. that it is spoken, or in-
tended of that part of the real story, which
the island-life is a just allusion to; and in
this, the story is not only illustrated, but
the real part I think most justly approved.
For example; in the latter part of this
work, called the Vision, I begin thus:
"When I was in my island kingdom, I
** had abundance of strange notions of my
"feeing apparitions," &c. All these re-
flections are a just history of a state of forced
confinement; which, in my real history,
is represented by a confined retreat in an
island: and it is as reasonable to represent
one kind of imprisonment by another, as it
is to represent any thing that really exists,
by that which exists not. The story of my
fright with something on my bed, was,
word for word, a history of what happened;
and, indeed, all those things received very
little alteration, except what necessarily at-
tends removing the scene from one place to
another.
My observations upon solitude are the
same; and I think I need sey no more, than
that
that the fame remark is to be made upon all
the references made here to the tranfactions
of the former volumes; and the Reader is
desired to allow for it as he goes on.
Besides all this, here is the just and only
good end of all parable, or allegoric history,
brought to pass, viz. for moral and religious
improvement. Here is invincible patience
recommended, under the worst of misery;
indefatigable application and undaunted re-
solution, under the greatest and most dis-
couraging circumstances; I fay, these are
recommended, as the only way to work
through those miseries; and their success
appears sufficient to support the most dead-
hearted creature in the world.
Had the common way of writing a man's
private history been taken, and I had given
you the conduct or life of a man you knew,
and whose misfortunes and infirmities, per-
haps you had sometimes unjustly triumphed
over, all I could have said, would have yield-
ed no diversion, and perhaps scarce have ob-
tained a reading, or, at best, no attention;
the teacher, like a greater, having no ho-
nour in his own country. Facts that are
formed to touch the mind, must, be done a
great
great way off, and by somebody never heard!
of: even the miracles of the blessed Saviour
of the world, suffered scorn and contempt,
when it was reflected, that they were done
by the carpenter's son; one, whose family
and original they had a mean opinion of,
and whose brothers and sisters were ordi-
nary people like themselves.
There even yet remains a question, whe-
ther the instruction of these things will take
place, when you are supposing the scene,
which is placed so far off, had its original
so near home.
But I am far from being anxious about
that, seeing I am well assured, that if the
obstinacy of our age mould shut their ears
against the just reflections made in this vo-
lume, upon the transactions taken notice of
in the former, there will come an age, when
the minds of men shall be more flexible;
the prejudices of their fathers shall have no
place; and when the rules of virtue and re-
ligion, justly recommended, mail be more
gratefully accepted than they may be now;
that our children may rife up in judgment
against their fathers, and one generation be
edified by the fame teaching which another
generation had despised.
c ROBINSON CRUSOE. -
CHAP. I
OF SOLITUDE.
fjow uncapable to make us Happy, and how unqualified to
a Christian Life.
IMUST have made very little use of my solitary and
wandering years, if, after such a scene of wonders,
as my lise may be justly called, I had nothing to fay,
and had made no observations which might be useful
and instructing, as well as pleafant and diverting to
those that are to come after me.
I have frequently looked back, you may be sure, and
that with different thoughts, upon the notions of along
tedious lise of solitude, which I have represented to the
world, and of which you must have formed some ideas,
from the lise of a man in an island. Sometimes I have
wondered how it could be supported, especially for the
first years, when the change was violent and imposed,
and nature unacquainted with any thing like it. Some-
times I have as much wondered, why it should be any
Vol. III. A . grievance
grievance or affliction; seeing, upon the whole view of
the stage of lise which we act upon in this world, it
seems to me, that lise in general is, or ought to be, but
one univerfal act of solitude: but I sind, it is natural
to judge of happiness by its suiting or not suiting our
own inclinations. Every thing revolves in our minds
by innumerable circular motions, all centering in our-
selves. We judge of prosperity and of affliction, joy
and sorrow, poverty, riches, and all the various scenes
of lise; I fay, we judge of them by ourselves: thither
we bring them home, as meats touch the palate, by
which we try them; the gay part of the world, or the
heavy part, it is all one; they only call it pleafant or
unpleafant as they suit our taste.
The world, I fay, is nothing to us, but as it is more
or less to our relish: all reflection is carried home, and
.our dear self is, in one respect, the end of living. Hence
man may be properly faid to be alone in the midst of the
crouds and hurry of men of business: all the reflections
which he makes, are to himself; all that is pleafant, he
embraces for himself; all that is irksome and grievous,
is tasted but by his own palate.
What are the sorrows of other men to us? And what
their joy? Something we may be touched indeed with,
bv the power of sympathy, and a secret turn of the af-
sections; but all the solid reflection is directed to our-
selves: our meditations' are all solitude in persection ,-
our passions are all exercised in retirement; we love, we
hate, we covet, we enjoy, all in privacy and solitude:
all that we communicate of those things to any other,
is but for their assistance in the pursuit of our desires;
the end is at home; the enjoyment, the contemplation,
is.
is all solitude and retirement; it is for ourselves we en-
joy, and for ourselves we suffer.
What then is the silence of lise? And how is it af-
flicting, while a man has the voice of his foul, to speak
to God and to himself? That man can never want con-
verfation, who is company for himself; and he that can-
not converse profitably with himself, is not fit for any
converfation at all: and yet there are many good rea-
sons why a lise of solitude, as solitude is now under-
stood by the age, is hot at all suited to the lise of a
Christian, or of a wise man. Without enquiring, there-
fore, into the advantages of solitude, and how it is to
be managed, I desire to be heard concerning what soli-
tude really is; for I must confess, I have different no-
tions about it, far from those which are generally under-
stood in the world, and far from all those notions, up-
on which those people in the primitive times, and since
that also, acted; who separated themselves into defarts or
unfrequented places, or consined themselves to cells,
monasteries, and the like; retired, as they call it, from
the world: all which, I think, have nothing of the thing
I call solitude in them, nor do they answer any of the
true ends of solitude, much less those ends which are
pretended to be sought after, by those who have talked
most of those retreats from the world.
As for consinement in an island, if the scene was
placed there for this very end, it were not at all amiss.
I must acknowledge, there was consinement from the
enjoyments of the world, and restraint from human so-
ciety: but all that was no solitude; indeed no part of it
was so, except that which, as in my story, I applied to
the contemplation of sublime things, and that was but
A 2 a very
a very little, as my readers well know, compared to "what
a length of years my forced retreat lasted.
It is evident then, that as I see nothing but what is
far from being retired, in the forced retreat of an island,
the thoughts being in no composure suitable to a re-
tired condition, no, not for a great while; so I can af-
firm, that I enjoy much more solitude in the middle of
the greatest collection of mankind in the world, I mean
at London, while I am writing this, than ever I could
fay I enjoyed in eight and twenty years consinement to
a desolate island.
I have heard of a man, that upon some extraordinary
disgust which he lock at the unsuitable converfation of
some of his nearest relations, whose society he could not
avoid, suddenly resolved never to speak any more: he
kept his resolution most rigorously many years; not all
the tears or entreaties of his friends,—no, not of his
wise and children, could prevail with him to break his
silence. It seems, it was their ill behaviour to him at
first, that was the occasion of it; for they treated him
with provoking language, which frequently put him in-
to indecent pasiions, and urged him to rash replies; and
he took this severe way to punish himself for being pro-
voked, and to punish them for provoking him : but the
severity was unjustifiable; it ruined his family, and
broke up his house. His wife could not bear it, and
after endeavouring, by all the ways possible, to alter his
rigid silence, went first away from him, and afterwards
away from herself, turning melancholy and distracted:
his Children separated, some one way, and some another
way; and only one daughter, who loved her father above
all the rest, kept with him, tended him, talked to him
by signs, and lived almost dumb like her father, near
twenty-
twenty-nine years with him; till being very fick, and
in a high sever, delirious as we call it, or light-headed,
he broke his silence, not knowing when he did it, and
spoke, though wildly at first. He recovered of the ill-
ness afterwards, and frequently talked with his daughter,
but not much, and very seldom to any body else.
Yet this man did not live a silent lise with respect to
himself: he read continually; and wrote down many
excellent things, which deserved to have appeared in the
world; and was often heard to pray to God in his so-
litudes very.audibly, and with great servency: but the
injustice which his rash vow (if it was a vow) of silence
was to his family, and the length he carried it, was so
unjustisiable another way, that I cannot fay his instruc-
tions could have much force in them.
Had he been a single man; had he wandered into a
strange country or place, where the circumstance of it
had been no scandal, his vow of silence might have been
as commendable, and,'as I think, much more than any
of the primitive Christians vows of solitude were; whose
retreat into the wilderness, and giving themselves up to
prayer and contemplation, shunning human society, and
the like, was so much esteemed by the primitive fathers,
and from whence our religious houses, and orders of
religious people were first derived.
The Jews faid, John the Baptist had a devil, because
he affected solitude and retirement; and they took it
from'an old proverb they had in the world at that time,
That every solitary person must be an angel or a devil.
A man under a vow of perpetual silence, if but rigo-
rously observed, would be, even on the Exchange of
London, as persectly retired from the world, as a her-
mit in his cell, or a solitaire in the Defarts of Arabia;
A 3 and
and if he is able to observe it rigorously, may reap all
the advantages of those solitudes, without the unjustifi-
able part of such a lise, and without the austerities of a
lise among brutes: for the foul of a man, under a due
and regular conduct, is as capable of reserving itself, or
separating itself from the rest of human society, in the
midst of a throng, as it is when banished into a desolate
island.
The truth is, that all those religious, hermit-like so-
litudes, which men value themselves so much upon, are
but an acknowledgment of the desect or impersection of
our resolutions, our incapacity to bind ourselves to
needful restraints, or rigorously to observe the limita-
tions we have vowed ourselves to observe: or take it
thus, That the man first resolving, that it would be his
selicity to be entirely given up to conversing only with
Heaven and heavenly things, to be separated to prayer
and good works; but being sensible how ill such a lise
will agree with flesh and blood, causes his foul to com-
mit a rape upon his body, and to carry it by force, as it
were, into a defart, or into a religious retirement, from
whence it cannot return, and where it is impossible for
it to have any converse with mankind, other than with
such as are under the fame vows, and the fame banifli-
ment. The folly of this is evident many ways.
I shall bring it home to the case in hand thus: Chris-
tians may, without doubt, come to enjoy all the desi-
rable advantages of solitude, by a strict retirement and
exact government of their thoughts, without any of
these formalities, rigours, and apparent mortisications,
which, I think, I justly call a rape upon human nature;
and consequently without the breach of Christian du-
ties, which they necessarily carry with them,—such as
rejecting
rejecting Christian communion, facraments, ordinances,
and the like.
There is no need of a wilderness to wander among
wild beasts, no necessity of a cell on the top of a moun-
tain, or a desolate island in the sea; if the mind be con-
fined,—if the soul be truly master of itself, all is fase;
for it is certainly and effectually master of the body, and
and what signify retreats, especially a forced retreat, as
mine was? The anxiety of my circumstances there, I
can assure you, was such for a time, as were very unsuit-
able to heavenly meditations; and even when that was
got over, the frequent alarms from the favages, put the
foul sometimes to such extremities of sear and horror,
that all manner of temper was lost, and I was no more
fit for religious exercises, than a fick man is fit for la-
bour.
Divine contemplations require a composure of soul,
uninterrupted by any extraordinary motions or disorders
of the passions; and this, I fay, is much easier to be ob-
tained and enjoyed in the ordinary course of lise, than
in monkish cells and forcible retreats.
The business is to get a retired foul, a frame of mind
truly elevated above the world, and then we may be
alone whenever we please, in the greatest apparent hurry
of business or company. If the thoughts are free, and
rightly unengaged, what imports the employment the
body is engaged in? Does not the foul act by a differing
agency, and is not the body the servant, nay, the slave
of the soul? Has the body hands to act, or seet to walk,
or tongue to speak, but by the agency of the under-
standing and will, which are the two deputies of the
foul's power? Are not all the affections, and all the
passions which so univerfally agitate, direct, and possess
A 4 the
the body,—are they not all seated in the soul? What have
we to do then, more or less, but to get the foul into a
superior direction and elevation? There is no need to
prescribe the tongue to this or that situation; the hands,
or seet, or tongue, can no more disturb the retirement
of the foul, than a man having money in his pocket,
can take it out, or pay it, or dispose of it by his hand,
without his own knowledge.
It is the foul's being entangled by outward objects,
that interrupts its contemplation of divine objects;
which is the excuse for these solitudes, and makes the
removing the body from those outward objects seem-
ingly necessary: but what is there of religion in all this?
For example, a vicious inclination removed from the
object, is still a vicious inclination, and contracts the-
fame guilt, as if the object were at hand: for if, as our
Saviour fays, He that looketh on a woman to lust after
her, that is, to defire her unlawfully, has committed the
adultery already; so it will be no inverting our SavU
our's meaning to fay, That he that thinketh of a woman
to defire her unlawfully, has committed adultery with
her already, though he has not looked on her, or has
not seen her at that time; and how, mall this thinking
of her be removed by transporting the body? It must
be removed by the change in the soul, by bringing the
mind to be above the power or reach of the allurement,
and to an absolute mastership over the wicked defire;
otherwise the vicious defire remains, as the force re-*
mains in gunpowder, and will exert itself whenever
touched with the fire.
- All motions to good or evil, are in the foul: outward
objects are but second causes; and though it is true,
separating the. man from the object, is the way to make
any
any act impossible to be committed; yet, where the guilt
does not lie in the act only, but in the intention or de-
fire to commit it, that separation is nothing at all, and
effects nothing at all. There may be as much adul-
tery committed in a monastery, where a woman never
comes, as in any other place, and perhaps is so. The ab-
staining from evil therefore depends not only and whol-
ly upon limiting, or consining the man's actions, but
upon the man's limiting and consining his desires; see-
ing to desire to sin, is to sfn; and the fact which we
would commit, if we had opportunity, is really com-
mitted, and must be answered for as such. What then
is there of religion, I fay, in forced retirements from
the world, and vows of silence or solitude? They are all
nothing; it is a retired foul that alone is fit for contem-
plation; and it is the conquest of our desires to sin, that
is the only human preservative against sin.
It was a great while after I came into human society,
that I selt some regret at the loss of the solitary hours
and retirements I had in the island; but when I came
to reflect upon some ill-spent time, even in my soli-
tudes, I found reason to see what I have faid above;
that a man may sin alone several ways, and sind subject
of repentance for his solitary crimes, as well as he may
in the midst of a populous city.
The excellency of any state of lise consists in its free-
dom from crime; and it is evident to our experience,
that some society may be better adapted to a rectitude
- of lise, than a complete solitude and retirement: some
have faid, that next to no company, good company is
best; but it is my opinion, that next to good company,
no company is best; for as it is certain, that no com-
pany
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
pany is better than bad company, so it is as certain, that
good company is much better than no company.
In solitude a man converses with himself; and, as a
wise man faid, he is not always sure that he does not
converse with his enemy; but he that is in good com-
pany, is sure to be always among his friends.
The company of religious, good men, is a constant
restraint from evil, and an encouragement to a religious
lise. You have there the beauty of religion exemplisi-
ed; you never want as well instruction in, as example
for, all that is good ; you have a contempt of evil things
constantly recommended, and the affections moved to
delight in what is good, by hourly imitation. If we are
alone, we want all these; and are led right, or led wrong,
as the temper of the mind, which is sometimes too
much the guide of our actions, . as well as thoughts,
happens to be constituted at that time. Here we have
no restraint upon our thoughts, but from ourselves ; no
restraint upon our actions, but from our own consci-
ences; and nothing to assist us in our mortisications of
our desires, or in directing our desires, but our own re-
flections ; which, after all, may often err,—often be
prepossessed.
If you would retreat from the world then, be sure to
retreat to good company; retreat to good books, and
retreat to good thoughts; these will always assist one
another, and always join to assist him that flies to them
in his meditations, direct him to just reflections, and
mutually encourage him against whatever may attack
him from within him, or without him: whereas, to
xetreat from the world, as it is called, is to retreat from
good men, who are our best friends: besides, to retreat,
as we call it, to an entire, persect solitude, is to retreat
5 from
11
from the public worship of God, to forfake the assem-
blies; and, in a word, is unlawful, because it obliges
us to abandon those things which we are commanded
to do.
Solitude therefore, as I understand by it, a retreat
from human society, on a religious or philosophical ac-
count, is a mere cheat: it neither can answer the end
it proposes, or qualify us for the duties of religion,
which we are commanded to perform; and is, there-
fore, both irreligious in itself, and inconsistent with a
Christian lise many ways. Let the man that would
reap the advantage of solitude, and that understands the
meaning of the word, learn to retire into himself: seri-
ous meditation is the essence of solitude; all the retreats
into woods and defarts are short of this; and though a
man, that is persectly master of this retirement, may be
a little in danger of quietism, that is to fay, of an affec-
tation of reservedness, however it may be a slander upon
him in the main, he may make himself amends upon the
world, by the blessed calm of his foul, which they per-
haps who appear more chearful, may have little of.
Retiring into defarts, in the first days of religion, and
into abbeys and monasteries since, what have they been?
Or what have they been able to do towards purchasing
the retirement I speak of? They have indeed been
things to be reckoned among austerities, and acts of
mortisication, and so far might be commendable: but I
must insist upon it, that a retired soul is not affected
with them, any more than with the hurries of company
and society. When the soul of a man is powerfully
engaged in any particular subject, it is like that of St.
Paul, wrapped up, whether it be into the third Heaven,
pr to any degree of lower exaltation: such a man may
well
well fay with the Apostle above, Whether I was in tha
body, or out of the body, I cannot tell. It was in such
a wrapped up state, that I conceived what I call my
Vision of the Angelical World; of which I have here
subjoined a very little part.
Is it rational to believe, that a mind exalted so far
above the state of things with which we ordinarily con-
verse, should not be capable of a separation from them;
which, in a word, is the utmost extent of solitude? Let
such never afflict themselves, that they cannot retreat
from the world: Let them learn to retreat in the world,
and they shall enjoy a persect solitude; as complete, to
all intents and purposes, as if they were to live in the
cupola of St. Paul's, or as if they were to live upon the
top of Cheviot Hill, in Northumberland.
They that cannot be retired in this manner, must not
only retire from the world, but out of the world, before
they can arrive at any true solitude. Man is a creature
so formed for society, that it may not only be faid, that
it is not good for him to be alone, but it is really im-
possible he should be alone. We are so continually in
need of one another, nay, in such absolute necessity of
assistance from one another, that those who have pre-
tended to give us the lives and manners of the solitaires,
as they call them, who separated themselves from man-
kind, and wandered in the Defarts of Arabia and Lybia,
arc frequently put to the trouble of bringing the angels
down from Heaven to do one drudgery or another for
them; forming imaginary miracles, to make the lise of
a true solitaire possible; sometimes they have no bread,
sometimes no water, for a long time together; and then
a miracle is brought upon the stage, to make them live
so long without food; at other times, they have angels
come
come to be their cooks, and bring them roast meat; to
be their phyficians, to bring them phyfic, and the like:
If St. Hilary comes in his wanderings to the river Nile,
an humble crocodile is brought to carry him over upon
his back; though they do not tell us, whether the cro-
codile asked him to ride, or he asked the crocodile, or
by what means they came to be so familiar with one
another :—And what is all this to the retirement-of the
foul, with which it converses in Heaven, in the midst of
insinite crowds of men, and to whom the nearest of
other objects is nothing at all, any more than the ob-
jects of mountains and deserts, lions and leopards, and
the like, were to those that banished themselves to
Arabia?
Besides, in a state of lise, where circumstances are
easy, and provision for the necesfaries of lise, which the
best faint cannot support the want of, is quietly and
plentifully made,—has not the mind insinitely more
room to withdraw from the world, than when, at best,
it must wander for its daily food, though it were but the
product of the field?
Let no man plead that he wants retirement; that he
loves solitude, but cannot enjoy it, because of the em-
barrassment of the world; it is all delusion: if he loves
it, if he defires it, he may have it when, where, and as
often as he pleases; let his hurries, his labours, or his
afflictions be what they will: it is not the want of an
opportunity for solitude, but the want of a capacity of
being solitary, that is-the case in all the circumstances
of lise.
I knew a poor, but good man, who, though he was a
labourer, was a man of sense and religion; who being
hard at work with some other men, removing a great
quantity
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
quantity of earth, to raise a bank against the side of A
pond, was one day so out of himself, and wrapt up in
a persect application of his mind to a very serious sub-
ject, that the poor man drove himself and his wheel-
barrow into the pond, and could not recover himself,
till help came to him. This man was certainly capable
of a persect solitude, and perhaps really enjoyed it; for,
as s have often heard him fay, he lived alone in the
world; had no family to embarrass his affections; his
low circumstances placed him below the observation of
the upper degrees of mankind; and his reserved medi-
tations placed him above the wicked part, who were
those in a sphere equal to himself; among whom, as he
faid, and is most true, it was very hard to find a sober
man, much less a good man; so that he lived really
alone in the world,—applied himself to labour for his
subsistence,—had no other business with mankind, but
for the necessaries of lise, and conversed in Heaven as
effectually, and, I believe, every way as divinely, as St.
Hilary did in the Defarts of Lybia, among the lions
and crocodiles.
If this retirement, which they call solitude, consisted
only of separating the person from the world, that is to
fay, from human society, it were itself a very mean
thing, and would every way as well be supplied, by re-
moving from a place where a man is known, to a place
where he is not known, and there accustom himself to a
retired lise, making no new acquaintance, arid only
making the use of mankind which I have already spoken
of; namely, for convenience, and supply of necessary
food: and I think, of the two, that such a man, or a
man so retired, may have more opportunity to be an
entire
entire recluse, and may enjoy more real solitude, than
a man in a defart. For example:
In the solitude I speak of, a man has no more to do
, for the necessaries of lise, than to receive them from the
hands of those that are to furnish them, and pay them
for so doing; whereas, in the solitude of defarts, and
wandering lives, from whence all our monkish devotion
springs, they had every day their food, such as it was,
to seek, or the load of it to carry; and except where, as
it is faid, they put Providence to the operation of a
miracle, to furnish it, they had frequently difficulties
enough to sustain lise; and, if we may believe history,
many of them were starved to death for mere hunger
or thirst; and as often the latter as the former.
Those that had recourse to these solitudes, merely as
a mortisication of their bodies, as I observed before, and
delivering themselves from the temptations which so- ,
ciety exposed them to, had more room for the pretence
indeed, than those who allege they did it to give up
themselves to prayer and meditation. The first might
have some reason in nature for the fact, as mens tem-
pers and constitutions might lead; some have an inor-
dinate appetite to crime; some addicted by nature to
pne ill habit, some to another; though the Christian re-
ligion does not guide us to those methods of putting a
force upon our bodies, to subdue the violence of inor-
dinate appetite. The blessed Apostle St. Paul, seems
to have been in this circumstance, when he was assault -
ed with what is called in the text, a thorn in the flesh;
be it what it will that is meant there, it is not to my
purpose; but he prayed to the Lord thrice; that was the
first method the Apostle took, and thereby set a pious
example to all those who are assaulted by any tempta-
tion.
tion. He did not immediately fly to austerities and!
bodily mortifications, separating himself from mankind*
or flying into the defart, to give himself up to fasting*
and a retreat from the world, which is the object of all
private snare; but he applied himself by serious prayer,
to him who had taught us to pray, Lead us not into
temptation: and the answer likewise is instructing in
this case; he was not driven out, like Nebuchadnezzar, in-
to thedefart, he wasnotcommanded to retire into the wil-
derness, that he might be free from the temptation; no-
thing less: but the answer was, My grace is sufficient
for thee; sufficient, without the help of artisicial mor-
tisication.
So that even in the case of these forcible mortisica-
tions, they are not required, much less directed, for
helps to meditation; for if meditation could not be
practised benesicially, and to all the intents and pur-
poses for which it was ordained a duty, without flying
from the face of human society, the lise of man would
be very unhappy.
But doubtless the contrary is evident; and all the parts
of a complete solitude are to be as effectually enjoyed,
if we please, and sufficient grace assisting, even in the
most populous cities, among the hurries of conversa-
tion, and gallantries of a court, or the noise and busi-
ness of a camp, as in the Defarts of Arabia and Lybia,
or in the desolate lise of an uninhabited island.
C H A P. II.
ESSAY upon HONESTY.
WHEN I first came home to my own country,
and began to sit down and look back upon the
past circumstances of my wandering state, as you will
in charity suppose I could not but do very often, the
very prosperity T enjoyed, led me most naturally to re-
flect upon the particular steps by which I arrived to it.
The condition I was in, was very happy, speaking of
human selicity; the former captivity I had suffered,
made my liberty sweeter to me; and to find myself
jumped into easy circumstances at once, from a condi-
tion below the common rate of lise, made it still
sweeter.
One time, as I was upon my enquiries into the happy
concurrence of the causes which had brought the event
of my prosperity to pass, as an effect, it occurred to my
thoughts, how much of it all depended, under the dis-
position of Providence, upon the principle of honesty,.
which I met with in almost all the people whom it was
my lot to be concerned with in my private and particu-
lar affairs ; and I, that had met with such extraordinary
instances of the knavery and villainy ofmens natures in
other circumstances, could not but be something taken
up with the miracles of honesty that I had met with
among the several people I had had to do with, I mean
those whom I had more particularly to do with in the
Vol..III. B articles
articles of my liberty, estate, or effects, which sell into*
their hands.
I began with my most trusty and faithful widow, the
captain's wise, with whom I first went to the coast of
Africa, and to whom I entrusted 200I. being the gain
I had made in my first adventures to Guinea, as in the
first volume, page 19, appears.
She was left a widow, and in but indifferent circum-
stances; but when I sent to her so far off as the Brasils,
where I was in such a condition, as she might have rea-
sonably bejieved I should never have been able to come
myself; and if I had, might be in no condition to re-
cover it of he"r; and having myself nothing to shew
tinder her hand for the trust; yet she was so just, that
she sent the full value of what I wrote for, being one
hundred pounds; and to shew, as far as in her lay, her
sincere, honest concern for my good, put in, among
'many necessary things which I did not write for, I fayr
put in two bibles, besides other good books, for my
reading and instruction, as she faid afterwards, in Po-
pish and Heathen countries, where I might chance to-
fall. Honesty not only leads to discharge every debt,
and every trust to our neighbour, so far as is justly to*
- be demanded, but an honest man acknowledges himself
debtor to all mankind, for so much good to be done for
them, whether for soul or body, as Providence puts an
opportunity into his hands to do. In order to discharge
this debt, he studies continually for opportunity to do
all the acts of kindness and benesicence that it is possi-
ble for him to do; and though very sew consider it, a
man is not a completely honest man, that does not do
this.
Upoa
tjpon this consideration, I question much, whether
a covetous, narrow, stingy man, as we call him, one
Who gives himself up to himself, as born for himself
only, and who declines the advantages and opportuni-
ties of doing good, I mean extremely so, I fay, I much
question whether such a man can be an honest man;
stay, I am fatisfied he cannot be an honest man; for
though he may pay every man his own, and be just, as
he thinks it, to a farthing, yet this is part of the justice
which, in the common phrase, is the greatest injustice.
This is one meaning of that faying, Summum jus, sum-
ma injuria.
To pay every man his own, is the common law of
honesty; but to do good to all mankind, as far as you
are able, is the Chancery law of honesty; and though
in common law or justice, as I call it, mankind can
have no claim upon us, if we do but just pay our debts,
yet in Heaven's chancery they will have relief against
Us; for they have a demand in equity of all the good
to be done them that it is in our power to do; and
this Chancery Court, or Court of Equity, is held in
every man's breast; it is a true Court of Conscience,
and every man's conscience is a Lord Chancellor to
him. If he has not performed,—if he has not paid this
debt, conscience will decree him to pay it, on the pe-
nalty of declaring him a dishonest man, even in his own.
opinion; and if he still refuses to comply, will proceed
by all the legal steps of a Court of Conscience process,
till at last it will issue out a writ of rebellion against
him, and proclaim him a rebel to nature and his own
conscience.
But this is by the way, and is occasioned by the ob-
servations I have made of many people, who think they
B a are
arc mighty honest is they pay their debts, and owe no
man any thing, as they call it; at the fame time, like
true misers, who lay up all for themselves, they think
nothing of the debt of charity and benesicence, which
20 SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
Rich men are their Maker's freeholders; they enjoy
freely the estate he has given them the possession of,
with the rents, profits, and emoluments, but charged
with a see-farm rent to the younger children of the fa-
mily; namely, the poor: or, if you will, you may call
them God's copyholders, paying a quit-rent to the
Lord of the Manor; which quit-rent he has assigned
for the use of mankind, to be paid in a constant dis-
charge of all good offices, friendly, kind, and generous
actions; and he that will not pay his rent, cannot be an
honest man, any more than he that would not pay his
other just debts. %
The Scripture concurs exactly with this notion of
mine; the miser is called by the Prophet Ifaiah, ' a vile
person, one that works iniquity, and practises hypocri-
sy, and utters errors before the Lord :' Isaiah xxxii. 6.
How does this appear? The very next words explain
it. 'He makes empty the foul of the hungry, and he
will cause the drink of the thirsty to fail.' But lest this
should seem a strained text, let us read on, both before
and after: Verse 5. 'The vile person shall no more be
called liberal, nor the churl faid to be bountiful.' Here
the opposite to a liberal man is called a vile person, and
the opposite to a bountiful man is called a churl; and
in the verse following, the fame vile person, as opposed
to the liberal man, is called a wicked man; and the
liberal man is set up as a pattern for us all, in opposi-
tion to the vile, churlish, covetous wretch. Verse 7, 8.
'The
* The instruments also of the churl are evil: he deviseth
Wicked devices, to destroy the poor with lying words,
even when the needy speaketh right: but the liberal
deviseth liberal things ; and by liberal things shall he
stand.'
In a word, I think my opinion justified by this text,
that a churl, a morose, four disposition,—a covetous,
avaricious, selfish principled man, cannot be an honest
man; he does not pay the common debt of mankind
to one another, nor the see-farm or quit-rent of his
estate to God, who is his great landlord, or Lord of the
Manor, and who has charged the debt upon him. I
know the miser will laugh at this notion; but I speak
my own opinion, let it go as far as reason will carry it.
I come back to the examples I was giving in my
private case. As the widow was honest to me, so was
my good Portuguese captain; and it is this man's ori-
ginal honesty, that makes me speak of the honest man's
debt to mankind. It was honestv, a pjencrous honesty,
that led the poor man to take me up at sea; which, if
if he had neglected, my boy Xury and I had perished
together. It was no debt to me in particular, but a
debt to mankind, that he paid in that action: and yet
he could not have been an honest man without it. You
will fay, if he had gone away and left me, he had been
barbarous and inhuman, and deserved to be left to
perish himself in the like distress: but I fay, this is not
all the case; custom, and the nature of the thing, leads
us to fay it would have been hard-hearted and inhu-
human; but conscience will tell any man, that it was
a debt, and he could not but be condemned by the
court of conscience in his own breast, if he had omit-
ted it; nay, in the fight of Heaven he had tacitly killed
B 3 us,
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
us, and had been as guilty of our death as a murderer;
for he that refuses to fave a lise thrown into his hands,
takes it away; and if there is a just retribution in a,
future state,—if blood is at all required there, the blood
of every man, woman, or child, whom we could have
faved, and did not, shall be reckoned to us at that day,
as spilt by our own hands: for leaving lise in a posture
in which it must inevitably perish, is, without question,
causing it to perish, and will be called so then, by
whatever gilded, dressed-up words we may express and
conceal it now.
But I go farther, for my Portuguese went farther
with me; he not only paid the debt he owed to Hea-,
ven, in faving our live*, but he went farther ; he took
nothing of what I had, though, in the common right
of the sea, it was all his due for falvage, as the failors
call it; but he gave me the value of every thing, bought
my boat, which he might have turned adrift,—my boy
Xury, who was not my stave by any right, or if he
had, became free from that time; and the lise of Xury,
which he had faved, as a servant, was his own; yet he
bought every thing of me for the full value, and took
nothing of me, no, not for my passage.
Here was the liberal man devising liberal things, and
the sequel made good the promissory text: For by these
liberal things, the honest, liberal man, might be truly
fajd to stand. When I came to reward him, at my
coming to Lisbon, to sell my estate at the Brasils, then,
he being poor and reduced, and not able to pay even
what he owed me, I gave him a reward sufficient to
make his circumstances easy all his lise after.
The bounty of this man to me, when first he took
rr.e up out of the sea, was the highest and most com-
pleat
pleat act of honesty,—a generous honesty, laying hold
of an opportunity to do good to an object offered by
the providence of Heaven, and thereby acknowledging
the debt he had to pay to his. Maker, in the persons of
his most distressed creatures.
And here also let me remind my readers of what,
perhaps, they seldom much regard; it is not only a
gift from Heaven to us, to be put in a condition of
doing good, but it is a gift and a favour from Heaven,
to have an opportunity of doing the good we are in a
condition to do; and we ought to close with the op-
portunity, as a particular gift from above, and be as
thankful for it, I fay, as thankful for the occasion of
doing good, as for the ability.
I might mention here the honesty of my sellow-
planter in the Brasils, and of the two merchants and
their*sons, by whose integrity I had my share in the
plantation preserved and taken care of; as also the
honesty of the public treasurer for the church there,
and the like. But I am carried off in my thoughts, to
enlarge upon this noble principle, from the two exam-
ples I have already mentioned, viz. the Guinea cap-
tain's widow, and the Portuguese; and this in particu-
lar, because, since I came to England to reside, J have
met with abundance of disputes about honesty ; espe-
cially in cases where honest men come to be unhappy
men, when they fall into such circumstances as they
cannot be honest, or rather, cannot Ihew the principle
of honesty which is really at the bottom of all their
actions, and which, but for those circumstances, which
entirely difable them, would certainly shew itself in
every branch of their lives. Such men I have too
often seen branded for knaves, by those who, if they
B 4 come
come into the fame condition, would perhaps do tho
fame things, or worse than they may have done.
Both my widow and my Portuguese captain sell in-
to low circumstances, so that they could not make good
to me my money that was in their hands; and yet both
of them shewed to me, that they had not only a prin-
ciple of justice, but of generous honesty too, when the
opportunity was put into their hands to do so.
This put me upon enquiring and debating with my-
self, what this subtle and imperceptible thing, called
honesty, is, and how it might be described ; setting
down my thoughts, at several times, as objects pre-
sented, that posterity, if they think them worth while,
may find them both useful and diverting. And first, I
thought it not improper to lay down the conditions
upon which I am to enter upon that description, that I
may not be mistaken, but allowed to explain what I
mean by honesty, before I undertake to enter upon any
discourses or observations about it.
And to come directly to it, for I would make as sew
preambles as possible, 1 shall crave the liberty, in all
the following discourse, to take the term honesty, as I
think all English expressions ought to be taken, name-
ly honesttrly, in the common acceptation of the word,
the general vulgar sense of it, without any circumlocu-
tions or double entendres whatsoever; for I defire to
speak plainly and sincerely. Indeed, as I have no ta-
lent at hard words, so I have no great veneration for
etymologies, especially in English: but since I am
treating of honejly, I desire to do it, as I fay above,
honestly, according to the genuine signification of the
thing.
Neither
Neither shall I examine, whether honesty be a natu-
ral or an acquired virtue,—whether a habit or a qua-
lity,—whether inherent or accidental: all the philoso-
phical part of it I chuse to omit.
Neither shall I examine it as it extends to spirituals,
and looks towards religion. If we enquire about; ho-
nesty towards God, I readily allow all men are born
knaves, villains, thieves and murderers, and nothing
but the restraining power of Providence withholds us
from shewing ourselves such on all occasions.
No man can be just to his Maker; if he could, all
our creeds and consessions, litanies and supplications,
were ridiculous contradictions and impertinencies,—
inconsistent with themselves, and with the whole tenor
of human lise.
In all the ensuing discourse therefore, I am to be
understood of honesty, as it regards mankind among
themselves,—as it looks from one man to another, in.
those necessary parts of man's lise, his converfation and
negotiation, trusts, friendships, and all the incidents of
human affairs.
The plainness I profess, both in stile and method,
seems to me to have some suitable analogy to the sub-
ject, honesty; and therefore, is absolutely necessary to be
strictly followed: and I must own, I am the better re-
conciled, on this very account, to a natural infirmity
of homely plain writing, in that I think the plainness
of expression which I am condemned to, will give no
difadvantage to my subject; since honesty shews the
most beautiful, and the more like honesty, when arti-
fice is dismissed, and she is honestly seen by her own
light only: likewise the fame sincerity is required in
(.he reader; and he that reads this essay without honesty,
will
will never understand it right: she must, I fay, be
viewed in her own light. Jf prejudice, partiality, or
private opinions stand in the way, the mart's a reading
knave,—he is not honest to the subject,—and upon
such a one all the labour is lost; this work is of no
use to him; and, by my consent, the bookseller should
give him his money again.
If any man, from his priyate ill-nature, takes excep-
tions at me, poor, wild, wicked Robinson Crusoe, for
prating of such subjects as'this is, and shall call either
my sins or misfortunes to remembrance, in prejudice of
what he reads ; supposing me thereby unqualisied to
desend so noble a subject as this of honesty, or at least
handle it honestly; I take the freedom to tell such, that
those very wild, wicked doings and mistakes of mine,
render me the properest man alive to give warning to
others,—as the man that has been fick is half a physi-
cian. Besides, the consession which I all along make
of my early errors, and which Providence, you see,
found me leisure enough to repent of, and I hope, gave
me assistance to do it effectually, assists to qualify me
for the present undertaking, as well to recommend that
rectitude of foul, which I call honesty to others, as to
warn those who are subject to mistake it, either in
themselves or others: Heaven itself receives those who
sincerely repent, into the fame state of acceptance as if
they had not sinned at all, and so should we also.
They who repent, and their ill lives amend,
Stand next to those who never did offend.
Nor do I think a man ought to be afraid or ashamed
to own and acknowledge his follies and mistakes, but
rather to-think it a debt which honesty obliges him to
pays
pay; besides, our insirmities and errors, to which all
men are equally subject, when recovered from, leave
such impressions behind them, on those who sincerely
repent of them, that they are always the forwardest to
accuse and reproach themselves: no man need advise
them, or lead them; and this gives the greatest disco^
very of the honesty of the man's heart, and sincerity of
principles. Some people tell us, they think they need
riot make any open acknowledgement of their follies,
and it is cruel to exact it of them; that they could ra-?
ther die than submit to it; that their spirits are too
great for it; that they are more afraid to come to such
public consessions and recognitions, than they would
be to meet a cannon-bullet, or to face a,n enemy. But
this is a poor mistaken piece of false bravery; all shame
is cowardice ; as an eminent poet tells us, that all cou-
rage is sear ;—the bravest spirit is best qualisied fora pe-
nitent. It is a strange thing, that we should not be
ashamed to offend, but should be ashamed to repent;
not afraid to fin, but afraid to consess: this very
thought extorted the following lines from a friend qf
mine, with whom I discoursed upon this head:
Among the worst of cowards let him be nam'd,
Who having sinn'd, 's afraid to be asham'd;
And to mistaken courage he's betray'd,
Who having sinn'd, 's asham'd to be afraid.
But to leave the point of courage and cowardice in
our repenting of our offences, I bring it back to the
very point I am upon; namely, that of honesty. A
man cannot be truly an honest man, without acknow-
ledging the mistakes he has made; particularly, with-
out acknowledging the wrong done to his neighbour:
find why, pray, is justice less required in his acknowT
ledgement
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
ledgement to his Maker? He then that will be honest,
must dare to consess he has been a knave; for, as above,
speaking of our behaviour to God, we have been all
knaves, and all dishonest; and, if we come to speak
strictly, perhaps it would hold in our behaviour to one
another also: for where is the man, that is not charge-
able by some or other of his neighbours, or by himself,
with doing wrong,—with some oppression or injury,
either of the tongue, or of the hands?
I might enlarge here upon the honesty of the tongue,
a thing some people, who call themselves very honest
men, keep a very slender guard upon: I mean, as to
evil speaking; and of all evil speaking, that worst kind
of it, speaking hard and unjust things of one another. 1
This is certainly intended by the command of God,
which is so express and emphatic, Thou shalt not bear
false witness against thy neighbour; at least that part
which is what we call slander, raising an injurious and
false charge upon the character and conduct of our
neighbour, and spreading it for truth.
But this is not all; that honesty I am speaking of,
respects all detraction, all outrageous assau-lts of the
tongue: reproach is as really a part of dishonesty as
slander; and though not so aggravated in degree, yet
it is the fame in kind.
There is a kind of murder, that may be committed
with the tongue, that is in its nature as cruel as that of
the hand; this can never be the practice of an honest
man; nay, he that practises it cannot be an honest man.
But perhaps I may come to this again ; but I must go
back, to explain myself upon the subject a little farther
in the general, and then you shall hear more of me, as
to the particulars.
OF HONESTY IN GENERAL'.
IHAVE always observed, that however sew the real
honest men are, yet every man thinks himself, and
proclaims himself an honest man. Honesty, like Hea-
ven, has all mens good word, and all men pretend to a
share of it: so general is the claim, that, like a jest
which is spoiled by the repetition, it is grown of no
value for a man to swear by his faith; which is, in its
original meaning, by his honesty, and ought to be
understood so.
Like Heaven too, it is little understood by those who
pretend most to it;—it is too often squared according
to mens private interests, though, at the fame time, the
latitude which some men give themselves, is inconsist-
ent with its nature.
Honesty is a general probity of mind, an aptitude to
act justly and honestly in all cases, religious and civil,
and to all persons, superior or inserior; neither is abi-
lity or difability to act so, any part of the thing itself, in
this sense.
It may be distinguished into justice and equity, or, if
you will, into debt and honour; for both make up but
one honesty.
Exact justice is a debt to all our sellow-creatures;
and honourable, generous justice is derived from that
golden rule, Quod tib'i fieri non vis alterl ne feccris; and
all this put together, makes up honesty: honour indeed
is a higher word for it, hut it is the fame thing; and
—Differs from justice only in the name,
For honesty and honour are the fame.
This
This honesty is of so qualifying a nature, that it ii
the most denominative of all possible virtues : an ho-
nest man is the best title that can be given in the world;
all others are empty and ridiculous without it, and no
title can be really scandalous, if this remain. It is the
capital letter by which a man's character will be known*
when private qualities and accomplishments are worm-
eaten by time; without it, a man can neither be a chris-
tian or a gentleman: a man may be a poor honest man j
an unfortunate honest man; but a christian knave, or a
gentleman knave, is a contradiction; a man forseits his
character and his family by knavery, and his escutcheon
ought to have a particular blot, like that of bastardy.
When a gentleman loses his honesty, he ceases to be a
gentleman, commences rake from that minute, and
ought to be used like one.
Honesty has such a general character in the minds of
men, that the worst of men, who neither practise or
pretend to any part of it, will yet value it in others;
no man ever could be so out of love with it, as to de-
sire his posterity should be without it; nay, such is the
veneration all men have for it, that the general blessing
of a father to his son is, Pray God make thee an honest
man.
Indeed, so general is the value of it, and so well
known, that it seems needless to fay any thing in be-
half of it. So far as it is found upon earth, so much of
the first rectitude of nature, and of the image of God,
seems to be restored to mankind.
The greatest mischief which, to me, seems to attend
this virtue, like the thorn about the rose, which pricks
the finger of those who meddle with it, is pride. It is
a hard thing for a man to be very honest, and not to be
5 prou<J
proud of it; and though he who is really honest, has,
as we fay, something to be proud of, yet I take his ho-
nesty to be in a great deal of danger, who, values him-
self too much upon it.
True honesty, if I may be allowed such an expres-
sion, has the least relation to pride of any view in the
world; it is all simple, plain, genuine, and sincere; and
if I hear a man boast of his honesty, I cannot help hav-
ing some sears for him, at least, that it is fickly and
languishing.
Honesty is a little, tender plant, not known to all
who have ikill in simples; thick sowed, as they fay, and
thin come up: it is nice of growth,—it seldom thrives
in a very fat foil, and yet a very poor ground too, is apt
to starve it, 'unless it has taken very good root: when
jt once takes to a piece of ground, it will never be quite
destroyed,—it may be choaked with the weeds of pros-
perity,—and sometimes it is so scorched up with the
droughts of poverty and necessity, that it seems as if it
were quite dead and gone ; but it always revives upon
the least mild weather ; and if some shower of plenty
falls, it makes full reparation for the loss the gardener
had in his crop.
There is an ugly weed, called cunning, which is
very pernicious to it, and which particularly injures it,
by hiding it from our discovery, and making it hard to
find: this is so like honesty, that many a man has been
deceived with it, and have taken one for the other in
the market: nay, I have.heard of some, who have
planted this wild honesty, as we may call it, in their
own ground, have made use of it in their friendships
and dealings, and thought it had been the true plant,
but they always lost credit by it: and that was not the
worst
neither, for they had the loss who dealt with them, and
who chaffered for a counterseit commodity; and we find
many deceived so still, which is the occasion there is
such an outcry about false friends, and about sharping
and tricking in mens ordinary dealings in the world.
This true honesty too, has some little difference in it,
according to the soil or climate in which it grows, and
your simplers have had some disputes about the forts of
it; nay, there have been great heats about the several
kinds of this plant, which grows in different countries;
and some call that honesty, which others fay is not; as
particularly they fay, there is a sort of honesty in my
country, Yorkshire honesty, which differs very much
from that which is found in these southern parts, about
London: then there is a sort of Scots honesty, which
they fay is a meaner sort than that of Yorkshire: and
in New England, I have heard, they have a kind of
honesty, which is worse than the Scotish,and little bet-
ter than wild honesty, called cunning, which I men-
tioned before. On the other hand, they tell us, that
in some parts of Asia, at Smyrna, and at Constantino-
ple, the Turks have a better sort of honesty than any of
us. I am sorry our Turkey Company have not im-
ported some of it, that we might try whether it would
thrive here 6r no. It is a little odd to me, it should
grow to such a persection in Turkey, because it has al-
ways been observed to thrive best, where it is'sowed
with a sort of grain called religion : indeed they never
thrive, in those parts of the world, so well apart as they
do together; and for this reason, I must own, I have
found that Scots honesty, as above, to be of a very good
kind. How it is in Turkey, I know not; for, in all
my
my travels, I never set my foot in the Grand Signior's
dominions.
But to wave allegories, disputes about what is, or is
not honesty, are dangerous to honesty itself; for no
case can be doubtful, which does not border upon the
frontiers of dishonesty; and he that resolves not to be
drowned, had best never come near the brink of the
water.
That man who will do nothing but what is barely
honest, is in great danger. It is certainly just for me
to do every thing the law justifies; but if 1 should only
square my actions by what is literally lawful, I must
throw every debtor, though he be poor, in prison, and
never release him till he has paid the uttermost far-
thing: I must hang every malefactor without mercy,—
I must exact the penalty of every bond, and the for-
seiture of every indenture: in short, I must be uneasy
to all mankind, and make them so to me; and, in a
word, be a very knave too, as well as a tyrant; for
cruelty is not honesty.
Therefore, the sovereign judge of every man's honesty,
has laid us down a general rule, to which all the parti-
culars are resolved, ^tfod tibi fieri non vis, alteri ne fe-
ceris. This is a part of that honesty I am treating of,
and which indeed is the more essential of the two; this
is the test of behaviour, and the grand article to have
recourse to, when laws are silent.
I have heard some men argue, that they are not
bound to any such considerations of the indigence of
persons, as lead to concessions of time, or compositions
with them for debts; that it is all cx gratia, or the ef-
sects of policy; because circumstances lead them to
Vol. III. C , judge
judge it better to take what they can get, than lose the
whole.
Speaking of the letter of the law, I allow that they
may be in the right.
On the other hand, a man who gives a bond for a
debt, pleads, he is answerable for no more than the law
will force him to; that is, he may desend a suit, stand
out to the last extremity, and at last keep out of the
way, so as not to have judgment or execution served
on him; he- may secure his estate from the execution,
as well as his person, and so never pay the debt at all,
and yet, in the eye of the law, be an honest man; and
this part of legal, literal honesty, is supported only by
the other, namely, the cruel part; for really such a man,
speaking in the sense of common justice, is a knave; he
ought to act according to the true intent and meaning
of his obligation, and in the right of a debtor to a cre-
ditor, which is to pay him his money, when it became
due, not stand out to the last, because he cannot be
forced to it sooner.
The laws of the country indeed, allow such actions
as the laws of conscience can by no means allow, as in
this- cafe of the creditor suing for his debt, and the
debtor not paying it till he is forced by law. The ar-
gument made use of to vindicate the morality of such a
practice, stands thus:
If a man trusts me with his money or goods, upon
my common credit, or upon my word, he then takes
me for his money, and depends both upon my ability
and my honesty; but if he comes and demands my
bond, he quits his dependence upon my honesty, and
takes the law for his security; so that the language of
such.an action is, He will lnve a bond, that it may be
in
in his power to make me pay him whether I will or
no; and as for my honesty, he will have nothing to
do with it. What relief then I can have against this
bond, by the fame law to which the person resers him-
self, is as legal an action on my side, as the other man's
suing for his own, is on his.
And thus the letter of the Jaw will ruin the honesty
of both debtor and creditor, and yet both shall be jus-
tisied too.
But if I may give my opinion in this case, neither of
these are the honest man 1 am speaking of; for honesty
does not consist of negatives; and it is not sufficient to
do my neighbour no personal injury, in the strict sense
and letter of the law, but I am bound, where cases and
circumstances make other measures reasonable, to have
such regard to these cases and circumstances, as reason
requires. Thus, to begin with the creditor to the
debtor : reason requires, that where a man is reduced to
extremities, he should not be destroyed for debt; and
what is unreasonable, cannot be honest.
Debt is no capital crime, nor ever was; and starving
men in prison, a punishment worse than the gallows,
seems to be a thing so severe, as it ought not to be in
the power of a creditor to inflict it: the laws of God
never tolerated such a method of treating debtors, as
we have since thought proper, I won't fay honest, to
put in practice: but since the politics of the nation
have left the debtor so much at mercy, by the letter of
the law, it is honest, with respect to the law, to pro-
ceed so; yet compassion is, in this case, thought rea-
sonable: 'Why shouldest thou take his bed from under
him?' fays the text; which implies it is unnatural and
unreasonable.
C % I have
I have heard some men insist upon it, that if a mail
be sued wrongfully at law, he ought rather to submit
to the injury, than to oppose the wrong by the fame
law; and yet I never sound those gentlemen so passive
in matters of law, but they would sue a debtor at law,
if they could not otherwise obtain their right.
I consess, I cannot blame them for the last, but I
blame them for pretending to the first: I am not ar-
guing against recovering a just debt by a just law, where
the person is able, but unwilling to be honest; but I
think, pursuing the debtor to all extremities, to the
turning his wise and children into the street, expressed
in the Scripture, by taking his bed from under him,
and by keeping the debtor in prison, when really he is
not able to pay it, there is something of cruelty in it,
and the honest man, 1 am speaking of, can never do it.
But some may abject, if I must serve all mankind, as
I would be served in like case, then I must relieve every
beggar, and release every poor debtor; for if I was a
beggar, I would be relieved; and if 1 was in prison, I
would be released; and so I must give away all I have.
This is inverting the argument; for the meaning is in
the negative still, Do not to another any thing, or put
no hardship upon another, which you would not allow
to be just, if you were in their case.
Honesty is equity,—every man is Lord Chancellor to
himself,—and if he would consult that principle within
him, would find reason as fair an advocate for his
neighbour as for himself. But I proceed:
OF
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ,87
O
OF THE TRIAL OF HONESTY.
NECESSITY makes an honest man a knave; and
if the world was to be the judge, according to the
common received notion, there would not be an ho-
nest poor man left alive.
A rich man is an honest man,—no thanks to him;
for he would be a double knave, to cheat mankind
when he had no need of it: he has no occasion to press
upon his integrity, nor so much as to touch upon the
borders of dishonesty. Tell me of a man, that is a
very honest man, for he pays everybody punctually,
runs into nobody's debt, does no man any wrong:
Very well, what circumstances is he in? Why, he has
a good estate, a sine yearly income, and no business to
do. The Devil must have full possession of this man,
if he should be a knave; for no man commits evil for
the fake of it; even the Devil himself has some farther
design in sinning, than barely the wicked part of it: no
man is so hardened in crimes, as to commit them for
the mere pleasure of the fact; there is always some vice
gratisied; ambition, pride, or avarice, make rich men
knaves,—and necessity, the poor: but to goon with
this rich honest man.—His neighbour, a thriving mer-
chant, and whose honesty had as untainted a character
as he can pretend to, has a rich ship cast-away, or a
factor abroad broke in his debt, and his bills come
back protested, and he fails, is fain to abscond and make
a composition: our rich honest man flies out upon
him presently ;-r-he is a knave, a rogue, and don't pay
C 3 people
people what he owes them, and we should have a law,
That he that runs into debt farther than he is able to
pay, should be hanged, and the like. If the poor man
is laid hold on by some creditor, and put in prison;
aye, there let him lie, he deserves it; it will be an ex-
ample to keep others from the like; and now, when all
is done, this broken merchant may be as honest a man
as the other.
You fay you are an honest man,—how do you know
it? Did you ever want bread, and had your neighbour's
loaf in your keeping, and would starve rather than eat
it? Was you ever arrested, and not being able, by your-
self or friends, to make peace with your plaintiff, and at
the fame time having another man's money in your
cash chest, committed to your keeping, suffered your-
self to be carried to gaol,. rather than break bulk, and
break in upon your trust? God himself has declared,
That the power of necessity is irresistible, and that so,
as to our integrity, that he has bid us not despise the
thief that steals in such a case; not that the man is less
a thief, or the fact less dishonest: but the text is most
remarkably worded for instruction, in this point;—.
Don't you despise the man; but remember, if you
were driven to the fame exigence, you would be the
fame man, and do the fame thing, though now you
fancy your principle so good ; therefore, whatever his
crime may be, as to God, don't reproach him with it
here; but you, that think you stand, take heed least
you fall.
I am of the opinion,' that I could state a circum-
stance, in which there is not one man in the world
would be honest: necessity is above the power of hu-
man nature; and for Providence to suffer man to fall
into
into that necessity, is to suffer him to sin; because na-
ture is not furnished with power to desend itself, nor is
grace itself able to fortify the mind against it.
What shall we fay to five men in a boat at sea, with-
out provision, calling a council together, and resolving
to kill one of themselves for the others to seed on, and
eat him? "With what face could the four look up, and
crave a blessing on that meat? With what heart give
thanks after it? And yet this has been done by honest
men; and, I believe the honestest man in the world
might be forced to it: yet here is no manner of pre-
tence, but necessity, to palliate the crime. If it be
argued, it was the loss of one man to fave the four, it
is answered, But what authority to make him die to
fave their lives r How came the man to owe them such
a debt? It was robbery and murder; it was robbings
him of his lise, which was his property, to preserve
mine; it is murder, by taking away the lise of an in-
nocent man; and, at best, it was doing evil that good
may come, which is expressly forbidden. .
But there is a kind of equity pleaded in this cafe;
generally when men are brought to such a pass, they
cast lots who ssiall be the man, and the voluntary con-
sent of the party makes it lawful, God himself being
supposed to determine who shall be the man, which I
deny; for it is in no man's power legally to consent to
such a lot; no man has a right to give away his own
lise; he may forseit it to the law, and loose it; but that
is a crime against himself, as well as against the law;
and the four men might, by our law, have been tried
and hanged for murder. A.U that can be faid is, that
necessity makes the highest crimes lawful; and things
evil in their own naturt, are made practicable by it.
C 4 From
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
From these extremes of necessity, we come to lighter
degrees of it; and so let us bring our horrest man to
some exigencies. He would not wrong any man of a
farthing; he could not sleep if he should be in any-
body's debt, and he cannot bean honest man that can.
That we may see now, whether this man's honesty
lies any deeper than his neighbour's, turn the scale of
his fortune a little: his father left him a good estate,
but here comes some relations, and they trump up a
title to his lands, and serve ejectments upon his tenants;
and so the man gets into trouble, hurry of business,
and the law: the extravagant charges of the Jaw sink
him of all his ready money, and his rents being stop-
ped, the first breach he makes upon his honesty, (that
is, by his former rules) he goes to a friend to borrow
money, tells him this matter will be over he hopes
quickly, and he shall have his rents to receive, and then
he will pay him again; and really he intends to do so:
but here comes a difappointment,—the trial comes on,
and he is cast, and his title to the estate proves desec-
tive; his father was cheated, and he not only loses the
estate, but is called upon for the arrears of the rent he
has received; and, in short, the man is undone, and
has not a penny to buy bread, or help himself; and be-
sides this, cannot pay the money he borrowed.
Now, turn to his neighbour, the merchant, whom
he had so loudly called knave, for breaking in his trade:
he by this time has made up with his creditors, and got
abroad again; and he meets him in the street in his de-
jected circumstances : Well, fays the merchant, and
why don't you pay my cousin, your old neighbour, the
money you borrowed of him? Truly, fays he, because
I have lost all my estate, and cannot pay; nay, I have
nothing
nothing to live on. Well, but, returns the merchant,
was not you a knave to borrow money, and now can-
not pay it? Why truly, fays the gentleman, when I
borrowed it, I really designed to be honest, and did hot
question but I should have my estate again, and then I
had been able also, and would have paid him to a
penny; but it has proved otherwise; and though I
would pay him, if I had it, yet I am not able. Well,
but, fays the merchant again, did you not call me
knave, though I lost my estate abroad, by unavoidable
difasters, as you have lost your's at home f Did you
not upbraid me, because I could not pay? I would
have paid everybody, if I could, as well as you. Why
truly, fays the gentleman, I was a fool; I did not con-
sider what it was to be brought to necessity ; I ask your
pardon.
Now, let us carry on this story: the merchant com-
pounds with his creditors, and paying every one a just
proportion, as far as it will go, gets himself discharged;
and being bred to business, and industrious, falls into
trade again, and raises himself to good circumstances;
and, at last, a lucky voyage, or some hit of trade, sets
him above the world again: the man, remembering his
former debts, and retaining his principle of honesty,
calls his old creditors together, and though he was for-
merly discharged from them all, voluntarily pays them
the remainder of their debts. The gentleman, being
bred to no business, and his fortune desperate, goes
abroad, and gets into the army, and behaving himself
well, is made an officer; and still rising by his merit,
becomes a great man ; but, in his new condition, trou-
bles not his head with his former debts in his native
country, but settles in the court and favour of the
prince
prince tinder whom he has made his fortunes, and
there sets up for the fame honest man he did before.
I think I need not ask which of these two are the
honest man, any more than which was the honest peni-
tent, the Pharisee or the Publican.
Honesty, like friendship, is tried in affliction; and
he that cries out loudest against those who, in the time
of this trial, are forced to give ground, would perhaps
yield as far in the like shock of misfortune.
To be honest when peace and plenty flows upon our
hands, is owing to the blessings of our parents; but to
be honest, when circumstances grow narrow, relations
turbulent and quarrelsome, when poverty stares at us,
and the world threatens, this blessing is from Heaven,
and can only be supported from thence. God Al-
mighty is very little. beholden to them who will serve
him just as long as he seeds them. It was a strong ar-
gument the Devil used in that dialogue between Satan
and his Maker, about Job: ' Yes, he is a mighty good.
man, and a mighty just man; and well he may, while
you give himevery thing he wants: I would serve you
myself, and be as true to you as Job, if you would be
as kind and as bountiful to me as you are to him: but
now, do but lay your finger on him; do but stop your
hand a little, and cut him short; strip him a little, and
make him like one of those poor sellows that now bow
to him, and you will quickly see your good man be like
other men; nay, the passion he will be in at his losses,
will make him curse you to your face.' It is true, the
Devil was mistaken in the man ; but the argument had
a great deal of probability in it, and the moral may be
drawn both from the argument and .from the xonse-
quenccs.
I. That
I. That it is an easy thing to maintain the character
of honesty and uprightness, when a man has no busi-
ness to be employed in, and no want to press him.
II. That when exigencies and distresses pinch a
man, then is the time to prove the honesty of his prin-
ciple.
The prosperous honest man can only by boasting
tell the world he is honest, but the distressed and ruined
honest man hears other people tell him he is honest.
In this case therefore, since allowance must be made
for human infirmities, we are to distinguish between an
accident and a practice. I am not pleading to encou-
rage any man to make no scruple of trespassing upon
his honesty in time of necessity; but I cannot condemn
every man for a knave, who, by unusual pressures,
straits, difficulties, or other temptation, has been left to
slip and do an ill action, as we call it, which perhaps
this person would never have stooped to, if the exigence
had not been too great for his resolution. The Scrip-
ture fays of David, 'He was a man after God's own
heart;' and yet we have several things recorded of him,
whiqh, according to the modern way of censuring peo-
ple in this age, would "have given him the character of
a very ill man: but, I conceive, the testimony of
David's uprightness, given us so authentically from the
Scripture, is given from this very rule, That the in-
clination of his heart, and the general bent of his prac-
tice, was to serve and obey his Great Sovereign Bene-
factor, however human frailty, backed with extremities
of circumstances, or powerful temptations, might be-
tray him to commit actions which he would not other-
wise have done. The falling into a crime, will not de-
nominate a man dishonest; for, bumanum est errare.
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 43
The character of a man ought to be taken from the
general tenor of his behaviour, and from his allowed
practice. David took the shew-bread from the priests,
which it was not lawful for him to eat. David knew,
that God, who commanded the shew-bread should not
be eaten, had however commanded him, by the law of
nature, not to be starved; and therefore, pressed by his
hunger, he ventures upon the commandment. And
the Scripture is very remarkable in expressing it,—
* David, when he was hungry:' and the occasion for
which our Blessed Lord himself quoted this text, is
very remarkable, viz. to prove, that things, otherwise
unlawful, may be made lawful by necessity : Matik.
xii. 4.
Another time, David, in his passion, resolves the de-
struction of Nabal and all his family, which, without
doubt, was a great sin; and the principle which he
went upon, to wit, revenge for his churlish and faucy
answer to him, was still a greater sin; hut the tempta-
tion, backed by the strength of his passion, had the
better of him at that time: and this upright, honest
man had murdered Nabal and all his house, if God
had not prevented him.
Many instances of like nature the Scripture has left
upon record, giving testimony to the character of good
men, from the general practice and bent cf their
hearts, without leaving any reproach upon them for
particular failings, though those sins have been extra-
ordinary provoking, and in their circumstances scan-
dalous enough.
If any man would be so weak, as from hence to
draw encouragement to allow himself in easy trespasses
upon his honesty, on the pretence of necessities, let
him
him go on with me to the further end of this observa-
tion* and sind room for it if he can.
If ever the honest man I speak, of, by whatsoever exi-
gence or weakness, thus slips from the principle of his
integrity, he never fails to express his own dislike of it;
he acknowledges, upon all occasions, both to God and
to man, his having been overcome, and been prevailed
upon to do what he does not approve of; he is too
much ashamed of his own infirmity, to pretend to vin-
dicate the action, and he certainly is restored to the
first regulation of his principles, as soon as the tempta-
tion is over. No man is fonder to accuse him, than he
is to accuse himself, and he has always upon him the
sincere marks of a penitent.
It is plain from hence, that the principle of the
man's integrity is not destroyed, however he may have
fallen, though seven times a day; and I must, while I
live, reckon him for an honest man.
Nor am I going about to suppose, that the extremi-
ties and exigencies which have pressed men of the best
principles to do what at another time they would not
do, make those actions become less sinful, either in
their nature or circumstances. The guilt of a crime,
with respect to its being a crime, viz. an offence against
God, is not removed by the circumstances of necessity.
It is without doubt a sin for me to steal another man's
food, though it was to supply starving nature; for how
do I know whether he, whose food I steal, may not be in
as much danger of starving for want of it as I; and if not,
it is taking to my own use what I have no right to, and
taking it by force or fraud; and the question is not as
to the right or wrong, whether I have a necessity to
eat this man's bread or no; but whether it be his or
my
my own? If it be his, and not my own, I cannot do it
without a manisest contempt of God's law, and break-
ing the eighth article of it, * Thou shalt not steal.'
Thus, as to God, the crime is evident, let the necessity
be what it will.
But when we are considering human nature, subject-
ed, by the consequences of Adam's transgression, to
frailty and infirmity, and regarding things from man to
man, the exigencies and extremities of streightened cir-
cumstances, seem to me to be most prevailing argu-
ments, why the denomination of a man's general cha-
racter ought not, by his sellow mortals, (subject to the
fame infirmities) to be gathered from his mistakes, his
errors, or failings; no, not from his being guilty of
any extraordinary sin, but from the manner and me-
thod of his behaviour. Does he go on to commit
frauds, and make a practice of his sin? Is it a distress?
Is it a storm of affliction, and poverty has driven him
upon the lee-shore of temptation? Or is the sin the
port he steered for? A ship may, by stress of weather,
be driven upon fands and dangerous places, and the
ikill of the pilot not be blamable; but he that runs
against the wind, and, without any necessity, upon a
shelve which he sees before him, must do it on purpose
to destroy the vessel, and ruin the voyage.
In short, if no man can be called honest, but he who
is never overcome to fall into any breach of this rec-
titude of lise, none but he who is sufficiently fortisied
against all possibility of being tempted by prospects, or
driven by distress, to make any trespass upon his inte-
grity; woe be to me that write, and to most that read:
"Where shall we find the honest man?
The
The Scripture is particularly expressive of this, in
the Prov. xxiv. 16. 4 A just man falleth seven times
a day, and riseth again.' Why, this is very strange, if
a man come to commit seven crimes in a day, that is,
many, for the meaning is indesinite, can this be an
honest man? What fays the world of him? Hang him,
he is a knave, a rascal, a dishonest sellow; this is the
judgment of men: but, in the judgment of Scripture,
this may be a righteous man.
The main design of this head, and the proper appli-
cation of it, is to tell us, we ought not to be too hasty to
brand our brother for his sins, his infirmities, or mis-
fortunes; since he that is dishonest in your eyes, by a
casual or other crime which he commits, may rise from
that difaster by a sincere repentance, and be to-morrow
an honester man than thyself in the eyes of his Maker.
But here I am assaulted with another censorious ho-
nest man :—Here you talk of falling to-day, and rising
again to-morrow; sinning and repenting; why, here
is a sellow has cheated me of 500I. and he comes cant-
ing to me of his repentance; tells me, he hopes God
has forgiven him, and it would be hard for me to call
to remembrance what God has wiped out; he is hear-
tily sorry for the fault, and the like, and begs my par-
don; that is, begs my estate indeed: for what is all
this to my money; let him pay me, and I will forgive
him too; God may forgive him the sin, but that is-
nothing to my debt.
Why truly, in answer to this in part, you are in the
right, if the man be able to make you any fatisfaction,
and does not do it; for I question not, but every tres-
pass of this nature requires restitution, as well as re-
pentance; restitution as far as the possible power of the
party extends; and if the last be hot found, the first ifl
not likely to be sincere.
But, if the man either is not able to make you any
restitution at all, or does make you restitution to the
utmost of his capacity, and then comes and fays as be-
fore, then the poor man is in the right, and you are in
the wrong; for 1 make no question likewise to affirm,
and could prove it by unanswerable arguments, he
may be an honest man who cannot pay his debts, but
he cannot bean honest man, who can, and does not.
Innumerable accidents reduce men from plentiful
fortunes to mean and low circumstances; some pro-
cured by their own vices and intemperance; some by
insirmities, ignorance, and mere want of judgment to
manage their affairs; some by the frauds and cheats of
other men; some by mere casualty and unavoidable ac-
cidents, wherein the sovereignty of Providence shews
us, that the race is not to the swift, or the battle to the
strong, or riches to men of understanding.
First, Some by vices and intemperance are reduced
to poverty and distress: our honest man cannot fall in
the misfortunes of this class, because there the very
poverty is a sin, being produced from a sinful cause.
As it is far from being allowed as an excuse to a mur-
derer, to fay he was in drink, because it is excusing a
crime with a crime: so for a man to ruin his fortune,
as the Prodigal in the Gospel, with riotous living, all
the effects are wicked and dishonest, as they partake of
the dishonesty of the cause from whence they proceed;
for he cannot be an honest man, who wants wherewith
to pay his debts, after having spent what should have
discharged them in luxury and debauches.
Secondly,
49
Secondly, Some by ignorance and want of judgment
to manage their affairs, are brought to poverty and
distress; these may be honest men* notwithstanding
their weakness; for I will not undertake that none of
our honest men shall be fools: It is true, the good
man is the wise man, as to the main part of wisdom,
which is included in his piety; but many a religious
man, who would not do any wrong wilfully to his
neighbour, is obliged, at last, to injure both his own
family, and other people's, for want of discretion to
guide him in his affairs, and to judge for himself; and
therefore, I dare not tax all our fools with being
knaves, nor will I fay but such a mail may be honest.
Some will fay, but such a man should not venture into
business which he is not able to manage, and there*
fore it was the vice of his understanding* and like the
case in the first article, is excusing a fault with a fault.
I cannot allow this; for if I am asked why a fool
Ventures into trade ? I answer, because he is a fool, not
because he is a knave.
If fools could their own ignorance discern,
They'd be no longer fools,—because they'd learni
If you would convince a man that he wants discre-
tion, you must give him discretion to be convinced:
until then he cannot know he has it not, because he
has it not. No man is answerable, either to God or
man, for that which he never was master of: the most
proper expression that ever I met with in this nature,
was of a certain ideot or natural, which a gentleman
of my acquaintance kept in his family, who, being on
his death-bed, was observed to be very pensive, and
much concerned about dying; the gentleman sent a
Vol. III. D minister
minister to him, who, as well as he could to his un-
derstanding, discoursed with him about death and
judgment to come; the poor creature, who was hardly
ever able to give a rational answer to a question before,
after hearing him very attentively, broke out into tears,
with this expression, That he hoped God would not
require any thing of him that he had not given him
judgment to understand. Whatever it may be as to
the foul, I am positive, in the case of human affairs, no
man is answerable to man for any more than his dis-
cretion ; events are not in our power; a man may be
nicely honest in lise, though he may be weak enough
in judgment.
Thirdly, Some are ruined, and are yet merely passive,
being either defrauded and cheated by knaves, or plun-
dered and rifled by thieves, or by immediate casualties,
as fire, enemies, storms, floods, and the like; these are
things which neither touch the man's honesty nor his
discretion. Thus Job was, by God's permission, and
the agency of the Devil, reduced, in a moment, from a
plentiful estate, to be as naked as he came out of his
mother's womb. I would fain ask those who fay no
man can be an honest man if he does not pay his debts,
who paid Job's debts, if he owed any, and where was
his dishonesty, if he did not pay them? I still readily
grant, that he cannot be an honest man, who does not
pay his debts, if he can; but, if otherwise, then the
words ought to be altered, and they should fay, he can-
not be an honest man who borrows any money, or
buys any thing upon his credit; and this cannot be
trufc.
But since I have led myself into the argument, I
cannot but make a small digression concerning people
. .. . who
5i
foil in trade: I conceive the greatest error of such, is
their terror about breaking, by which they are tempt-
ed, while their credit is good, though their bottom be
naught, to push farther in; expecting, or at least ho-
ping, by the profits of some happy voyage, or some
lucky hit, as they call it, to retrieve their circumstances,
and stand their ground.
I must consess, I cannot vindicate the honesty of
this; for he, who knowing his circumstances to be
once naught, and his bottom worn out, ought not in
justice to enter into any man's debt; for then he trades
on their risk, not on his own, and yet trades for his
own profits, not theirs : this is not fair ; because he de-
ceives the creditor, who ventures his estate on that
bottom which he supposes to be good, and the other
knows is not: nay, though he really pays this credi-
tor, he is not honest; for, in conscience, his former
creditors had a right to all his effects, in proportion to
their debts; and if he really pays one all, and the rest
but a share, it is a wrong to the whole.
I would therefore advise all tradesmen, who sind
their circumstances declining, as soon, at least, as they
.first discern themselves to be incapable of paying their
debts, if not while yet they can pay every one all, to
make a full stop, and call all people together; if there
is enough to pay them all, let them have it; if not, let
them have their just shares of it. By this means you
will certainly have God's blessing, and the character of
an honest man left, to begin again with; and creditors
are often prevailed with, in consideration of such a gene-
rous honesty, to throw back something to put such a man
in a posture to live again, or by further voluntary credit
and friendship, to uphold him. This is much better also
D a with
with respect to interest, as well as honesty, than to rust
on to all extremities, till the burthen falls too heavy,
either for debtor or creditor to bear: this would pre-
sent many of the extremities, which, I fay, puts the
honesty of a man to so extraordinary a trial.
An honest principle would certainly dictate to the
man, if it were consulted with, that when he knows
he is not able to pay, it is not lawful for him to bor-
row. Taking credit, is a promise of payment; a pro-
mise of payment is tacitly understood, and he cannot be
honest, who promises what he knows he cannot per-
form, as I shall note more at large on another head.
But if the man be paid, yet it was not an honest act;
it was deceiving the man, and making him run a great-
er rifle than he knew of, and such a risk as he would not
have run, had he known your circumstances and bot-
tom, as you do; so that here is deceit upon deceit.
This I know is a disputed point, and a thing which
a great many practise, who pass for very honest men in
the world; but I like it not the better for that: I am
very positive, that he who takes my goods on the foot
of his credit, when, if he should die the next day, he
knows his estate will not pay me five shillings in the
pound; though he should not die, and does pay me at
the time appointed, is as much guilty of a fraud, as if
he actually robbed my house. Credit is a received
opinion of a man's honesty and ability, his willingness
to pay, and his having wherewith to pay; and he who
wants either of these, his credit is lame. Men will not
sell their goods to a litigious, quarrelsome man, though
he be never so rich; nor to a needy man, though he
be never so honest. Now, if all the world believe I
am honest and able, and I know I am not the last, I
cannot
cannot be the first, if I take their goods upon credit.
It is in vain to pretend, men trade upon the general
risk of mens appearance, and the credit of common
fame, and all men have an equal hazard. I fay no:
men may venture their estates in the hands of a flou-
rishing bankrupt, and he, by virtue of his yet unshaken
credit, is trusted; but he cannot be honest that takes
this credit, because he knows his circumstances are
quite otherwise than they are supposed to be; that the
man is deceived, and he is privy to the deceit. *
This digression is not so remote from the purpose,
as I expected when I began it; the honesty that I am
speaking of, chiefly respects matters of commerce, of
which credit and payment of debt, are the most consi-
derable branches.
There is another article in trade, which many very
honest men have made familiar to themselves, which
yet I think is in no case to be desended; and that is
relating to counterseit money. Custom, before the
old money was suppressed in England, had prevailed
so far upon honesty, that I have seen some men put all
their brass money among their running cash, to be told
over in every sum they paid, in order to have some-
body or other take it: I have heard many people own
they made no scruple of it, but I could never sind
them give one good reason to justify the honesty of it.
First, They fay, it comes for money, and it ought
to go so. To which I answer, that is just as good a
reason as this: A. has cheated me, and therefore I
may cheat B. If I have received a sum of money for
good, and knowing not that any of it is otherwise, offer
it in payment to another, this is just and honest; but, if
on this other man's telling it over, he returns me a piece
of
of brass or counterseit money, which I change again,
and afterwards knowing this to be such, offer the fame
piece to another, I know no worse fraud; in its de-
gree, in the world, and I doubt not to prove it so be-
yond contradiction.
If the first person did not take this piece of money,
it was, because being both watchful and skilful, he
could discover it; and if I offer it to another, it is
with an expectation, that he being either less watchful
or less skilful, shall overlook it; and so I shall make an.
advantage of my neighbour's ignorance, or want of
care.
I will put some parallel cases to this, to illustrate it:
Suppose a blind man comes into my shop to buy goods
of me, and giving me a guinea to change, I shall give
him the remainder in bad money; would not every-
body fay it was a barbarous thing? Why the other is
all one; for if the person be ignorant of money, he is
blind as to the point in hand; and nothing can be
more unfair than to take the advantage.
Suppose again, a young boy, or a servant newly
entered in trade, is sent to buy goods, and by his mas-
ter's order, he asks for such a commodity; and you
presuming upon the rawness of the messenger, deliver
a fort of a meaner quality, and take the full price of
him; would you grudge to be used scurvily for such a
trick? Why, no less or better is offering brass for sil-
ver; presuming only the want of care or skill in the
receiver, shall pass it unobserved.
Aye, but, fays a learned tradesman, who would be
thought honester than ordinary, I always change it
again, if it be brought back: Yes, Sir, so does,a pick-
pocket give you your handkerchief again, when you
have
have fastened on him, and threatened him with the
mob. The matter, in short, is this; if the man whom
you have cheated, can cheat nobody else, then no
thanks to you, when he comes to you, and charges
the fraud upon you, you will make fatisfaction; he-
cause, if you will not, the law will compel you to it.
But if the fraud may be carried on, as you are mani-
sestly willing, consenting, and instrumental in it that it
should, behold the consequence; your first sin against
honesty, is multiplied in all the hands through whom
this piece of bad money knowingly so passes, till, at
last, it happens to go single to a poor man that cannot
put it off, and the wrong and injury may issue where it
was wanted to buy bread for a starving family.
All the excuses I could ever meet with could never
fatisfy me, that it can consist with honesty, to put brass
or copper away for gold or silver, any more than it
would, to give a blind messenger farld instead of sugar,
or brown bread instead of white.
OF
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
OF HONESTY IN PROMISES,
MAN is known by his word, and an ox by his
stand the true meaning of it, it is, that the honesty of a
man is known by his punctually observing his word, as
naturally and plainly as any creature is known by the
most obvious distinction. It is the peculiar quality of
an honest man,—the distinguishing mark to know him
by. His word or promise is as facred to him in all his
affairs in the world, as the strongest obligation which
can be laid on him; nor is it a thing formed by him
from settled resolutions, or measures of policy, taken,
up of course, to raise or fix his reputation ; but it is the
native produce of his honest principle; it is the conse-
quence, and his honesty is the cause; he ceases to be
honest, when he ceases to preserve this solemn regard
to his word.
If he gives his word, any man may depend upon it,
for the fasety of his lise or estate; he scorns to preva-
ricate, or shift himself off from the punctual observance
. of it, though it be to his loss.
I cannot abate an honest man an inch in the punc-
tual observance of a promise made upon parole, if it be
in the man's possible power to perform it; because there
» seems to be something too base to consist with honesty,
. in the very nature of a man that can go back from his
word.
The reverence our ancestors paid to their promises,
or word past, I am of the opinion, gave that remarkable

brand
brand of infamy and scandal upon the affront of giving
the lie: a gentleman, which is, in short, the modern
term for an honest man, or a man of honour, cannot
receive a greater reproach, than to be told, he lies; that
is, that he forseits his word,—breaks his veracity; for
the minute he does that, he ungentlemans himself, dis-
graces the blood of his family, degenerates from his
ancestors, and commences rake, scoundrel, and any
thing.
Some people, who have run their points of honour
to the extremes, are of the opinion, that this affront of
the lie Ought not to be given to any thing they call a
gentleman, or that calls himself so, till he has so far
exposed himself to all other degrees of infamy, as to
bear kicking, or caning, and the like; that after this,
when he breaks his word, he may be told he lies, or
anything else; but till then, the very thing itself is so
intolerable an abuse, that the person who ventures to
trespass so foully on the rules of good manners, de-
serves not the honour of fair play for his lise; but as
some beasts of prey are refused the fair law of the field,
and are knocked down in every hedge,—so these, like
bullies and mere rakes, may be pistolled in the dark,
and slabbed at the corner of an alley; that is to fay,
any measure may be used with them, to dismiss them
from the society of mankind, as sellows not sufFerable
in the common-wealth of good manners.
I do not argue for these extremes; but I instance in
this, to testify the veneration all good men have for the
word or promise of an honest man, and the esteem
which the integrity of the mind, expressed by a zealous
regard to the words of the mouth, have obtained in the
world. The French, when they express themselves in
vindication
vindication of their honour, always bring it about by
this, Je suis homme de parole, I am an honest man, or a
man of my word; that is, I am a man that may be
trusted upon my parole; for I never break my word.
Such was the value put upon the promises of men
in former time, that a promise of payment of money-
was recoverable in our courts by law, till the inconve-
niencies proved so many, that an act was made on pur-
pose to restrain it to a sum under ten pounds: but to
this day, if a man promises marriage to a woman, espe-
cially if file has granted him any favours upon that
condition, the laws of the land, which therein have re-
gard to the laws of honour, will oblige him to make it
good, and allow it to be a sufficient plea to forbid his
marrying with anybody else.
There are innumerable instances of the veneration
all nations pay to the expressive article of human vera-
city. In the war, you meet with frequent instances of
prisoners dismissed by a generous enemy, upon their
parole, either to pay their ransom, or to procure such
or such conditions, or come back and surrender them-
selves prisoners; and he that should forseit this parole,
would be posted in the enemy's army, and hissed out of
his own.
I know nothing a wise man would not chuse to do,
rather than by breaking his word, give the world such
an undeniable testimony of his being a knave: this is
that good name which Solomon fays is better than lise,
and is a precious ointment, and which, when a man
has once loft, he has nothing left worth keeping. A
man may even hang himself out of the way; for no
man that looks like a man, will keep his company.
When
When a man has once come to breaking his word,
no man, that has any value for his reputation, cares to
be seen in his company; but all good men shun him,
as if he were insected with the plague.
There are men indeed, who will be exceeding punc-
tual to their words and promises, who yet cannot be
called honest men, because they have other vices and
excursions that render them other ways wicked: these
give their testimony to the beauty of honesty, by
chusing it as the best mask to put a gloss upon their
actions, and conceal the other deformities of their lives;
and so honesty, like religion, is made use of to disguise
the hypocrite, and raise a reputation upon the shadow,
by the advantage it takes of the real esteem the world
has of the substance. I fay of this counterseit honesty,
as is faid of religion in like cases: if honesty was not
the most excellent attainment, it would not be made
use of as the most specious pietence ;'nor is there a
more exquisite way for a man to play the hypocrite, than
to pretend an extraordinary zeal to the performance of
his promises; because, when the opinion of any man's
honesty that way, has spread in the thoughts of men,
there is nothing so great, but they will trust him with,
nor so hard, but they will do it for him.
All men reverence an honest man; the knaves stand
in awe of him, fools adore him, and wise men love
him; and thus is virtue its own reward.
Honest men are in more danger from this one hypo-
crite, than from twenty open knaves; for these have a
mark placed upon them by their general character, as a
buoy upon a rock, to warn strangers from venturing
upon it: but the hypocrites are like a pit covered over,
like shoals under water, and danger concealed, which
cannot
cannot be seen. I must consess, I have found theso
the most dangerous, and have too deeply suffered by
throwing myself on their protestations of honesty: the
esteem I always entertained of the most beautiful gift
God has bestowed, or man could receive, has made me
the easier to be deceived with the resemblance of it.
So much as I, or any -one else, by the viciousness of
our own nature, or the prevailing force of accidents,
snares, and temptations, have deviated from this shin-
ing principle, so far we have been foolish, as well as
wicked; so much we have to repent of towards our
Maker, and be ashamed of towards our neighbour.
For my part, I am never backward to own, let who
will be the reader of these sheets, that, to the dishonour
of my Maker, and the just scandal of my own honesty,
I have not paid that due regard to the rectitude of this
principle, which my own knowledge has owned to be,
its due; let those who have been juster to themselves,
and to the Giver of it, rejoice in the happiness, rather
than triumph over the infirmity.
But let them be sure they have been juster on
their own parts; let them be positive, that their own
.integrity is untainted, and would abide all the trials
and racks that a ruined fortune, strong temptations,
and deep distresses, could bring it into; let them not
boast till these dangers are past, and they put their ar-
mour off; and if they can do it then, I will freely ac-*
knowledge, they have less need of repentance than I.
Not that I pretend, as I noted before, and shall often
repeat, that these circumstances render my failing, or
any man's else, the less a sin ; but they make the reason
why we that have fallen, should rather be pitied than
reproached by those who think they stand; because,
when
When the fame assaults are made upon the chastity of
their honour, it may be every jot as likely to be prosti-
tuted as their neighbours.
And such is the folly of scandal, as well as the blind-
ness of malice, that it seldom fixes reproach upon the
right foot: I have seen so much of it, with respect to
other people, as well as myself, that it gives me a very
scoundrel opinion of all those people whom I find for-
ward to load their neighbours with reproach. Nothing
is more frequent in this case, than to run away with a
piece of a man's character, in which they err, and do
him wrong, and leave that part of him untouched
which is really black, and would bear it; this makes
me sometimes, when, with the humblest and most
abasing thoughts of myself, I look up, and betwixt
God and my own soul, cry out, What a wretch am I!
at the fame time smile at the hair-brained enemy,
whose tongue, tipped with malice, runs a-head of his
understanding, and missing the crimes for which I de-
serve more than he can inflict, reproaches me with
those I never committed. Methinks I am ready to call
him back, like the huntsman, when the dogs run upon
the foil, and fay, Hold, hold, you are wrong; take
him here, and you have him.
I question not, but it is the fame with other people;
for when malice is in the heart, reproach generally goes
a mile before consideration; and where is the honesty
of the man all this while? This is trampling upon my
pride, fed majori fajlu, but with greater pride; it is ex-
posing my dishonesty, but with the highest knavery; it
is a method no honest man will take, and when taken,.-
no honest man regards; wherefore, let none of these
sons of slander take fatisfaction in the frequent ac-
know-
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
knowledgements I am always ready to make of my
own failing; for that humility with which I always find
cause to look into my own heart, where I fee others
worse, and more guilty of crimes than they can lay to
my charge, yet makes me look back upon their weak-
ness with the last contempt, who fix their impotent
charges where there is not room to take hold, and run
away with the air and shadow of crimes never com-
mitted.
I have instanced this, not at all on my own account,
for it is not worth while; for if 1 am injured, what is
that to troubling the world with, when I am forgotten;
but while I am examining the nicest article in the
world, honesty, I cannot but lay down these three heads
from the preceding observations.
I. He who is forward to reproach the insirmities of
other mens honesty, is very near a breach of his
own.
II. He that hastily reproaches another without suf-
ficient ground, cannot be an honest man.
III. Where there may be sufficient ground of re-
proach, yet an honest man is always tender of his
neighbour's character, from the sense of his own
frailty.
But I return to honesty, as it affects a man's pledging
his word, which is the counterpart of his principle; and
this because, as I faid, I should chiefly regard his ho-
nesty as it concerns human affairs, converfation, and
negotiation.
And here I meet with a tradesman, just come in
from dunning one of his neighbours : Well, I have
been at a place for money, fays he, but I can get none;
there is such a one, he passes for an honest man, but I
am
5
am sure he is a great rogue to me, for he has promised me
my money a long time, but puts me off still from time
to time; he makes no more of breaking his word, than
of. drinking a glass of beer; I am sure he has told me
forty lies already; this is one of your honest men! If
all such honest men were hanged, we should have a
better trade; and thus he runs on.
If all such honest men were hanged, they that were
left might have a better trade; but how many of them
would there be?
Now, though I shall no way vindicate mens hasty
promises, absolutely to perform what is doubtful in the
event, yet I cannot agree, that every man, who having
promised a payment, does not perform it to his time,
is a knave or a lyar; if it were so, the Lord have mercy
upon three parts of the city!
Wherefore, to state this matter clearly, it must be
taken a little to pieces, and the articles spoken to apart.
First, Without question, when a man makes a pro-
mise of payment to another on a set day, knowing, in
his own thoughts, that it is not probable he should be
capable to comply with it, or really designing not to
comply with it, or not endeavouring to comply with it,
it is a deceit put upon the party; it is a premeditated,
formal lie; the man that made it, is a stranger to ho-
nesty ; he is a knave, and every thing that is base and
bad. But,
Secondly, Promises ought to be understood, both by
the person to whom, and the person by whom they
are made, as liable to those contingencies that all hu-
man affairs and persons are liable to; as death, acci-
dents, difappointments, and disorder: thus, if a man,
who ought to pay me to-day, tells me,—rSir, I cannot
comply
Serious reflections
comply with you to-day, but if you call for it nctff
week, you shall have it.
If I may put this answer into plainer English, and
I suppose the man to be an honest man, I cannot
understand his meaning otherwise than thus:
"Sir, I acknowledge your money is due; I have
not cash enough by me to pay you to-day; but I have
several running bills, and several persons who have;
premised me money, which I doubt not I shall receive
against such a time; and if you call then, I make no
question but I shall be able to do it; and if it is possible
for me to pay you, I will do it at that time, without
fail."
I consess, it were as well to express themselves thus
at large, in all the appointments people make for pay-
ment ; and would the persons who make them, consider
it, they would do so: but custom has prevailed in our
general way of speaking, whereby all things that are
subject to the common, known contingencies of lise, or
visible in the circumstances of the case, are understood
without being expressed. For example:
I make an appointment of meeting a man positively
at such a town, such a certain day or hour: if I were
talking to a Turk or a Pagan, that knows nothing, or
believes nothing of Supreme Providence, I would fay,
If the Lord of Heaven or Earth, that governs all my
actions, please to preserve and permit me; but when I am
talking to a Christian, it should seem to be so univerfally
supposed that every appointment is subjected, and sub-
mits to the government of Providence, that the repeti-
tion would be needless; and that when a man promises
positively to meet, it is with a generalsub-intelligitnr, a
reserve, as natural as nature itself, to the divine permis-
sion.
fion. All men know, that unless I am alive, I cannot
come there; or if I am taken lick, both which may
easily happen, I shall difappoint him: and therefore, if
he should urge me again to come without fail, and I
should reply, I won't fail, if I am alive and well, the man
ought to take it for an affront, and ask me if I took him
for a fool, to think, if I am taken fick, I should come
with my bed at my back; or if death should intervene,
he had occasion to speak with my ghost F
In this sense, a tradesman who promises payment of
money at a set time; first, it is supposed he has it not
now in his hands, because he puts off the person de-
manding to a further day, and promises to comply with
it then: this promise, therefore, can be understood no
otherwise than that he expects to receive money by
that time: now, if this man, from the like difappoint-
ments from other men, or any other involuntary ca-
sualty, is really and bonafide unable to comply with the
time of promised payment, I cannot see but this may
befal an honest man, and he neither designing to fail
when he promised, nor being able to prevent the acci-
dent that obliged him to do it, nor any way voluntary
in the breach, is not in my opinion guilty of a lie, or
breach of his honour, though he did not make those
verbal reserves in the promises he had given.
If every man, who cannot comply with promised
payments, should be thus branded with lying and dis-
honesty, then let him who is without the sin, cast the
stone, for nobody else ought to do it.
It is true, there is a difference between an accident
and a practice; that is, in short, there is a difference
between him who meets with a great many occasions
thus to break his word, and he fhat meets with but a
, Vol. III. E sew;
sew; but, if it be a crime, he that commits it once, r*
no more an honest man, than he that commits it forty
times; and if it be not a crime, he that does it forty-
times, is as honest as he that has occasion to do it but
once.
But let no man take encouragement from hence, to
be prodigal of his word, and slack in his performance;
for this nice path is so near the edge of the pit of kna-
very, that the least flip lets you fall in.
These promises must have abundance of circumstances
to bring the honest man out of the scandal.
As, first, The difappointments which occasioned this
breach of his word, must have been unforeseen and
unexpected, otherwise the expectation of perform-
ing his promise was ill grounded, and then his
honesty is answerable for the very making the
promise, as well as the breaking it.
Secondly, No endeavours must be wanting to com-
ply with the promise; otherwise, it is wrong to
fay, I am difappointed, and cannot make good my
word; the man ought to fay, Sir, I have difap-
pointed myself by my negligence or wilfulness,
and have obliged myself to break my word; orr
in English, Sir, I am a knave; for though I made
you a promise which I might have performed, I
took no care about it, not valuing the forseiture
of my word.
If then the case is so nice, though, in the strictness
of speaking, such a difappointment may oblige an ho-
nest man to break his word, yet every honest man, who
would preserve that character to himself, ought to be
the more wary, and industriously avoid making such
absolute,.
67
absolute, unconditional promises, because we are to
avoid the circumstances of offence. .
But, as to the nature of the thing, it is plain to me,
that a man may, in such cases, be obliged to break his
word unwillingly; and nothing can be a fraud, or dis-
honest action, in that case, which is not either volun-
tary in itself, Or the occasion voluntarily procured.
OF RELATIVE HONESTY.
AS honesty is simple and plain, without gloss and
pretence, so it is univerfal; he that may uphold
an untainted reputation in one particular, may be justly
branded with infamy in another. A man may be
punctual in his dealings, and a knave in his relations;
honest in his warehouse, and a knave at his fire-side;
may be a faint in his company, a devil in his family;
true to his word, and false to his friendship: but, who-
soever he be, he is no honest man. An honest man is
all of a piece, the whole contexture of his lise; his ge-
neral conduct is genuine, and squared according to the
rules of honesty; he never runs into extremes and ex-
cesses on the one hand or the other.
I consess, I sind this thing, which they call relative
honesty, very little thought of in the world; and that
which is still worse, it is very little understood: I will
bring it down to but a sew examples, some of which
E 2 frequently
frequently happen among us, and will therefore be the
more familiarly received.
There are relative obligations entailed on us in our
family circumstances, which are just debts, and must be
paid; and which, in a word, a man can no more be
honest, if he does not make conscience of discharging,
than he can in the most unquestionable debts between
man and man.
The debts from children to parents, and from wives
to their husbands, are in a manner relatively changed,
and the obligation transferred into the order of reli-
gious duties. God, the guide and commander of all
subordination, has, as it were, taken that part into his
own hand; it is rather called a duty to him, than a re-
lative duty only: but if men take this for a discharge
to them of all relative obligations to wives and to
children, or that God had less required one than the
other, they must act upon very wrong principles.
Nature indeed dictates, in general, a man's provid-
ing subsistence for his family, and he is declared to be
so far from a christian, that he is worse than an infidel
that neglects it: but there are other parts of our'obli-
gations, which honesty calls upon us to perform.
A wise and children are creditors to the father of the
family; and he cannot be an honest man that does not
discharge his debt to them, any more than he could, if
he did not repay money borrowed, to a stranger; and
not to lead my reader on to intricate and disputed par-
ticulars, I instance principally in those that nobody can
dispute: as,
First, Education; by this I mean, not only putting
children to school, which, some parents think, is all
they have to do with, or for their children; and indeed,
with
69
with some, is all that they know how to do, or are fit
to do: I fay, I do not mean this only, but several
other additional cares; as, directing what school, what
parts of learning is proper for them, what improve-
ments they are to be taught; studying the genius and
capacities of their children, in what they teach them:
some children will voluntarily learn one thing, and can
never be forced to learn another; and for want of
which observing the genius of children, we have so
many learned blockheads in the world, who are mere
scholars, pedants, and no more : but the main part of
this debt, which relative honesty calls upon us to pay
to our children, is the debt of instruction,—the debt of
government,^the debt of example; he that neglects to
pay any of these to his family, is a relative knave, let
him value himself upon his honesty, in paying his
other debts, as much as he will.
It is a strange notion men have of honesty, and of
their being honest men, as if it related to nothing but
tradesmen, or men who borrow and lend; or that the
title was obtained by an ordinary observance of right
and wrong between man and man. It is a great mis-
take; the name of an honest man is neither so easily
gained, or so soon lost, as these men imagine. David
was a very honest man, notwithstanding his passion
and revenge in the case of Nabal, his murder in the
case of Uriah, or his adultery in the case of Bathsheba.
The intent and main design of his lise was upright;
and whenever he sell by the power of that temptation
that overcame him, he rose again by repentance.
Let no vain men flatter themselves with the pride of
their honesty, in mere matters of debtor and creditor,
E 3 though
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
thpugh that is also absolutely necessary and essential to.
an honest man.
But trace this honest man home to his family: Is he
a tyrant or a churl to his wise? Is he a stranger to the
conduct and behaviour of his children? Is he an Eli to
their vices? Are they uninstructed, uncorrected, unex-
horted, ungoverned, or ill-governed? That man is a
knave, a relative knave; he neither does his duty to
God, or pays the debt of a husband or of a parent to
his wise or his family.
Secondly, After the debt of education, there is a
debt of Induilion due from us to our children. The
debt from a parent is far from ending when the chil-
dren come from school, as the brutes who turn their
young off from them when they are just able to pick
for themselves: it is our business, doubtless, to intro-
duce them into the world, and to do it in such a man-
ner, as suits the circumstances we are in, as to their
supply, and the inclinations and capacities of our chil-
dren: this is a debt, the want of paying which, makes
many children too justly reproach their parents with
neglecting them in their youth, and not giving them
the necessary introduction into the world, as might
have qualisied them to struggle and shift for them-
selves.
Not to do this, is to ruin our children negatively on
one hand, as doing it without judgment, and without
regard to our family circumstances, and our childrens
capacities, is a positive ruining them on the other. I
could very usefully run out this part into a long dis-
course on the necessity there is of consulting the incli-*
nations and capacities of our children, in our placing
them out in the world. How many a martial spirit do.
vre
71
we find damned to trade, while we spoil many a good
porter, and convert the able limbs and bones of a
blockhead, into the sigure of a long robe, or a gown
and cassock?
How many aukward, clumsy sellows do we breed to
surgery, or to mufic, whose fingers and joints, nature
originally designed, and plainly mewed it us by their
size, were better suited for the blacksmith's sledge, cr
the carpenter's axe ; the waterman's oar, or the car-
man's whip?
Whence comes it to pass, that we have so many
young men brought to the bar, and to the pulpit, with
stammering tongues; hesitations and impediments in
their speech; unmufical voices, and no common utter-
ance; while, on the other hand, Nature's cripples,
bow-legged, battle-hamnred, and half-made creatures,
are bred tumblers and dancing-masters?
I name these, because they occur most in our com-
mon observation, and are all miserable examples, where
the children curse the knavery of their fathers, in not
paying the debt they owed to them as parents, in put-
ting them to employments that had been suitable to
their capacities, and suitable to what nature had cut
them out for.
I came into a public-house once in London, where
there was a black mulatto-looking man sitting, talking
very warmly among some gentlemen, who, I observed,
were listening very attentively to what he faid; and I
fat myself down, and did the like: it was with great
pleasure I heard him discourse very handsomely on
several weighty subjects; I found he was a very good
scholar, had been very handsomely bred, and that
learning and study was his delight; and, more than
E 4 that,
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
that, some of the best os science was at that time his
employment: at length, I took the freedom to ask him
if he was born in England.
He replied, with a great deal of good humour in the
manner, but with an excess of resentment at his father,
and with tears in his eyes, ' Yes, yes, Sir, I ama true-
born Englishman, to my father's shame be it spoken;
who, being an Englishman himself, could find in his
heart to join himself to a negro-woman, though he
must needs know, the children he should beget, would
curse the memory of such an action, and abhor his
very name for the fake of it. . Yes, yes, fays he, repeat-
ing it again, I am an Englishman, and born in lawful
wedlock; happy had it been for me, though my father
had gone to the Devil for whoredom; had he lain with
a cook-maid, or produced me from the meanest beggar-
woman in the street. My father might do the duty of
nature to his black wise; but, God knows, he did no jus-
tice to his children. If it had not been for this damned
black face of mine, fays he, then smiling, I had been
bred to the law, or brought up in the study of divi-
nity: but my father gave me learning to no manner of
purpose; for he knew I should never be able to rise by
it to anything but a learned valet de chambre. What
he put me to school for, I cannot imagine; he spoiled
a good tarpaulin, when he strove to make me a gentle-
man: when he had resolved to marry a slave, and lye
with a slave, he should have begot slaves, and let us
have been bred as we were born: but he has twice
ruined me; first, with getting me a frightful face, and
then going to paint a gentleman upon it.'
It was a most affecting discourse indeed, and as such
I recorded it; and I found it ended in tears from the
person,
73
person, who was, in himself, the most deserving, mo-
dest, and judicious man, that I ever met with under a
negro countenance in my lise.
After this story, I persuaded myself I need fay no
more to this case; the education of our children, their
instruction, and the introducing them into the world,
is a part of honesty, a debt we owe to them; and he
cannot be an honest man, that does not, to the utmost
of his ability and judgment, endeavour to pay it.
All the other relative obligations, which family cir-
cumstances call for the discharge of, allow the fame
method of arguing for, and.are debts in their propor-
tion, and must be paid upon the fame principle of in-,
tegrity'. I have neither room, nor is there any occasion
to enlarge upon them.
CHAP.
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
CHAP. III.
OF THE
IMMORALITY of CONVERSATION*
AND THE
VULGAR ERRORS OF BEHAVIOUR.
CONVERSATION is the brightest and most beau-.
tiful part of lise; it is an emblem of the enjoy-
ment of a future state; for suitable society is a heaven-
ly lise; it is that part of lise, by which mankind are
not only distinguished from the inanimate world, but
by which they are distinguished from one another.
Perhaps I may be more particularly sensible of the be-
nefit, and of the pleasure of it, having been so effectual-
ly mortified with the want of it; but, as I take it to be
one of the peculiars of the rational lise, that man is a.
converfable creature; so it is his most complete blessing
in lise, to be blessed with suitable persons about him to
converse with. Bringing it down from generals to
particulars, nothing can recommend a man more,—
nothing renders him more agreeable,—nothing can be
a better character to give of one man to another, next
to that of his being an honest and religious man, than.
to fay of him, that he is very good company.
How delightful is it to see a man's face always cover-
ed with smiles, and his foul shining continually in the
goodness of his temper; to see an air of humour and
pleafantness fit ever upon his brow, and to find him on
all
all occasions the fame; ever agreeable to others and to
himself; a steady calm of mind, a clear head, and
serene thoughts always acting the mastership upon
him: such a man has something angelic in his very
countenance; the lise of such a man, is one entire
scene of composure; it is an anticipation of the future
state, which we well represent by an eternal peace.
To such a man to be angry, is only to be just to him-
self, and to act as he ought to do; to be troubled or
fad, is only to act his reason; for as to being in a
passion, he knows nothing of it; passion is a storm in
the mind, and this never happens to him; for all ex-
cesses, either of grief or of resentment, are foreigners,
and have no habitation with him; he is the only man
that can observe that Scripture, heavenly dictate, 'Ba
angry and sin not;' and if ever he is very angry, it is
with himself, for giving way to be angry with any one
else.
This is the truly agreeable person, and the only one
that can be called so in the world; his company is a
charm, and is rather wondered at, than imitated: it is
almost a virtue to envy such a man; and one is apt in-
nocently to grieve at him, when we see what is so de-
sirable in him, and cannot either sind it, or make it in
ourselves.
But take this with you, in the character of this happy
man, namely, that he is always a good man, a religious
man. It is a gross error to imagine, that a soul black-
ened with vice, loaded with crime, degenerated into
immorality and folly, can be that man,—can have this
calm, serene soul,—those clear thoughts,—thole con-
stant smiles upon his brow, and the steady agreeable-
r;ess and pleafantry in his temper that I am speaking
of;
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
os; there must be intervals of darkness upon such 3
mind; storms in the conscience will always lodge
clouds upon the countenance, and where the weather
is hazy within, it can never be fun-shine without; the
smiles of a disturbed mind are all but seigned and
forged ; there may be a good disposition, but it will be
too often and too evidently interrupted by the recoils
of the mind, to leave the temper untouched, and the
humour free and unconcerned; when the drum beats
an alarm within, it is impossible but the disturbance
will be discovered without.
Mark the man of crime,—sit close to him in com-
pany ; at the end of the most exuberant excursion of his
miith, you will never fail to hear his reflecting facul-
ty whisper a sigh to him; he will shake it off; you will
see him check it and go on; perhaps he sings it off;
but, at the end of every song, nay, perhaps of every
stanza, it returns; a kind of involuntary fadness breaks
.upon all his joy; he perceives it, rouzes, despises it,
and goes on ;—but in the middle of a long laugh, in
drops a sigh ; it will be,—it can be no otherwise; and I
never conversed closely with a man of levity in my
lise, but I could perceive it most plainly; it is a kind
of respiration natural to a stifled conviction; a hesita-
tion, that is the consequence of a captivated virtue; a
little insurrection in the soul against the tyranny of
profligate principles.
But in the good man the calm is complete; it is all
nature, no counterseit; he is always in humour, be-
cause he is always composed.
He's calm without, because he's clear within.
A stated
A stated composure of mind, can really proceed from
nothing but a fund of virtue; and this is the reason
why it is my opinion, that the common faying, ' That
content of mind is happiness,' is a vulgar mistake, un-
less it be granted, that this content is first founded on
such a basis as the mind ought to be contented with;
for otherwise, a lunatic in Bedlam is a completely
happy man; he sings in his hutch, and dances in his
chains, and is as contented as any man living; the pos-
session or power which that vapour or delirium has
upon his brain, makes him fancy himself a prince, a
monarch, a statesman, or just what he pleases to be; as
a certain Duchess is faid to have believed herself to be
an Empress, has her footmen drawn up, with javelins,
and dressed in antic habits, that lhe may see them
through a window, and believe them to be her guards;
is served upon the knee; called her Majesty, Imperial
Majesty, and the like; and with this splendor her dis-
tempered mind is deluded, forming ideas of things
which are not, and, at the fame time, her eyes are stiut
to the eternal captivity of her circumstances, in which
she is made a property to other persons, her estate ma-
naged by guardianship, and ssie a poor demented crea-
ture to the last degree; an object of human compassion,
and completely miserable.
The only contentment which entitles mankind to
any selicity, is that which is founded upon virtue and
just principles; for contentment is nothing more or
less than what we call peace; and what peace, where
crime possesses the mind, which is attended, as a natu-
ral consequence, with torment and disquiet? What
peace, where the harmony of the soul is broken by
constant regret and self-reproaches? What peace, in a
S mind
I
i
mind under constant apprehensions and terrors of some-
thing yet attending to render them miserable? And all
this is inseparable from a lise of crime.
For where there's gililt, there always will be fear.
Peace of mind makes a halcyon upon the counten-
ance; it gilds the face with a cheerful aspect, such as
nothing else can procure, and which, indeed, as above^
it is impossible effectually to counterseit.
Bow, mighty Reason, to thy Maker's name,
For God and peace are just the fame;
Heaven is the emanation of his face,
And want of peace makes Hell in every place.
Tell us, ye men of notion, tell us why
You seek for bliss and wild prosperity,
In storms and tempests, feuds and war;
Is happiness to be expected there?
Tell us, what fort of happiness
Can men in want of peace possess >
Blest charm of peace, how sweet are all those hourr
We spend in thy society!
Afflictions lose their acid powers,
And turn to joys when join'd to thee. J
The darkest article of life with peace,
Is but the gate of happiness;
Death, in its blackest shape, can never frights
Thou can'st see day beyond his night;
The smile of peace can calm the frown of fate,
And, spight of death, can life anticipate:
Nay, Hell itself, could it admit of peace,
Would change its nature, and its name would cease.
The bright transforming blessing would destroy
The life of death, and damn the place to joy;
The metamorphosis would be so strange,
'Twould fright the Devils, and make them bless the change;
Or else the brightness would be so intense,
They'd shun the light, and fly from thence.
Let
Let Heaven, that unknown happiness,
Be what it will, 'tis best describ'd by peace:
No storms without, of storms within;
No fear, no danger there, because no fin:
"Tis bright essential happiness,
Because He dwells within, whose name is Peace.
Who would not sacrifice for thee,
i All that men call felicity!
Since happiness is but an empty name,
A vapour, without heat or flame;
But what from thy original derives,
And dies with thee, by whom it lives.
But I return to the subject of converfation, from
which this digression is made, only to shew that the
fund of agreeable converfation is, and can only be
sounded in virtue; this alone is the thing that keeps a
man always in humour, and always agreeable.
They mistake much, who think religion, or a strict
morality, discomposes the temper, fours the mind, and
unfits a man for converfation. It is irrational to think
a man cannot be bright unless he is wicked; it may as
well be faid, a man cannot be merry till he is mad; not
agreeable till he is offensive; not in humour till he is
out of himself. It is clear to me, no man can be truly
merry, but he that is truly virtuous: wit is as consistent
with religion, as religion is with good manners; nor is
there any thing' in the limitation of virtue and religion,
I mean the just restraints which religion and virtue lay
upon us in converfation, that should abate the pleasure
of it; on the contrary, they encrease it: for example,
restraints from vicious and indecent discourses. There
is as little manners in those things, as there is mirth in
them; nor, indeed, does religion or virtue rob conver-
fation of one grain of true mirth; on the contrary, the
religious man is the only man fully qualified for mirth
5 and
and good humour; with this advantage, that when the
vicious and the virtuous man appear gay and merry,
but differ, as they must do, in the subject of their
mirth, you may always observe the virtuous man's
mirth is superior to the other; more suitable to him as
a man, as a gentleman, as a wise man, and as a good
man; and, generally speaking, the other will acknow-
ledge it; at least afterward, when his thoughts cool,
and as his reflections come in.
But what shall we do to correct the vices of conver-
fation? How shall we shew men the picture of their
own behaviour? There is not a greater undertaking in
the world, or an attempt of more consequence to the
good of mankind than this; but it is as difficult also
as it is useful, and, at best, I shall make but a little
progress in it in this work;—let others mend it.
OF
*
- »- OF UNFITTING OURSELVi*
FOR CONVERSATION.
BEFORE I enter upon the thing which I call the
immorality bf conversation, let me lay a little ,
about the many weak and foolish ways by which men
strive, as it were, to unfit themselves for converfation^
Human infirmities furnish us with several things that
help to make us unconverfable, we need not study to
encrease the difadvantages we lay under on that score;
vice and intemperance, not as a Crime only, that I
should speak of by itself, but even as a distemper, un-
fit us for converfation; they help to make us cynical,
morose, surly, and rude. Vicious people boast of their
polite carriage, and their nice behaviour, how gay,
how good-humoured, how agreeable: for a while it
may be so; but trace them as men of vice, follow them
till they come to years, and observe, while you live, you
never see the humour last; but they grow fiery, morose,
positive, and petulant. An ancient drunkard is a thing
indeed not often seen, because the vice has one good
faculty with it, viz. That it seldom hands them on to
old age; but an ancient and good-bumoured drunkard
I think I never knew.
It seems strange that men should affect unfitting
themselves for society, and study to make themselves
unconverfable; whereas, their being truly sociable as
men, is the thing which would most recommend them,
and that to the best of men, and best answers to the
highest selicity of lise. Let no man value himself upon
being morose and cynical, sour and unconverfable; it is
Vol. III. F the
the reverse of a good man: a truly religious man fol-
lows the rule of the Apostle, * Be affable, be courteous,
be humble; in meekness, esteeming every man better
than ourselveswhereas, converfation now is the re-
verse of the Christian rule; it is interrupted with con-
ceitedness and affectation; a pride, esteeming ourselves
better than every man; and that which is worse still,
this happens generally when the justice of the case is-
against us; for where is the man, who thus over-ruling
himself, is not evidently inserior in merit to all about
him? Nay, and frequently those who put most value
upon themselves, have the least merit to support it.
Self-conceit is the bane of human society, and, gene-
rally speaking, is the peculiar of those who have the
least to recommend them; it is the ruin of converfa-
tion, and the destruction of all improvement; for how
should any man receive any advantage from the con-
verfation of others, who believes himself qualisied to
teach them, and not to have occasion to learn any thing
from them?
Nay, as the fool is generally the man that is conceit-
ed most of his own wit, so that very conceit is the ruin
of him; it confirms him a fool all the days of his lise;
for he that thinks himself a wise man, is a fool, and
knows it not; nay, it is impossible he should continue
to be a fool, if he was but once convinced of his folly.
If fools could their own ignorance discern,
They'd be no longer fools,—because they'd learn.
It will be objected here indeed, that folly and conceit
may be hurtful to converfation, may rob men of the
advantage of it, unfit one side for conversing, and make
it unprofitable, as well as unpleafant to the other; but
that
that this is nothing to the immorality of converfation;
that ignorance and conceit may be an infirmity, but is
not always a crime; that the mischief of mens being
fools is generally their own, but the mischief of their
being knaves i» to other people,—and this is very true.
But certainly, Egregious folly merits one paragraph of
rebuke; perhaps it may touch the senses of some weak
brethren one time or other, and the labour may not be
lost.
1 never faw a more simple, or yet a more furious,
irreconcilable quarrel, than once between two of the
most empty, conceited people that ever I knew in the
world; and it was upon one calling the other fool,
which, on both sides, was unhappily very true; they
fought upon the spot, but were parted by the company;
they challenged, and could not meet, their friends get-
ting notice of it; in short, it ruined them both; they
made new appointments, and at last deceived their
friends, and fought again; they were both wounded,
and one died, the other fled his country, and never re-
turned. The first owned he was a fool, which was in-
deed some diminution of his folly; I fay, he knew
himself to be a fool, but could not bear the other
should tell him so, who was more a fool than himself.
The other boldly asserted his own capacities to be
insinitely greater than they were, and despised the first
to the last degree, who indeed, if he had not more wir$
had more modesty than the other; but both, like fools,
fought about nbihirig, for such indeed the question
about their wit might very well have been called.
But it is true, after all, the want of a converfable
temper, if from a want or desect of sense, may be an
infirmity, not an immorality; that is to fay, the cause
F 2 is
h not so in itself, but it may be so in its consequence's,,
that way also: for the conversation of fools is vanity
in the abstract. I might here indeed sind subject for a
large tract, upon the insinite diversity of fools, and by
consequence, the wonderous beauty of their conver-
fation: T have, on this occasion, reckoned up a list of
about seven and thirty several' sorts of fools, besides So-
lomon's fool, whom I take to be the wicked fool only;
these I have diversified by their tempers and humours,
and in the insinite variety of their follies of several
sorts, in every one of which they rob themselves, and
all that keep them company, of the selicity of conver-
fation, there being nothing in them but emptiness, or a
fulness of what is ridiculous, and only qualisied to be
laughed at, or found fault with.
I have likewise described some of their converfation,
their vain repetitions, their catch-words, their laughings
and gestures, and adapted them to make the world
merry. I have thoughts of running it on into foreign
characters, and describe French, Spanish, Portuguese
fools, and fools of Russia", China, and the East Indies;
but as this is something remote from the design in
hand, which is more serious, and done on a much
better view, and likewise of an unmeasurable length,
like the weighty subject it is upon, (for folly is a large
field J so I reser it to another opportunity.
The truth is, that part of converfation which I Sm
now to speak of, or which I mean by what I hare faid
upon this subject, is the weighty and serious part, and
is not the mere common talk, or a converfation which
fools are capable of; it is exercised in a solid and well-
tempered frame, and when regulated, as it ought to be,
by virtue and good morals, is qualisied to make man-
kind
85
kind happy in the enjoyment of the best things, and of
the best company; and therefore, the evils that creep
into, and corrupt this part pf our converfation, are of
the most fatal quality, and worth our exposing, tha{
people may see and shun them, and that converfation
may be restored among us to what it should be.
OF THE IMMORALITY OF
CONVERSATION in GENERAL.
*
SOME may object against the term, the immorality
of conversation, and think the word improper to
the subject; but to fave any critic the dearly beloved
labour of cavilling in favour of ill-manners and unbe-
coming behaviour, 1 shall explain myself before I go
any farther.
I call converfation immoral, where the discourse is
indecent,—where it is irreligious or profane,—where it
is immodest or scandalous,—or where it is slanderous
and abusive: in these, and such cases, loqui e/1 agere,
thus talking lewdly, or talking profanely, is an immo-
dest action. Such is the power pf words, that man-
kind is able to act as much evil by their tongues as by
their hands; the ideas that are formed, in the mind
from what we hear, are most piercing and permanent,
and the force of example, in this case, is, not more
powerful than the force of argument.
F 3 Some
Some of the worst sins are not to be committed but
by the tongue; as the sin of blasphemy, speaking trea-
son against the majesty of God, cursings and impreca-
tions among men, lies, slanders, and a vast variety of
petty excursions, which are grown modish by custom,
and seem too small to be reproved.
We are here in England, after many years degene-
racy, arrived to a time, wherein vice is in general dif-r
countenanced by authority; God, in mercy to the age,
has inspired our government with a resolution to dis-
courage it. The King, now his wars are over, and his
foreign enemies allow him some rest, will, we hope,
declare war against this domestic enemy.
The late Queen Mary, of heavenly memory, for her
piety and blessed example appeared, in her time, gal-
lantly in the cause^of virtue: magistrates were encou-
raged to punish vice, new laws made to restrain it, and
justice seemed to be at work to reclaim it; but what
can Kings, or Queens, or Parliaments do? Laws and
proclamations are weak and useless things, unless some
secret influence can affect the practices of those whom
no laws can reach.
To make laws against words, would be as fruitless as
to make a shelter against the lightning, there are so
many inlets to the breach, that the informers would be
as numerous as the criminals, and the trespass as fre-
quent as the minutes we live in.
Converfation has received a general taint, and the
disease is become a charm; the way to cure it is not by
forcible restraints on particulars, but by some general
influence on the public practice; when a distemper be-
comes pleafant to a patient, he is the harder to be cured;
he has a fort of aversion to the remedy, because he has
5 »?n?
87
none to the disease. Our modern people have such a
passion for the mode, that, if it be but the fashion to be
lewd, they will scandalize their honour, debauch their
bodies, and damn their fouls to be genteel; if the
beaux talk blasphemy, the rest will set up for atheists,
and deny their Maker, to be counted witty in the de-
sence of it; when our tradesmen would be thought
wise, and make themselves appear nice and learned in
their converfation, nothing will fatisfy them but to cri-
ticise upon things facred; run up to discuss the in-
scrutables of religion; search the arcana even of Hea-
ven itself: the divinity of the Son of God, the hyposta-
tic union, the rational description of the state everlast-
ing; nay, the demonstration of undemonstrable things,
are the common subject of their fancied, affected capa-
cities.
Hence come heresies and delusions, men affecting to
search into what is impossible they fliould clearly dis-
cover; learn to doubt, because they cannot describe;
and deny the existence, because they cannot explain the
manner of what they enquire after; as if a thorough
impossibility of their acting, by their sense, upon ob-
jects beyond its reach, was an evidence against their
being. Thus, because the Trinity cannot appear to
their reasoning, they oppose their reasoning to its rea-
lity; they will divest the Son of God of his divinity,
and of the hypostatic union of the godhead in the per-
son of Christ, because they cannot distinguish between
the actions done by him in his mediatorial capacity, in
virtue of his office, and those actions which he did in
virtue of his omnipotence and godhead.
This is not an immorality and error in converfation
, pnly, or not so much so, as I think it is a judgment
F 4 upon
upon it, a blast from Heaven upon the arrogance of the
tongue; when proud men give themselves a loose to
talk blasphemously to bethought witty, their Maker
gives them up to suggest damnable error;, till they be-
gin to believe them, and to broach their own wicked
hints, till they, by custom, learn to espouse and desend
them, as children tell seigned stories till they believe
them to be true. If our town fopperies were visible
only in the little excursions of drels and behaviour, it
would be fatisfaction enough for a wise man either to
pity or laugh at them; but when wit is set on work,
and invention racked, to find out methods how they
may be more than superlatively wicked; when all the
endowments of the mind, and helps of art, with the
accomplishments of education, are ranged in battle
against Heaven, and joined in consederacy to make
mankind more wicked than ever the Devil had the im-
pudence to desire of them; this calls out aloud for the
help of all the powers of government, and all the
strength of wit and virtue to detect and expose it.
Indeed I had some thoughts to leave upon record a
melancholy kind of genealogy of this horrid persection
of vice, which so increases in our age, I mean as it re-
spects this nation, in which it is too ancient indeed to
trace it back to its original; yet, since its visible increase
has been within the reach of our own memory, and it
is, as I may fay, the adopted child of our age, we may
judge of the exrent of its influence, and may take a
short view of it in miniature. None indeed can judge
of the extent of its influence, but such as have con-
versed with all sorts of people, from the court to the
plough tail, where you may too fadly see the effect of
H, in the general debauching both the principles and.
practice
practice of all forts and degrees of this nation: but it
will be an ungrateful task; it would lead me to the cha-.
rasters of persons, and to write fatires upon the times,
as well those past as these present, which indeed is not
my business in this work, and therefore I throw by
some keen observations which I had made upon this
subject ; my business here, or at least my design, being
rather to instruct the age than to reproach it; and as
for the dead,—they are gone to their place!
St. Augustin observes, de Civhate Del, that the An-
cients justisied their liberty in all excesses of vice, which
they practised in those times, from the patterns of their
Gods; that the stories of the rapes and incest of Ju-
piter, the lewdness of Venus and Mars, and the like,
made those crimes appear less heinous, since people had
them frequently in the histories of the Deities they
worshipped; and that they must of necessity be lawful,
seeing they were practised by those famous persons,
whom they had placed above the skies, and thought fit
to adore.
If modern times have received unhappy impressions
from vicious courts, and princes have not taken the
needful caution not to guide to evil by their example;
instead of turning this into fatire upon those that arc
past, I choose to give it another turn, which our kings
and people too, in time to come, may make good use
of, and I hope will not be offended at supposing that
they will do so.
I. To Kings or Sovereigns in future reigns, for I
am not in this intending the present roign, it may,
without offence, be faid, that they have a glorious
example put into their hands to, honour their
Maker and benesit their people, to the immortal
glory
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
glory of their own memory, by prompting virtue
and discouraging vice by their happy examples;
by removing the vicious habits of converfation
from the court modes, and making vice as unfa-
shionable as it is unseemly: why may not the Royal
example, go as far to reform a nation, as it has
formerly done to debauch and ruin it? But as this
respects the heads* of the people, I desire to speak
it with the deserence os a subject, and close this
discourse with only faying, that I pray and wish
it may be so.
II. To the people, with more freedom, I apply it
thus; let past examples be what they will, the
present reign encourages no crime [ why jhen
should our modern converfation receive this taint?
Why should we be volunteers^ in the Devil's ser-
vice? While the power we are under gives us nei-
ther precept or example; if we are guilty, it is by
mere choice; the crime is all our own, and we are
patterns to ourselves.
* This was all written in King William's reign, and refers to
that time.
OF REFORMING THE
3ERRORS of CONVERSATION.
BUT I leave this part as less grateful, and perhaps
not more signisicant than what I have yet to fay
upon this subject; it is not so absolutely material to
enquire how this converfation came first to be corrupt-
ed, as how it shall be reformed or recovered: the ques-
tion before us is, by what method to retrieve this mi-
serable desection, and to bring back the nation to some
tolerable degree of good manners, that morality at least
may regain its authority, and virtue and sobriety be va-
lued, again as it ought to be; this, I fay, is a difficult
thing to direct.
. Facilis descenfus Averni:
Sed revocare gradum,
Hoc opus, hie labor est.
Virg. Æneid. vi.
Englished thus:
"Tis easy into Hell to fall,
But to get back from thence is all.
The method might be easier prescribed than prac-
tised, though it cannot be persectly prescribed neither;
something may however be faid by way of observation;
perhaps other well-wishers may hereafter throw their
mites into this treasury, and some zealous reformers
may at last make the. attempt upon these foundations.
I. A strict execution of the laws against vice; we
Jiaye already, and are every day making very good laws
to
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
to reform the people; but the benesit of laws consists
in the executive power, which if not vigorously put
forth, laws become useless, and it were better they were
not made at all. I was once going to have added here
a treatise, intituled, An Essay upon the Insignificancy
of Laws and Acts of Parliament in England; but, up-
on second thoughts, resolving to mingle no fatire with
my serious observations, I omitted this also. The de-
ficiency of our laws* is chiefly in the want of laws to
reform the law-makers, that the wheel of executive
justice might be kept going; of what use else can
laws be?
II. An exemplary behaviour in our gentry, after
whose copy the poor people generally write; not but
that I acknowledge, it willbe harder to reform a na-
tion, than itwouldto debauch it, though virtue should
obtain upon custom, and become the fashion, because
inclination does not stand neuter; but it would be a
great step to this reformation, if we could all join to
discourage immorality by example; that if a man will
be drunk or lewd, he shall, as a thief robs a house, do
it in the dark, and be ashamed of it. If these two heads
were brought to pass, I question not but reformation
would come to such art height, that if a poor man hap-
pened to be drunk, he should come and desire the con-
stable to set him in the stocks, for sear of worse punish-
ment; and if a rich man swore an bath in his passion,
he should send his footman to the next justice of the
peace with his sine, and get a discharge, for sear of being
informed against and exposed.
In order to the furthering this great work, it would
be very necessary, if possible, to draw the picture of our
modern vices, to let mankind see, by a true light, what
they
they arc doing, and how ugly a phiz the mistress they
court really appears with, when inclination, which,
paints her in different colours, is taken off.
It will be impossible to bring vice out of fashion, if we
cannot bring men to an understanding of what it really
is; but could we prevail upon a man to examine his vice,
to dissect its parts, and view the anatomy of it; to see
how difagreeable it is to him as a man, as a gentleman,
or as a Christian; how despicable and contemptible in
its highest fruition; how destructive to his senses,
estate, and reputation; how dishonourable, and how
beastly, in its public appearances, such a man would
certainly be out of love with it; and be but mankind
once out of love with vice, the reformation is half
brought to pass.
I shall not pretend to invade the province of tho
learned, nor offer one argument from Scripture or Pro-
vidence, for I am supposed to be talking to men that
doubt or deny them both. Divinity is not my talent,
nor ever like to be my prosession,—the charge of priest-
craft and schoolmen would not lie against me; besides,
it is not the way of talking that the world relishes at
this time; in a word, talking Scripture is out of
fashion: but I must crave leave to tell my reader, that
if there were no God or Providence, Devil or future
state, yet they ought not to be drunken and lewd, pas-
sionate, revengeful, or immoral; it is so unnatural, so
unruly, so ungenteel, so foolish and foppish, that no
wise man, as a man, can justify it so much as to his
own reason, or the memory of his ancestors. I sup-
pose myself talking to men that have nothing to do
with God, and desire he should have nothing to do
with them; and yet, even to such, a vicious converfa-
tion,
tion, looked on without the gust of inclination, would
appear too brutish to be meddled with, if we will but
chuse like men, not to fay like Christians. Virtue and
morality is more agreeable to human nature, more
manly, than vice and intemperance; it is more suit-
able to all the ends of lise, to the Being of society, td
the public peace of families, as well as nations: man-
kind would rather be virtuous than vicious, if they
were to chuse only for their own ease and convenience:
vice tends to oppression, war, and confusion; virtue is
peaceable and honest; vice is a poison to society; nc<
man is fase, if men have neither sobriety or honesty;
for the innocent will be robbed by the thief, ravished
by the lewd, and murdered by-the drunkard.
It might not be a needless digression, if I should ex-
amine here whether whoring and drunkenness be not
the two mother sins of the times, the spring and ori-
ginal of all our fashionable vices: I distinguish these,
because other sins, as murders, thefts, rapes, and the
like, are now come so much in vogue, we are content
the laws should be executed on them; but should think
it very hard, a man should be hanged for whoring, or
transported for being drunk.
I would not have any of our gentlemen think, that
my laying the charge of our debauchery on the exam-
ples of the Gods, has taken off any thing of the blafne
from those who have industriously propagated the
spreading evil among their tenants and neighbours, by
their own vicious example; and I could turn the whole
observation into a fatire on the manners- of our gen-
tlemen, and describe with what easiness our magistrates
let fall the reins of their authority, and connive at the
practice of all manner of intemperance and excess
among
among the people; with what eagernete the poor coun-
trymen are called in to be made drunk upon every oc-
casion; with what contempt any person is looked upon,
either in town or country, that either will not be drunk,
or cannot bear an excessive quantity of wine: how our
common mirth is silled with songs and poems recom-
mending drunkenness and lewdness, and rampant vice
rides riot through the nation: but, as above, I avoid
fatire; I shall endeavour to treat this foul subject in as
civil terms as the case will bear, and only examine ge-
neral converfation in particular heads, with some vul-
gar errors of behaviour which are crept in, and which
seem authorized by custom.
OF ATHEISTICAL AND
PROFANE DISCOURSE.
GOD Almighty himself is the least beholden to this
age, of any that ever was from the beginning of
time; for that, being arrived to a degree of knowledge
superior to all that went before us, or at least fancying
it to be so, whereby the greater glory might accrue io
himself, the Author of all wisdom, that very gift, the
brightest of all the heavenly blessings, is made use of to
put the greatest contempt upon his Majesty that man-
kind is capable of,—to deny his eflence; such an af-
front, that the Devils themselves never had the impu-
dence to suggest to the world, till they found man ar-
rived to a degree of hardness fit for something never
done before. All the heathen nations in the world
came short of this; the most resined philosophers own-
ed a First Cause of all things, and that Something was
superior, whose influence governed, and whose being
was facred to be adored. The Devil himself, who is
allowed to be full of enmity against the Supreme Being,
has often set up himself to be worshipped as a God, but
never prompted the most barbarous nations to deny the
being of a God; and it is thought, that even the Devil
himself believed the notion was too absurd to be im-
posed upon the world: but our age is even with him for
his folly; for since they cannot get him to join in the
denial of a God, they will deny his Devilship too, and
have neither one nor other.
It
97
. It is worth observation, after the most convincing
arguments that nature and reason can produce for the
existence of a Deity, what weak, foolish, ridiculous
shifts the most resined of our atheistical disputants fly
to in desence of their notion; with what senseless pains
they labour to reason themselves into an opinion,
which their own constitution, nature, and way of liv-
ing, gives the lie to every moment; with how little
consistency they solve all the other phenomena of na-
ture and creation; that when in all .other points they
are capable of arguing strenuously, and are not to be
fatisfied but with strength of reason and sound argu-
ment, here they admit sophisms, delusive suppositions,
and miserable shams and pretences to prevail upon their
own judgments. This is touched at in the following
lines upon the system of Prometheus, which I could
not omit upon this occasion, relating to the heathens
ignorance in the great doctrine of first causes:
The great Promethean artist, poets fay,
First made the model of a man in clay;
Contriv'd the form of parts, and when he'd done,
Stole vital heat from the prolific Sun:
But not a poet tells us to this day,
Who made Prometheus first, and who the clay;
Who gave the great prolific to the Sun,
And where the first productive work begun.
Also Epicurus's philosophy will fatisfy some peo-
ple, who fancy the world was made by 5a strange
fortuitous conjunction of atoms, without any pre-ex-
istent influence, or without any immediate power;
which Mr. Creech very well translates thus;
But some have dreamt of atoms strangely hurl'd
Into the decent order of the world,
And so by chance combin'd; from whence began
The earth, the heaven, the sea, and beast, and man.
Vol. III. G To
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
To which I crave leave to subjoin one compliment:,
by way of confutation of this folly.
Forgetting first that something must bestow
Existence on those atoms that did so.
The arguments for the existence of a Deity, are so
many, so nicely handled, and so unanswerable, that it
is needless to attempt any thing that way; no man in
his wits needs any further demonstration of it, than
what he may find within himself; nor is it any part of
the work I am upon; I have only a sew things to ask
of our modern atheists.
I. Whether their more serious thoughts do not re-
flect upon them in the very act, and give the lie to
their arguments? My Lord Rochester, who was ar-
rived to an extraordinary pitch in this insernal learn-
ing, acknowledged it on his death-bed: the sense na-
ture has upon her of the certainty of this great truth,
will give some convulsions at so horrid an act.
Nature pays homage with a trembling bow,
And conseious men but faintly disallow;
The secret trepidation racks the soul,
And while he fays, No God,—replies, Thou fool!
II. I would ask the most confident atheist, what
assurance he has of the negative, and what a risk he
runs if he should be mistaken? This we are sure of, if
we want demonstration to prove the i being of a God,
they are much more at a loss for a demonstration to
prove the negative. Now, no man can answer it to
his prudence to take the risk they run, upon an un-
certain, supposititious notion; for if there be such a
thing as a first cause, which we call God, they have
very little reason to expect much from him, who have
5 made
9f
made it their business to affront him, by denying his
existence; nor have they acted in their denial like wife
men, for they have not used so much as the caution of
good manners; but, as if they were as sure of his non-
entity as of the strongest demonstration, they have
been witty upon the thing, and made a jest pf the sup-
position, turned all matters of faith into ridicule, bur-
lesqued upon religion itself, and made ballads and songs
on the Bible; thus Rophester has left us a long, lewd
fong, beginning thus:
Religion's a politic cheat,
Made up of many a fable;
Ne'er troubles the wife or the great,
But only amuses the rabble.
Now, I am not, in this discourse, entering into any
of the arguments in these grand questions on one side
or other ; that would be to make this work a collection
of polemics; nor am I casuist enough for such a work;
but I am observing or remarking upon the wickedness
of treating these subjects with levity and ignorance in
the common road of converfation.
Methinks these gentlemen act with more courage
than discretion; for if it should happen at last, that
there should be a God, and that he has the power of
rewards and punishments in his hand, as he must have,
or cease to be Almighty, they are but in an ill case.
If it should so fall out, as who can tell,
But there may be a God, a Heaven, a Hell;
Mankind had best" consider well,—for fear
It stiou'd be too late when their mistakes appear.
Nor do they, in my opinion, discover any great wit
in it; there is, if I might pass for a judge, something
G 2 flat,
flat, something that shocks the fancy, in all the fatire
upon religion that ever I faw; as if the muse was not
so much an atheist as the poet,.but baulks the hint,
and could not favour a blasphemous flight with so
jnuch freedom and spirit that at other times it has
ihown; which is a notice, that there is a tacit sense of
the Deity, though they pretend to deny it, lodged in
the understanding; that it is not stifled without some
.difficulty, and struggles hard with the fancy, when the
party strives to be more than ordinarily insolent with
his Maker.
In the next place, as it is one of the worst immora-
lities of converfation when it is profane, so blasphemy
is the extreme of profaneness; you cannot come into
company with an atheist, but you have it in his com-
mon discourse; he is always putting some banter or
foolish pun upon religion, affronting the invisible
power, or ridiculing his Maker; all his wit runs out
into it, as all diseases run into the plague in a time of
insection, and you must have patience to hear it, or
quarrel with him.
Below these we have a sort of people who will ac-
knowledge a God, but he must be such a one as they
please to make him; a fine, well-bred, good-naturedj
gentleman-like Deity, that cannot have the heart to
damn any of his creatures to an eternal punishment,
nor could not be so weak as to let the Jews crucify his
own Son: these men expose religion, and all the doc-
trines of repentance, and faith in Christ, with all the
means of a Christian falvation, as matters of banter
and ridicule. The Bible, they fay, is a good history
in most parts, but the story "of our Saviour, they look
upon
upon as a mere novel, and the miracles of the New
Testament as a legend of priestcraft.
Further, besides these, we have Arians and Socinians,
the disciples of an ancient heretic, who went out of
the church always at the singing the Gloria Patri, that
he might be out of the noise; and would sit down at
the doxology of the prayers, to denote his disowning
the godhead of Jesus Christ.
* These are iniquities,' as Job faid, ' should be pu-
nished by the Judges,' chap. xxii. v. 20. and these are
the things which have given such a stroke to the ruin
of the nation's morals; for no method can be so direct
to prepare people for all sorts of wickedness, as to per-
suade them out of a belief of any supreme power to re-
strain them; make a man once cease to believe a God,
and he has nothing left to limit his appetite but mere
philosophy; if there is no supreme judicature, he must
be his own judge and his own law, and will be so; the
notion of hell, devil, and insernal spirits, are empty
things, and have nothing of terror in them, if the be-
lief of a power superior to them be obliterated.
But to bring this particular case nearer to the point
of converfation, the errors of which lie before me;
though we live in an age where these horrid degrees of
impiety are too much practised, yet we live in a place
where religion is prosessed, the name of God owned
and worshipped, religion and the doctrines of Christi-
anity established) and, as it is so, it ought as much to
-be preserved by the civil power, from the horrid inva-
sions of atheists, deists, and heretics, as the public
peace ought to be desended against free-booters, thieves,
and invaders.
G 3 It
,.
It is very improbable any reformation of manners
should be brought to pass, if the debauching the reli-
gious principles of the nation, goes on with an unre-
strained liberty. How incongruous is it to the deco-
ration of government, that a man shall be punished for-
drunkenness, and set in the stocks /or swearing, but
shall have liberty to deny the God of Heaven, and dis-
pute against the very sum and substance of the Chris-
tian doctrine; shall banter the Scripture, and make
ballads of the Pentateuch; turn all the principles of
religion, the falvation of the soul, the death of our
Saviour, and the revelation of the Gospel, into ridicule.
And shall we pretend to reformation of manners, and
suppressing immoralities, while such as this is the ge-
rieral mixture of converfation? If a man talk against
the government, or speak scurriloufly of the King, he
is had to the Old Bailey, and from thence to the pil-
lory, or whipping-post, and it is fit it should be so;
but he may speak treason against the Majesty of Hea-
ven, deny the godhead of his Redeemer, and make a
jest of the Holy Ghost, and thus affront the Power we
all adore, and yet pass with impunity. Perhaps some
in the company may have courage enough to blame
him, and vindicate their religion with a ' Why do ye
talk so?' But where is the man, or the magistrate, that
ever vindicated the honour of his Maker with a re-
sentment becoming the crime? If a man gives the lie
to a gentleman in company, he takes it as an affront,
flies into a passion, quarrels, sights, and perhaps mur-
ders him; nay, some have done it for an absent friend,
whom they have heard abused: but where is the gen-
tleman that ever thought himself so much concerned in
the quarrel of his Maker, but that he couid hear hiro-
asirontedr
affronted, his being denied, the lie given to his divine
authority, nay, to his divine being, and all his com-
mands ridiculed'and exposed, without any motion of
spirit to punish the insolence of the party, and without
drawing his sword in the quarrel, or letting him know
he does not like it.
Methinks I need not make an apology for this, as if
I meant, that quarrelling and sighting was a proper
practice in the case; the law does not admit it in any
case, nor is it reasonable it should; and God Almighty
is far from defiring us to run any risle in his service:
but I chuse to bring the cases into a parallel, to signify,
that I think it is a vulgar error in our behaviour, not
to (how our resentment when we heir the honour and
essence of God slighted and denied, his majesty abused,
and religion bantered and ridiculed in common dis-
courses. I think it would be very reasonable to tell a
gentleman he wants manners, when he talks reproach-
fully of his Maker, and to use him scurvily if he re-
sented it. It would very well become a man of quality
to cane a lewd fop, or kick him down stairs, when his
Insolence took a loose at religion in his company; else
men may be bullied out of their Christianity, and lam-
pooned into profaneness, for sear of being counted
fools.
Besides, it is in this, as in all other like cases; he
that will talk atheisiically in my company, either be-
lieves me to be an atheist like himself, or ventures to
impose upon me; and, by imposing upon me, either
accounts me a fool, that cannot tell when I am put
upon, or a coward, that dares not resent it.
Upon which account, even in good manners, it
Ought to be avoided; for it cannot be introduced into
G 4 any
any part of converfation, where the company are not
all alike, without the greatest affront upon the rest that
can be offered them.
OF LEWD AND IMMODEST DISCOURSE.
TALKING bawdy, that sodomy of the tongue, has
the most of ill-manners, and the least of a gen-
tleman in it, of any part of common discourse. Sir
George Mackenzie has very handsomely exposed it in
its proper colours: but it may not be an intrenchment
at all upon his province, to fay something of it in these
observations. 1
This part is the peculiar practice of such persons as
are hardened to a degree beyond other men; proficients
in debauchery, whose lives are so continually devoted
to lewdness, that their mouths cannot contain it; who
can govern their tongues no better than their tails, and
are willing to be thought what really they are. In
these, it is neither so strange, nor so much a crime as
in others; these are persons not to be reclaimed: this
part of my observation is not designed for their use;
they are not to be talked out of their vice; they must
go on, and run their length; nothing but a gaol or an
hospital ever brings them to a reformation; they re-
pent sometimes in that emblem of Hell, a fluxing-
house, and under the surgeon's hands, wish a little they
had
had been wiser; but they follow one sin with another,
till their carcase stinks as bad as their discourse, and the
body becomes too nasty for the foul to stay any longer
in it: from these, no discourse is to be expected, but
what is agreeable to the tenor of their lives; for them
to talk otherwise, would be strained and eccentric, and
become them as little, as it would be tedious to them;
but for a gentleman, a man of seeming modesty, and a
man of behaviour, not arrived to that class in the
Devil's school; for such a one to mix his discourse with
lewd and filthy expressions, has something in it of
sigure which intends more than is expressed.
Either we must believe such a one to be very lewd in
his practice, or else, that not being able yet to arrive to
such a degree of wickedness as he desires, he would sup-
ply that desect with a cheat, and persuade you to be-
lieve he is really worse than he is.
Which of these two characters I would chuse to
wear, I cannot tell; for he that desires to be worse than
he thinks he is, is certainly as bad as he desires to be;
and he that is so bad as to let fly the excrescences of it
at his mouth, is as wicked as the Devil can in reason
desire of him.
But I descend from the wickedness, to the indecency
of the matter: its being a sin against God, is not so
much the present argument, as its being unmannerly, a
fin against breeding and society, a breach of behaviour,
and a faucy, insolent affront to all the company.
I do not deny, but that modesty, as it respects the
covering our bodies, was at first an effect of the fall of
our parents into crime, and is therefore faid still to b*
the consequences of criminal nature, and no virtue in
itselfbecause no part of the body had been unfit to
'be
be exposed, if vice had not made the distinction neces-
fary.
But from this very argument, lewd discourse appears
to be a fin against custom and decency; for why must
the tongue industriously expose things and actions at
which nature blushes, and which custom, let the ori-
ginal be what it will, has dedicated to privacy and re-
tirement? What, if it be true, that shame is the conse-
quence of sin, and that modesty is not an original virtue,
it cannot but be allowed, that sin has thereby brought
us to a necessity of making modesty be a virtue; and fiii
- would have a double influence upon us, if, after it had
made us ashamed, it should make us not asltamed again.
It is, in my opinion, a mistake, when we fay, {jn was
the immediate cause of shame; it was fin indeed gave a
nudity to our natures and actions; the innocence which
served as a glory and covering being gone, then shame
came in as the effect of the conscious sinner; so the text
fays, ' They knew that they were naked:' shame was
the effect of nakedness, as nakedness was the effect
of sin.
From hence then I argue, and this is the reason of
my naming it, that to be ashamed of our nakedness, is
a token of our wisdom, and a monument of our just
sense of the first fin that made it so, and as much a
duty now, as any other part of our repentance.
To give the tongue then a liberty in that which there
is so much reason to blush at, argues no sense of the
original degeneracy. Where is the man that partakes
not of Adam's fall; has no vicious, contracted habit
and nature conveyed to him from his grand predecessor?
Let him come forth, let him go naked, and live by
himself, and let his posterity partake of his innocence;
Jiis tongue cannot offend, nothing can be Indecent foi
him to fay, nothing uncomely for him to see.
But if these gentlemen think it proper to cover their
nakedness with their cloaths, methinks they should not
be always uncovering it again with their tongues; if
there are some needful things which nature requires to
be done in secret, and which they by inclination chuse
to act in private, what reason can they give for speaking
of them in public?
There is a strange incongruity in the behaviour of
these people, that they fill their mouths with the foul
repetition of actions and things, which their own prac-
tising in private condemns them for, nay, which they
would be ashamed to do in public; such men ought to
act the common requirements of nature in the most
public places of the streets, bring their wives or whores
to the exchange, and to the market-places, and lie with
.them in the street, or else hold their tongues, and let
their mouths have no more the stench of their vices in
public than their actions.
And why, of all the rest of the parts of lise, must tha
tongue take a peculiar licence to revel thus upon na-
ture, as if she had a mind to reproach her with the1
infirmities she labours under? The customs we are
obliged to, though they are clogs upon nature, and a
.badge of original desection, yet neither is there any-
thing so odious, or so burdensome, that these gen-
tlemen should triumph over the nurle that brought
them up.
Take the lewdest and most vicious wretch that ever
gave his tongue a loose in this hateful practice, and turn
him about to his mother, you shall hardly prevail upon
him to talk his lewd language to her; there is some-
thing
thing nauseous and surseiting in that thought. This
talking bawdy;, is like a man going to debauch his own
mother; for it is raking in the arcana, and exposing
the nakedness of nature, the common mother of us all.
If, as a famous man of wit pretended, lying with a
woman was the homeliest thing that man can do; it is
much more true, that talking of it is the homeliest thing
that man can fay.
Nor is there to me any jest in these things; no ap-
pearance of mirth: there may be some pleasure in
wicked actions, as the world rates pleasure, but I must
prosess it is dull, and for want of other more regular
tastes, that there mould be pleasure in the discourse; it
is profaning of nature, and bringing forth those things
she has hallowed to secrecy and retirement, to the scan-
lous indecency of public banter and jest.
But men, who have always something to fay for their
folly, tell us, it is custom only which has made any of
these things uncommon, and there is no sin in speak-
ing that which there is no sin in doing.
Let us grant them that custom only has done this:
but if custom has made these things uncommon and
concealed, or at least banished them from the voice of
converfation, it is a sin then against custom to expose
them again: lawful customs become allowed virtues,
and ought to be preserved. Custom is a good reason
in such concealments ; if custom has locked them up,
let them remain so; at least till you can give a better
reason for calling them abroad again, than custom has
given for restraining them. Custom has made these
things uncommon, because that fin which first made
nature naked, left her so captivated by some of her
parts more than others, that she could not but blusa
at
at those where sin had taken up its peculiar residence.
Now, as I noted ^before, no man can, with any toler-
able fatisfaction, expose the parts, till he has first ab-
stracted and' separated the fin which, having possessed
them, covered them at first with shame: he that can
do this, may go naked and talk any thing.
And, for the fame reason, no man can justify talking
lewdly, but he at the fame time throws away his
ploaths; for to cover himself with his hands, and un-
cover himself with his tongue, are contradictions in
their own nature, and one condemns the other. He
that scorns the decency of words, should also scorn the
decency of cloaths; let his body be as bald as his dis-
course, and let him scorn the shame of one, as well as
the shame of the other.
It is no sin, they fay, to talk of what it is no sin to
do; and I may add, it is no sin at all, to shew what it
is no sin to describe. Why is the eye to be less offend-
ed than the ear? since both are but the common organs
of the understanding.
But the weather, and inconveniencies of the climate,
are urged for cloathing our bodies; and I urge decency
and good manners for the government of our tongues;
and let any one contend it with me, that thinks he can
prove, that the obligation of the first is greater than the
obligation of the last.
Much more might be faid to this, but I make but an
essay, and am unwilling to run out into a long dis-
course.
OF
OF TALKING FALSELY.
BY talking falsely, I do not design to enter upon a
long dissertation upon the sin of lying in general;
I suppose all men that read me, will acknowledge lying
to be one of the most scandalous sins between man and
man; a crime of a deep dye, and of an extensive na-
ture, leading into innumerable sins; that is, as lying
is practised to deceiye, to injure, betray, rob, destroy,
and the like: lying, in this sense, is the concealing of
all other crimes; it is the sheep's cloathing hung upon
the wolve's back; it is the Pharisee's prayer, the whore's
blush, the hypocrite's paint, the murderer's smile, the
thief's cloak; it is Joab's embrace, and Judas's kiss;
in a word, it is mankind's darling sin, and the Devil's
distinguishing character.
But this is not the case I am upon; this is not the
talking falsely I am upon; but a strange liberty which,
particularly in converfation, people take to talk falsely,
without charging themselves with any offence in it,
either against God or man: this is to be considered in
two or three parts, not but that it has many more.
I. The liberty of telling stories,—a common vice in
discourse: the main end of this extraordinary part of
tittle-tattle, is to divert the company, and make them
laugh; but we ought to consider whether that very
empty fatisfaction, either to ourselves or friends, is to
be purchased at so great an expence as that of con-
science, and of a dishonour done to truth.
It
It is scarce fit to fay how far some people go in this
/oily, to call it no worse, even till sometimes they bring
the general credit of their converfation into decay; and
people that are used to them, learn to lay no stress upon
any thing they fay.
For once we will suppose a story to be in its sub-
stance true; yet to what a monstrous bulk doth it grow,
by that frequent addition put to it in the relation, till
not only it comes to be improbable, but even impossible
to be true; and the ignorant relater is so tickled with
having made a good story of it, whatever it was when
he found it, that he is blind to the absurdities and in-
consistencies of fact in relation, and tells it with a full
face, even to those that are able to confute it, by prov-
ing it to be impossible.
I once heard a man, who would have taken it very
ill to be thought a liar, tell a story, the facts of which
were impossible to be true; and yet assert it with so
much assurance, and declare so positively that he had
been an eye-witness of it himself, that there was no-
thing to do, in respect to the man, but let him alone,
and fay nothing: a gentleman who fat by, and whose
good-breeding restrained his passion, turned to him,
and faid, ' Did you see this thing done, Sir?' * Yes, I
did, Sir,' fays the relater: * Well, Sir,' replies the gentle-
man, ' since you affirm that you did see it, I am bound,
in regard to you, to believe it; but, upon my word, it
is such a thing, that if I had seen it myself, I would
not have believed it:' this broke the silence, set all the
company a laughing, and exposed the falsehood more
than downright telling him it was a lie, which might
besides have made a broil about it.
I........ . It
It is a strange thing, that we cannot be content to
tell a story as it is, but we must take from it on one
side, or add to it on another, till the fact is lost among
the addenda, and till, in time, even the man himself,
remembering it only as he told it last, really forgets how
it was originally; this being so generally practised now,
nothing is more common than to have two men tell
the fame story quite different one from another, yet
both of them eye-witnesses to the fact related. These
are that fort of people, who having once told a story
falsely, tell it so often in the fame or like manner, till
they really believe itto.be true.
This supplying a story by invention, is certainlv a
most scandalous crime, and yet very little regarded in
that part; it is a fort of lying, that makes a great hole
in the heart, at which, by degrees, a habit of lying
enters in: such a man comes quickly up to a total dis-
regarding the truth of what he fays, looking upon it as
a trifle, a thing of no import, whether any story he tells
be true or no, so it but commands the company, as
they call it; that is to fay, procures a laugh, or a kind
of amazement,—things equally agreeable to these story-
tellers; for the business is to affect the company, either
startle them with something wonderful, never heard of
before, or make them laugh immoderately, as at some-
thing prodigiously taking, witty, and diverting.
It is hard to place this practice in a station equal to
its folly; it is a meanness below the dignity of com-
mon sense : they that lie to gain, to deceive, to delude,
to betray, as above, have some end in their wickedness;
and though they cannot give the design for an excuse
of their crime, yet it may be given as the reason and
foundation of it: but to lie for sport, for fun, as the

boys express it, is to play at shuttle-cock with your
foul, and load your conscience for the mere fake of
being a fool, and the making a mere buffoonery of a
story, the pleasure of what is below even madness it-
self.
And yet, how common is this folly? How is it the
character of some men's converfation, that they are
made up of story? And how mean a figure is it they
bear in company? Such men always betray their emp-
tiness by this; and having only a certain number of
tales in their budget, like a pedlar with his pack, they
can only at every house shew the fame ware over again,
tell the fame story over and over, till the jest is quite
worn out; and to convince us that much of it, if not
all, is born of invention, they seldom tell it the fame
way twice, but vary it even in the most material facts:
so that though it may be remembered that it was the
fame story, it ought never to be remembered that it
was told by the fame man.
With what temper should I speak of these people?
What words can express the meanness and baseness of
the mind that can do thus? that fin without design,
and not only have no end in the view, but even no re-
flection in the act; the folly is grown up to a habit,
and they not only mean no ill, but indeed mean no-
thing at all in it.
It is a strange length that some people run in this
madness of lise; and it is so odd, so unaccountable, that
indeed it is difficult to describe the man, though not
difficult to describe the fact. What idea can be form-
ed in the mind, of a man who does ill without mean-
ing ill; that wrongs himself, affronts truth, and im-
poses upon his friends, and yet means no harm; or, to
Vol. III. H use
use his own words, means nothing? That, if he thinks
any thing, it is to make the company pleafant; and
what is this but making the circle a stage, and himself
the merry Andrew?
The best step such men can take, is to lie on,—and
this (hews the singularity of the crime; it is a strange
expression, but I shall make it out; their way is, I fay,
to lie on, till their character is completely known, and
then they can lie no longer; for he whom nobody be-
lieves, can deceive nobody, and then the essence of
lying is removed; for the description of a lie is, that it
is spoken to deceive, or it is a design to deceive: now,
he that nobody believes, can never lie any more, be-
cause nobody can be deceived by him. Such a man's
character is a bill upon his forehead, by which every-
body knows, Here dwells a lying tongue: when every-
body knows what is to be had of him, they know what
to expect, and so nobody is deceived; if they believe
him afterwards, it is their fault as much as his.
There are a great many forts of those people, who
make it their business to go about telling stories; it
would be endless to enumerate them; some tell formal
stories, forged in their own brain, without any re-
trospect either to persons or things j I mean, as to any
particular person, or passage known, or in being, and
only with the ordinary introduction of, There was a
man; or, there was a woman, and the like.
Others again, out of the fame forge of invention,
hammer out the very person, man or woman, and be-
gin, I knew the man, or, I knew the woman; and
these ordinarily vouch their story with more assurance
than others; and vouch also, that they knew the per-
sons who were concerned in it.
The
The selling dr writing a parable, or an allusive alle-
goric history, is quite a different case, and is always dis-
tinguished from this other jesting with truth; that it
is designed and effectually turned for instructive and
upright ends, and has its moral justly applied: such are
the historical parables in the Holy Scripture; such the
Pilgrim's Progress; and such, in a word, the adven-
tures of your fugitive friend, Robinson Crusoe.
Others make no scruple to relate real stories, with
innumerable omissions and additions; I mean, stories
which have a real existence in fact, but which, by the
barbarous way of relating, become as romantic and
false as if they had no real original. These tales, like
the old galley of Venice, which had been so often new
vamped, doubled, and redoubled, that there was not
one piece of the first timber in her, have been told
wrong so often, and so many ways, till there would not
be one circumstance of the real story left in the re-
lating.
There are many more kinds of these, such, namely,
as are personal and malicious, full of slander and abuse;
but these are not of the kinds I am speaking of; the
present business is among a kind of white devils, who
do no harm or injury to any but to themselves; they
are like the grashopper, that spends his time to divert
the traveller, and does nothing but starve himself. The
converfation of these men is full of emptiness, their
words are levity itself, and, according to the text, they
not only tell untruths, but the truth is not in them.
There is not a settled awe or reverence of truth upon
their minds; it is a thing of no value to them; it is
not regarded in their discourse, and they gire.them-
H a selves
selves a liberty to be perfectly unconcerned about the
thing they say, or the story they tell, whether it be true
or no.
This is a most abominable practice on another ac-
count, namely, that these men make a jest of their
crime; they are a fort of people that sin laughing; that
play upon their fouls as a man plays upon a fiddle, to
make other people dance, and wear itself out j they may
he said to make some sport indeed, but it is all at them-
selves; they are the hearers comedy, and their own
tragedy; and, like a penitent jack-pudding, they will
at last fay, I have made others merry, but I have been
the fool.
I would be glad to shame men of common sense out
of this horrid piece of buffoonery; and one thing I
would warn them of, namely, that their learning to lie .
so currently in story, will insensibly bring them to a
bold entrenching upon truth in the rest of their con-
verfation: the Scripture command is, * Let every man
speak truth unto his neighbour;' if we must tell stories,
tell them as stories, add nothing wilfully to illustrate or
set it forth in the relation; if you doubt the truth of it,
fay so, and then every one will be at liberty to believe
their share of it.
Besides, there is a spreading evil in telling a false
story as true, namely, that you put it into the mouths
of others, and it continues a brooding forgery to the
end of time; it is a chimney-corner romance; and has
in it this distinguishing article, that whereas parables,
and the inventions of men published historically, are
once for all related, and the moral being drawn, the
history remains allusive only, as it was intended, as in
several
several cases* maybe instanced within our times, and
without; here the case alters, fraud goes unto the
world's end, for story never dies; every relater vouches
it for truth, though he knows nothing of the matter.
These men know not what foundations they are lay-
ing for handing on the sport of lying,—for such they
make of it,—to posterity; not only leaving the example,
but dictating the very materials for she practice; like
family-lies, handed on from father to son, till what be-
gun in forgery, ends in history, and we make our lies
be told for truth, by all our children that comes
after us.
If any man object here, that the preceding volumes
of this work seem to be hereby condemned, and the
history which I have therein published of myself, cen-
sured; I demand, injustice, such objector stay his cen-
sure, till he sees the end of the scene, when all that
mystery shall discover itself; and I doubt not, but the
work shall abundantly justify the design, and the design
abundantly justify the work.
* The Pilgrim's Progress:
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
AN
SERIOUS REFLECTION*
CHAP. IV.
AN ESSAY
On the present State of Religion in the World.
IN that part of my work which may be called history,
I have frequently mentioned the unconquerable
'impressions which dwelt upon my mind, and filled up
all my del res, immovably pressing me to a wandering,
travelling lise, and which pushed me continually on,
from one adventure to another, as you have heard.
There is an inconsiderate temper which reigns in our
minds, that hurries us down the stream of our affec-
tions, by a kind of involuntary agency, and makes us
do a thoufand things, in the doing of which, we pro-
pose nothing to ourselves but an immediate subjection
to our will; that is to fay, our passion, even without
the concurrence of our understandings, and of which
we can give very little account after it is done.
You may now suppose me to be arrived, after a long
course of insinite variety on the stage of the world, to
the scene of lise we call Old Age; and that I am wri-
ting these sheets in a season of my time, when, if ever,
a man may be supposed capable of making just reflec-
tions upon things past, a true judgment of things pre-
sent, and tolerable conclusions of things to come.
In the beginning of this lise of composure; for now,
and not till now, I may fay, that I begun to live, that
is
If to fay, a sedate and composed lise, I enquired of my-
self very seriously one day, what was the proper busi-
ness of old age? The answer was very natural, and in-
deed returned quick upon me; namely, that two things
were my present work, as follows:
I. Reflections upon things past,
II. Serious application to things suture.
Having resolved the business of lise into these heads,
I began immediately with the first; and as sometimes I
took my pen and ink to diiburthen my thoughts, when
the subject crouded in fast upon me, so I have here
communicated some of my observations, for the benefit
of those that come after me.
About the time that I was upon these enquiries, be-
ing at a friend's house, and talking much of my long
travels, as you know travellers are apt to do, I observed
an ancient gentlewoman in the company, listened with
a great deal of attention, and, as I thought, with some
pleasure, to what I was faying: and after I had done,
* Pray, Sir,' fays she, turning her speech to me, * give
me leave to ask you a question or two?' With all my
heart, Madam,' faid I; so we began the following short
dialogue:
Old Gent. Pray, Sir, in all your travels, can you tell
what the world is a-doing? What have you observed
to be the principal business of mankind?
Cru. Truly, Madam, it is very hard to answer
such a question, the peqple being so differently em-
ployed, some one way, and some another; and parti-
cularly, according to the several parts of the world
through which our observations are to run, and ac-
cording to the different manners, customs, and cir-
cumstances of the people in every plaee.
H 4 Old
Old Gent. Alas! Sir, that is no answer at all to me,
because I am not a judge of the different customs and
manners of the people you may speak of: but, is there
not one common end and design in the nature of men,
which seems to run through all their actions, and to
be formed by nature, as the main end of lise, and, by
consequence, is made the chief business of living?
Pray, how do they spend their time ?.
Rob. Cru. Nay now, Madam, you have added a
question to the rest, of a different nature from what, if
I take you right, you meant at first.
Old Gent. What question, Sir?
Rob. Cru. Why, how mankind spend their time;
for I cannot fay, that one half os mankind spend their
their time in what they themselves may acknowledge
to be the main end of lise.
Old Gent. Pray, do not distinguish me out of my
question; we may talk ef what is the true end of lise,
as we understand it here, in a Christian country, ano-
ther time; but take my question as I offer it: What
is mankind generally adoing as their main business?
Rob. Cru. Truly, the main business that mankind
seems to be doing, is to eat and drink,—that is their
enjoyment; and to get food to eat, is their employ-
ment; including a little, their eating and devouring
one another.
Old Gent. That is a description of them as brutes.
Rob. Cru. It is so, in the first part, namely, their
living to eat and drink; but in the last part, they are
worse than the brutes; for the brutes destroy not their
own kind, but all prey upon a different species; and
besides, they prey upon one another for necessity, to
fatisfy their hunger, and for food; but man, for baser
ends,
121
ends, such as avarice, envy, revenge, and the like, de-
vours his own species, nay, his own flesh and blood,
as my Lord Rochester very well expresses it.
But judge yourself, I'll bring it to the test,
Which is the basest creature, man or beast.
Birds feed on birds, beasts on each other prey,
But savage man alone does man betray.
Press'd-by necessity, they kill for food,
Man undoes man, to do himself no good.
With teeth and claws, by nature arm'd, they hunt
Nature's allowance, to supply their want:
But man, with smiles, embraces, friendship, praise,
Inhumanly his fellow's life betrays:
With voluntary pains works his distress,
Not for necessity, but wantonness.
Old Gent. All this I believe is true; but this does
not reach my question yet. There is certainly some-
thing among them, which is esteemed as more particu-
larly the end of lise and of living than the rest, to
which they apply in common, as the main business,
and which it is always esteemed to be their wisdom to
be employed in: is there not something that is appa-
rently the great business of living?
Rob. Cru. Why really, Madam, I think not. For
example, great part of the world, and a greater part by
far than we imagine, is resolved into the lowest dege-
neracy of human nature,—I mean the favage lise;
where the chief end of lise seems to be merely to eat
and drink, that is to fay, to get their food, just as the
brutal life is employed, and indeed with very little dif-
serence between them; for except only speech and
idolatry, 1 see nothing in the life of some whole na-
tions of people, and for ought I know, containing
millions of fouls, in which the lise of a lion or an
elephant, in the Dcfarts of Arabia, is not equal.
Old
Old Gent. I could mention many things, Sir, irt
which they might differ; but that is not the present
thing I enquire about: but pray, Sir, is not religion
the principal business of mankind in all parts of the
world? for I think you granted it when you named
idolatry, which they, no doubt, call religion.
Rob. Cru. Really, Madam, I cannot fay it is; be-
cause, what with ignorance on one hand, and hypocrisy
on the other, it is very hard to know where to find re-
ligion in the world.
Old Gent. You avoid my question too laboriously,
Sir; I have nothing to do either with the ignorance or
hypocrisy of the people; whether they are blindly de-
vout, or knavishly and designedly devout, is not the-
cafe; but whether religion is not apparently the main
business of the world, the principal apparent end of
lise, and the employment of mankind?
Rob. Cru. What do you call religion?
Old Gent. By religion, I mean the worshipping and
paying homage to some supreme being, some God;
known or unknown, is not to the case, so it be but to
something counted supreme.
Rob. Cru. It is true, Madam, there are scarce any na-
tions in the world so stupid, but they give testimony
to the being of a God, and have some notion of a su-
preme power.
Old Gent. That I know also; but that is not the main
part of my question: but my opinion is, that paying a
divine worship, acts of homage and adoration, and par-
ticularly, that of praying to the Supreme Being which
they acknowledge, is derived to mankind from the
light of nature, with the notion or belief itself.
Rob.
Rob. Cru. I suppose, Madam, you mean by the ques-
tion then, whether the notion or belief of a God in
general, and the sense of worship in particular, are not
one and the fame natural principle.
Old Gent. I do so; if you and I do but agree about
what we call worship.
Rob. Cru. By worship, I understand adoration.
Old Gent. But there you and 1 differ again a little;
for by worship, I understand supplication.
Rob. Cru. Then you must take them both in toge-
ther; for some part of the Indian favages only adore.
Old Gent. I consess there is much adoration, where
there is little supplication.
Rob. Cru. You distinguish too nicely, Madam.
Old Gent. No, no; I do not distinguish in what I
call worship; I allege, that all the adoration of those
poor favages is mere supplication: you fay, they lift up
their hands to their idols, for sear they should hurt
them.
Rob. Cru. I do fay so, and it is apparent.
Old Gent. Why, that is the fame thing, for then they
lift up their hands to him, that is to fay, pray to him
not to hurt them; for all the worship in the world, es-
pecially the outward performance, may be resolved into
supplication.
Rob. Cru. I agree with you in that, if you mean the
apparent end of worship.
Old Gent. Why, did itot your man Friday, and the
favage woman you tell us of, talk of their old idol they
called Benamuckee? And what did they do?
Rob. Cru. It is very true, they did.
Old Gent. And did not Friday tell you, they went up
to the hills and faid O to him? Pray, what was the
meaning
meaning of faying O to him,—but, O do not hurt ns;
for thou art omnipotent, and can'st kill Us: O, heal
our distempers; for thou art insinite, and can'st do all
things: O, give us what we want; for thou art boun-
tiful: O, spare us; for thou art merciful: and so of
all the other conceptions of a God?
Rob. Cru. Well, Madam, I grant all this: Pray, what
do you inser from it? What is the reason of your ques-
tion?
OM Gent. O, Sir, I have many inserences to draw
from it for my own observation; I do not set; up to
instruct you.
I thought this serious old lady would have entertain-
ed a farther discourse with me on so fruitful a subject j
but she declined it, and left me to my own meditation,
which indeed she had raised up to an unusual pitch :-
and the first thing that occurred to me, was to put me
upon enquiring after that nice thing, I ought to call
religion in the world; seeing really, I sound reason to,
think, that there was much more devotion than reli-,
gion in the world; in a word, much more adoration
than supplication; and I doubt, as I come nearer home,
it will appear, that there is much more hypocrisy than
sincerity: of which I may speak by itself.
In my fiist enquiries, I looked back upon my own
travels; and it afforded me but a melancholy reflection,
that in all the voyages and travels which I have em-
ployed two volumes in giving a relation of, I never set
my foot in a Christian country,—no, not in circling
three parts of the globe; for, excepting the Brasils,
where the Portuguese indeed prosessed the Roman Ca-
tholic principles, which, however, in distinction from
paganism, I will call the Christian religion; I fay, ex-
cept
cept the Brasils, where also I made little stay, I could
not be faid to set foot in a Christian country, or a
country inhabited by Christians, from the bay of La-
rache, and the port of Sallee, by the Straits mouth,
where I escaped from slavery, through the Atlantic
ocean, the coasts of Afric on one side, and of Caribbea
on the American shore, on the other side; from thence
to Madagascar, Malabar, and the bay and city of Ben-
gal, the coast of Sumatra, Malacca, Siam, Cambodia,
Cochin-China, the empire and coast of China, the de-
farts of Karakathay, the Mogul Tartars, the Siberian,
the Samoiede barbarians, and till I came within four
or five days of Archangel in the Black Russia.
It is, I fay, a melancholy reflection to think, how all
these parts of. the world, and with insinite numbers of
millions of people, furnished with the powers of rea-
son and gifts of nature, and many ways, if not every
way, as capable of the reception of sublime things as we
are, are yet abandoned to the grossest ignorance and de-
pravity; and that not in religion only, but even in all
the defirable parts of humane knowledge, and especially
science and acquired knowledge.
What the divine wisdom has determined concerning
the fouls of so many millions, it is hard to conclude,
nor is it my present design to enquire; but this I may
be allowed here, as a remark,—If they are received to
mercy in a future state, according to the opinion of
some, as having not sinned against faving light, then
their ignorance and pagan darkness is not a curse, but
a selicity, and there are no unhappy people in the
world, but those lost among Christians, for their sins
against revealed light; nay, then being born in the re-
gions of Christian light, and under the revelation of the
5 , oioel
gospel doctiines, is not so much a mercy to be ac-
knowledged, as some teach us; and it may, in a nega-
tive manner, be true, that the Christian religion is an
efficient in the condemnation of sinners, and loses more
than it faves,—which is impious to imagine: on the
other hand, if all those nations are concluded under the
sentence of eternal absence from God, which is hell in
the abstract, then what becomes of all the sceptical doc-
trines of its being inconsistent with the mercy and
goodness of an insinite and benesicent Being, to con-
demn so great a part of the world, for not believing in
him of whom they never had any knowledge or in-
struction? But I defire not to be the promoter of un-
answerable doubts, in matters of religion; much less
would I promote cavils at the foundations of religion,
either as to its prosession or practice,—and therefore I
only name things. I return to my enquiry after reli-
gion, as we generally understand the word.
And in this I consine myself, in my present enqui-
ries,to the particular nations prosessing the Christian re-
ligion only; and I shall take notice afterward, what in-
fluence the want of religion has upon the manners, the
genius, and the capacities of the people, as to all the
improvable parts of human knowledge.
The Moors of Barbary are Mahometans, and that of
the most degenerate and unpolished sort, especially of
that part of the world where they live: they are cruel
as beasts, vicious, insolent, and inhuman as degene-
rated nature can make them: moral virtues have so
little recommended themselves to any among them,
that they are accounted no accomplishment, and are
in no esteem; nor is a man at all respected for being
grave, sober, judicious or wise, or for being just in his
dealings,
dealings, or most easy in his converfation; but rapine
and injury is the custom of the place; and it is to re-
commend a great man, that he is rich, powerful in
slaves, merciless in his government of them, and im-
periously haughty in his whole houshold: every man
is a king within himself, and regards neither justice or
mercy, humanity or civility, either to them above him,
or them below him, but just as his arbitrary passions
guide him.
Religion here is confined to the Biram and the Ra-
madan, the seast and the fast, to the mosque and the
bath; reading the alcoran on one hand, and perform-
ing the warnings and purisications on the other, make
up their religious exercises; and for the rest, conver-
fation is eaten up with barbarisms and brutish customs;
so that there is neither society, humanity, considence
in one another, or converfation with one another; but
men live like the wild beasts,—for every man here
really would destroy and devour the other if he could.
This guided me to a just reflection in honour of
the Christian religion, which I have often since made
use of, ard which, on this occasion, I will make a di-"
gression to, viz. That it is to be faid for the reputation
of the Christian religion in general, and by which it is
justly distinguished from all other religions, thatwhere-
ever Christianity has been planted or prosesied nation-
ally in the world, even where it has not had a faving
influence, it has yet had a civilizing influence: it has
operated upon the manners, the morals, the politics,
and even the tempers and dispositions of the people;
it has reduced them to the practice of virtue, and to
the true methods of living; has weaned them from the
barbarous customs they had been used to, infusing a
kind
kind of humanity and softness of disposition into their
very natures; civilizing and softening them, teaching
them to love a regularity of lise, and silling them with
principles of generous kindness and benesicence one to
another; in a word, it has taught them to live like
men, and act upon the foundations of clemency, hu-
manity, love, and good neighbourhood, suitable to the
nature and dignity of God's image, and to the rules of
justice and equity, which it instructs them in.
Nay, farther I must observe also, that as the Chris-
tian religion has worn out, or been removed from any
country, and they have returned to heathenism and
idolatry, so the barbarisms have returned; the customs
of the heathen nations have been again restored; the
very nature and temper of the people have been again
lost; all their generous principles have forfaken them;
the softness and goodness of their dispositions have
worn out; and they have returned to cruelty, inhuma-
nity, rapine, and blood.
It is true, and it may be named as an objection to
this remark of mine, that the Romans, though hea-
thens, and the Grecians, by the study of philosophy in
particular persons, and by the excellency of their go-
vernment in their general or national capacity, were
filled with notions of virtue and honour, with most
generous and just principles, and acted with an heroic
mind on many occasions; practising the most sublime
and exalted, height of virtue, such as facrisicing their
lives for their country, with the utmost zeal; descendr
ing to great examples of humanity and benesicence;
scorning to do base or vile actions, as unworthy the
Roman name, to fave their lives; and a great many
most
most excellent examples of virtue and gallantry, arc
found in the histories of the Roman empire.
This does not oppose, it rather indeed illustrates
what I fay; for with all the philosophy, all the huma-
nity and generosity they practised, they had yet their
remains of barbarity; were cruel and unmerciful in
their natures, as appeared by the barbarity of their cus-
toms,—such as throwing malefactors to wild beasts,
the fightings of their gladiators, and the like; which
were not only appointed as punishments and severities,
by the order of public justice, but to shew it touched
the very article I am upon, it was the subject of their
sport and diversion; these things were exhibited as
shews to entertain the ladies; the cutting in pieces forty
or fifty slaves, and the seeing twenty or thirty miserable
creatures thrown to the lions and tygers, was no less
pleafant to them, than the going to see an opera, a~
masquerade, or a puppet-show, is to us; so that I think
the Romans were very far from a people civilized and
softened in their natures by the influences of religion:
and this is evident, because, that as the Christian reli-
gion came among them, all those cruel customs were
abhorred by them, the famous theatres and circles for
their public sports were overthrown, and the ruins of
them testify the justice of my observation at this very
day.
Nor will it be denied, if I should carry this yet fur-
ther, and observe, that even among Christians, those
who are more reformed, and farther and farther chris-
tianized, are still in proportion rendered more humane;
more soft and tender; and we do find, without being
partial to ourselves, that even the Protestant countries
are much distinguished in the humanity and softness of
Vol. III. I theie
their tempers: the meek, merciful disposition extend*
more among Protestants than among the Papists, as I
could very particularly demonstrate from history and
experience.
But to return back to the Moors, where I left off;
they are an instance of that cruelty of disposition which
was anciently in their nature, and how a country
abandoned of the true Christian religion, after it has
been first planted and prosessed among them, the re-
turn of Heathenism or Mahometanism has brought
back with it all the barbarisms of a nation void of reli-
gion and good-nature.
I faw enough of these dreadful people, to think
them, at this time, the worst of all the nations of the
world; a nation, where no such thing as a generous
spirit, or a temper with any compassion mixed with it,
is to be found; among whom nature appears stripped
of all the additional glories which it derives from reli-
gion, and yet whereon a Christian Nourishing church
had stood several hundred years.
From these, I werit among the negroes of Africa;
many of them I faw without any the least notion of a
Deity among them, much less any form of worship;
but I had not any occasion to converse with them on
shore, other than I have done since by accident, but
went away to the Brasils. Here I found the natives, and
that even before the Portuguese came among them,
and since also, had abundance of religion, such as it
was; but it was all so bloody, so cruel,—consisting of
murders, human facrisices, witchcrafts, sorceries, and
conjurings,—that I could not so much as call them
honest Pagans, as I do the negroes.
M
As for the cannibals, as I have observed In the dis-
course of them, on account of their landing on my
island, I can fay but very little of them: as for their
eating human flesh, I take it to be a kind of martial
rage, rather than a civil practice; for it is evident, they1
eat no human creatures but such as are taken prisoners
in .their battles; and as I have observed, in giving the
account of those things, they do n6t esteem it murder;
no, nor so much as unlawful. I must consess, faving
its being a practice in itself unnatural, especially to us,
I fay, saving that part, I see little difference between
that and our way, which, in the war, is frequent in
heat of action, viz. refusing quarter; for as to the dif-
serence between eating and killing those that offer to
yield, it matters not much: and this I observed at the
fame time, that in their other conduct, these favages
were as humane, as mild, and gentle, as most I have
met with in the world, and as easily civilized.
From these sort of people I come to the Indians;
for as to the Madagascar men, I faw very little of them,
but that they were a kind of negroes, much like those
of the coast of Guinea, only a little more used to the
Europeans, by their often landing among them.
The East Indians arc generally Pagans or Mahome-
tans, and have such mixtures of favage customs with
them, that even Mahometanism is there in its corrup-
tion; neither have they there the upright, just dealing,
in matters of right and wrong, which the Turks in
Europe have, with whom it is generally very fafe
trading: but here they all act the parts of thieves and
cheats, watching to deceive you, and proud of being
thought able to do it.
I Z Tha
The subjects of the Great Mogul have a seeming
polite government; and the inhabitants of Ceylon are
under very strict discipline; and yet what difficulty do
we find to trade with them! Nay, their very economy
renders them fraudulent; and in some places they can-
not turn their thoughts to being honest.
China is famous for wisdom; that is to fay, that
they, having such a boundless conceit of their own
wisdom, we are obliged to allow them more than they
have: the truth is, they are justly faid to be a wise na-
tion among the foolish ones, and may as justly be
called a nation of fools among the wise ones.
As to their religion, it is all summed up in Confu-
cius's maxims, whose theology I take to be a rhapsody
of moral conclusions; a foundation, or what we may
call elements of polity, morality, and superstition, hud-
dled together in a rhapsody of words, without consist-
ency, and indeed with very little reasoning in it: then
it is really not so much as a resined paganism, for there
are, in my opinion, much more regular doings among
some of the Indians that are Pagans in America, than
there are in China: and if I may believe the account
given of the government of Montezuma in Mexico,
and of the Incas of Cusco in Peru, their worship and
religion, such as it was, was carried on with more re-
gularity than these in China. As to the human in-
genuity, as they call it, of the Chinese, I shall account
for it by itself; the utmost discoveries of it to me, ap-
peared in the mechanics, and even in them insinitely
short of what is found among the European nations.
But let us take these people to pieces a little, and ex-
amine into the great penetration they are so famed for:
First of all» their knowledge has not led them that
length
133
length in religious matters, which the common notions
of philosophy would have done, and to which they did
lead the wise heathens of old among the Grecian and
Roman empires; for they, having not the knowledge
of the true God, preserved, notwithstanding, the no-
tion of a God to be something immortal, omnipotent,
sublime; exalted above in place, as well as authority;
and therefore made Heaven to be the seat of their
gods; and the images by which they represented the
gods and goddesses, had always some persections that
were really to be admired, as the attendants of their
gods; as Jupiter was called the thunderer, for his
power; father of gods and men, for his seniority;
Venus adored for her beauty; Mercury for swiftness;
Apollo for wit, poetry, and music; Mars for terror and
gallantry in arms, and the like: but when we come to
these polite nations of China, which yet we cry up for
fense, and greatness of genius, we see them grovelling in
the very sink and silth of idolatry; their idols are the
most frightful, monstrous shapes, not the form of any
real creature, much less the images of virtue, of chastity,
of literature; but horrid shapes of their priests inven-
tion; neither hellish or human monsters ; composed of
invented forms, with neither face or sigure, but with
the utmost distortions; formed neither to walk, stand,
fly, or go; neither to hear, see, or speak, but merely to
instil horrible ideas of something nauseous and abo-
minable, into the minds of men that adored them.
If I may be allowed to give my notions of worship,
I mean, as it relates to the objects of natural homage,
where the name and nature of God is not revealed, as
in the Christian religion; I must acknowledge, the
fun, the moon, the stars, the elements, in the Pagan
I 3 and
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
and Heathen nations of old; and above all these, the
representations of superior virtues and excellencies
among men, such as valour, fortitude, chastity, pati-
ence, beauty, strength, love, learning, wisdom, and the
like,—the objects of worship in the Grecian and Roman
times, were far more eligible and more rational objects
of divine rites, than the idols of China and Japan;
where, with all the economy of their state maxims, and.
rules of civil government, which we insist so much on,
as tests of their wisdom, their great capacities, and
Understandings, their worship is the most brutish, and
the objects of their worship the coarsest, the most un-
manly, inconsistent with reason, or the nature of reli-
gion, of any the world can shew; bowing down to a
mere hobgoblin, and doing their reverence, not to
the work of mens hands only, but the Ugliest, basest,
frightfullest things that man could make; images, so
far from being lovely and amiable, as in the nature of
worship is implied, that they are the most detestable
arid nauseous, even to nature.
How is it possible these people can have any claim to
the character of wise, ingenious, polite, that could
suffer themselves to be overwhelmed in an idolatry re-
pugnant to common sense, even to nature, and be
brought to chuse to adore that which was iii itself the
most odious and contemptible to nature; not merely
terrible, that so their worship might proceed from sear,
but a complication of nature's aversions?
I cannot omit, that being in one of their temples, or
rather in a kind of oratory or chapel, annexed to one
part of the great palace at Pekin, there appeared a
mandarin, with his attendants, or, as we may fay, a
great lord and his retinue, prostrate before the image,
not
not of any one of God's creatures, but a creature of
mere human forming, such as neither was alive, nor
was like any thing that had lise, or had ever been seen
or heard of in the world.
The like image, or something worse, if I could give
it a true representation, may be found in a garden cha-
pel, if not defaced by wiser heads, of a great Tartarian
mandarin, at a small distance from Nanquin, and to
which the poor abandoned creatures pay their most
blinded devotions.
It had a thing instead of a head, but no head; it had
a mouth distorted out of all manner of shape, and not
to be described for a mouth, being only an unshapen
chasm, neither representing the mouth of a man, beast,
fowl, or fish,—the thing was neither any of the four,
but an incongruous monster; it had seet, hands, singers,
claws, legs, arms, wings, ears, horns, every thing
mixed one among another, neither in the shape or
place that nature appointed, but blended together, and
fixed to a bulk, not a body, formed of no just parts,
but a shapeless trunk or log,—whether of wood or
stone I know not; a thing that might have stood with
any side forward, or any side backward; any end .up-
ward, or any end downward; that had as much vene-
ration due to it on one side, as on the other; a kind of
celestial hedge-hog, that was rolled up within itself, and
was every thing every way; that, to'a Christian, could
not have been worthy to have represented even the
Devil; and to men of common sense, must have been
their very souls aversion: in a word, if I have not re-
presented their monstrous deities right, let imagina-
tion supply any thing that can make a mishapen image
horrid, frightful, and surprizing; and you may, with
I 4 justice,
justice, suppose those fagacious people, called the Chi-
nese, whom, forsooth, we must admire; I fay, you may
suppose them prostrate on the ground, with all their
pomp and pageantry, which is in itself not a little,
worshipping such a mangled, promiscuous gendered
creature.
Shall we call these a wise nation, who represent God
in such hideous, monstrous figures as these, and can
prostrate themselves to things ten thoufand times more
disfigured than the Devil? Had these images been con-
trived in the Romans time, and been set up for the
god of ugliness, as they had their god of beauty, they
might indeed have been thought exquisite; but the
Romans would have spurned such an image out of
their temples.
Nothing can render a nation so completely foolish
and simple,as such an extravagance in matters of reli-
gious worship; for if gross ignorance in the notion of
a god, which is so extremely natural, will not demon-
strate a nation unpolished, foolish, and weak, even next
to idiotism, I know nothing that will.
But let me trace this wise nation that we talk so
much of, and who not only think themselves wise, but
have drawn us in to pay a kind of homage to their
'low-prized wit.
Government, and the mechanic arts, are the two
main things in which our people in England, who
have admired them so much, pretend they excel. As to
their government, which consists in an absolute ty-
ranny, which, by the way, is the easiest way of ruling
in the world, where the people are disposed to obey as
blindly as the mandarin commands or governs imperi-
ously; what policy is required in governing a people,
of
of whom it is faid, that if you command them to hang
themselves, they will only cry a little, and submit im-
mediately? Their maxims of government may do well
enough among themselves, but with us they would be
all confusion. In their country it is not so, only be-
cause whatever the mandarin fays is a law, and God
himself has no power or interest among them to con-
tradict? it, unless he pleases to execute it, brevt manut
from Heaven.
Most of their laws consist in immediate judgment,
swift executions, just retaliations, and fair protection
from injuries: their punishments are cruel and exor-
bitant, such as cutting the hands and the seet off for
theft; at the fame time releasing murders, and other
flagrant crimes.
Their mandarins are their judges in very many
cases, like our justices of the peace; but then they
judge by customs, oral tradition, or immediate opinion,
and execute the sentence immediately, without room
or time to reflect upon the justice of it, or to consider
of mitigations, as in all Christian countries is practised,
and as the sense of human frailty would direct.
But let me come to their mechanics, in which their
ingenuity is so much cried up: I affirm there is little or
nothing sufficient to build the mighty opinion we have
of them upon, but what is founded upon the compa-
risons which we make between them and other Pagan
nations, or proceeds from the wonder which we make
that they should have any knowledge of mechanic arts,
because we find the remote inhabitants of Africa and
America so grossly ignorant, and so entirely destitute
in such things; whereas, we do not consider, that the
Chinese inhabit the continent of Asia; and though
they
they are separated by defarts and wildernesses, yet they
are a continuous continent of land, with the parts of
the world once inhabited by the politer Medes, Per-
sians, and Grecians; that the first ideas of mechanic
arts were probably received by them from the Persians,
Assyrians,and the banished, transplanted Israelites, who
are faid to be carried into the regions of Parthia, and
the borders of Karakathay, from whence they afe also
faid to have communicated arts, and especially handi-
crafts, in which the Israelites excelled, to the inhabi-
tants of all those countries, and consequently in time
to those beyond them.
But let them be received from whom they will, and
how long ago soever; let us but compare the improve-
ment they have made, with what others have made;
and except in things peculiar to themselves, by their
climate, we shall find the utmost of their ingenuity
amounts but to a very trifle, and that they are outdone,
even in the best of their works, by our ordinary artists,
whose imitations exceed their originals, beyond all
comparison. ,
For example: They have gunpowder and guns;
whether they have learned to make them by direction
of Europeans, which is most likely, or that they sound
it out by mere strength of invention, as some would
advance, though without certainty, in their favour; be
it which it will, as I fay, it matters not much; their
powder is of no strength for the needful operations of
sieges, mines, batteries, no, nor for shooting of birds,
as ours is, without great quantities put together; their
guns are rather an ostentation than for execution,—
clumsy, heavy, and ill-made; neither have they ar-
rived to any tolerable degree of knowledge in the art
'"of
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
of gunnery and engineering; they have no bombs,
carcasses, hand-grenades; their artisicial fireworks arc
in no degree comparable, or to be named with ours;
nor have they arrived to any thing in the military skill,
in marshalling armies, handling arms, discipline, and
the exercise in the field, as the Europeans have; all
which is depending on the improvement of fire-arms,
&c.; in which, if they ha.ve had the use of gunpowder
so many ages, as some dream, they must be unaccount-
able blockheads, that they have made no farther im-
provement; and if it is but lately, they are yet appa-
rently dull enough in the managing of it, at least com-
pared to what ought to be expected of an ingenious
people, such as our people cry them up to be.
I might go from this to their navigation, in which,
it is true, they outdo most of their neighbours: but
what is all their skill in failing compared to ours?
Whither do they go? And how manage the little and
foolish barks and jonks they have? What would they
do with them to traverse the great Indian, American,
or Atlantic oceans? What ships, what failors! What
poor, aukward, and ignorant doings is there among
them at sea! And when our people hire any of them,
as sometimes they are obliged to do, how do our sailors
kick them about, as a parcel of clumsy, ignorant, un-
handy sellows.
Then for building of ships, what are they? And
what are they able to do towards the glorious art of
building a large man of war? It is out of doubt with
me, that all the people of China could not build such
a ship as the Royal Sovereign, in a hundred years; no,
not though she was there for them to look at, and take
pattern by.
I might
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
I might go on to abundance more things, such as
painting, making glafies, making clocks and watches,
making bone-lace, frame-work knotting; of all which,
except the two first, they know little or nothing; and
of the two first, nothing compared to what is done in
Europe.
The height of their ingenuity, and for which we
admire them with more colour of cause than in other
things, is their porcelain or earthen-ware work; which,
in a word, is more due to the excellent composition of
the earth they make them of, and which is their pecu-
liar, than to the workmanship; in which, if we had
the fame clay, we should soon outdo them, as much as
we do in other things. The next art is, their manu-
facturing in fine silks, cotton, herba, gold and silver,
in which they-have nothing but what is in common
with our ordinary poor weavers.
The next mechanic art, is their lacquering, which
is just, as in the China ware, a peculiar to their coun-
try in the materials, not at all in the workmanship:
and as for the cabinet-work of it, they are manisestly
outdone by us; and abundance is.every year sent thi-
ther framed and made in England, and only lacquered
in China, to be returned to us.
I might run the like parallel through most of the
things these people excel in, which would all appear to
be so desicient, as would render all their famed wisdom
and capacity most scandalously impersect: but I am
not so much upon their cunning in arts, as upon thek
absurdity and ridiculous folly in matters religious, ar^d
in which I think the rudest barbarians outdo them.
From this wise nation we have a vast extent of
ground, near two thoufand miles in breadth, partly
under
Under the Chinese government, partly under the Mus-
covite, but inhabited by Tartars of Mongul Tartary,
Karakathay, Siberian and Samoiede Pagans; whose
idols are almost as hideous as the Chinese, and whose
religion is all nature; and not only so, but nature
under the greatest degeneracy, and next to brutal.
Father La Comte gives us the pictures of some of their
house idols, and an account of their worship ; and this
lasts, as I have observed, to within a sew days of Arch-
angel : so that, in a word, from the mouth of the
Straits, that is to fay, from Sallee over to Caribbea,
from thence round Africa by the Cape of Good Hope,
across the vast Indian ocean, and upon all the coast of
it, about by Malacca and Sumatra, through the Straits
of Sincapore, and the coast of Siam northwards to
China, and through China by land over the Defarts
ef the Grand Tartary, to the river Dwina, being a cir-
cuit three times the diameter of the earth, and every
jot as far as the whole circumserence, the name of God
is not heard of, except among a sew of the Indians
that are Mahometan; the word of God is not known,
or the Son of God spoken of.
Having some warmth in my search after religion,
occasioned by this reflection, and so little of it appear-
ing in all the parts which I had travelled, I resolved to
travel over the rest of the world in books,—for my
wandering days are pretty well over; I fay, I resolved
to travel the rest in books; and sure, faid I, there must
appear abundance of serious religion in the rest of the
world, or else I know nothing at all of where I shall
find it.
But I sind by my reading, just as I did in travelling,
that all the customs of nations, as to religion, were
„ .< much
much alike; that, one with another, they are morS
devout in their worship of something, whatever it be,
than inquisitive after what it is they worship; and most
of the altars of worship in the world, might, to this
day, be inscribed to the unknown God.
This may seem a strange thing; but that wonder
may cease, when farther inquiry is made into the par-
ticular objects of worship, which the several nations of
the world bow down to; some of which are so horrid,
so absurd, as one would think human nature could not
fink so low, as to do her homage in so irrational a
manner.
And here, being to speak of religion as idolatrous,
it occurs to me, that it seemed strange, that except in
Persia, and some part of Tartary, I faw none of the
people look up for their gods, but down; by which it
came into my mind, that even in idolatry itself, the
world was something degenerated, and their reason was
more hood-winked than their ancestors.
By looking up, and looking down, I mean, they do
not, as the Romans, look up among the stars for their
idols, place their gods in the skies,-and worship, as we
might fay, like men; but look down among the brutes,
form idols to themselves out of the beasts* and sigure
things like monsters, to adore them for their ugliness
and horrible deformity.
Of the two, the former, in my opinion, was much
the more rational idolatry,—as particularly, the Per-
sians worshipping the Sun; and when I had a particu-
lar account of that at Bengal, it presently occurred* tc*
my thought, that there was something awful, some-
thing glorious and god-like in the Sun, that, in the
ignorance of the true God, might rationally bespeak
the
the homage of the creatures; and to whom it seemed
reasonable, where reason was its own judge only, with-
out the helps of revelation, to pay an adoration, as the
parent of light, and the giver of lise to all the vegeta-
tive world ; and as,.in a visible manner, enlivening and
influencing the rational and sensitive lise, and which
might, for ought they knew, at first create, as it did
since so plainly affect, all things round us.
Certain it is, that the Persians, who thus paid their
adoration to the Sun, were, at that time, some of the
wisest people in the world. Some tell us, that the great
image that Nebuchadnezzar set up for all his people to
worship, was represented holding the Sun in his right
hand; and that it was to the representation of the Sun,
that he commanded all nations and kindreds to bow
and to worship: if so, then the Assyrians were wor-
shippers also of the Sun, as well as the Persians, which
is not at all improbable; we read also in the Scripture,
of those nations who worshipped all the host of Hea-
ven; a thing much more rational, and nearer of kin to
worshipping the great God of Heaven, than worship-
ping the whole host of the earth, and worshipping the
most abject and loathsome creatures, or but even the
representatives of those creatures, which was still worse
than the other.
But what are all the absurdities of heathenism, which
at last are resolved into the degeneracy of mankind,
and their being fallen from the knowledge of the true
God; which was once, as we have reason to believe,
diffused to all mankind.
. I fay, what are these? And how much ground for
just reflection do they afford us, compared to the gross
things in practice, which we find every day among
i 5 those
those nations who prosess to have had the clear light of
gospel revelation?
How many self-contradicting principles do they
hold? How contrary to their prosession do they act?
How does one fide burn for what another side abhors?
And how do Christians, taking that venerable name
for a general appellation, doom one another to the
Devil, for a sew difagreeing clauses of the fame reli^
gion, while all prosess to worship the fame Deity, and
to expect the fame falvation?
With what preposterous enthusiasms do some mingle
their knowledge, and with as gross absurdities others
their devotion? How blindly superstitious? How fu-
rious and raging in their zeal? How cruel, inexorable,
and even inhuman and barbarous to one another,
when they differ? As if religion divested us of huma-
nity, and that in our worshipping a God of mercy, and
in whose compassions alone it is that we have rdom to
hope, we should, to please and serve him, banish hu-
manity from our nature, and shew no compassion to
those that fall into our hands.
In my travelling through Portugal, it was my lot to
come to Lisbon, while they held there one of their
courts of justice, called Auto da fe; that is to fay, a
court of justice of the Inquisition: it is a subject that
has been handled by many writers,' and indeed exposed
by some of the best Catholics; and my present business
is not to write a history, or engage in a dispute, but to
relate a passage.
They carried in procession all their criminals to the
great church, where eight of them appeared first, dres-
Jed up in gowns and caps of canvass, upon which was
painted all that man could devise of hell's torments,
devil*
145
devils broiling and roasting human bodies, and a
thoufand such frightful things; with flames and devils
besides in every part of the dress.
Those, I found, were eight poor creatures con-
demned to be burnt, and for they scarce knew what;
but for crimes against the Catholic faith, and against
the Blessed Virgin,—and they were burnt. One of
them, it was faid, rejoiced that he was to be burnt;
and being asked, Why? answered, That he had much
rather die, than be carried back to the prison of the In-
quisition, where their cruelties were worse than death:
of those eight, as I was told, some were Jews, whose
greatest crime, as many there did not scruple to fay,
was, that they were very rich; and some Christians
were in the number at the fame time, whose greatest
misery was, that they were very poor.
It was a sight that almost gave me a shock in my no-
tion of Christianity itself, till I began to recollect, that
it might be possible that inquisitors were scarce Chris-
tians, and that I knew many Catholic countries do not
suffer this abominable judicature to be erected among
them.
I have seen much, and read more, of the unhappy
conduct, in matters of religion, among the other na-
tions of the world, prosessing the Christian religion;
and, upon my word, I sind some practices insinitely
scandalous; some which are the common received cus-
toms of Christians, which would be the abhorrence of
Heathens; and it requires a strong attachment to the
foundation, which is indeed the principal part in reli-
gion, to guard our minds against being offended, even
at the Christian religion itself; but 1 got over that
part afterwards.
Vol. III. K Let
Let it not offend the ears of any true lover of the
Christian religion, that I observe some of the follies of
the prosessors of the Christian religion; assuring you,
it is far from being my design to bring the least scandal
upon the prosession itself.
And here therefore let me give the words of a judi-
cious person, who travelled from Turkey through
Italy; his words are these:
"When I was in Italy, I ranged over great part of
,e the patrimony of St. Peter, where one would think.
"indeed, the face of religion would be plainest to be,
"seen, and without any disguise; but, in short, I
"found there the face of religion,—and no more.
"At Rome, there was all the pomp and glory of
"religious habits: the Pope and the Cardinals walked
"with a religious gravity, but lived in a religious.
"luxury; kept up the pomp of religion, and the dig-
"nity of religious titles: but like our Lord's obscr-
"vation on the Pharisees, I found within they were
"all ravening wolves.
"The religious justice they do there, is particularly
"remarkable, and very much recommends them.
"The church protects murders and assassins, and then
"delivers the civil magistrates over to Satan, fordoing
'' justice. They interdict whole kingdoms, and shut
"up the churches for want of paying a sew ecclesias-
"tical dues, and so put a stop to religion for want of
"their money. I sound the courtezans were the most
"constant creatures at the church, and the most cer-
"tain place for an assignation with another man's
wise, was at prayers.
"Tlie court of Inquisition burnt two men for
'' speaking dishonourably of the Blessed Virgin; and
"the
** the missionaries in China tolerated the worshipping
"the Devil by their new converts. A Jew was like-
M wise burnt for denying Christ; while the Jesuits
*' joined the paganism of the heathen with the high
"mass, and fung anthems to the immortal idols of
f* Tonquin. .
"When I faw this, I resolved to enquire no more
"after religion in Italy; till, by accident, meeting with
-*' a Quietist, he gave me to understand, that all reli-
"gion was internal; that the duties of Christianity
** were summed up in reflection and ejaculation. He
<c inveighed bitterly against the game of religion*
*' which, he faid, was playing over the whole world
"by the clergy; and faid Italy was a theatre, where
** religion was the grand opera, and the Popish clergy
** were the stage players. I liked him in many of his
*' notions about other people's religion; "but when I
"came to talk with him a little closely about his own,
'" it was so wrapped up in his internals, concealed in
u the cavities and dark parts of the soul, viz. medita-
"tion without worship, doctrine without practice,
«* reflection without reformation, and zeal without
*' knowledge,—that I could come to no certainty with %
* him, but in this, that religion in Italy was really
"invisible."
This was very agreeable to my notions of Italian re-
ligion, and to what I had met with from other people
that had travelled the country: but one observation of
blindness and superstition I must give, within my own
knowledge, and nearer home. When passing through
Flanders, I found the people in a certain city there, in
a very great commotion; the case was this-: a certain
federate, so they call an abandoned wretch given up to
K a a ll
til wickedness, had broken into a chapel in the city's
and had stolen the pix or casket wherein the facred
host was deposited; which host, after being rightly con-
secrated, they believe to be the real body of our Bles-
sed Saviour, being transubstantiated, as they call it,
from the substance of bread.
The fact being discovered, the city, as I faid above,
was all up in a tumult; the gates were shut up, and
nobody suffered to go out; every house was searched,
and the utmost diligence used; and, at length, as it
was next to an impossibility he should escape, he was
discovered, . -
His execution was not long deserred: but first he
was examined, and I think by torture, what he had
done with the facred thing which was in the pix, which
he had stolen? And at length he consessed, that he had
thrown it into an house of office; and was carried with
a guard to shew them the place.
As it was impossible to find a little piece of a wafer
in such a place, though no pains was spared, in a most
filthy manner to search for it; but, as I fay, it could
not be found: immediately the place was judged con-
secrated ipso facto, turned into an oratory, and the de-
vout people flocked to it, to expiate, by their prayers,
the dishonour done to the Lord God, by throwing his
precious body into so vile a place. It was determined,
by the wiser part, that the body would not fall down
into the place, but be snatched up by its inherent
power, or by the holy angels, and not be suffered to
touch the excrements in that place. However, the
people continued their devotions for some time, just in
the place where it was, and afterwards a large chapel
was
449
"Wits built upon it, where the fame prayers are conti-
nued, as I suppose, to this day.
I had a particular occasion to come at a very accu-
rate account of Poland, by a Polish gentleman, in
whose company I travelled, and from whom I learned
all that was worth enquiring of about religious affairs
in Prussia on one side, and Muscovy on the other.
As for Poland, be told me they were all confusion,
both in church and in state; that', notwithstanding
their wars, they were persecutors of. the worst kind;
that they let the Jews live among them undisturbed, to
such a degree, that in the country about Lemberg and
Kiow, there were reckoned above thirty thoufand Jews:
that these had not toleration only, but many privi*
leges granted them, though they deny Christ to be the
Messiah, or that the Messiah was come in the flesh, and
blasphemed his name upon frequent occasions; and, at
- the fame time, they persecuted the Protestants, and de-
stroyed their churches, wherever they had power to
dp it.
On the other hand, when I came to enquire of those
Protestants, and what kind of people they were, who
suffered so severely for their religion, I found they were
generally a sort of Protestants called Socinians; and
that Lelius Socinus had spread his errors so univerfally
over this country, that our Lord Jesus Christ was re-
duced here to little more than a good man sent from
Heaven to instruct the world, and far from capable of
effecting, by the influence of his spirit and grace, the
glorious work of redeeming the world: as for the divi-
nity of the Holy Ghost, they have no trouble about it.
Having given this account of knowledge and piety
in the countries inhabited by Christians of the Roman
„' K 3 church,
it seems natutal to fay something of the GreeH
church.
There ate,' in the Czar of Muscovy's dominions,
abundance of wooden churches; and had not the'
country been as full of wooden priests, something
might have been faid for the religion of the Musco-
vites ; for the people are wonderfully devout there/
Which would have been very well, if it had not beer*
attended with the profoundest ignorance that was evec
heard of in any country where the name of Chris-
tian was so much as talked of.
But when I came to enquire about their worship, I
found our Lord Jesus Christ made so much a meaner
figure among them than St. Nicholas, that I concluded
religion was swallowed up of superstition; and so in-
deed I found it was upon all occasions; as to the con-
duct of the people in religious matters, their ignorance
is so established upon obstinacy, which is the Musco-
vite's national sin, that it would be really to no purpose
to look any longer for a reformation among them.
In short, no man will, I believe, fay of me, that I
do the Muscovites any wrong, when I fay they are the
most ignorant and most obstinate people in the-Chris-
tian world, when I tell the following story of them.
It was after the battle of Narva, where the late King
of Sweden, Charles XII. deseated their great army, and
after the victory, extended his troops pretty far into
their country, and perhaps plundered them a little, as
he advanced; when the Muscovites, we may be sure,
being in the utmost distress and confusion, sell to their
prayers. We read of nothing they had to fay to God
Almighty in that case; but to their patron faint they
addressed this extraordinary prayer.
f Otho4
. *' O thou, our perpetual comforter in al! our adver-
*' sities! Thou infinitely powerful St. Nicholas, by
V what sin, and how have we highly offended thee in
"our facrifices, genuflections, reverences, and actions
"of thanksgiving, that thou hast thus forfaken us?
"We had therefore fought to appease thee entirely,
"and we had implored thy presence and thy succour
** against the terrible, insolent, dreadful, enraged, and
"undaunted enemies and destroyers; when, like lions,
'* bears, and other favage beasts, that have lost their
*' young ones, they attacked us after an insolent and
"terrible manner; and terrisied and wounded, took
"and killed us by thoufands,—us, who are thy peo-
"pie: now, as it is impossible that this mould happen
w without witchcraft and enchantment, seeing the
great care that we had taken to fortify ourselves
"after an impregnable manner, for the desence and
"security of thy name,—we beseech thee, O St. Ni-
"cholas, to be our champion, and the bearer of our
"standard; to be with us both in peace and in war,
"and in our necessities; and, at the time of our death,
%t to protect us against this horrible and tyrannical
*' crew of sorcerers, and to drive them far enough off
from our frontiers, with the recompence which they
"deserve."
It may be hoped, I may give a better account of re-
ligion among Protestants than I have among the
Roman and Grecian churches; and I will, if in justice
it is possible.
The next to the nations I have been mentioning, I
mean, in geographical order, are those reformed Chris-
tians called Lutherans. To fay no worse of them, the
face of religion indeed is altered much between these
K 4 and
and the latter: but I scarce know what name to gfao
it, at least as far as I have enquired into it, or what it
is like.
It was Popery and no Popery; there was the con-
sub, but not the transub.: the service differed indeed
from the mass, but the deficiency seemed to be made
up very much with the trumpets, kettle-drums, fiddles,
hautboys, &c. and all the merry part of the Popish de-
votion; upon which it occurred to me presently, that
if there was no danger of Popery among the Lutherans,
there was danger of superstition; and as for the pious
part, I faw very little of it in either of them.
By religion therefore, the reader is desired to under-
stand here, not the principles upon which the several
nations denominate themselves, so much as the manner
in which they discover themselves to be sincere in tho
prosession which they make. I had no inclination
here to enter into the enquiry after the creeds which
every nation prosesied to believe, but the manner in
which they practised that religion which they really
prosessed; for, what is religion to me without practice?
And although it may be true, that there can be no true
religion, where it is not prosessed upon right princi-
ples; yet that which I observe here, and which to me
is the greatest grievance among Christians, is the want
of a religious practice, even where there are right prin-
ciples at bottom, and where there is a prosession of the
orthodox faith..
In brief, 1 am not hunting after the prosession of
religion, but the practice: the first I find almost in
every nation, nulla gens tarn lariara: but the last I
am hke to travel through the histories of all Christen-
dom,
133
Jom with my search, and perhaps may hardly be able,
when I have done, to tell you where it is.
All the fatire of this enquiry will look this way";
for where God has not given a people the blessing of a
true knowledge of himself, it would call for our pity,
not reproach. It would be very dull fatire indeed, that
a man should be witty upon the negroes in Africafor
not knowing Christ, and not understanding the doc-
trine of a Saviour: but if turning to our modern
Christians of Barbadoes and Jamaica for not teaching
them, not instructing them, and for refusing to baptize
them,—there the fatire would be pointed and season-
able, as we shall hear farther, by and by.
But to return to the Lutherans, for there I am sup-
posed to be at this time, I mean, among the courts and
cities of Brandenburg, Saxony, &c. I had opportu-
nity here to view a court, affecting gallantry, magni-
ficence, and gay things, to such a height, and with such
a passion, to exceed the whole world in that empty part
of human selicity, called show, that I thought it was
impossible to pursue it with such an impetuous torrent
of the affections, without facrisicing all things to it
which wise men esteem more valuable. ,
Nor was my notion wrong -, for the first thing I
found facrisiced, as I fay, to this voluptuous humour,
was the liberties of the people; who, being by consti-
tution, or custom rather, under absolute government,
and at the arbitrary will of the Prince, are sure to pay,
not all they can spare, but even all they have, to gra-
tify the unbounded appetite of a court given up to
pleasure and exorbitance.
By all I have read of the manner of living there,
both court and people, the latter are entirely given up
to
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
to the former; not by necessity only, but by the con*
sent of custom, and the general way of management
through the whole country; nay, this is carried to such
a height, that, as I have been told, the King's coffers
are the general cess-pools of the nations, whither all
the money of the kingdom flows, and only disperses
again as that gives it out; whether by running over,
or running out at its proper vent, I do not enquire:
so that as all the blood in the human body circulates in
twenty-four hours through the ventricles of the heart,
so all the money in the kingdom is faid to pass once a
year through the King's treasury.
How far poverty and misery may prompt piety and
devotion among the poor inhabitants, I cannot fay:
but if luxury and gallantry, together with tyranny and
oppression to support it, can subsist with true religion
in the great men, then, for ought I know, the courts
of Prussia and Dresden may be the best qualisied in the
world to produce this thing called religion, which I
have hitherto seen is hard to be found.
It is true, that the magnisicence of the wisest King
in the world, in Jerufalem, was esteemed the selicity of
his people: but it seems to be exprefied very elegantly,
not as a testimony of his glory only, but of the
flourishing condition of his people at the fame time,
under the prosperous circumstances which his reign
brought them to, viz. That he made gold to be for
plenty, like the stones in the streets; amply expressing
the flourishing condition of his people under him.
I have likewise read indeed, and heard much of the
fame kind of the King of Prussia, and that even from
'his own subjects, who were always full of the generous
and truly royal qualities of that Prince: he was the first
153
King of the country, which before was a dukedom or
electorate only. The sum of their discourse is, That
his Majesty was so true a father of his country and of
his people, that his whole care was the flourishing of
their trade, establishing their, manufactures, encreasing
their numbers, planting foreigners, French, Swiss, and
other nations, among them, to instruct and encourage
them; and being no way accessary to any of their op-
pressions, but relieving and redressing all their grie-
vances, as often and as soon as they came to his know-
ledge; and indeed, I could not but entertain a great
regard to the character of so just and good a Prince:
but all I could inser from that was, that a government
may be tyrannical, and yet the King not be a tyrant;
but the grievances to the people are oftentimes much
the fame: and every administration, where the consti-
tution is thus stated, as it seems to be in most, if not
all of the northern courts, Protestant as well as others,
seems inconsistent with the true ends of government.
The thing we call government, was certainly established
for the prosperity of the people; whereas, on the con-
trary, in all those German courts, where I have made
my observations, the magnificence of the court, and
the prosperity of the people, stand like the two poles,—
what excess of light you see at one, is exactly balanced
by so much darkness at the other. «
An(J where, pray, is the religion of all this? That a
whole nation of people should appear miserable, that
their governors may appear gay; the people starve, that
the prince may be sed; or rather, the people be lean,
that their sovereign may be fat; the subjects sigh, that
he may laugh; be empty, that he may be full; and all
this for mere luxury; not for the needful desence of the
govern-
$
government, resisting enemies, preserving the public:
peace, and the like; but for mere extravagance, luxury,
and magnisicence, as in Prussia; or for ambition, or
pushing at crowns, and the lust of domination, as in,
Saxony.
But to come back to the religious tranfactions of
these countries: how are the ecclesiastics jealous of their
hierarchy afraid to reform farther, least, as they gave
a mortal stab to the perquisites and vails of God Al-
mighty's service in the Roman church, modern refor-
mation might give the like to them. For this reason
they set a pale about their church, and there, as well as
in other places, they cry to their neighbours, Stand off!
I am holier than thou; and with what persecution and
invasion, persecuting for religion, and invading the
principles of one another: if there was any peace
among them, it was that only which passes all under-
standing. It presently occurred to me, what charity
can here be, where there is no peace? And what reli-
gion, where there is no charity ? And I began to sear
I should find little of what I looked for in those odd
climates.
I had travelled personally through the heart of
"France, where I had occasion to look round me often
enough in my route from the foot of the Pyrenean
mountains to Thoulouse, from thence to Paris and
Calais. Here I found the people so merry, and yet so
miserable, that I knew not where to make any judg-
ment. The poverty of the poor was so great, that it
seemed to leave them no room to sigh for any thing
but their burthens, or to pray for any thing but bread:
but the temper of the people was so volatile, that t
thought.
thought they went always dancing to church, and came
singing out of it.
I found a world of teachers here, but nobody taught;
the streets were every where full of priests, and the
churches full of women; but as for religion, I found
most of the clergy were so far from having much of it,
that sew of them knew what it was. Never sure was a
nation so full of truly blind guides; for nothing can be
more grossly ignorant of religion, than many of their
clergy are; nothing more void of morals, than many
of those to whom other people go to consess their sins.
I made some enquiry about religion; and, -among
the rest, I happened to fall in company with a good
honest Hugonot incognito; and he told me very ho-
nestly, that the state of religion in France stood thus:
First, That for some years ago it was put to the test
by the King, and that was, when the edicts came out
to banish and ruin the Hugonots; at which time, faid
he, we thought there had been a great deal of religion
jn it; but really, when it came to the push, faid he, it
was hard to tell where we should find it. The perse-
cution, as it was thought at first, would be ungrateful
to the more religious Roman Catholics, and that some
Would be found too good to do the drudgery of the
Devil: but we were mistaken; the best sell in with
persecution, when it was done by other hands, and not
their own; and those that would not do it, acknow-
ledged they rejoiced that it was done; which shewed,
faid he, that the Catholics either had no principle, or
acted against principle,—which is much as one: and
as for us Hugonots, faid he, we have shewn that we
have no religion lost among us; for, first, some run
&way for theif religion, and yet left it behind them;
and
and we that stayed behind, did it at the price of our
principles: for now, faid he, we are mere hypocrites,
neither Papists nor Hugonots, for we go to mass with
Protestant hearts; and while we call ourselves Pro-
testants, we bow in the house of Rimmon. Where
then, faid I, is the religion, once boasted of here, to
be found? Indeed, faid he, it is hard to tell you, and
except a little that is in the galleys, I can give you no
good account of it. This indeed was confining the
remains of a nourishing church to about three hun-
dred and fifty consessors, who really suffered martyr-
dom for it,—for it was no less: so I minuted down
French religion tugging at the oar, and would have
come away.
But it came into my thought to afk him, what he
meant by telling me, that those who run away for
their religion out of France, left most of it behind
them? He answered, I should judge of it better, if I
observed them when I came into my own country;
where, if I found they lived better than other people,
or shewed any thing of religion suitable to a people that
suffered persecution for their prosession, I should send
word of it; for he had heard quite otherwise of them,
which was the reason why he and thoufands of others
did not follow them.
It happened, while I was warm in my enquiries thus
after religion, a proclamation came out in London, for
appointing a general thanksgiving for a great victory
obtained by the English forces and their consederates,
over the French, at ;I care not to put names
to the particular times of things.
I started at the noise, when they cried it in the
streets : Ha! faid I, then I have foundit at last; and I
rejoiced
rejoiced in particular, that having looked so much,
abroad for religion, I should find it out at home: then
I began to call myself a thoufand fools, that I had not
faved myself all this labour, and looked at home first;
though, by the by, I had done no more in this than
other travellers often, or indeed generally do, viz. go
abroad to see the world, and search into the curiosities
of foreign countries, and know nothing of their own.
But to return to my observations: I was resolved to
see the ceremony of this pious piece of work; and as
the preparations for it were prodigious great, I en-
quired how it would be; but nobody could remember
that the like had ever been in their time before; every
one faid it would be very sine; thaf the Queen would
be there herself, and all the nobility; and that the like
had never been seen since Queen Elizabeth's time.
This pleased me exceedingly; and I began to form
ideas in my mind of what had been in former times
among religious nations: I could sind nothing of
what I was made to expect, unless it was Solomon's
dedication of the temple, or Josiah's great seast of the
reformation; and I expected God would have a most
royal tribute of praise.
But it shocked me a little, that the people faid there
had never been such a thanksgiving since Queen Eli-
zabeth's time. What, thought I, can be the reason of
that? and musing a little, O, fays I to myself, now I
have found it: I suppose, nobody gives God thanks in
our country, but Queens: but this looked a little
harsh; and I rummaged our histories a little for farther
fatisfaction, but could make nothing of it. At last,
talking of it to a good old cavalier, that had been a
soldier for King Charles; O, fays he, I can tell you
the'
.
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
the reason of it: they have never given thanks, fays
he, because they have had nothing to give thanks for.
Pray, fays he, when have they had any victories in
England since Queen Elizabeth's time, except two or
three in Ireland, in King William's time? And then
they were so busy, had so many other losses with them
abroad, that they were ashamed to give thanks for
them. ,
This I found had too much truth in it, however bit-
ter the jest of it; but still heightened my expectation,
and made me look for some strange seriousness, and
religious thankfulness, in the appearance that was to
be on the occasion in hand; and, accordingly, I se-
cured myself a place, both without and- within the
church, where I might be a witness to every part of
the devotion and jov of the people.
But my expectations were wound up to a yet greater
pitch, when I faw the insinite crowds of people throng
with so much zeal, as I, like a charitable coxcomb,
thought it to be, to the place of the worship of God;
and when I considered, that it was to give God thanks
for a great victory, I could think of nothing else than
the joy of the Israelites, when they landed on the
banks of the sea, and faw Pharoah's army, horses, and
chariots swallowed up behind them; and I doubted
not I should hear something like the song of Moses
and the children of Israel, on the occasion, and should
hear it sung with the same elevation of soul.
But when I came .to the point, the first thing I ob-
served was, that nine parts of ten of all'the company,
came there only to see the Queen and the show; and
the other tenth part, I think, might be faid to make
the show.
When
When the Queen came to the rails, and descended
from the coach, the people, instead of crying out Ho-
fannah, blessed be the Queen that comcth in the name
of the Lord; I fay, the people cried murder, and help,
for God's fake; treading upon one another, and stifling
one another at such a rate, that in the rear of the two
lines, or crowds of people, through which the Queen,
passed, it looked something like a battle, where the
wounded were retired to die, and to get surgeons to
come to them; for there lay heaps of women and
children dragged from among the seet of the crowd,
and gasping for breath. I went among some of them,
and asked them, what made them go into such a crowd?
And their answers were all the/ fame,—O, Sir, I had a
mind to see the Queen, as the rest did.
Well, I had my answer here indeed; for, in short,
the whole business of the thanksgiving without doors,
was to see the Queen,—that was plain; so I went away
to my stand, which, for no less than three guineas, I
had secured in the church.
When I came there, it was my fate to be placed be-
tween the scats, where the men of God performed the
service of his praise, and sung out the anthems and the
Te Deum, which celebrated the religious triumph of
the day.
As to the men themselves, I liked their office, their
vestments, and their appearance; all looked awful and
grave enough, suitable in some respects to the solem-
nity of a religious triumph; and 1 expected they would
be as solemn in their performances, as the Levites that
blowed the trumpets at Solomon's seast, when all the
people shouted and praised God.
Vol. III. L But
But I observed these grave people, ;n the intervals of
their worshipping God, when it was not their turn to
sing, or read, or pray, bestowed some of the rest of
their time in taking snuff, adjusting their perukes,
looking about at the fair ladies, whispering, and that
not very softly, to one another, about this fine lady,
and that pretty woman; this fine duchess, and that great
fortune; and not without some indecencies, as well of
words as of gestures. Well, fays I, you are none of
the people I look for; where are they that give God
thanks?
Immediately the organ struck up for the 7e Deum;
up starts all my gentlemen, as if inspired from above,
and from their talking together, not over modestly, fall
to praising God with the utmost precipitation; sing-
ing the heavenly anthems with all the grace and mufic
imaginable. ,
In the middle of all this mufic, and these exalted
things, when I thought my soul elevated with divine
melody, and began to be reconciled to all the rest, I
faw a little rustling motion among the people, as if
they had been disturbed or frightened: some faid it
thundered, some faid the church shook. The true
business was, the le Deum within, was answered with-
out by the thunder of one hundred pieces of cannon,
and the noise of drums, with the huzzas and shouts of
great crowds of people in the streets. This I did not
understand, so it did neither disturb or concern me; I
found, indeed, no great harmony in it; it bore no
concert in the mufic, at least, as I understood it; but
it was over pretty soon, and so we went on.
When the anthem was fung, and the other services
succeeded them, I, that had been a little disturbed with
the
the lucid intervals of the choristers, and the gentlemen
that fat crowded in with them, turned ray eyes to other
places, in hopes I should sind some faints among the
crowd, whose fouls were taken up with the exalted
raptures of the day.
But, alas! it was all one; the ladies were busy singling
out the men, and the men the ladies. The star and
garter of a sine young nobleman, beautiful in person,
rich in habit, and sparkling in jewels; his blue ribband
intimating his character, drew the eyes of so many
women off of their prayer books, that I think his
Grace ought to have been spoken to by the vergers,
to have withdrawn out of the church, that he might
not injure the service, and rob God Almighty of the
homage of the day.
As for the Queen, her Majesty was the star of the
day, and insinitely more eyes were directed to her,
than were lifted up to Heaven, though the last was the
business of the whole procession.
Well, faid I, this is mighty sine, that is true: but
where is the religion of all this? Heaven bless me,
faid I, out of this crowd, and I will never mock God
any more here, when the Queen comes again. Can-
not these people go and see the Queen where the
Queen is to be seen, but must they come hither to pro-
fane the church with her, and make the Queen an
idol? And in a great passion I was, both at the people,
and at the manner of the day, as you may easily see by
what follows: ,
N. B. I had made some other fatirical reflections
upon the conduct of the day; but as it looks too near
home, I am not willing that poor Robinson Crusoe
should disoblige anybody.
La I consess,
I consess, the close of the day was still more extra-1
vagant; for there the thanksgiving was adjourned from
the church to the tavern, and to the street; and instead
of the decency of a religious triumph, there was indeed
a triumph of religious indecency; and the anthems,
fTc Deum, and the thanksgiving of the day, ended in
the drunkenness, the bonfires, and the squibs and
crackers of the street.
How far religion is concerned in all this, or whether
God Almighty will accept of these noisy doings for
thanksgivings, that I have nothing to do with; let
those people consider of it that are concerned in it.
OF DIFFERENCES JN RELIGION.
IT is known alone to the divine Wisdom, why he has
been pleased to suffer any part of religion, and the
adoration paid to his Majesty, the supplications made
to him, and the homage which his creatures owe to his
glorious being, to be so doubtfully directed, or so dif-
serently understood by, his creatures, as that there
should be any mistakes or difagreements about them.
How comes it to pass, that the paying a reverence to
the name and being of God, mould not be as incapable
of being disputed in the manner of it, as in the thing
itself? That all the rules of worshipping, believing in,
and serving the great God of heaven and earth, should
be
165
be capable of being understood any more than one
way? And that the infallible Spiritof God, who is our
guide to Heaven, should leave any one of its dictates
in a state of being misunderstood? £
Why have not the rules of religion, as well those of
doctrine as of lise, been laid down in terms so plain,
and so impossible to be mistaken, that all men in the
world, in every rage, should have the fame notions of
them, and understand them, in every tittle of them,
exactly alike? Then, as Heaven is but one blessed great
port, at which all hape to arrive, there would have
been but one road to travel the journey in; all men
would have gone the fame way, steered the fame course,
and brethren would no more Jiave fallen out by the
way.
God alone, who for wise and righteous reasons, be-
ause he can do nothing but what is wise and righteous,
has otherwise ordered it,—and that is all we can fay of
it: as to the reason and justice of it, that is a thing, of
which, like as of the times and of the seasons, We may
fay, knoweth no man.
In the state of uncertainty we are now in, so it is;
two men believing in the fame God, holding the fame
faith, the fame Saviour, the fame doctrine, and aiming
at the fame Heaven, yet cannot agree to go to that
Heaven, or worship that God, or believe in that Sa-
viour, the fame way, or after the fame manner:, nay,
they cannot know, or conceive of God, or of Heaven,
or of the Redeemer, or indeed of any one principle of
the Christian religion, in the fame manner, or form
the fame ideas of those things in their minds.
It is true, the different capacities and faculties of
gien, are, in part, a reason for this; by which it is oc-
L 3 casionedj
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
casioned, that scarce two men together have the fame
notions and apprehensions even of one and the fame
thing, because their understandings are led by different
guides, and <they see by different lights.
But this is not all; they are not alike honest to the
light they have: three men read the fame doctrinal ar-
ticles fay it be of the Trinity, or of any other, and they
all examine the foundation of it in the Scripture: one
thinks verily he has found out the mystery effectually,
goes on with his enquiries, and brings every scripture,
and every passage, to correspond* exactly with his first
notion; and thus he confirms himself immovably in
his opinion; and it is so clear to him, that he cannot
only never be argued out of it, but can entertain no
good opinion of any man that conceives of it in any
other way; but takes him for an enemy to the ortho-
dox doctrine, and that he merits to be expelled out of
Christ's church, denied the Christian communion,
and, in short, treats him with no respect, no, nor
thinks'of him with charity.
Another comes to the fame scripture, and in quest
of the fame doctrine, and he reads over the fame texts,
and receives notions from them directly opposite to the
other, or, at least, very remote from them: he follows
in his search through all the corroborating texts, and
is consirmed in his first opinion from them all. He
grows as immovable in his received construction of the
Scripture, as the other; and all is so clear to him, that
he not only can never be argued out of his opinion,
but can entertain no good opinion of any man that
conceives of it any other way, but takes him for an
enemy to the orthodox doctrine.
The
The third man, he reads over all the fame texts of
Scripture, but doing it with an indifference as to the
substance, and whether he receiyes right, information
or no, truly he comes away with a calmness of mind
as to the substance; and as he went with no great con-
cern about being certain, so he comes back as uncer-
tain as he went.
These three men are enough to sill the whole world
- full of disputes about religion. The first two meet,
and being equally positive of their being infallibly
guided, equally warm in desending their opinions, and
equally tenacious of them ; and, above all, equally void
of charity to the other; truly they fall out, part, con-
demn, censure, revile, and, as opportunity and power
offers, at last persecute one another] and all one an-
others adherents.
The third, half informed, indifferent man, he comes
in between these two, laughs at them both, fays they
are a parcel of furious Christians, that the thing is not
absolutely necessary to be known, that it is no article
of faith, so as that without deciding it, a man cannot
be faved; fays they are a parcel of fools, to fall out
thus about what they cannot be certain of; and that
they may go to Heaven, though they should not under-
stand it till they come there: and thus the world comes
to be divided.
Could they differ with humility, they would differ
with charity; but it is not to be in religion, whatever
it may be in civil or political affairs; for there is a
thing called zeal, which men call a grace in religion,
and esteem a duty; and this makes men fall out in
religious matters, with a more fatal warmth, and
L 4 more
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
more animosity, than in other cases: according to
Htidibras;
"Zeal makes men fight like mad or drunk,
"1 or dame religion as for punk."
Nor is this the fate only of the Christian religion,
though if is more so there than in any other; but it is
the fame in other cases, as between the Persians and
the Tu ks, about the successors of their prophet Ma-
homet. It was so of old between the Heathens and
the Jews: and the Assyrian monarch prepared a fiery
furnace for thole that would not fall down and wor-
ship the great image that he had set up.
In the primitive times of God's church, the heathen
did the fame by the Christians, and Chrijiianos adLeones,
was the common cry: but when the church came to
its halcyon days, Constantino the Great gave peace to
the Christians; and it was but a little while that they
enjoyed that peace, before they sell out by the way;
the Arian heresies rose up, and differing opinions rent
the state into factions, the church into schisms, and, in
the space of two reigns, the Arians persecuted the Or-
thodox, and the Orthodox the Arians, almost with the
fame fury as the heathens had persecuted them both
before.
From thence to our time, persecution has been the
practice even of all parties, as they have been cloathed
with power, and as their differences have moved them.
For example: In all the Christian countries, there is
a mortal seud between Papist and Protestant; and
though indeed the former have carried their zeal far-
thest, yet the latter have not been able to fay, they
have
169
have not persecuted in their tu n, though not with fire
and sagc,ot.
What wars and bloodshed molested Europe on the
account of religion in Germany? especially till the
general pacisic ition of those troubles at the treaty of
Westphalia; when the Protestants, having had the ap-
parent advantage of the war, obtained the everlasting
settlement of their religion, as well as liberties, through
the whole Empire.
Since those times, what persecution in the fame
country, between the Lutheran and Calvinist chur-
ches? And how little charity is among them? Inso-
much, that the Lutherans to this day will not allow the
reformed Evangelic churches, (so the Calvinists are
called) liberty to assemble for worship within the gates
of their cities, or give them Christian burial.
I avoid looking too near home, or searching in Scot-
land and England among the unhappy divisions of
Episcopal and Presbyterian, church of England and dis-
senter, and this I do, because it is at home: but it is
too evident, that all these come either from mens being
negligent of right informations, or too tenacious when
they have it; for it is evident, if all men would be ho-
nest to the light they have, and favourable to their
neighbours, we might hope, that how many several
ways soever we chose to walk towards Heaven, we
should all meet there at last.
I look upon all the seeds of religious dissension, as
tares sowed by the Devil among the wheat: and it
may be observed, that though, as I have already faid,
the Assyrians persecuted the Jews, and the Romans
the Christians, yet, where the Devil is immediately
and personally worshipped, there we meet with little
OX
or no persecution; for Satan, having a kind of peace-
able dominion there, offers them no disturbance; he
defires no innovation; he finds the sweetness of it,
and lets it alone.
But if once they talk of other gods before him, he is
far less easy; there he is continually sowing strise, and
hatching divisions among them; for, like all other
monarchs, the Devil likes to reign alone.
It would be too long a task here, to reckon up the
several sorts of differences in religion, even among us
in England ; where, if two happen to differ, presently,.
like St. Paul to St. Peter, they withstand one another
to the face; that is to fay, carry on the dispute to the
-utmost extremity.
But there is another question before me, and that is
not only, Why there are such differences in the points
of religion? And why are religious differences hotter
and more irreconcilable than other breaches? But,
why are there more differences of this kind among us,
than among any other nations in the world?
Certainly, this pushing on our religious broils to
the extremity, is the peculiar of this country of Eng-
land, and is not the fame thing in other places; and
the variety is such here, that, it is faid, there are more
several communions or communities of religious kinds
in England, than in all the other Protestant countries
in the world.
The best and most charitable answer that I can think
of to give for this, is to compliment ourselves, and fay,
it is because we are the most religious nation in the
world; that is to fay, that we, in general, set more
seriously to work, to enquire into the substance and
nature of religion; to examine principles, and weigh
the reasons of things, than other people; being more
concerned for, and anxious about the affairs of God,
of Heaven, and our fouls; that thinking, as we ought
to do, that religion is of the utmost concern to us, and
that it is of the last moment to us to be certain about
it, and well grounded in the points before us, particu-
larly whether we are rightly informed or not; this
anxious concern makes us jealous of every opinion,
and tenacious of our own, breaks much in upon the
custom of submitting our judgments to the clergy, as
is the case in countries where people are more indiffe-
rent in their search after these things, and more un-
concerned in the certainty or uncertainty of them.
I must acknowledge, that I think the true, and the
only just reason that can be given for this matter, is
not, that we are more furious than other people, more
censorious and rash in our judgments; that we have
less charity, or less patience, in debating religious
points, than other people: but the truth is, that.we
have less indifference about them, and we cannot sit
down contented with a slight and overly enquiry, or a
cursory or school answer to the doubts in question:
but we make it a thing of absolute necessity to be fully
informed of, and therefore are earnest in the enquiry;
and knowing the Scripture to be the great rule of faith,
the standard for lise and doctrine, we fly thither and
search for ourselves; not having Popery enough to ex-
pect an infallible judge, nor indifference enough to ac-
quiesce in the judgment of the clergy; and perhaps a
little too tenacious of our own interpretation, even in
things we are uninstructed about.
This indeed I take to be the true reason why reli-
gious disputes encrease so much here, and why there
are
2
are such separations and schisms among us, more than
they are in any other nation in the world.
I know much of it is laid to the door of the confu-
sions they were all in here, during the bloody intestine
wars in the years 1640 to 1656, and the liberty given
to all opinions, to set up themselves at that time: but
I wave that, as a question that tends to more division.
I believe, the reason I have given for it, stands as well
grounded, and as likely to be approved, as any I can
give, or as any that has been given in this case.
There is another difficult question, which still re-
mains before us; and that is, What remedy can we
apply to this malady? And first, I must answer nega-
tively; not to have us be less religious, that we might
differ less about it; but to have us exercise more cha-
rity in our disputes, that we might differ more like
men of temper, and more like Christians, than we do.
This is striking at the root of religious differences; for
if they were carried on mildly, with a peaceable spirit,
willing to be informed; a disposition to love as bre-
thren, though in every thing not like minded; our
variety of opinions would not then have the name of
differences, we should not separate in communion and
in charity, though we did not agree in every thing we
were to believe, or not believe, about religion.
It is hard that we should fay, these differences are the
consequences of a nation having more religion than
their neighbours, since we have still this one part too
little; and, as I suppose us to have more religion, I
must be obliged to grant, we have not enough more;
for if, as we have just so much more religion, as is sufr
ficient to make us quarrelsome in religious disputes, if
we had yet as much more as were susficient to make us
peaceable
peaceable again after it, then we should be religious to
the purpose.
So that, in a word, our being so religious, as above,
is only an unhappy middle composition between the
enquiring and fully informed Christian, on one hand,
and the careless, indifferent, unconcerned temper, that
takes up with any thing, on the other hand: and this
1 take to be a just, though short account of our differ-
ences in England about religion.
It might be a very useful question to start here,
namely, where all our unhappy religious differences
will end? I, that am not willing to give the worst na-
tured answer, where the best and kindest will hold
water, am, for the present, disposed to answer in ge-
neral, rather than descend to particulars, viz.' in Hea-
ven; there all our unkind, unchristian, unneighbour-
Jy, unbrotlierly differences will end; we shall freely
shake hands there, with many a pardoned sinner, that
here we bid stand off; embrace many a publican, that
here we think it a dishonour to converse with; sec
many a heart, that we have broken here with censures,
reproachings, and revilings, made whole again by the
balm of the fame Redeemer's blood.
There we shall see, that there have been other flocks
than those of our fold, other paths to Heaven than
those we shut men out from; that those we have ex-
communicated, have been taken into that superior
communion; and those we have placed -at our left-
hands, have been there summoned to the right-hand;
all separations will be there taken away, and the mind
of every Christian be entirely reconciled to one an-
other; no divisions, no differences, no charging sin-
cere minds with hypocrisy, or embracing painted hy-
pocrites
pocritcs for faints; every thing to be seen, and to be
known, as it really is, and by a clear light; none will
desire to deceive, none be subject to be deceived.
There we shall look upon all we have done and faid
in prejudice of the character of our brethren, with a
just change, and sufficiently repair to one another all
the injurious things we have faid, or indeed but
thought of one another, by rejoicing in the common
selicity, and praising the sovereign glory, that had re-
ceived those we had foolishly rejected, and let those
into tfie fame Heaven, whom we had in the abundance
of our pride, and the penury of our charity, shut out.
How many actions of men, which we, seeing only
their outside, have now censured, shall we find there,
by that penetration that cannot err, be accepted for
their inside sincerity? How many an opinion, that we
condemn here, shall we see then to be orthodox? In a
word, how many contradicting notions and principles,
which we thought inconsistent with true religion, shall
we find then to be reconcilable to themselves, to one
another, and to the fountain of truth?
All the difficulties in our conceptions of things in-
visible, will then be explained; all the doctrines of the
immutability of the divine councils, will then be recon-
cilable to the changeable events of things, and to the
varieties often happening in the world: the unchange-
ableness of the eternal decrees will then appear; and
yet the efficacy of praying to God to do this, or not do
that, to pardon, forgive, spare, and forbear, which we
now fay is inconsistent with those unchangeable decrees,
-sliall be reconcilable to that unchangeableness, in a
manner to us now inconceiveable.
And
And this is the foundation of what I now advance,
viz. That in Heaven all our differences in religion will
be reconciled, and will be at an end. If any man ask
me, whether they cannot be ended before? I answer,
If we were all thoroughly convinced that they would -
be reconciled then, we should certainly put an end to
them before: but it is impossible to be done. Mens
convictions of the greatest and most certain truths, are
not equal to one another, or equal to the weight and
signisicancy of those truths; and therefore, such a ge-
neral effect of this affair cannot be expected on this side
of time.
There is one very great reconciler of religious dif-
ferences in this world, which has sometimes been made
use of by Brovidence to heal the breaches in Christian
charity among religious people; and it is, generally
speaking, very effectual: but it is a bitter draught, a
potion that goes down with great reluctance, and that
is persecution. This generally reconciles the differences
of Christians, about the lesser matters in religion: the
primitive churches, while under the Roman persecu-
tions, had a much greater harmony among themselves,
and very sew schisms and divisions broke out among
them. When they did differ in any particular points,
they wrote healing epistles to one another, contended
with modesty and with charity, and reserred willingly
their notions to be decided by one another: they did
not separate communion, and excommunicate whole
churches and nations, for a dispute about the celebra-
tion of Easter; or unchurch one another for the ques-
tion of receiving and rebaptizing of penitents, as was
afterwards the case. The furnace of affliction burnt
up all that dross; the fury of their persecutors kept
their
their minds humble, their zeal for religion hot; and
their affection for, and their charity to one another en-
creased, as their liberty and their number were les-
sened.
Thus Bishop Ridley, and Bishop Hooper; the first
a rigid church of England bishop; the other, almost a
Presbyterian, or at least a Calvinisl, like Peter and
Paul, differed hotly, and withstood one another to the
face, in the very beginning of the Reformation: but
when they came to burn for their religion, fire and
faggot shewed them the reconcilableness of all their
disputes; convinced them that it was possible for both
to hold fast the truth in sincerity, and yet entertain
differing notions of the rites and outsides of the divine
economy; and at the stake they ended all their dis-
putes, wrote healing letters to one another, and became
fellow-martyrs and consessors for that very prosession
which was so intermixed with censure and dislike
before.
And let all that think of this remedy remember, that
whenever these quarrelsome Christians come, by per-
secution, or any other incident, to be thus reconciled
in their charity, they find always a great deal to alk
pardon of one another for, with respect to what is past;
all their violence, heat of zeal, and much more heat of
passion; all their breach of charity, their reproaches
and censures, and hard words, which have passed be-
tween them, will.only then serve to bring them toge-
ther with more affection, and to embrace more warm-
ly; for, depend upon it, all the differences in religion
among good men, (for I do not mean essentials doc-
. trinal, and fundamental differences) serve only to make
them all ashamed of themselves at last.
OF
177
OF THE WONDERFUL EXCELLENCY OF
Negative Religion and negative Virtue.
NEGATIVE virtue sets out like the Pharisee, with
God, I thank thee; it is a piece of religious pa-
geantry; a jointed baby, dressed up gay; but stripped of
its gewgaws, it appears a naked lump, fit only to please
children and deceive fools; it is the hope of the hypo-
crite; it is a cheat upon the neighbourhood, a dress for
without doors, for it is of no use within; it is a mask
put on for a character, and as generally it is used to cheat
others, it is so ignorantly embraced, that we cheat even
ourselves with it.
In a word, negative virtue is positive vice, at least,
when it is made use of in any of the two last cases;
namely, either as a mask to deceive others, or as a mist
to deceive ourselves. If a man were to look back upon
it, to see in what part he could take up his nest, or lay
a foundation of hope for the fatisfaction of his mind,
as to future things, he would sind it the nfost uncom-
fortable condition to go out of the world with, that
any man in the world can think.
The reason Is plain; compare it with the publican,
whom such a man despises: here is my landlord is a
drunkard, one of my tenants is a thief, such a poor
man is a swearer, such a rich man a blasphemer, such
a tradesman is a cheat, such a justice of the peace is an
Vol. III. M atheist,
atheist, such a rakish sellow is turned highwayman,
such a beau is debauched; but I!—I that am cloathed
in negatives, and walk in the light of my own vanity,—
I live a sober, regular, retired lise; I am an honest man;
I defraud nobody; no man ever heard me swear, or an
ill word come out of my mouth; I never talk irreli-
giously or profanely, and I am never missed out of my
seat at church. God, I thank thee! I am not debauch-
ed, I am no highwayman, no murderer, &c.: now,
what is the difference of all these? I must consess,
speaking of all these together, and of what is usually
the end of them, I think a man had better be any
of them, nay, almost all of them together, than the
man himself; and my reason is, in a sew words, as
follows:
All these know themselves to be wicked persons;
conscience, though for a time oppressed and kept
under, yet upon all occasions tells them plainly what
their condition is, and oftentimes they repent. It is
true, sometimes they do not; God is pleased sometimes
to treat them in the vindictive attribute, and they are
cut off in their crimes, insensible and stupid, without a
space or a heart to repent; and therefore, let none take
hope in their profligate living, from what I am going
to fay.
Again; others, though they do repent, and God is
pleased to give them the grace to return to him as pe-
nitents, come to it very late, and sometimes under a
severe hand, as perhaps on a death-bed, or under some
difaster, and oftentimes at the gallows.
But still I fay, those men, though they sin, they do
it as a crime, and when they come to be told of it
often, they are brought to repent: but the negative
Christian
Christian I speak of, is so full of himself, so persuaded
that he is good enough, and religious enough already,
that he has no thoughts of any thing, unless it be to
pull off his hat to God Almighty now and then, and
thank him, that he has no need of him; this is the
opiate that doses his foul, even to the last gasp; and it
is ten thoufand to one, but the lethargic dream shoots
him through the gulph at once, and he never opens his
eyes, till he arrives in that light where all things are
naked and open; where he sees, too late, that he has
been a cheat to himself, and has been hurried by his
own pride, in a cloud of negatives, into a state of posi-
tive destruction, without remedy.
I am reading no particular man's fate; God forbid!
I restrain it to no circumstances; I point out no persons;
it is too solemn a thing to make it a fatire; it is the
state, not the man, I speak of; let the guilty apply it
to themselves, and the proud, good man humble him-
self, and avoid it.
I have observed, that many fall into this case by the
excessive vanity of being thought well of by their
neighbours, obtaining a character, &c.; it is a delu-
sion very fatal to many; a good name is indeed a pre-
cious ointment, and, in some cases, is better than lise:
but, with your pardon, Mr. Negative, it must be a
good name for good deeds; or otherwise, a good name
upon a bad lise, is a painted whore, that has a gay
countenance upon a rotten, diseased, corrupted car-
case.
Much to be preserred is the general slander of a pre-
judiced age, and a state of univerfal calumny, where
the mind is free from the guilt they charge: soch a
M 2 man,
man, though the world spits upon and despises him,
looks in with comfort, and looks up with hope.
Hie murus Aheneus esto,
Nil conscire fibi, nulla pallescere culpa.
Virc.
General contempt, universal reproach, is a life that
requires a world of courage and steadiness of mind to
support: but, be this my portion in this world, with a
heart that does not reproach me with the guilt, much
rather than to be a man of negatives only, and whom all
the world caresses with their good wishes, and good
opinion, but is himself empty of real virtue, a hypo-
crite at bottom, a cheat, and under the delusion of it;
whose portion is with hypocrites, and who can neither
look in, or look up with pleasure, but must look with-
out himself for all that can be called good, either by
others, or by himself.
As at the great and last day, the secrets of all hearts
ihall be disclosed, so I am persuaded, the opinion we
have of one another here, will be one of the things
which will be there, and perhaps not till then fully
rectisied; and as we shall be there thoroughly enlight-
ened, we shall find room to see, that we have been
much mistaken in our notions of virtue and vice, reli-
gion and irreligion, in the characters of our neigh-
bours: and I am persuaded, we shall see many of our
acquaintances placed at the right-hand of a righteous
Judge, whose characters we have oppressed with slan-
ders, and whom we have censoriously placed at his left-
hand here : and many a painted hypocrite, who has in-
sulted his neighbour with, Stand off! I am holier than
thou; or whom he has turned from with disdain, and
with
181
with a This publican! placed at the left-hand, whom
we made no doubt we should have seen at the right-
hand in triumph.
This is a support to the mind of a good man, even
when his enemies, as David fays, gnash upon him with
their teeth, and have him in derision; that is to fay,
when he is run down by univerfal clamour, and
damned by the tongues of men, even for this world
and another.
Happy the man, who with exajted soul,
Knows how to rate the great and prosp'rdus fool;
Who can the insults of the street contemn,
And values not the rage or tongues of men?
He, like the Sun, exists on his own flame,
And when he dies, is to himself a fame.
But take this with you, as you go, that as negativ*
praise will build no man comfort, so negative virtue
will not support the mind under univerfal contempt.
Scandal is much worse than slander; for the first is
founded upon real guilt, the other attacks innocence.
Nothing is a scandal, but what is true; nothing is a
slander, but what is false.
He that fortisies himself against reproach, must do it
with a certain reserve of real, solid virtue and piety;
it must be uprightness and integrity, that must pre-
serve him; nothing but a fund of what is good, can
support the mind under the reproach of being all that
is bad; I do not mean neither, that the man must be per-
fect, have no follies or failings, have made no excursions,
have nothing to be laid to the charge of his character;
for where then shall the man be sound I am speaking
of? And I may be faid to be describing the black-swan,
a person that is not, and never was to be found: but
M 3 the
the right way of judging men, and the way which alone
can be just, is to judge of them by their general con-
duct; and so a man may, in his own mind, justly de-
nominate himself: as every good action does not de-
nominate me to be a good man, so neither does every
failing, every folly, no, nor every scandalous action,
denominate me a hypocrite, or a wicked man; other-
wise, some of the most eminent faints in Scripture,
and of every age since the Scripture was written, are
gone to the Devil; and it will be hard to fay, there
was ever a good man in the world.
But I return to my subject, the negative good man;
and let me examine him a little in his just character,
in his conduct, public and private: he is no drunkard,
but is intoxicated with the pride of his own worth; he
is a good neighbour, a common arbitrator and peace-
maker in other families, but a cursed tyrant in his own;
he appears in a public place of worship for a show, but
never enters into his closet and shuts the door about
him, to pray to Him that sees in secret; he is covered
with the vain-glorious and ostentatious part of cha-
rity, but does all his alms before men, to be seen of
them; he is mighty eager in the duties of the second
table, but regardless of the first; appearing religious, to
be seen and taken notice of by men ; ^but between God
and his own foul, no intercourse, no communication:
What is this man? And what comfort is there of the
lise he lives? He knows little, or perhaps nothing of
faith, repentance, and a Christian mortisied lise; in a
word, he is a man persect in the circumstances of reli-
gion, and persectly a stranger to the essential part of
religion.
Takq
183
Take this man's converfation apart, enter into the
private and retired part of it, what notions has he of
mispent hours, and of the natural reflux of all our mi-
nutes, on to the great center and gulph of lise, eternity?
Does he know how to put a right value upon time?
Does he esteem it the Jise-blood of his foul, as it really
is, and act in all the moments of it, as one that must
account for them? Alas! this is of no weight with such
a man; he is too full of himself to enter into any no-
tions about an account, either for mispent time, or any
thing else misdone; but, persuading himself that he
never did any thing amiss, entertains no notion of
judgment to come, eternity, or any thing in it.
What room has a man to expatiate in his thoughts
upon so immense and inconceivable a subject as that
of eternal duration, whose thoughts are all taken up,
and swelled top-full with his own extraordinary self.
It would be impossible for any man in the world to
entertain one proud thought of himself, if he had but
one right idea of a future state. Could such a man
think, that any thing in him, or any thing he could do,
could purchase for him a selicity that was to last to
eternity? What! that a man should be capable, in one,
moment, (for lise is not that in length, compared to
eternity) to do any thing for which he should deserve to
be made happy to eternity?
If then you can form no equality between what he
can do, and what he shall receive, less can it be found-
ed upon his negative virtue, or what he has forborne to
do; and if neither his negative nor his positive piety
can be equal to the reward, and to the eternity that
reward is to last for, what then is become of the Pha-
risee? He must think no more of himself, for all his
M 4 boasts;
-
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
boasts; neither of his negatives nor his positives, but
of a rich, unbounded grace, that rewards according to
itself, not according to what we can do; and that to be
judged at the last day according to our works, if lite-
rally understood, would be to be undone; but we are
to be judged by the sincerity of our repentance; be re-
warded according to the insinite grace of God, and
purchase of Christ, with a state of blessedness to an end-
less eternity.
Indeed this eternity is not a meditation suitable to
the man I am talking of; it is a sublime thought,
which his bloated imagination has never descended to,
or engaged in; and when it comes, he is like to have
as little comfort of it, as he has had thought about it.
Now let us bring him more nearly and seriously
to a converse with the invisible world: he looks
into it with horror and dreadful apprehensions, as
Fcelix, when St. Paul reasoned of temperance,
righteousness, and- of judgment to come. Fcelix was
a moral heathen,' that is to fay, a man of negatives,
like him I am speaking of. What was then the
case? He trembled. Pray, what is it reasonable to
think Fcelix trembled at? If I may give my opinion,
who am but a very mean expositor of texts, it was
this, or something like it.
Fcelix was a philosopher, as well as a man of power,
and by his wisdom, as also by his reverence of the
Gods,'which, at that time, was the sum of religion,
had been a man of morals, a man that had practised
temperance and righteousness, as the lise which was'
unquestionably to be rewarded by the powers above,
with an Elysian selicity; that is to fay, according to the
Roman
185
Roman maxim, that the Gods were the rewarders of
virtue.
But when the blessed Apostle came to reason with
Fœlix, how unlikely it was that these negatives should
purchase our happiness hereafter, he shewed him, that'
the Gods could not be in debt to us for the practice of
virtue, which was indeed no more than living most
suitable to our reason; that a lise of virtue and temper-
ance was its own reward, by giving a healthy body, a
clear head, a composed lise, &c. fitting the man for all
other worldly enjoyments; adequate to his reason, and
his present selicity as a man: but eternal happiness
must come from another spring; namely, from the in-
sinite, unbounded grace of a provoked God, who hav-
ing erected a righteous tribunal, where every heart
should be searched, and where every tongue would
consess itself guilty, and stand self-condemned, Jesus
Christ, whom Paul preached, would separate such as by
faith and repentance he had brought home, and united
to himself by the grace of adoption, and on the foot of
his having laid down his lise a ransom for them, had
appointed them to falvation.
When poor negative Fœlix heard this, and that all
his philosophy, his temperance, and righteousness, if it
had been ten thoufand times as great, could weigh no-
thing, and plead nothing for him at that judicature;
and that he began to see the justice and reason of this,
for Paul reasoned him into it; I fay, when he faw this,
he trembled indeed, as well he might, and as all nega-
tive people will.
"What a strange idea, must that Pharisee have of God,
who went up with the publican to the temple to pray:
it is observable, he went with a good stock of assurance
in
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
in his face, that could come to the altar, as he did, not
to offer any facrifice; we do not find he carried any
offering, or bespoke the priest to make any atonement;
he wanted no priests to make any consession to; good
man, as he thought he was, he had no fins to consess;
he rather came up to the altar to even accounts with
Heaven; and, like the other man in the gospel, tell
God that he had fulsilled the whole law, and had done
all those things that were commanded, even from his
youth: so, as before, he only pulled off his hat to his
God, and let him know, that there was nothing be-
tween them at present, and away he goes about his bu-
siness.
But the poor wretch whom he despised, and whom
he had left behind him, for he durst come no farther,
acted quite another part. He had, at first indeed, in
sense of his duty, resolved to go up to the temple; but
when he faw the splendor and majesty of God repre-
sented by the glory of that elevated building; I fay,
when he faw that, though a great way off, and then
looked into his own heart, all his negative confidences
failing him, and a sense of miserable circumstances
coming upon him, he stops short, and with a blow of
reflection, and persectly unmixed with any of the Pha-
risee's pride, he looks down in humility, but lifts up
his heart in a penitential faith, with a,' Lord be merci-
ful to me a sinner!'
Here was faith, repentance, duty, and consession, all
conjoined in one act, and the man's work was done at
once,—he went away justified; when the negative
Pharisee.went home the fame self-vain wretch that he
came out, with God, I thank thee, in his mcuth, and a
mass of pride in his heart, that nothing could convince.
In
187
In what glorious colours do the Scriptures, upon all
occasions, represent those two hand-in-hand graces,
faith arid repentance? There is not one mention of
faith in the whole Scripture, but what is recommend-
ing some way or other to our admiration, and to our
practice; it is the foundation and the top-stone of all
religion, the right-hand to lead, and the left-hand to
support, in the whole journey of a Christian, even
through this world, and into the next: in a word, it is
the sum and substance of the gospel foundation.
Religion seems to have been founded upon three
establishments in the. world; in all which, the terms
of lise are laid down at the end of our acceptance
of it.
The first establishment was with Adam in Paradise;
the terms of which were,—Forbear, and live.
The second establishment was with the children of
Israel, in the giving of the law; the terms of which
were,—Do, and live.
The third establishment is that of the gospel of Jesus
Christ; the terms of which are,—Believe, and live.
So that, in a word, faith "im the substance and ful-
silling of gospel religion, the plan of righteousness, and
the great efficient of eternal lise.
Now let us follow this poor negative wretch to his
death-bed; and there, having very little other notion
of religion, for it is the fate of those that trust to their
negative, to have little else in their thoughts, if a good
man come to talk with him, if he talks out of that way,
he puts him all into copfusion; for if he cannot swim
upon the bladders of his negatives, he drowns immedi-
ately, or he buoys himself up above your reprooss, and
goes on as before: he is a little like the Polish Captain,
Uratz,
Uratz, who was executed for the murder of Mr.
Thynne, who, when they talked to him of repentance,
and of Jesus Christ, said, he was of such and such a
family, and he hoped God would have some respect to
him as a gentleman.
But what must a poor minister do, who being filled
with better principles, prays for this vain-glorious
man? Must he fay, Lord, accept this good man, for he
has been no drunkard, no swearer, no debauched per-
son; he has-been a just, a charitable man, has done a
great deal of good among his neighbours, and never
wilfully wronged any man; he has not been so wicked
as it is the custom of the times to be; nor has he shewn
bad examples to others; Lord be merciful to this ex-«
cellent good man!
No, no, the poor sincere minister knows better
things; and if he prays with him, he turns him quite
inside out ; represents him as a poor mistaken creature,
who now sees that he is nothing, and has nothing in
himself, but casts himself entirely, as a miserable lost
sinner, into the arms of a most merciful Saviour, pray-
ing to be accepted on the merits of Jesus Christ, and
no other; so that there is all his negative bottom un-
ravelled at once; and if this is not his case, it must be
worse.
»
CHAP.
139
CHAP. V.
i
Of listening to the Voice of Providenck.
WE are naturally backward to Inform ourselves of
our duty to our Maker, and to ourselves; it is
a study we engage in with great reluctance, and it is
but too agreeable to us, when we meet with any diffi-
culty which we think gives us a just occasion to throw
off any farther enquiries of that kind.
Hence I observe the wisest of men often run into
mistakes about the things, which, speaking of religion,
we call duty, taking up slight notions of them, and be-
lieving they understood enough of them; by which
they rob themselves of the advantage, as well as com-
fort of a farther search: or, on the other hand, taking
up with the general knowledge of religious principles,
and the common duties of a Christian lise, are fatisfied
with knowing what they fay is sufficient to carry them
to Heaven, without enquiring into those things which
are helpful and assistant to make that strait path easy
and pleafant to themselves, and to make them useful to
others by the way.
Solomon was quite of another opinion, when he bid
us cry after knowledge, and lift up our voice for under-
standing; dig for her as for silver, and search for her as
for hidden treasure. It is certain here, that he meant reli-
gious knowledge; and it is explained in the very next
words,
words, with an encouraging promise to those that shall
enter upon the search, viz. Then shalt thou under-
stand the sear of the Lord, and find the knowledge of
God.
I am of opinion, that it is our unquestioned duty
to enquire after every thing in our journey to the eter-
nal habitation, which God has permitted us to know;
and thus to raise difficulties in the way of our just
search into divine discoveries, is to act like Solomon's
sluggard, who faith, 'There is a lion without, I shall
be slain in the streets:' Prov. xxii. 13. that is, he fits
down in his ignorance, repulsed with imaginary diffi-
culties, without making one step in the search after the
knowledge which he ought to dig for, as for hidden
treasure.
Let us then be encouraged to our duty; let us bold-
ly enquire after every thing that God has permitted us
to know: I grant, that secret things belong to God,
and I shall labour to keep my due distance. But I
firmly believe, that there are no secret things belong-
ing to God, and which, as such, we are forbidden to
enquire into, but what also are so preserved in secrecy,
that by all our enquiries we cannot arrive to the know-
ledge of them; and it is a most merciful, as well as
wise dispenfation, that we are only forbid enquiring
after these things which we cannot know; and that all
those things are effectually locked up from our know-
ledge, which we are forbidden to enquire into. The
case is better with us than it was with Adam; we
have not the tree of knowledge first planted in our
view, as it were tempting us with its beauty, and with-
in our reach, and then a prohibition, upon pain of
death: but, blessed be God, we may eat of all the trees
irs
5
in the garden; and all those of which we are not al-
lowed to take, are placed both out of our fight and
out of our reach.
I am making way here to one of the trees of facred
knowledge, which, though it may grow in the thickest
of the wood, and be surrounded with some briars and
thorns, so as to place it' a little out of sight, yet I hope
to prove that it is our duty to taste of it, and that the
way to come at it is both practicable and plain.
But to wave the allegory, as I am entering into the
nicest search of divine things, that perhaps the whole
scheme of religion directs us to; it is absolutely neces-
fary at our entrance, if possible, to remove every dif-
ficulty, explain every principle, and lay down every
foundation so undeniably clear, that nothing may ap-
pear dark or mysterious in our first conceptions of
things; no stumbling-block lie at the threshold, and
the humble reader may meet with no repulse from his
own apprehensions of not understanding what he is
going to read.
Listening to the voice of Providence, is my subject:
I am willing to suppose, in the first place, that I am
writing to those who acknowledge the two grand prin-
ciples upon which all religion depends.
I. That there is a God, a first great moving cause of
all things, an eternal power, prior, and consequently
superior to all power and being.
II. That this eternal power, which I call God, is
the creator and governor of all things, viz. of heaven
and earth.
To avoid needless distinctions concerning which of
the persons in the godhead arc exercised in the creat-
ing power, and which in the governing power, I offer
that
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
that glorious text, Psalm xxxiii. 6. as a repulse to all
such cavilling enquiries, where the whole Trinity is
plainly entitled to the whole creating work :—' By the
Word (God the Son) of the Lord (God the Father)
were the Heavens made, and. all the host of them, by
the Breath (God the Holy Ghost) of his mouth.'
Having thus presupposed the belief of the being, and
the creating work of God, and declared that I am
writing to such only who are ready to own they be-
lieve that God is, and that he created the heaven, and
the earth, the sea, and all that in them is, I think I
need not make any preamble, to introduce the follow-
ing propositions, viz.
I. That this eternal God guides by his providence
the whole world, which he has created by his power.
II. That this providence manisests a particular care
over, and concern in the governing and directing man,
the best and last created creature on earth.
Natural religion proves the first, revealed religion
proves the last of these beyond contradiction. Natural
religion intimates the necessity of a providence guiding
and governing the world, from the consequence of
the wisdom, justice, prescience, and goodness of the
Creator.
It would be absurd to conceive of God exerting in-
sinite power to create a world, and not concerning his
wisdom, which is his providence, in guiding the ope-
rations of nature, so as to preserve the order of his
creation, and the obedience and subordination of con-
sequences and causes throughout the course of that
nature, which is, in part, the inserior lise of that
creation. -
Revealed
Revealed religion has given such a light into the
dare and concern of this providence, in an especial
manner, in and over that part of the creation called
Man, that we must likewise deny principles, if we enter
into dispute about it.
For him the peace of the creation is preserved, the
climates made habitable, the creatures subjected and
made nourishing, all vegetable lise made medicinal; so
that indeed the whole creation seems to be entailed
"Upon him as an inheritance, and given to him for a
possession, subjected to his authority, and governed by
him, as viceroy to the King of all the earth; the ma-
nagement of it is given to him as tenant to the great
proprietor,' who is lord of the manor, or landlord of
the foil. And it cannot be conceived, without great
inconsistency of thought, that this world is left entire-
ryto man's conduct, without the supervising influence
and the secret direction of the Creator^
This I call Providence; to which I give the whole
power of guiding and directing of the creation, and
managing of it, by man, who is his deputy or substi-
tute; and even the guiding, influencing, and over-
ruling man himself also.
Let critical annotators enter into specisic distinctions
of Providence, and its way of acting, as they pleases
and as the formalities of the schoolmen direct. The
short description I shall give of it is this> That it is
that operation of the power, wisdom, justice, and good-
ness of God, by which he influences, governs, and
directs, not only the means, but the events of all things
which concern us in this world.
I fay, it is that operation, letthem call it what they
will, which acts thus; I am no way concerned to shew
Vol. III. N' how
Low it acts, or why it acts thus and thus in particular;
we are to reverence its sovereignty, as it is the finger
of God himself, who is the sovereign director; and we
are to observe its motions, obey its dictates, and listen
to its voice, as it is, and because it is particularly em-
ployed for our advantage.
It would be a very proper and useful observation
here, and might take up much of this work, to illus-
trate the goodness of Providence, in that it is, as I fay,
particularly employed for the advantage of mankind:
but, as this is not the main design, and will come in
naturally in every part of the work 1 am upon, I rcfeF
it to the common inserences which are to be drawn
from the particulars, as I go on.
It is indeed, the most rational foundation of the
whole design before me; it is therefore, that we should
listen to the voice of Providence, because it is princi-
pally determined, and determines all other things for
our advantage.
But I return to the main subject, The voice of Pro-
vidence, the language or the meaning of Providence.
Nothing is more frequent, than for us to mistake
Providence, even in its most visible appearances: how
easy then must it be, to let its silent actings, which
perhaps are the most pungent and significant, pass our
observation.
I am aware of the error many fall into, who deter-
mining the universal currency of events to Provi-
dence, and that not the minutest thing occurs in the
course of lise, but by the particular destination of
Heaven; by consequence, entitle Providence to the
efficiency of their own follies: as if a person, pre-
suming to smoke his pipe in a magazine of gunpow-
der,
der, should reproach Providence with blowing up
the castle, for which indeed he ought to be hanged;
Or a man leaving his house or shop open in the
night, should charge Providence with appointing him
to be robbed,—and the like: nay, to carry it farther,
every murderer or thief may allege Providence, that
determines and directs every thing, directed him to
such wickedness; whereas, Providence itself, notwith-
standing the crimes of men, is- actively concerned in
no evil.
But I pass all these things; the subject I am
treating upon, is of another nature i the design here,
is to instruct us in some particular things relating to
Providence, and its government of men in the world,
which it will be worth our while to observe, with-
out enquiring how far it does or does not act in
other methods.
There is, it is true, a difficulty to shake off* all the
wry steps which people take to amuse themselves
about Providence; and for this reason, I take so
much pains at first to avoid them. Many men en-
title Providence to things which it is not concerned
about, speaking abstractedly; but, which is a much
worse error, many also take no notice of those things
which Providence particularly, and even in a very-
remarkable manner, distinguishes itself by its con-
cern in.
If Providence guides the world, and directs the
issues and events of things; if it commands causes,
and forms the connection of circumstances in the
world, as no man that owns the principles men-
tioned above, will deny; and above all, if the general
scope of Providence, and of the government of the
N 2 w«rld
World by its influence, be for our advantage; then it
follows necessarily, that it is our business, and our
interest, to listen to its voice.
By listening to the voice of Providence, I mean, to
study its meaning in every circumstance of lise, in
every event; to learn to understand the end and de-
sign of Providence in every thing that happens; what
is the design of Providence in it respecting ourselves,
and what our duty to do upon the particular occasion
that offers. If a man were in danger of drowning in
a shipwrecked vessel, and Providence presented a boat
coming towards him, he would scarce want to be told,
that it was his business to make signals of distress,
that the people in the faid boat might not pass by
ignorant of his condition, and give him no assistance;
if he did, and omitted it, he would have little cause
to concern Providence in his ruin.
There is certainly a rebellion against Providence,
which Heaven itself will not always concern itself to
over-rule; and he that throws himself into a river to
drown himself, he that hangs himself up to a beam,
he. that shoots himself into the head with a pistol, shall
die, in spite of all the notions of decree, destiny,
fate, or whatever we weakly call Providence: in such
cases, Providence will not always concern itself to
prevent it; and yet it is no impeachment of the so-
vereignty of Heaven, in directing, decreeing, and go-
verning all events in the world.
Providence decrees that events shall attend upon
causes in a direct chain, and by an evident necessity,
and has doubtless left many powers of good and evil
seemingly to ourselves, and, as it Were, in our hands,
as the natural product of such causes and conse-
quences,
quences, which we are not to limit, and cannot ex-
pressly determine about, but which we are account-
able for the good or evil application of; otherwise, we
were in vain exhorted and commanded to do any good
thing, or to avoid any wicked one: rewards and pu-
nishments would be incongruous with sovereign jus-
tice; and promises and threatenings, be persectly un-
meaning, useless things; mankind being no free agent
to himself, or entrusted with the necessary powers,
which those promises and threatenings imply.
But all these things are out of my present enquiry;
I am for freely and entirely submitting all events to
Providence; but not to be supinely and unconcerned-
ly passive, as if there was nothing warning, instructing,
or directing in the premonitions of God's providence,
and which he expected we should take notice of, and
take warning by. 'The prudent man fpreseeth the
evil, apd hideth himself:' How does he foresee it, since
it is not in man to direct himself? There are inti-
mations given us, by which a prudent man may some-
times foresee evil, and hide himself; and I must take
these all out of the Devil's hands, if possible, and
place Providence at the head of the invisible world,
as yve\\ as at the helm of this world; and though I
abhor superstitious and sceptical notions of the world
of spirits, of which I purpose to speak hereafter, either
in this work, or in some other by itself; I fay, though
I am not at all sceptic, yet I cannot doubt but that
the invisible hand of Providence, which guides and
governs this world, does with a secret power likewise
influence the world, and may, and I believe does,
direct from thence silent messengers on many occa-
sions, whether steeping or waking, whether directly
N 3. of
-
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
or indirectly; whether by hints, impulses, allegories,,
mysteries, or Otherwise, we know not; and does think
fit to give us such alarms, such previous and particular
knowledge of things, that if listened to, might many
ways be useful to the prudent man to foresee the evil,
and hide himself.
The only objection, and which I can see no me-
thod to give a reason for, and no answer to, is, Why,
if it be the work of Providence, those things should
be so impersect, so broken, so irregular, that men may
either never be able to pass any right judgment of
them, as is sometimes the case; or make a persect
judgment of them, which is often the case; and so
the end of the intimation be entirely deseated, without
any fault, neglect, or omission of the man.
This we can no more account for, than we can for
the hand-writing upon the wall at the great seast of
Belshazzer, viz. Why it was written in a character
which none could understand; and which, if the Pro-
phet had not been found, had perhaps never been
known; or at least, not till the King's fate, which was
•ven then irretrievable, had been over.
This, indeed, we cannot account for, and can only
fay, it is our duty to study these things, to listen to the
voice of them, and obey their secret dictates, as far as
reason directs, without an over superstitious regard to
them, any more than a total neglect; leaving the reason
of Providence's acting thus, to be better understood
hereafter.
But to'.describe a little what I mean by listening to
the voice of Providence: it is the reverse of the su-
pine, stupid man, whose character I shall come to by
and by. The man I would recommend, lives first in
"' a general
a general belief, that Providence has the supreme
direction of all his affairs, even of his in particular, as
well as those of the world; that it is his mercy that it
is so; that it is the effect of an insinitely wise and
gracious disposition from above, that he subsists; and
that it is not below the dignity, any more than it is
remote from the power of an insinite, wife, and good
Being, to take cognizance of the least thing concerning
him.
This, in the consequence, obliges him to all I fay;
for, to him who firmly believes that Providence stoops
to concern itself for him; and to order the least article
of his affairs, it necesfarily follows, that he should
concern himself in every thing that Providence does,
which comes within his reach, that he may know
whether he be interested in it or no.
If he neglects this, he neglects himself; he aban-
dons all concern about himself, since he does not
know, but that the very next particular act of Provi-
dence, which comes within his reach to distinguish,
may be interested in him, and he in it.
It is not for me to dictate here to any man, what
particular things, relating to him, Providence is con-
cerned in, or what not; or how far any incident of
lise is or is not the particular act and deed of the go-
vernment of Providence: but as it is the received opi-
nion of every good man, that nothing befals us with-
out the active or passive concern of Providence in it;
so it is impossible this good man can be unconcerned
in whatever that Providence determines concerning
him.
If it be true, as our Saviour himself fays, < That
not a hair falls from our heads without the will of
N 4 our
our heavenly Fatherthen not a hair ought to fall
from our heads, without pur having our eyes up to
our heavenly Father in \t.
I take the text in its due latitude, namely, that not
the minutest incident of lise befals us, without the
active will of our Father directing it, or the passive
will of our Father suffering it; so I take the deduction
from it in the fame latitude; that nothing, of how
mean a nature soever, can befal us, but we ought to
have our eyes up to our heavenly Father in it, be
resigned to him in the event, and subjected to him in,
the means; and he that neglects this, lives in conr
tempt of Providence, and that in the most provoking
manner possible.
I am not answerable for any extremes these things
may lead weak people into; I know some are apt to
entitle the hand of God to the common and most
ridiculous trifles in nature; as a religious creature I
knew, seeing a bottle of beer, being over ripe, burst
out, the cork fly up against the ceiling, and the froth
follow it like an engine, cried out, ' O! the wonders
of omnipotent power:' but I am representing how a
Christian, with an awful regard to the government
of Providence in the world, and particularly in all his
own affairs, subjects his mind to a constant obedience
to the dictates pf that Providence, gives an humble
preserence to it in ajl his conclusions, waits the issues
pf it with a chearful resignation; and, in a word, listens
carefully to the voice of Providence, that he may be.
always obedient to the heavenly vision.
Whether this divine emanation has any concern in
the notices, omens, dreams, voices, hints, forebodings,
impulses, &c which seem to be a kind of communi-
2 cation
cation with the invisible world, and a converse between
the spirits embodied and those vinembodied; and how
far, without prejudice to the honour and our rever-
ence of Providence, and without danger of scepticism,
and a kind of radicated infidelity, those things may be
regarded, is a nice and difficult thing to resolve, and I
shall treat of it by itself.
It has been the opinion of good men of all ages,
that such things are not to be totally disregarded;
to fay how far they are to be depended upon, I am
not to take upon me; how far they may or may not
be concerned in the influence of Providence, I also
dare not fay: but as the verity of astronomy is evi-
denced by the calculation of eclipses, so the certainty
of this communication of spirits is established by the
concurrence of events with the notices they sometimes
give; and if it be true, as I must believe, that the
divine Providence takes cognizance of all things be-
longing to us, I dare not exclude it from having some
concern, how much I do not fay, in these things also:
but of this in its place.
Whenever Providence discovers any thing of this
arcanum, I desire to listen to the voice of it; and this
is one of the things I recommend to others. Indeed,
I would be very cautious how I listen to any other
voices from that country, than such as I am sure are
conveyed to me from Heaven, for my better under-
standing the whole mystery.
If then we are to listen to the voice of nature, and
to the voices of creatures, viz. to the voice of the
invisible agents of the world of spirits, as above, much
snore are we to listen to the voice of God.
I have
T have already hinted, that lie that made the world;
we are sure guides it; and his providence is equally
wonderful as his power: but nothing in the whole
course of his providence is more worthy our regard,
especially as it concerns us, his creatures, than the
silent voice, if it maybe allowed me to call it so, of
his managing events and causes; he that listens to
the providence of God, listens to the voice of God, as he
is seen in the wonders of his government, and as he is
seen in the wonders of his omnipotence.
If then the events of things are his, as well as the
causes, it is certainly well worth our notice, when the
sympathy or relation between the events of things and
their causes most eminently appears; and how can any
man, who has the least inclination to observe what is
remarkable in the world, shut his eyes to the visible
discovery which there is in the events of Providence,
of a supreme hand guiding them? For example, when
visible punishments follow visible crimes, who can
refrain consessing the apparent direction of supreme
justice? When concurrence of circumstances directs to
the cause, men that take no notice of such remarkable
pointings of Providence, openly contemn Heaven, and
frequently stand in the light of their own advantages.
The concurrence of events, is a light to their causes,
and the methods of Heaven in some things, are a
happy guide to us to make a judgment in others; he
that is deaf to these things, shuts his ears to instruct
tion, and, like Solomon's fool, hates knowledge.
The dispositions of Heaven to approve or condemn
our actions, are many of them discovered by observa-
tion; and it is easy to know when the hand of Pro^
vidence opens the door for, or shuts it against our
measures,
pleasures, if we will bring causes together, and comn
pare former things with present, making our judgment
by the ordinary rules of Heaven's dealing with men.
How, and from what hand come the frequent in-
stances of severe judgment, following rash and helliih
imprecations? When men call for God's judgment.
Providence, or Justice rather, obeys the summons,
and comes at their call. A man calls God to witness to
an untruth, and wishes himself struck dumb, blind, or
dead, if it is not true; and is struck dumb, blind, or
dead :—Is not this a voice? Does pot Heaven, with the
stroke, cry, Castigo te; Be it to thee as thou hast faid?
He must be deaf who cannot hear it, and worse than
deaf that does not heed it: such executions from Hea-
ven are in terrorem; as offenders among men are pu-
nished, as well for example to others, as to prevent
their doing the like again.
Innumerable ways the merciful disposition of Pro-
vidence takes, to discover to us what he expects we
should do in difficult cases; and doubtless then, it ex-
pects at the fame time we should take notice of those
directions.
We are short-sighted creatures at best, and can-see
but a little way before us; I mean, as to the events of
things; we ought, therefore, to make use of all the
lights and helps we can get; these, if nicely regarded,
would be some of the most considerable to guide us in
many difficult cases.
Would we carefully listen to the concurrence of
Providence, in the several parts of our lives, we should
stand in less need of the more dangerous helps of
visions, dreams, and voices, from less certain in-
telligences.
A gen-
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
A gen.tle,Hian of my. acquaintance, being to go a
journey into the North, was twice taken very ill the
day he had appointed to begin his journey, and so was
obliged to put off going; this he took for a direction
from Heaven, that he should not go at all; and in a
very setor days after, his wise was taken sick and died,
which made it absolutely necessary for him to be at home,
to look after his affairs:; and had he gone away before,
must certainly have been obliged tq come back again,
The Romans had certainly the foundation of this
principle, in their prudent observation of days, and
circumstances of days; nor is Scripture itself void of.
the like, but rather points out to the observation, par-
ticularly that of the children of Israel; who, after four
hundred and thirty years were expired, from their
coming into Egypt, ' even in the selfsame day de-
parted they thence:' Exod. xii. 41*42. Several other
scriptures mention periodical times, (dies infauftm) in
which the prudent.lhall keep silent; for it is an evil
time.. "- - -' !' -.v".
We find, Providence stoops to restrain not the ac-
tions of men only, but even its own actiqns to days
and times; doubtless for our observation, and in some
things for our instruction. I do not so much refer to
the revolutions- of things and families on particular
days, which are therefore by some people called lucky
and unlucky days, as I do to the observing how Pro-
vidence causes the revolutions of days to form a con-
currence between the actions of men, which it does
not approve, or does approve, and the reward of these
actions in this world; by which men may, if they
think fit to distinguish, and observe right upon them,
see the crime or merit of those actions in the divine
resent-
resentment; may read the sin in the punishment -, and
may learn conviction from the revolution of circum-
stances, in the appointment of Heaven.
I have seen several collections of such things made
by private hands, some relating to family circum-
ffences, some to public: also, in the unnatural wars in
England, between the King and the Parliament, I
have heard many such things have been observed: for
example, the fame day of the year and month, that
Sir John Hotham kept out Hull against King Charles
the First, and refused him entrance, was the fame Sir
John Hotham put to death, by the very Parliament
that he did that exploit for; that King Charles him-
self was sentenced to die by the High Court of Justice,
as it was then called, the fame day of the month that
he signed the warrant for the execution of the Earl of
StrafFord; which, as it was then faid by some of his
friends, was cutting off his own right-hand. The
fame day that King James the Second came to the
crown, against the design of the bill of exclusion, the
fame day he was voted abdicated by Parliament, and
the throne filled with the Prince of Orange and his
Princess.
These, or such as these, seem to be a kind of silent
sentence of Providence upon such actions, animadvert-
ing upon them in a judicial manner, and intimating
plainly, that the animadversion had a retrospect to
what was past; and those that listen to the voice of
Providence in such things, should at least lay them up
in their hearts.
Eminent deliverances in sudden dangers, are of the
most significant kind of providences, and which ac-
cordingly have a loud voice in them, calling upon us
to
to be thankful to that blessed hand that has beeit
pleased to spare and protect us. The voice of such
signal deliverances, is frequently a just call upon us
to repentance, and looks directly that way; often it is
a caution against falling into the like dangers we were1
exposed to, from which nothing but so much goodness
could deliver us again. In how many occasions of
lise, if God's providence had no greater share in our
fasety than our own prudence, should we plunge and
precipitate ourselves into all manner of misery and
distress? Ahd how often, for want of listening to those
providences, do we miscarry?
Innumerable instances present themselves to us every
day, in which the providence of God speaks to us, in
things relating to ourselves: in deliverances, to excite
our thankfulness; in views of dangers, to awaken our
caution, and to make us walk wisely and circumspectly
in every step we take; those that are awake t6 these
things, and have their ears open to the voice of them,
many times reap the benesit of their instruction, by
being protected; while those who neglect them, are of
the number of the simple, who pass on, and are
To be utterly careless of ourselves in such cases, and
talk of trusting Providence, is a lethargy of the worst
nature; for as we are to trust Providence with our
estates, but to use, at the fame time, all diligence in our
callings; so we are to trust Providence with our fasety,
but with our eyes open to all its necessary cautions,
warnings, and instructions; many of which Provi-
dence is pleased to give us in the course of lise, for
the direction of our conduct, and which we should ill
place to the account of Providence, without acknow-
ledging
punished
kdging that they ought to be regarded, and a due re-
verence paid to them upon all occasions.
I take a general neglect of these thing*, to be a kind
of practical atheism, or at least a living in a kind of
contempt of Heaven, regardless of all that share which
his invisible hand has in the things that befal us.
Such a man receives good at the hand of his Maker,
but unconcerned at the very nature or original of it,
looks not at all to the benefactor. Again, he receives
evil, but has no sense of it as a judicial dispensing of
punishment from Heaven; but insensible of one or
other, he is neither thankful for one, nor humble
under the other, but stupid in both; as if he was out
of God's care, and God himself out of his thoughts:
this is just the reverse of the temper I am recommend-
ing, and let the picture recommend itself to any, ac-
cording to its merits.
When Prince Vaudemont commanded the confe-
derate army in Flanders, the fame campaign that King
William was besieging Namur, some troops were or-
dered to march into the flat country towards Nieuport,
in order to make a diversion, and draw down the
Count de Montalt, who commanded a flying body
about Menin, and to keep him from joining Marshall
de Villeroy, who commanded the main body of the
French army.
The soldiers were ordered, upon pain of death, not
to stir from their camp, or to plunder any of the
country people: the reason was evident; because, pro-
visions being somewhat scarce, if the boors were not
protected, they would have fled from their houses, and
the army would have been put to great straits, being
just entered into the enemies country.
It
It happened, that five English soldiers, straggling
beyond their bounds, were fallen upon, near a farm-
house, by some of the country people (for indeed the
boors were oftentimes too unmerciful to the soldiers)
as if they had plundered them, when indeed they had
not: the soldiers desended themselves, got the better,
and killed two of the boors; and being, as they
thought, justly provoked, by being first attacked, they
broke into the house, and then used them roughly
enough indeed.
They found in the house a great quantity of apples,
(the people being fled, had left them in pdstemon) and
they made no haste to go away, but sell to work with
the apples, and heating the oven, put a great quantity
of apples into the oven, to roast. In the mean time,
the boors, who knew their number to be but five, and
had got more help on their side, came down upon
them again, attacked the house, forced their way in,
mastered the Englishmen, killed two, and took a third,
and barbarously pat him into the oven, which he had
heated, where he Was smothered to death: it seems, it
was not hot enough to burn him.
The other two escaped; but, on coming back to the
camp, they were immediately. apprehended by the
provosts, and brought to a court-martial; where they
were sentenced, not for plundering, for that did not
appear, but for being out of the bounds appointed by
the general order, as above.
When the sentence came to be executed, the General
was prevailed upon to spare one of them, and to order
them to cast lots for their lives. This, as it is known,
is usually done by throwing dice upon a drum-head,
and he that throws highest or lowest, as is appointed
before,
before, is to die; at this time, he that threw lowest
was to live.
When the sellows were brought out to throw, the
first threw two sixes, and sell immediately.to wringing
his hands, crying he was a dead man; but was as
much surprized with joy, when his comrade throwing,
there came up two sixes also.
The officer appointed to see execution, was a little
doubtful what to do; but his orders being positive, he
commanded them to throw again; they did so, and
each of them threw two fives; the soldiers that stood
found, shouted, and faid neither of them was to die.
The officer, being a sober, thinking man, faid it was
strange, and looked like something from Heaven, and
he would not proceed without acquainting the coun-
cil of war, which was then sitting; they considered a
while, and at last ordered them to take other dice, and
throw again; which was done, and both the soldiers
threw two fours.
The officer goes back to the council . of war, who
were surprized very much; and looking on it as the
voice of Heaven, respited the execution till the Ge-
neral was acquainted with it.
The General sends for the men, and examines them
strictly; who, telling him the whole story, he pardon-
ed them; with this expression to those about him: I
love, faid he, in such extraordinary cases, to listen to
the voice of Providence.
While we are in this uninformed state, where we
know so little of the invisible world, it «vould be
greatly our advantage, if we knew rightly, and without
the bondage of enthusiasm and superstition, how to
Vol. III. O maktf
make use of the hints given us from above, for our
direction in matters of the greatest importance.
It has pleased God very much to straiten the spe-
cial and particular directions which he gives to men
immediately from himself, but I dare not fay they are
quite ceased; we read of many examples in Scripture,
how God spake to men by voices immediately from
heaven, by appearance of angels, or by dreams and
visions of the night; and by all these, not in public
and more extraordinary cases only, but in private,
personal, and family concerns.
Thus God is faid to have appeared to Abraham, to
Lot, and to Jacob; angels also have appeared in many
other cases, and to many several persons; as to Ma-
roah and his wise, to Zachariali, to the Virgin Mary,
and to the Apostles: others have been warned in a
dream; as King Abimelech, the false prophet Balaam,
Pontius Pilate's wise, Herod, Joseph, the Apostles
also, and many others.
We cannot fay but these, and all the miraculous
voices, the prophetic messages prefaced boldly by the
Ancients, with 'thus faith the Lord,' are ceased; and
as we have a more sure word of prophesy handed to
us by the mission of gospel ministers, to which the
Scripture fays, ' We do well that we take heed;' and
to whom our blessed Lord has faid, ' Lo, I am with
you to the end of the world;' I fay, as we have this
Gospel backed with the spirit and presence of God,
we are no losers, if we observe the rule laid down, viz.
that we be obedient to the heavenly vision; for such
it is, as well as that of the apostle Peter's dream of the
meet let down from Heaven.
J men-
I mention this, to pay a due reverence to the suf-
ficiency of gospel revelation, and to the guiding of the
Spirit of Godi who, in spiritual things j is given to lead
us into all truth; nor would I have any thing which
I,am going to fay; tend to lessen these great efficients
of our eternal falvation.
But I am chiefly upon our conduct in the inferior
lise, as I may call it; and in this, I think, the voice
of God, even his immediate voice from heaven, is not
entirely ceased from us, though it may have changed
the mediums of communication.
I have heard the divines tell os, by way of distinc-
tion, that there is a voice of God in his word, and a>
voice of God in his work; the latter I take to be a
subject very awful and instructing.
This voice of God in his works, is either heard in
his works which are already wrought, such as of crea-
tion, which sills us with wonder and astonishment, ad-
miration and adoration; 'When I view the heavens*
the work of thy hands, the moon, and the stars whioh
thou hast made, then I fay, What is man,' ^cc. Or
his work of government and providence, in which
the insinite variety affords a pleasing and instructing
contemplation; and it is, without question, our wis-
dom and advantage to study and know them, and to
listen to the voice of God in them: for this listening
to the voice of Providence, is a thing so hard to direct,
and so little understood, that I find the very thought
pf it is treated with contempt, even by many pious arid
good people, as leading to superstition, to enthusiasm,
and vain fancies, tainted with melancholy, and amu-
sing the mind with vapours of the head.
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
It is true, an ill use may be made of these things;
and to tie people too strictly down to a rule, where
their own observation is to be the judge, endangers the
running into many foolish extremes, entitling. a dis-
tempered brain too much to the exposition of the sub-
limest things, and tacking the awful name of Provi-
dence to every fancy of their own.
From hence I think, too much proceeds the extra-
ordinary (note, I fay extraordinary) homage paid to
omens, flying of birds, voices, noises, predictions, and
a thoufand foolish things, in which I shall endeavour
to state the case fairly between the devil and mankind:
but at present I need fay no more here, than that they
have nothing to do with the subject I am now upon,
or the subject I am upon with them.
But as my design is serious, and I hope pious, I shall
keep strictly to the exposition I give of my own mean-
ing, and meddle with no other.
By the voice of Providence therefore, I shall consine
myself to the particular circumstances, incident and
accident, which every man's life is full of, and which
are, in a more extraordinary manner, faid to be peculiar
to himself or to his family.
By listening to them, I mean, making such due ap-
plication of them to his own circumstances, as be-
comes a Christian, for caution in his conduct, and all
manner of instruction; receiving all the hints as from
Heaven, returning all the praise to, making all the
improvement for, and reverencing the sovereignty of
his Maker in every thing, not disputing ot reproach-
ing the justice of Providence; and, which is the mail*
thing I aim at, taking such notice of the several pro-
vidence? that happen in the course of our lives, as
by
5
by one circumstance to learn how to behave in an-
other.
For example: supposing, from my own story, when
a young sellow broke from his friends, trampled upon
all the wise advices, and most affectionate persuasions
of his father, and even the tears and entreaties of a
tender mother, and would go away to sea; but is
checked in his first excursions, by being shipwrecked,
and, in the utmost distress, faved by the assistance of
another ship's. boat, seeing the ship he was in, soon
after sink to the bottom: ought not such a young man
to have listened to the voice of this providence, and
have taken it for a summons to him; that when he was
on more, he should stay on shore, and go back to the
arms of his friends, hearken to their counsel, and not
precipitate himself into farther mischiess? What hap-
piness might such a prudent step have procured! What
miseries and mischiess would it have prevented in the
rest of his unfortunate lise!
An acquaintance of mine, who had several such cir-
cumstances besel him, as those which I am inclined to
call warnings, but entirely neglected them, and laughed
at those that did otherwise, suffered deeply for his
disregard of omens. He took lodgings in a village
near the city of London, and in a house, where either
he sought bad company, or at. best could meet with
little that was good. Providence, that seemed to ani-
madvert upon his conduct, so ordered it, that some-
thing or other mischievous always happened to him
there, or as he went thither: several times he was
robbed on the highway going thither; once or tivice
taken very ill ; at other times, his affairs in the world
went ill, while he was diverting himself there: several
O 3 of
of his friends cautioned him of it, and told him, he
ought to consider that some superior hand seemed tq
hint to him, that he should come there no more. He
slighted the hint, or at least. neglected it after some
time, and went to the fame place again; but was so
terrisied with a most dieadful tempest of thunder and
lightening, which sell, as it were, more particularly
Vpon that part of the country than upon others, that
he took it as a warning from Heaven, and resolved not
to go there again; and some time after, a fire destroyed
that house, very sew escaping that were in it.
It would be an ill account we should give of the
government of divine Providence in the world, if we
should argue, that its events are so unavoidable, and
every circumstance so determined, that nothing can be
altered; and that, therefore, these warnings of Provi-
dence are inconsistent with the nature of it. This,
besides that I think it would take from the sovereignty
of Providence, and deny even God himself the privi-
lege of being a free agent, it would also so contradict
the experience of everj man living, in the yarieties of
his respective lise, that he should be unable to give any
account for what end many things, which Providence
directs in the world, are directed; and why so many
|hings happen, which do happen; why are evils at-
tending us, so evidently foretold, that by those fore-
tellings they are avoided, if it was not determined be-
fore, that they should be avoided, and should not be-
fal us?
People that tie up all to events and causes, strip the
providence of God, which guides the world, of all its
sipcrintendency, and leaves it no room to act as a wife
disposer of things.
It
It seems to me, that the immutable wisdom and
power of the Creator, and the notion of it in the minds
of men, is as dutifully preserved, and is as legible to our
understanding, though there be a hand left at liberty
to direct the course of natural causes and events: it is
sufficient to the honour of an immutable dicty, that for
the common incidents of lise, they be left to the dis-
position of a daily agitator, namely, divine Provi-
dence; to order and direct them as it shall see good,
within the natural limits of cause and consequence.
This seems to me a much more rational system,
than that of tying up the hands of the supreme Power
to a road of things, so that none can be acted or per-
mitted, but such as was so appointed before to be acted
and permitted.
But what, if, after all, we were to sit down and ac-
knowledge, that the immutability of God's being, and
the unchangeableness of his actings, are not easy to
be comprehended by us, or that we may fay we are
not able to reconcile them with the insinite variations
of his providence, which, in all its actings, seems to
us to be at full liberty to determine anew, and give
events a turn this way or that way, as its sovereignty
and wisdom mail direct; does it follow, that these things
are, not reconcilable, because we cannot reconcile
them? Why mould we not as well fay, nothing of
God is to be understood, because we cannot understand
it? Or that nothing in nature is intelligible, but what
we can understand?
Who can understand the reason, and much less the
manner, of the needle tending to the pole, by being
touched with the loadstone, and by what operation the
magnetic virtue is conveyed with a touch? Why that
virtue is not communicable to. other metals, such as
O 4 gold,
gold, silver, or copper, but to iron only? What sympa-
thetic influence is there between the stone and tho
star, or the pole? Why tending to that point in the
whole arch, and not to any other? And why face
about to the south pole as soon as it has passed the
equinox? Yet we see all thele things in their opera-
tions and events; we know they must be reconcilable
ia nature, though we cannot reconcile them; and in-
telligible in nature, 'though we cannot understand
them: sure it is as highly reasonable then for us to ber
lieve, that the various actions of Providence, which to
us appear changeable, one decree, as it were, reversing
another, and one action superseding another, may be
as reconcilable to the immutability of God, and to the
unchangeableness of his purposes, though we cannot
understand how it is brought to pass, as it is to be-
lieve, that "there is a reason to be given for the agree-
ment and sympathetic correspondence between the
magnet and the pole, though at present the manner of
it is not discovered, and cannot be understood.
If then the hand of divine Providence has a spon-
taneous power of acting, and, directed by its own so-
vereignty, proceeds by such methods as it thinks fit,
and as we daily see in the course of human things;
our business is to converse with the acting part of
Providence, with which we more immediately have to
do, and not confound our judgment with things which
we cannot fully comprehend; such as the why, to
what end, and the how, in what manner it acts so
and so.
As we are then converfant with the immediate ac-
tions of divine Providence, it is our business to study
jf, as much as may be, in that part of its actings Where-
ill
ici it is to be known; and this includes the silent
actingsyof Providence, as well as those which are more
loud, and which being declared, speak in public.
There are several silent steps which Providence
takes in the world, which summon our attention; and
he that will not listen to them, shall deprive himself of
much of the caution and counsel, as well as comfort,
which he might otherwise have in his passage through
this lise: particularly, by thus listening to the voice, as
J call it, of Providence, we have the comfort of seeing,
that really an in. iiible and powerful hand is employ-
ed in, and concerned for our preservation and pros-
perity in the world 5 and who can look upon the
manisest deliverances which be meets with in the in-
finite variety of lise, without being convinced that they
are wrought for him, w thout hs own asiifiance, by the
wise and merciful dispositions of an mvi ble and
friendly power.
The bringing good events to prss by the most
threatening causes, as it testisies a power that has the
government of causes and effects in its hand, lo it gives
a very convincing evidence of that power bring on
good terms with us; as, oh the contrary, when the
like Providence declares against us, we ought to make
a suitable use of it another way; that is to lay, take the
just alarm, and apply to the necessary duties of humi-
liation and repentance.
These things may be jested with by the men of
fashion; but I am supposing myself talking to men
that have a sense of a future state, and of the economy of
an invisible world upon them; and neither to afheists,
sceptics, or persons indifferent, who are indeed near of
kin to them both.
As
As there are just reflections to be made upon the
various conduct of Providence in she several passages
of man's lise, so there are infinite circumstances, in?
which we may furnish ourselves with directions in the
course of lise, and in the most sudden incidents, as well
to obtain good, as to avoid evil.
Much of the honour due to the goodness of Provit
dence, is unjustly taken away from it, by men that
give themselves a loose in a general neglect of these
things: but that which is still more absurd to me is,
that some men are so obstinately resolved against paying
the homage of their deliverances to their Maker, or
paying the reverence due to his terrors, in any thing
that befals them ill, where it ought to be paid, that
they will give all that honour to another. If it was
well, they tell you they know not how, but so it hap-
pened; or it was so by good chance, and the like. This
is a sort of language I cannot understand: it seems to
be a selonious thought in its very design; robbing
Heaven of the honour due to it, and listing ourselves
in the regiment of the ungrateful.
But this is not all; for one crime leads on to an-
other. If this part is selony or robbery, the next is
treason; for resolving first to deny the homage of
good or evil events to God, from whose hands they
come, they go on, and pay it to the Devil,—the enemy
of his praise, and rival of his power.
Two of these wretches travelled a little journey with
me some years ago; and in their return, some time
after I was gone from them, they met with a very dif-
ferent adventure, and telling me the story, they ex-
pressed themselves thus: They were riding from Hun-
tingdon towards London; and in some lanes betwixt
. Hun-
Huntingdon and Caxton, one happened, by a flip of
Jiis horse's foot, which lamed him a little, to stay about
Jialf a mile behind the other, was set upon by some
highwaymen, who robbed him, and abused him very
much; the other went on to Caxton, not taking care
of his companion, thinking he had stayed on some par-
ticular occasion, and escaped the thieves; they making
off across the country towards Cambridge.
Well, fays I to -the first, How came you to escape i
I don't know, not I, fays he; I happened not to look
behind me when his horse stumbled, and I went for-
ward; and, by good luck, adds he again, I heard no-
thing of the matter. Here was, it happened, and by good
luck; but not the least sense of the government of
Providence in this affair, or its disposition for his
good; but an empty idol of air, or rather an imaginary,
nonsenfical nothing,—an image more inconsistent than
those I mentioned among the Chinese; not a mon-
ster indeed of a frightful shape, and ugly sigure, loath-
some and frightful,—but a mere phantasm, ah idea, a
non-entity, a name without being; a Miscalled, unborn
nothing; a hap-luck chance; that is to fay, a name put
tipon the medium, which they set up in their imagi-
nation, for want of a will to acknowledge their Maker*
and recognize the goodness which had particularly pre-
served him.
This was the most ungrateful piece of folly, or, to
speak more properly, the maddest and foolishest piece
ps ingratitude that ever I met with.
Well, if this was foolish and preposterous, the other
was as wicked and detestable: for when the first had
told his tale, I turned to the other, and asked him,
jfhat was the matter? Why, how came it to pass?
said
faid I; why, this difaster has fallen all upon you: How
was it?—Nay, fays he, I do not know; I was a little
behind, and my horse chanced to slip, and lame him-
self, and he went forward and left me; and, as the
Devil would have it, these, fellows came across the
country, and chopped upon me, &c.
Here was first Chance, the fame mock goddess, as
before, lamed his horse; and next, the Devil ordered
the highwaymen to chop upon him that moment.
Now, though it may be true, that the highwaymen
were, even by their employment, doing the Devil's
office of going to- and fro, seeking whom they might
plunder; yet, it was a higher hand than Satan's that
delivered this poor blind sellow into their power. -
We have a plain guide for this in Scripture language,
in the law of manslaughter ordeath, as we call it foolishly
enough, by misadventure: it is in Exod. xxi. 13. in the
case of casual killing a man, it is expressed thus: 'If a
man lie not in wait, but God deliver him into his hand.'
This was not to be accounted murder, but the slayer was
to fly to the city of refuge.
Here it is evident, that God takes all these mifad-
ventures into his own hand; and a man killed by ac-
cident, is a man whom God has delivered up (for what
end in his providence, is known only to himself) to be
killed in that manner; perhaps vindictively, perhaps
not.
With what face can any man fay, this was as the
Devil would have it, or as bad luck would have it; or
it happened, or chanced, or fell out? All which are our
simple and empty ways of talking of things that are
erdered by the immediate hand or direction of God's
Providence.
The
The words last quoted from the Scripture, of * God's
delivering a man into another man's hand, to be killed
unwillingly,' are fully explained in. another place:
Deut. xix. 5. * •
* As when a man goeth into the wood with his
neighbour, to hew wood, and his hand setches a stroke
with the axe to cut down the tree, and the head slip-
peth from the helve, and lighteth upon his neighbour,
that he die; he shall flee unto one of those cities, and
live.*
The wicked, thoughtless creature, I have just men-
tioned, whole horse sell lame, and stopped his travel-
ling, till he might come just in the way of those
thieves, who, it seems, were crossing the country,
perhaps upon some other exploit, ought to have re-
flected, that Providence, to chastise him, and bring
him to a sense of his dependence upon, and being sub-
jected to his power, had directed him to be separated
from his companion, that he might fall into the hands
that robbed and abused him; and the other had no less
obligation to give thanks for his deliverance: but how
contrary they acted in both cases, you have heard.
We have had abundance of collections, in my re-
membrance, of remarkable providences, as they are
called; and many people are forward to call them so:
but this does not come up to the case in hand.
Though contemning Providence, and giving the
homage due to it, as above, to the Devil, or to chance,
fate, and I know not what embrios of the fancy, are
impious; yet every one that avoids this evil, does not
come up to the particular point I am speaking of; for
there is a manisest difference between acknowledging
the being and operations of Providence, and listening
to
to its voice; as many people acknowledge a God, that
obey none of his commands, and concern themselves*
in nothing of their duty to him.
To listen to the voice of Providence, is to take strict
notice of all the remarkable steps of Providence which
lelate to us in particular, to observe if there is nothing
in them instructing to our conduct; no warning to us
for avoiding some danger; no direction for the taking
some particular steps for our fasety or advantage; no
hint to remind us of such and such things omitted; no
conviction of something committed; no vindictive step,
-byway of retaliation, marking out the crime in. the
punishment: you may easily observe the differences
between the directions and warnings of providence,
when duly listened to, and the notices of spirits from
..an invisible world, viz. that these are dark hints of evil,
with very little direction to avoid it: but those notices,
which are to be taken from the proceedings pf Provi-
dence, though the voice be a kind of silent or soft
whisper, yet it is generally attended with an ofter of
the means for escaping the evil; nay, yery often leads
by the hand to the very proper steps to be taken, and
even obliges us, by a strong conviction of the reason
of it, to take those steps.
It is in vain for me to run into a collection of
stories; for example, where the variety is infinite, and ,
things vary as every particular man's circumstances
vary: but as every event in the world is managed by
the superintendency of Providence, so every provi-
dence has in it something instructing; something that
calls upon us to look up, or look out, or look in.
Every one of those heads are big with particular ex-
planations; but my business is not preaching; I am
making
making observations and reflections; let those make
enlargements who read it: in a word, there is scarce
any particular providence attends our lives, but we shall
find, if we give due weight to it, that it calls upon us
cither,
First, To look up,—and acknowledge the goodness
of God in sparing us, the bounty of God in pro-
viding for us, the power of God in delivering and
protecting us; not forgetting to look up, andac-
. ,'knowledge, and be humble under the justice of
God, in being angry with, and afflicting us.
Secondly, Or to look out,—and take the needful cau-
tion and warning given of evil approaching, ami
prepare either to meet or avoid it.
Thirdly, Or to look in,—and reflect upon what we
find Heaven animadverting upon, and afflicting us
for ; taking notice of the summons to repent and
reform.
And this is, in a word, what I mean by listening t»
the voice of Providence*
OF
1
CHAP. VI.
• F THE PROPORTION BETWEEN THE.
HRISTIAN and PAGAN WORLD,
[ HAVE faid something of this already, in my En-
i- quiry after the State of Religion in the World; but,
ipon some reflections which sell in my way since, I
hink it may offer further thoughts, very improving, as
well as diverting.
When we view the world geographically, take the
plan of the globe, and measure it by line, and cut it
out into latitude and longitude, degrees, leagues, and
miles; we may see indeed, that a pretty large spot of
the whole, is at present under the government of
Christian powers and princes, or under the influence
of their power and commerce, by arms, navies, colo-
nies, and plantations; or their factories, missionaries,
residences, &c.
But I am loth to fay we should take this for a ful-
filling the promise made to the Messiah, that his king-
dom should be exalted above all nations, and the gospel
be heard to the end of the earth; I was going to fay»
and yet without any profaneness, that we hope God
will not put us off so. I must acknowledge 1 expect,
in the fulsilling of these promises, that the time will
come, when the knowledge of God shall cover the*
earth,
<eirth, as the waters cover the sea ; that the church of
God shall be set open to the four winds; that the
mountain of the Lord's house shall be exalted above
the tops of the mountains, and all the nations shall
flow into it:' Isa. ii. 2. that is to fay, that the Chris-
tian religion, or the prosession of the doctrine of the
Messiah, shall be made national over the whole globe,
according to those words, Matth. xxiv. 14. Mark. xiii.
13. Luke xxiv. 17. But this may be a little too apo*-
calyptical, or visionary for the times; and it is no
business of mine to enter upon the interpretation of
Scripture difficulties, whatever I may understand or
believe myself about them; but rather to make my
observations as 1 have begun, upon things which now
are, and which we have seen and know, let what is to
come, be as He pleases, who has ordered things past,
and knows what is to follow.
The present case is, to speak of the mathematical
proportion that there is now to be observed upon the
plane of the globe, and observe how small a part of the
world it is, where the Christian religion has really pre-
vailed, and is nationally prosessed: I speak of the
Christian religion, where it is, as I call it, national,
that is, in its utmost latitude; and I do so, that I may
give the utmost advantage, even against myself, in what
I am going to fay; and therefore, when I come to
make deductions for the mixtures of barbarous na-
tions, I shall do it fairly also.
I have nothing to do with the distinctions of Chris-
tians: I hope none will object against calling the
Roman church a Christian church, in this respect, and
the professors of the Popish church, Christians; nei-
ther do I scruple to call the Greek church Christian,
Voti. III. P though
though in some places so blended with superstition
and barbarous customs, as in Georgia, Armenia, and
the borders of Persia and Tartary; likewise in many
parts of the Czar of Muscovy's dominions, that (as
before) the name of Christ is little more than just
spoken of, and literally known, without any material
knowledge of his person, nature, and dignity; or of
the homage due to him as the redeemer of the world.
The nations of the world then, where Christ is ac-
knowledged, and the Christian religion is prosessed
nationally," be it Romish church, or Greek church, or
even the Protestant church, including all the several
sub-divisions and denominations of Protestants, take
them all as Christians; I fay, these nations are as
follow:
J. In Europe: Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Great
Britain, Denmark, Sweden, Muscovy, Poland, Hun-
gary, Transylvania, Moldavia, and Wallachia.
II. InAJia: Georgia and Armenia.
III. In Africa: Noplace at all, the sew factories of
European merchants only excepted.
IV. In America: The colonies of Europeans only, as
follow:
i. The Spaniards in Mexico and Peru, the coasts of
Chili, of Carthagena, and St. Martha, and a small
colony at the Buenos Ayves, on the Rio de la
Plata.
a. The Portuguese in the Brasils.
3. The British on the coast of America, from the
Gulph of Florida to Cape Breton, on the mouth of
the Gulph of St. Laurence, or the great river of
Canada; also a little in Newfoundland, and Hud-
son's Bay.
4. The
4. The French in the river of Canada, and the
great river of Mississippi.
5. The English, French, and Dutch, on the islands
called the Caribbees, &c.
The chief seat of the Christian religion is at present
in Europe: but if we measure the quarter of the world
we call Europe, upon the plane of the globe', and cast
up the northern, frozen, and indeed uninhabitable part
of it, such as Laponia, Petzora, Candora, Obdora, and
the Samoiedes, with part of Siberia, they are all
Pagans; with the eastern unpeopled defarts, bordering
upon Asia, on the way to China, and the vast extent
of land on that side, which, though nominally under
the dominion of Muscovy, is yet all Pagan, even na-
tionally so; under no real government, but of their
own Pagan customs.
If we go from thence to the south, and take out of
it the European Tartars, viz. of Circassia, the Crimea,
and Budziac; if you go on, and draw a line from the
Crim Tartary to the Danube, and from thence to the
Adriatic Gulph, and cut off all the Grand Signior's
European dominions; I fay, take this extent of land
out of Europe, and the remainder does not measure
full two-thirds of land in Europe, under the Christian
government, much of which is alsc-defart and unin-
habited, or at least inhabited by such as cannot be
called Christians, and do not concern themselves about
it, as particularly the Swedish and Norwegian Lap-
land; the more eastern and southern Muscovy, beyond
the Wolga, even to Karakathay; and to the borders
of Asia, and the side of India;' I fay, taking in this
part, not above one half of Europe is really inhabited
by Christians.
P 2 The
The Czar of Muscovy, of the religion of.whose sub-
jects I have faid enough, is lord of a vast extended
country; and those who have measured it critically,
fay his dominions are larger than all the rest of Eu-
rope; that is to fay, that he possesses a full half as much
as Europe; and in those dominions, he is master of
abundance of nations, that are Pagan or Mahometan;
as, in particular, Circassia being conquered by him, the
Circassian Tartars, who are all Mahometans, or the
most of them, are his subjects.
However, since a Christian monarch governs them,
we must, upon the plan I laid down, call this a Chris-
tian country; and that alone obliges me to give two-
thirds of Europe to the Christians.
But this will bring another account upon my hands
to balance it, viz. That excepting this two-thirds,
there will not come one Christian to be accounted for
in any of the other three parts of the world, except
Georgia and Armenia; as for Africa, there is nothing
to be mentioned on that side: all the Christians that
are on the continent of Africa, consisting only of a sew
merchants residing at the coast towns on the Mediter-
ranean ; as at Alexandria, Grand Cairo, Tunis, Tri-
poli, Algier, &c.; the factories of the English and
Dutch, on the coast of Guinea, the Gold-Coast, the
coast of Angola, and at the Cape of Good Hope; all
which put together, as I have calculated them, and as
they have been calculated by a better judgment than
mine, will not amount to five thoufand people, ex-
cepting Christian slaves in Sallee, Algier, Tunis, Tri-
poli, &c. which are not so many more.
America is thronged with Christians, God wot, such
as they are; for I must consess, the European inha-
bitants
bitants of some of the colonies there, as well French
and English, as Spanish and Dutch, very fll merit that
name.
Some part of America is entirely under the domi-
nion and government of the European nations; and
having indeed destroyed the natives, and made desolate
the country, they may be faid to be Christian coun-
tries in the sense as above.'
But what numbers do these amount to, compared to
the inhabitants of so great a part of the world as that
of America, which at least ,is three times as big as
Europe, and in which are still vast extended countries,
insinite numbers of people of nations unknown and
even unheard of, which neither the English, French,
Spanish, or Portuguese have ever seen; witness the po-
pulous cities and innumerable nations, which Sir
Walter Raleigh met with in his voyage up the great
river Oroonoque; in one of which they talk, of two
millions of people:—witness the nations insinitely
populous, spread on both sides the river De Amazones,
and all the country between these two prodigious
rivers, being a country about four hundred miles in
breadth, and one thoufand six hundred miles in length;
besides its extent south, even to the Rio Paraguay, and
south-east to the Brasils, a rich, fruitful, and populous
country; and in which, by the accounts given, there
must be more people inhabiting at this time, than in
all the Christian part of Europe put together; being
the chief, if not the only part of America, into which
the Spaniards never came, and whither the frightened
people fled from them, being so fortisied with rivers
unpassable bays, and rapid currents, and so in-
accessible by the number ©f inhabitants, the heat of the
P 3 climate
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
climate, and the mountains, waterfalls, and such other
obstructions, that the Spaniards durst never attempt to
penetrate that way.
What are the numbers of Christians in America,
put them altogether, to the inhabitants of these parts
of America, besides the northern parts of America not
enquired into?
But we are not calculating of people yet, but the
extent of land that the Christians possess: the British
colonies in the north, are by far the most populous,
even more than the Spaniards themselves, though the
latter extend themselves over more land.
The British colonies in the north of America, are
supposed to contain three hundred thousand souls, in-
cluding Nova Scotia, New England, New York, New
Jersey, East and West Pennsylvania, Maryland, Vir-
ginia, and Carolina; and these lie extended upon the
coast from the latitude of thirty-two degrees to forty-
seven, or thereabouts, being about seven hundred and
fifty miles in length: but then much of this is very
thinly peopled, and the breadth they lie west into the
country is little or nothing,—fifty miles, or sixty miles,
is in many places the most; and except some planta-
tions on the Rapahannock and James' rivers in
Virginia, occasioned by the great inlet of the bay
there, and of the rivers that fall into it, we can see
nothing an hundred miles within that land, but waste
and woods, whose inhabitants seem to be fled farther
up into the country, from the face of their enemies,
the Christians.
So that all this planting, though so considerable,
amounts to no more, compared to the country itself,
than a long narrow slip of land upon the sea-coast;
there
231
there being very sew English inhabitants planted any
where above twenty miles from the sea, or from some
navigable river, and even that sea-coast itself very
thinly inhabited, and particularly from New England
to New York, from New England north to Anna-
polis, from Virginia to Carolina; so that all this great
colony, or collection of colonies, nay, though we in-
clude the French at Canada, are but a point, a handful,
compared to the vast extent of land lying west and
north-west from them, even to the South Sea; an extent
of continent full of innumerable nations of people un-
known, undiscovered, never searched into, or indeed
heard of, but from one another, much greater in its
extent than all Europe.
If we take the north part of America, exclusive of
all the country which the Spaniards possess, and which
they call the empire of Mexico; and exclusive too of
what the English and French possess on the coast, and
on the two rivers of Canada and Mississippi, as above,
which indeed are but trifles; the rest of that country,
which, as far as it has been travelled into, is found ex-
ceeding populous, is a great deal larger than all Eu-
rope ; though we have not reckoned the most northern,
frozen, and almost uninhabitable part of it, where no
end can be found, and where it is no doubt, but there
is a continent contiguous with the northern part of
Asia, or so near joining, as to be only parted by a
narrow gulph and strait of sea, easily passed over both
by man or beast, or else it would be hard to give an ac-
count how man or beast came into that part of the world j
I fay, this vast continent full of people, and no doubt
inhabited by many millions of souls, is all wrapped
up in idolatry and paganism, given up to ignorance arc!
P 4 \. blind-
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
blindness; worshipping the fun, the moon, the fire,
the hills, their fathers, and, in a word, the devil.
As to the thing we call religion, or the knowledge
of the true God, much less the doctrine of the Messiah,
and the name of Christ, they not only have not, but
never had the least intimation of it on earth, or reve-
lation of it from Heaven, till the Spaniards came
among them: nay, and now Christians are come
among them, it js hard to fay whether the paganism is
much abated, except by the insinite ravages the Spa-
niards made where they came, who rooted out the
idolatry by destroying the idolaters, not by converting
them; having cruelly cut off, as their own writers
affirm, above seventy millions of people, and left the
country naked of its inhabitants for many hundred
miles together.
But what need we-come to calculations for the pre-
sent time with respect to America; let us but be at the
trouble to look back a little more than a hundred years,
which is as nothing at all in the argument; how had
the whole continent of America extended almost from
pole to pole, with all the islands round it, and peopled
with such innumerable multitudes of people, been, as
it were, entirely-abandoned to the Devil's government,
'even from the beginning of time, or at least from the
second peopling the world by Noah, to the -sixteenth
centurr, when Ferdinando Cortez, general for the
famous Charles the Fifth, first landed in the gulph of
Mexico?
We have heard much of the cruelty of the Spaniards
in destroying ^uch multitudes of the inhabitants there,
and of cutting off whole nations by fire and sword:
but as I am for giving up all the actions of men to the
-it
% govern-
government of Providence, it seems to me, that Hea-
ven had determined such an act of vengeance should
be executed, and of which the Spaniards were instru-
ments to destroy those people ; who were come up (by
the influence of the Devil no doubt) to such a dreadr
ful height in that abhorred custom of human facrifices,
that the innocent blood cried for it, and it seemed to
be a time to put a stop to that crime, lest the very race
of people should at last be extinct l5y their own
butcheries.
The magnitude of this may be guessed at, by the
temple consecrated to the great idol of Vistlipustli in
the city of Mexico ; where, at the command of Mon-
tezuma, the pagan monarch, twenty thoufand men were
sacrificed in a year, and the wall hung a foot thick
with clotted blood, dashed in ceremony against the side
of that place on those occasions.
This abomination, God, in his providence, put an
end to, by destroying those nations from the face of
the earth; bringing a race of bearded strangers among
them; cutting in pieces man, woman, and child; de-
stroying their idols, and even the idolatry itself, by the
Spaniards; who, however wicked in themselves, yet
were in this to be esteemed instruments in the hand
of Heaven, to execute the divine justice on nations,
whose crimes were come up to a full height, and called
for vengeance.
I make no doubt, to carry on this digression a little
farther, that when God cast out the heathen, (so the
Scripture calls it,) from before the Israelites, and the
iniquity of the people of the land was full, Joshua,
Moses, and the Israelites, were taxed with as much
Cruelty and inhumanity, in destroying the cities, kill-
2 ing
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
ing man, woman, and child; nay, even destroying the
very cattle, and trees, and fruits of the earth,—as ever
the Spaniards were charged with in the conquest of
Mexico.
This is apparent, hy the terror that was spread
upon the minds of the people round about them,
whereof thoufands fled to other parts of the world.
History tells us, that the first builders of the city of
Carthage, long before the Roman times, or before the
fable of Queen Dido, were some Phœnicians, that is
to fay, Canaanites ; who flying for their lives, got ships,
and went away, to sea, planting themselves on the coast
of Africa, as the first place of fafety they arrived at;
and to prove this, a pillar of stone was found not far
from Tripoli, on which was cut, in Phœnician cha-
racters, these words: 'We are of those who fled from
the face of Joshua the robber.'
The cruelties of the Israelites, in destroying the
nations of the land of Canaan, was commanded from
Heaven; and therein Joshua was justified in what was
done. The cruelties of the Spaniards, however ab-
horred by us, was doubtless an appointment of God,
for the destruction o! the wickedest and most abomin-
able people upon earth.
But this is all a digression; I come to my calcula-
tion :—It is true, that the Spaniards, whom I allow to
be Christians, have possessed the empires of Mexico
and Peru; but after all the havock they made, and the
millions of fouls they dismissed out of lise there, yet the
natives are infinu. .- the majority of inhabitants; and
though many of them are christianized, they are little
more than subjected ; and take ill the Spaniards, Chris-
tians, and all the Portuguese in the Brasils, all the
English
English and French in the North, and, in a word, all
the Christians in America, and put them together, they
will not balance one part of the Pagans or Mahome-
tans in Europe. For example, take the Crim Tartars
of Europe, who inhabit the banks of the Euxine sea,
they are more in number than all the Christians in
America: so that setting one nation against the other,
and you may reckon that there is not one Christian,
or as if there were not one Christian, in those three
parts of the world, Asia, Africa, and America, except
the Greeks of Asia.
This is a just, but a very fad account of the small
extent of Christian knowledge in the world; and were
jt considered as it ought, would put the most powerful
princes of Eur°pe upon thinking of some methods, at
least to open a way for the spreading Christian know-
ledge. I am not much of the opinion indeed, that re-
ligion should be planted by the sword; but as the
Christian princes in Europe, however sew in number,
are yet so superior to all the rest of the world in mar-
tial experience and the art of war, nothing is more
certain than that, if they could unite their interest,
they are able to beat paganism out of the world. . No-
thing is more certain than this, that would the Chris-
tian princes unite their powers, and act in concert,
they might destroy the Turkish empire, and the Per-
sian kingdom, and beat the very name of Mahomet out
of the world.
It is no boast to fay, that were there no intestine
broils among us, the Christian soldiery is so evidently
superior to the Turks at this time, that had they all
joined after the late battle at Belgrade, to have sent
eighty thoufand veteran soldiers to have joined Prince
Eugene,
Eugene, and supplied him with money and provisions
by the ports of the Adriatic Gulph, and the Archipe-
lago, that Prince would, in two or three campaigns,
have driven the Mahometans out of Europe, taken
Constantinople, and have overturned the Turkish
empire.
After such a conquest, whither might not the Chris-
tian religion have spread? The King of Spain, with
the fame ease, would reduce the Moors of Barbary,
and dispossess those sons of hell, the Algerines, Tri-
polines, Tunisians, and all the Mahometan pirates of
that coast, and plant again the ancient churches of
Africa, the sees of Tertullian, St. Cyprian, &c.
Nay, even the Czar of Muscovy, an enterprizing and
glorious prince, well assisted and supported by his
neighbours, the northern powers, who together are
masters of the best soldiery in the world, would not
find it impossible to march an army of thirty-fix thou-
fand foot, and sixteen thoufand horse, in spite of waste
and inhospitable defarts, even to attack the Chinese
empire; who, notwithstanding their insinite numbers,
pretended policy and great skill in war, would sink in
the operation: and such an army of disciplined Euro-
pean soldiers, would beat all the forces of that vast
empire, with the fame, or greater ease, as Alexander,
with thirty thoufand Macedonians, destroyed the army
of Darius, which consisted of six hundred and eighty
thoufand men.
And let no man ridicule this project on account of
the march, which I know they will call three thoufand
miles and more: while there is no obstruction but the
length of the way, it is not so difficult as some may
imagine. It is far from impossible, to furnish sufficient
provisions
provisions for the march, which is indeed the only dif-
ficulty that carries any terror in it.
Such a prince as the Czar of Muscovy cannot want
the assistance of innumerable hands, for the amassing,
or carriage for conveying to proper magazines, fuf-
ficientstores of provisions, for the maintaining a select,
chosen body of men to march over the defarts; for in
the grand march, no useless mouths should be found to
feed.
Why then mould not the Christian princes think it
a deed of compassion to the fouls of men, as well as an
humble agency to the work of Providence, and to the
fulsilling the promises of their Saviour, by a moderate,
and as far as in them lies, a bloodless conquest, to re-
duce the whole world to the government of Christian
power, and fo plant the name and knowledge of Christ
Jesus among the Heathens and Mahometans? I am
not supposing, that they can plant real religion in this
manner; the business pf power, is to open the way to
the gospel of peace; the servants of the kings of the
earth are to sight, that the servants of the King of
heaven may preach.
Let but an open door be made for the preaching of
the word of God, and the ministers of Christ be ad-
mitted, if they do not spread Christian knowledge over
the face of the earth, the fault will be theirs. Let but
the military power reduce the Pagan world, and banish
the Devil and Mahomet from the face of the earth, the
knowledge of God be diligently spread, the word of
God duly preached, and the people meekly and faith-
fully instructed in the Christian religion, the world
would soon receive the truth, and the knowledge of
divine
divine things would be the study and delight of man-
kind.
I know, some nice and difficult people would object
here, how are the present body of Christians, as you
call them, qualisiedto convert the Pagan and Maho-
metan world, when they are nbt able to settle the
main point, viz. What the Christian religion is, or,
what they would convert them to? That Christianity
is subdivided into so many parts, and particular prin-
ciples; the people so divided in their opinion; and
that which is still worse, there is so little charity
among the several sorts, that some of them would rather
side with Mahomet against their neighbours, than assist
to propagate that particular doctrine in religion which
they condemn. Thus the members of ihe Protestant
faith, would make it a point of principle, not to sup-
port or propagate the interest of Popery in such a con-
quest as this: and again, the Catholics would as much
make it a duty on them, to root out heresy, (so they ca'l
the Protestant doctrine) as they would to root out
paganism and the worship of the devils.
I would not answer for some Protestants, that they
would not be of the fame mind as to particular divi-
sions among Protestants: the difference among some
opinions is such, and their want os charity one to an-
other, sets them at such variance, that if they do not
censure one another for devil-worshippers, yet we
know they frequently call some of the opposite prin-
ciples doctrines of devils; and persecute one another
with as much fury as ever the heathen persecuted the
primitive churches.
Witness the violencies which have"reigned between
the Episcopal qnd Presbyterian parties, in the north of
Ireland,
Ireland, and in Scotland, which has so often broken
out into a flame of war, and that flame been always
quenched with blood. ~ ,
Witness the frequent persecutions, wars, massacres,
and other cruel and unnatural doings, which have been
in these parts of the world among Christians,—the
effect of a mistaken.zeal for the Christian religion;
which, as it was not planted by blood and violence, so
much less can Christians justify the endeavours to erect
this or that opinion in it, by the ruin and blood of
their brethren.
But this is far from being a reason why we should
not think it our duty to subdue the barbarous and
idolatrous nations of the world; in order to suppress
the worshipping the Devil, who is the enemy not only
of God, and of all true religion in the world, but who
is the great destroyer and enemy of mankind, and of
his future or present selicity; and whose business is
always, to the utmost of his power, to involve and
retain them either in ignorance, or in error.
I distinguish between forcing religion upon people,
or forcing them to entertain this or that opinion of
religion; I fay, I distinguish between that, and open-
ing the door for religion to come among them: the
former is a violence indeed, inconsistent with the
nature of religion itself, whose energy prevails and forces
its way into the minds of men, by another fort of
power; whereas, the latter is removing a force un-
justly put already upon the minds of men, by the ar-
tisice of the Devil, to keep the Christian religion out
of the world; so that indeed 1 propose a war, not with
men, but with the Devil; a war to depose Satan's in-
sernal tyranny in the world, and set open the doors to
religion,
religion, that it may enter, if men will receive it; if
they will not receive it, be that to themselves.
In a word, to unchain the wills of men, set their
inclinations free, that their reason may be at liberty
to influence their understandings, and that they may
have the faith of Christ preached to them; whether
they will hear or forbear, I fay, as above, is no part of
the question; let the Christian doctrine, and its spiri-
tual enemies alone to struggle about that; I am for
dealing with the temporalities of the Devil, and de-
posing that human power which is armed in the be-
half of obstinate ignorance, and resolute to keep out
the light of religion from the mind.
1 think this is a lawful and just war, and in the end*
kind both to them and their posterity: let me bring the
case home to ourselves.
Suppose neither Julius Cæfar, or any of the Roman
generals or emperors, had cast their eyes towards Bri-
tain for some ages, or till the Christian religion had
spread over the whole Roman empire. It is true, the
Britons might, at last, have received the Christian
faith in common with the rest of the northern world;
but they had yet lain above three hundred years longer
in ignorance and paganism than they did; and some
'rondred thoufands of people, who proved zealous
Christians, nay, even martyrs for the Christian doc-
trine, would have died in the prosessed paganism of
the Britons.
Now, it is evident, the invasion of the Romans was
an unjust, bloody, tyrannical assault upon the poor
Britons, against all right and property, against justice
and neighbourhood, and merely carried on for con-
quest and dominion: nor indeed had. the Romans any
just pretence of war; yet God was pleased to make this
violence be the kindest thing that could have befallen
the British nation, since it brought in the knowledge
of God among the Britons, and Was a means of re-
ducing a heathen and barbarous nation to the faith of
Christ, and to embrace the Mesllas.
Thus Heaven serves itself of mens worst designs;
and the avarice, ambition, and rage of men, have been
made use of, to bring to pass the glorious ends of Pro-
videncei without the least knowledge or design of the
actors: why then may not the great undertakings of
the princes of Europe, if they could be brought to act
in concert, with a good design, to bring all the world
to open their doors to the Christian religion, and, by
consequence, their ears? I fay, why may not such an
attempt be blessed from Heaven, with so much success
at least, as to make way for bringing in nominal Chris-
tianity among the -nations? For, as to obliging the
people to be of this or that opinion afterward, that is
another case.
There is a great pother made in the world, among
the several denominations of Christians, about coer-
cion, erecting a church, and compelling men to come
in; that is to fay, one fort of Christians persecuting
another sort of Christians, to make them worship
Christ their way,—as if Christ had no sheep but one
fold.
I distinguish much between using force to reduce
heathens and favages to Christianity, and using force to
reduce those that are already Christians, to be of this
or that opinion; I will not fay, but a war might be
very just, and the cause be righteous, to reduce the.
worshippers of the pagods in India, to the knowledge
Vol. III. CL and
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
and obedience of Christianity; when it would be a hor-
rible injustice to commence a like war, to reduce even
a Popish nation to be Protestant.
But my proposed war does not reach so far as that
neither; for though I would have a nation of Pagans
conquered, that their idols and temples might be de-
stroyed, and their idol worship be abolished, yet I
would be very far from punishing and persecuting the
people, for not believing in Christ: for if we believe
that faith, as the Scripture fays, is the gift of God,
how can we, upon any Christian foundation, punish or
persecute the man, for not exercising that which God
had not given him?
Hence, compelling men to conform to this or that
particular prosession of the Christian religion, is, to me,
impious and unchristian.
And shall I speak a word here, of the unhappy cus-
tom among Christians, of reviling one another with
words, on account of differing opinions in religion?
It was a part of apocryphal Scripture, taken from one
of the traditional sayings of the rabbies; ' Thou shalt
not mock at the gods of the Heathens:' but ribaldry,
fatire and farcasms, are the usage we give one another
every day, on the subject of religion; as if slander, and
the severities of the tongue, were not the worst kind
of violence, in matters of the Christian religion.
In a word, I must acknowledge, if I am to speak of
reproach in general, I know no worse persecution than
that of the tongue: Solomon fays, ' There are that
speak like the piercing of a sword:' and King David
was so sensible of the bitterness of the tongue, that he
is full of exclamations upon the subject; and among
the rest, he fays of his enemies, ' They have com-
passed
5
passed me about with words of hatred. He cloathed
himself with cursing, like as with his garment:'—
Psalm. cix. 3, 18.
It is, indeed, remote from the subject I am upon, to
talk of this kind of uncharitable dealing; but as just
observations are riever out of season, it may have its
uses: let no man slight the hint, though it were mearit
of religion only, for that indeed is my present subject.
There is, doubtless, as severe a persecution by the
tongue, as that of fire and faggot) and some think, it
is as hard to be borne.
I have never met with so much of this any where^
in all my travels, as in England; where the mouths of
the several sects and opinions are so effectually open
against one another, that albeit common charity com-
mands us to talk the best of particular persons, in their
failings and insirmities; yet here, censuring, con-
demning, and reproaching one another, on account of
opinions, is carried on with such a gust, that lets every
one see, nothing but death and destruction can follow,
and no reconciliation can be expected.
I have lived to see ruen of the best light be mistaken,
as well in party, as in principles; as well in politics, as
in religion; and find not only occasion, but even a
necessity to change hands or sides in both; I have seen
them sometimes run into contrary extremes, beyond
their first intention, and even without design: nay, in
those unhappy changes, I have seen them driven into
lengths they never designed, by the fiery resentment of
those whom they seemed to have leftj and whom they
differed from. I have lived to see those men acknow-
ledge, even publicly and openly, they were wrong and
mistaken, and express their regret far being mistaken,
Q..2 very"
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
very sincerely; but I cannot fay, I have lived to sec
the people they have desired to return to, forgive or
receive them. Perhaps, the age I have lived in, has
not been a proper season for charity; I hope futurity
will be furnished with better Christians; or perhaps it
is appointed so, to illustrate the divine mercy, and let
mankind see, that they are the only creatures that never
forgive. I have seen a man, in the case I speak of,
offer the most sincere acknowledgments of his having
been mistaken; and this, not in matters essential either
to the person's morals or Christianity, but only in mat-
ters of party, and with the most moving expressions,
desire his old friends to forgive what has been passed;
and have seen their return, by mocking him with what
they called a baseness of spirit, and a mean submission,
I have seen him expostulate with them, why they
should not act upon the fame terms with a penitent, as
God himself not only prescribed, but yields to; and
have seen them, in return, tell him, God might forgive
him, if he pleased, but they would never; and then ex-
pose all those offers to the first comer, in banter and
ridicule: but take me right too, I have seen, at the
fame time, that to wiser men, it has been always
thought to be an exposing themselves, and an honour
to the person.
I speak this too seelingly, and therefore fay no more.
There is a way, by patience, to conquer even the uni-
verfal contempt of mankind; and though two drams
of that drug be a vomit for a dog, it is, in my expe-
rience, the only method: there is a secret peace in it;
and, in time, the rage of men will abate: a constant,
steady adhering to virtue and honesty, and shewing the
world, that whatever mistakes he might be led into,
supposing
2 f
supposing them to be mistakes, that yet the main in-
tention and design of his lise was sincere and upright.
He that governs the actions of men by an unbiassed
hand, will never suffer such a man to sink under the
weight of univerfal prejudice and clamour.
I, Robinson Crusoe, grown old in affliction, borne
down by calumny and reproach, but supported from
within, boldly prescribe this remedy against univerfal
clamours, and contempt of mankind: patience, a steady
lise of virtue and sobriety, and a comforting depend-
ence on the justice of Providence, will, first or last, re-
store the patient to the opinion of his friends, and
justify him in the face of his enemies; and in the mean
time, will support him comfortably, in despising those
who want manners and charity, and leave them to
be cursed from Heaven with their own passions and
rage.
This very thought made me, long ago, claim a kind
of property in some good old lines of the famous
George Withers, Esq. made in prison in the Tower.
He was a poetical gentleman, who had, in the time of
the civil wars in England, been unhappy in changing
of sides too often, and had been put into the Tower by
every side in their turn; once by the King,—once by
the Parliament,—once by the Army,—then by the
Rump,—and at last again, I think, by General Monk;
in a word, whatever side got up, he had the difaster to
be down. The lines are thus:
The world and I may well agree,
As most that are offended;
For I slight her, and she slights me,
And there's our quarrel ended.
For
For service done, and love exprest,
Though very few regard it,
My country owes me bread at least:
But if I am debarr'd it,
Good conscience is a daily feast,
And sorrow never marr'd it.
But this article of verbal persecution, has hurried me
from my subject, which I must return to.
I have spoken of a project for the Czar of Muscovy,
worthy of a Monarch who is Lord of so vast an extent
of country as the Ruffian empire reaches to; which is,
in effect, as 1 have faid, much more than half Europe,
and consequently an eighth part of the world. I have
given my thoughts, how a war, to open a door for the
Christian religion, may be justisiable, and that it has not
the least tincture of persecution in it. If the Christian
princes of the world, who now spend their force so
much to an ill purpose, in real persecution, would join:
in an universal war against paganism and devil-worship,
the favage part of mankind would, in one age, be
hrought to bow their knees to the God of truth, and
would bless the enterprise itself, in the end of it, as the
best thing that ever besel them : nor could such an at-
tempt fail of success, unless Heaven, in justice, had
determined to shut up the world longer in darkness,
and the cup of their abominations was not yet full: but
I mav venture to fay, there would be much more
ground for such Christian princes to hope and expect
the concurrence of Heaven in such an undertaking-,
than in sheathing their swords in the bowels of their
brethren, and making an effusion of Christian blood
upon every slight pretence, as, we see, has been the
case in Europe, for above thirty years past.
I had
I had intended to remark here, that as the country
possessed by the Christians is but a spot of the globe,
compared to the Heathen, Pagan, and Mahometan
world; so the number of real Christians, among the
nations prosessing the Christian name, is yet a more
disproportioned part,—a mere trifle, and hardly to be
compared with the infinite numbers of those who,
though they call themselves Christians, yet know as
little of God and religion, as can be imagined to be
known where the word Christian is spoken of, and
neither seek or desire to know more; in a word, who
know but little of God or Jesus Christ, heaven or hell,
and regard none of them.
This is a large field, and being thoroughly searched
into, would, I doubt not, reduce the real faithful sub-
jects of the kingdom of Jesus Christ, to a much sewer
number than those of Mahomet; nay, than those of
the monarch of Germany; and make our Lord appear
a weaker prince, speaking in the sense of kingdoms,
than many of the kings of the earth. And if it be
true, that the old King of France should fay, ' That
he had more loyal subjects than King Jesus;' I do not
know, but in the sense his Most Christian Majesty
meant it, the thing might be very true.
But this observation is something out of my present
road, ^nd merits to be spoken of by itself. The num-
ber of true Christians will never be known on this side
the great bar, where they shall be critically separated:
no political arithmetic, can make a calculation of the
number of true Christians, while they live blended
with the false ones; since it is not only hard, but im-
possible to know them one from another in this
world.
Q_4 We
We shall, perhaps, be surprised at the last day, to fee
some people at the right-hand of the righteous Judge,
whom we have condemned with the utmost zeal, iri
our opinions, while we were cotemporary with them
in lise; for charity, as it is generally practised in this
world, and mixed with our human insirmities, such as
pride, self-opinion, and personal prejudice, is strangely
misguided, and makes us entertain notions of things,
and of people, quite different from what they really de-
serve; and there is hardly any rule to prescribe our-
selves, except it be of the text, * In meekness, every
one esteeming others better than themselveswhich,
by the way, is~difncult to do.
But though we shall thus see, at the great audit, a
transposition of persons from the station they held in
our charity, we shall only thereby see, that our judg-
ment was wrong,—that God judgeth not as man
judgeth, and that we too rashly condemn whom he
has thought fit to justify and accept.
Let then the number of Christians be more or less,
as He that makes them Christians determines; this is
not for us to enter into: and this brings me back to
what I faid before, that though we cannot make Chris-
tians, we both can and may, and, indeed, ought to
open the door to Christianity; that the preaching of
God's word, which is the ordinary means of bringing
mankind to the knowledge of religion, may be spread
over the whole world.
With what vigour do we consult, and how do the
labouring heads t)f the world club together, to form
projects, and to raise subscriptions, to extend the ge-
neral commerce of nations into every corner of the
world j but it would pass for a bubble of all bubbles,
and
and a whimsey that none would engage in, if ten mil-,
lions should be asked to be subscribed, for sending a
strong fleet and army to conquer heathenism and ido-
latry, and protect a mission of Christians, to be em-
ployed in preaching the Gospel to the poor Heathens;
fay it were on the coast of Coromandel, the island of
Ceylon, and country of Malabar, or any of the domi-
nions of the Great Mogul; and yet such an attempt
would not only be just, but insinitely advantageous to
the people who should undertake it, and to the people
of the country on whom the operation should be
wrought.
In the occasional discourses I had on this subjects in
converfation with men of good judgment and prin-
ciples, I have been often asked, in what manner I
would propose to carry on such a conquest as I spealf
of, and how it should answer the end? And that I may
not be supposed to suggest a thing impracticable in it-
self, or for which no rational scheme might be pro-:
posed, I shall make a brief essay on the manner in
which the conquest I speak of, should be, or ought to
be, carried on; and if it be considered seriously, the
difficulties, and perhaps all the reasonable objections,
might vanish in an instant. I will, therefore, first, for
the purpose only, suppose that an attempt was made by
a Christian nation, to conquer and subdue some Hea-
then or Mahometan people, at a distance from them,—-
place the conquest where, and among whom we will.
For example: Suppose it was the great island of Mada-
gascar, or that of Ceylon, Borneo in the Indies, or
those of Japan, or any other where you please.
I would first suppose the place to be infinitely popu-
lous, as any of those countries, though they are islands,
are
fcid to be; and because the Japanese are sard lo be a?
most sensible, fagacious people, under excellent forms
of government, and capable, more than ordinarily, of
receiving impressions, supported by the argument and
example of a virtuous and religious conqueror.
For this purpose you must grant me, that the island
e1r islands of Japan, were in a situation proper for the
undertaking; and that a powerful European army
being landed upon them, had, in a great battle, or in
divers battles, overthrown all their military force, and
bad entirely reduced the whole nation to their power;
as, to go back to examples, the Venetians had done by
the Turks, in the Morea, in a former war; or as the
Turks did in the isles of Candia, Cyprus, and the like.
The short scheme for establishing the government in
those countries, should be this:—
First: As the war is pointed chiefly against the king-
dom of the Devil, in behalf of the Christian wor-
ship, so no quarter should be given to Satan's ad-
ministration; and as nothing else shonld willingly
be treated with violence, so indeed no part of the
Devil's economy should have any favour; but all
the idols should immediately be destroyed, and
publicly burnt; all the pagods and temples burnt;
and the very face and form of paganism, and the
worship attending it, be utterly defaced and de-
stroyed.
Secondly: The priests, and dedicated persons of
every kind, by whatsoever names or titles known
or distinguished, should be at least removed, if not
destroyed.
Thirdly: All the exercise es profane and idolatrous
rites, ceremonies, worship, sestivals, and customs,
should
should be abolished entirely ; so as by time to be
forgotten, and clean wiped out of the minds, as
well as out of the practice of the people.
This is all the coercion I propose, and less than this
cannot be proposed; because, though we may not, by
arms and force, compel men to be religious,—because, if
we do, we cannot make them sincere,—and so by per-
secution we only create hypocrites; yet I insist, that we
may, by force, and that with the greatest justice pos-
sibly suppress paganism, and the worship of God's
enemy, the Devil, and banish it out of the world; nay,
that we ought to do it, to the utmost of our power:—
But I return to the conquest.
The country being thus entirely reduced under
Christian government, the inhabitants, if they submit
quietly, ought to be used with humanity and justice;
no cruelty; no rigour: they should suffer no oppres-
sion, injury, or injustice, that they may not receive evil
impressions of the people that are come among them;
left, entertaining an abhorrence of Christians, from
their evil conduct, cruelty, and injustice, they should
entertain an abhorrence of the Christian religion for
their fakes; as the poor wretches, the Indians in Ame-
rica, who, when they were talked to of a future state,
the resurrection of the dead, eternal selicity in heaven,
and the like, enquired where the Spaniards went after
death, and if any of them went to heaven? And being
answered in the affirmative, shook their heads, and de-
sired they might go to hell then, for that they were
afraid to think of being in heaven, if the Spaniards
were there.
A just and generous behaviour to the natives, or, at
least, to such of therm as should show themselves willing
to
submit, would certainly engage them in their interest,
and accordingly would, in a little while, bring them to
embrace that truth, which dictated such just principles
to those Who espoused it. ,
Thus, prejudices being removed, the way to instruor
tion would be made the more plain ; and then would
be the time for gospel-labourers to enter upon the har-
vest. Ministers should be instructed to teach them our
language; to exhort them to seek the blessings of reli-
gion, and of the true God; and so, gradually to intro-
duce right principles among them, at their own re-
quest.
From hence, they should proceed to teach all the
young children the language spoken by them, who
would then be their benefactors, rather than con-
querors; and a sew years wearing the old generation
jout, the posterity of them, and pf their conquerors,
would be all one nation.
In case any rejected the instruction of religious men,
and adhered obstinately to his idolatry, and would not
be reclaimed by gentle and Christian ufage, suitable me-
thods are to be taken with such, that they might not
make a religious faction in the country, and gain
others to side with them, in order to recover their li-
berty, as they might call it, to serve their own gods,—
that is to fay, idols; for it must be for ever as just,
not to permit them to go back to idolatry hy force, as
it was to pull them from it by force.
By.this kind of conquest, the Christian religion
would be most efsectually propagated among innu-
merable nations of favages and idolaters, and as many
people be brought to worship the true God, as may be
faid to do it at this time in the whole Christian world.
This
This is my crufado, and it would be a war as
justifiable, on many accounts, as any that was ever
undertaken in the world; a war, that would bring
eternal honour to the conquerors, and an eternal
blesfing to the people conquered.
It were easy now to cut out enterprises os this nature,
for other of the princes of the world than the Czar of
Muscovy; and I could lay very rational schemes for
such undertakings, and schemes that could, if tho-
roughly pursued, never fail of success. For example:
An expedition against the Moors of Africa, by the
French, Spanish, and Italian princes, who daily suffer
so much by them, and the last of whom are at perpe-
tual war with them. How easy would it be to those
powers, to join in a Christian consederacy, to plant the
Christian religion again in the Numidian and Mauri-
tanian kingdoms, where was once the famous church
of Carthage, and from whence thoufands of Christians
have gone to Heaven; the harvest of the primitive
labours of St. Cyprian, Tertullian, and many more,
whose posterity now bow their knees to that latest, and
worst of all impostors, Mahomet.
But unchristian Arise was always a bar against the
propagation of Christian religion ; and unnatural wars,
carried on among the nations I speak of, are made so
much the business of the Christian world, that I do
not expect, in our time, to see the advantages taken
hold of that the nature of the thing offers: but I am
persuaded, and leave it upon record, as my settled
opinion, that, one time or other, the Christian powers
of Europe shall be inspired from Heaven for such a
work; and then the easiness of subduing the kingdom
of Africa to the Christian power, shall shame the gene-
rations
rations past, who had the opportunity so often in their
hands, but made no use of it.
Note, In this part of the subject I am upon, I must
acknowledge there is a double argument for a war: First,
in point of the intersering interests, Europe ought to
take possession ot those shores, without which, it is ma-
nisest, her commerce is not secured; and indeed, while
that part of Africa bordering on the sea, is in the
hands of robbers, pirates cannot be secured. Now, this
is a point of undisputed right; fora war-trade claims
the protection of the powers to whom it belongs, and
we make no scruple to make war upon one another
for the protection of our trade,—and it is allowed to
be a good reason why we should do so: why then is it
not a good reason to make war upon thieves and rob-
bers? If one nation takes the ships belonging to an-
other, we immediately reclaim the prize from the cap-
tors, and require of the prince, that justice be done
against the aggressor, who is a breaker of the peace;
and if this is refused, we make war.
But shall we do thus to Christians, and scruple to
make an univerfal war, for the rooting out a race of
pirates and rovers, who live by rapine, and are conti-
nually employed, like the lions and tygers of their own
Lybia, in devouring their neighbours: this, I fay,
makes such a war not only just, on a religious account,
but both just and necessary, upon a civil account.
The war then being thus proved to be just on other
accounts, why should not, secondly, the extirpation of
idolatry, paganism, and devil-worship, be the conse-
quence of the victory? If God be allowed to be the giver
of victory, how can it be answered to him, that the
victory should not be made use of for the interest and
glory
255
glory of the God of war, from whom it proceeds? But
these things are not to be offered to the world, till
higher principles work in the minds of men, in their
making war and peace, than yet seems to take up their
minds.
I was tempted, upon this occasion, to make an ex-
cursion here, upon the subject of the very light occa-
sions princes and powers, states and statesmen make use
of, for the engaging in war and blood one against an-
other; one for being ill-fatisfied with the other, and
another for preserving the balance of power; this for
nothing at all, and that for something next to nothing;
and how little concern the blood that is necessarily spilt
in these wars produces among them: but this is not a
case that will so well bear to be entered upon in a
public manner, at this time.
All I can add is, I doubt, no such zeal for the Chris-
tian religion, will be found in our days, or perhaps in
any age of the world, till Heaven beats the drum it-
self, and the glorious legions from above come down
on purpose to propagate the work, and to reduce the
whole world to the obedience of King Jesus; a time,
which some tell us, is not far off, but of which I heard
nothing in all my travels and illuminations; no, not
one word.
A VISION
A'
VISION
OF IBE
ANGELIC WORLD.
THEY must be much taken up with the fatisfaction
of what they are already, that never spare their
thoughts upon the subject of what they shall be.
The place, the company, the employment which we
expect to know so much of hereafter, must certainly be
Well worth our while to'enquire after here.
I believe, the main interruptions which have been
given to these enquiries, and perhaps the reason why
those that have entered into them, have given them up,
and those who have not entered into them, have fatis-
fied themselves in the utter neglect, have been the wild,
chimerical notions, enthusiastic dreams, and unfatisfying
ideas, which most of the conceptions of men have led
them into, about these things.
As I endeavour to conceive justly of these things, I
shall likewise endeavour to reason upon them clearly,
and, if possible, convey some such ideas of the Invisible
World
World to the thoughts of men, as may not be confused
and indigested, and so leave them darker than I find
them.'
The locality of heaven or hell, is no part of my
search; there is, doubtless, a place reserved for the re-
ception of our souls after death; as there is a state of
being for material substances, so there must be a place;
if we are to be, we must have a where; the Scripture
supports reason in it:—Judas is gone to his place,—
Dives, in hell, lifts up his eyes, and faw Lazarus in
Abraham's bosom; the locality of bliss and misery
seems to be positively asserted in both cases.
But there is not so clear a view of the company, as
of the place; it is not so easy to enquire into the world
of spirits, as it is evident that there are such spirits,
and such a world; we sind the locality of it is natural;
but who the inhabitants are, is a search of a still sub-
limer nature, liable to more exception, encumbered
with more difficulties, and exposed to much more un-
certainty.
I shall endeavour to clear up as much of it as I can,
and intimate most willingly, how much I rejoice in the
expectation, that some other enquirers may go farther,
'till, at last, all that Providence has thought fit to dis-
cover of that part, may be persectly known.
The discoveries in the Scripture, which lead to this,
are innumerable; but the positive declaration of it,
seems to be declined. When our Saviour, walking on
the sea, frightened his disciples, and they cried out,
what do we sind terrisied them? Truly, they thought
they had seen a spirit. One would have thought, such
men as they, who had the vision of God manisest in the
flesh, should not have been so much surprised, if they
Vol. III. R had
had seen a spirit,—that is to fay, seen an apparition;
for to see a spirit, seems to be an allusion, not an ex-
pression to be used literally,—a spirit being not visible
by the organ of human sight.
But what, is it had been a spirit? If it had been a
good spirit, what had they to sear? And if a bad spirit,
what would crying out have assisted them? When peo-
ple cry out in such cases, it is either for help, and then
they cry to others -, or for mercy, and then they cry to
the subject of their terror to spare them. Either way,
it was either the foolishest, or the wickedest thing that
ever was done by such grave men as the Apostles; for
if it was a good spirit, as before, they had no need to
cry out; and if it was a bad one, who did they cry to?
For, it is evident, they did not pray to God, or cross
and bless themselves, as was afterwards the fashion;
but they cried out,—that is to fay, they either cried out
for help, which was great nonsense, to call to man for
help against the Devil; or they cried to the spirit they
faw, that it might not hurt them; which was, in short,
neither less or more than praying to the Devil.
This put me in mind of the poor favages, in many
of the countries of America and Africa, who really, in- y
structed by their sear, that is to fay, by mere nature,
worssiip the Devil, that he may not hurt them.
Here I must digress a little, and make a transition
from the story of a spirit, to the strange absurdities of
mens notions at that time; and particularly of those
upon whom the first impressions of Christ's preachings
were wrought; and if it be looked narrowly into, one
cannot but wonder what strange, ignorant people, even
the disciples themselves were, at first; and, indeed,
their ignorance continued a great while, even till after
the
the death of Christ himself; witness the foolish talk of
the two disciples going to Emaus. It is true, they
were wiser afterwards, when they were better taught;
but the Scripture is full of the discoveries of their ig-
norance,—as in the notions of sitting at his right-hand
and his left, in his kingdom, asked for by Zebedee's
children: no doubt, but the good woman, their mo-
ther, thought one of her sons should be Lord Trea-7
surer there, and the other Lord Chancellor; and she
could not but think those places their due, when she
faw them in such favour with him here. Just so, in
their notion of seeing a spirit here, which put them
into such a fright; and, indeed, they might be faid,
according to our dull way os talking, to be frightened
out of their wits; for had their senses been in exercise,
they would either have rejoiced in the appearance of a
good angel, and stood still to hear his message, as from
heaven; or prayed to God to deliver them out of the
hands of the Devil, on their supposing it, as above,
to be a vision from hell.
But I come to the subject: it is evident, that the
notion of spirits, and their intermeddling with the
affairs of men, and even of their appearing to men,
prevailed so univerfally in those ages of the world, that
even God's own people, who were instructed from
himself, believed it; nor is there any thing in all the
Old Testament institution to contradict it, though
many things to confirm it; such, particularly, as the
law against what is called a familiar spirit, which Was
esteemed no better or worse than a conversing with the
Devil; that is to fay, with some of the evil spirits of
the world I speak of.
R a The
The witch of Endor, and the story of an apparition
of an old man, personating Samuel, which is so plainly
asserted in Scripture, and which the learned opposers
of these notions, have spent so much .weak pains to
disturb our imaginations about, yet assure us, that such
apparitions are not inconsistent with nature, or with
religion; nay, the Scripture allows this woman to
paw-waw, as the Indians in America call it, and con-
jure for the raising this spectre; and when it is come,
allows it to speak a great prophetic truth, foretelling
the King, in all its terrible particulars, what was to
happen to him, and what did befal him the very next
day.
Either this appearance must be a good spirit, or a
bad; if it was a good spirit,-it was an angel, as it is
expressed in another place of the apostle Peter, when he
knocked at the good people's door in Jerufalem:
jifls xii. 15. and then it supports my opinion of the
spirits unembodied conversing with, and taking care of
the spirits embodied; if it was an evil spirit, then they
must grant God to be making a prophet of the Devil,
and making him personate Samuel, to foretel things
to come; permitting Satan to speak in the first person
of God's own prophet, and, indeed, to preach the jus-
tice of God's dealing with Saul, for rejecting his pro-
phet Samuel; which, in short, is not a little odd, put-
ting the Spirit of God into the mouth of the Devil;
and making Satan a preacher of righteousness.
When I was in my retirement, I had abundance of
strange notions of my seeing apparitions there, and
especially when I happened to be abroad by moon-
shine, when every bush looked like a man, and every
tree like a man on horse-back; and I so prepossessed
myself
myself with it, that I scarce durst look behind me for
a good while, and, after that, durst not go abroad at all
at night; nay, it grew upon me to such a degree at
last, that I as firmly believed I faw, several times, real
shapes and appearances, as L do now really believe, and
am aslured, that it was all hypochondriac delusion.
But however, that the reader may see how far the
power of imagination may go, and judge for me, whe-
ther I shewed any more folly and simplicity than other
men might do, I will repeat some little passages, which,
for a while, gave me very great disturbances; and every
one shall judge for me, whether they might not have
been deluded, in the like circumstances, as well as I.
The first case was, when I crept into the dark cave
in the valley, where the old goat lay just expiring,
which, wherever it happened, is a true history, I assure
you.
When first I was stopped by the noise of this poor,
dying creature, you are to observe, that the voice was
not only like the voice of a man, but even articulate,
only that I could not form any words from it; and
what did that amount to, more or less than this, name-
ly, that it spoke, but only it was 'in a language that I
did not understand. If it was possible to describe the
surprise of my spirits on that occasion, I would do it
here; how all my blood run, or rather stood still,
chilled in my veins; how a cold dew of sweat fat on
my forehead; how my joints, like Belshazzar's knees,
shook one against another; and how, as I faid, my
hainwould have lifted off my hat, if I had had one on
my head."
But this is not all: after the first noise of the crea-
ture, which was a stint, dying kind of imperfect bleat-
R 3 'ing,
ing, not unusual, as I found afterward; I fay, after
this, he setched two or three deep sighs, as lively, and
as like human, as it is possible to imagine, as I have
also faid.
These were so many consirmations of my surprize,
besides the sight of his two glaring eyes, and carried it
up to the extreme of fright and amazement; how I
afterwards conquered this childish beginning, and
mustered up courage enough to go into the place, with
a firebrand for light; and how I was presently fatisfied,
with seeing the creature, whose condition made all the
little accidental noises appear rational, I have already
faid.
But I must acknowledge, that this real surprize left
some relics or remains behind it, that did not wear
quite off a great while, though I struggled hard with
them: the vapours that were raised at first, were never
so laid, but that on every trifling occasion they return-
ed; and I faw, nay, I selt apparitions, as plainly and
distinctly as ever I selt or faw any real substance in my
lise.
The like was the case with me before that, when I
first found the print of a man's foot upon the fand, by
the sea-side, on the north part of the island.
'And these, I fay, having left my fancy a little peevish
and wayward, I had frequently some returns of these
vapours on differing occasions, and sometimes even
without occasion; nothing but mere hypochondriac
whimsies,—fluttering of the blood,—and rising of va-
pours, which nobody could give any account of but
myself.
For example: It was one night, after my having seen
some odd appearances in the air, of no great signisi-
cance,
263
cance, that coming home, and being in bed, but not
asleep, I selt a pain in one of my seet; after which, it
came to a kind of numbness in my foot, which a
little surprised me; and after that, a kind of tingling
in my blood, as if it had been some distemper running
up my leg.
On a sudden, I selt, as it were, something alive lie
upon me, as if it had been a dog lying upon my bed,
from my knee downward, about half way my leg, and
immediately afterwards I selt it heavier, and selt it as
plainly roll itself upon me, upwards upon my thigh,—
for I lay ori one fide; I fay, as if it had been a creature
lying upon me with all his weight, and turning his
body upon me.
It was so lively and sensible to me, and I remember it
so persectly well, though it is now many years ago,
that my blood chills and flutters about my heart at the
very writing it. I immediately flung myself out of my
bed, and flew to my musket, which stood always ready
at my hand, and, naked as I was, laid about me upon
the bed, in the dark, and everywhere else that 1 could
think of, where anybodf might stand or lie, but could
find nothing 'Lord deliver me from an evil spirit,*
faid 1,' What can this be?' And being tired with
groping about, and having broke two or three of my
earthen pots, with making blows here and there to no
purpose, I went to light my candle, for my lamp,
which I used to burn in the night, either had not been
lighted, or was gone out.
When I lighted a candle, I could easily fee there
was no living creature in the place with me, but the
poor parrot, who was wakened and frightened, and
cried out, ' Hold your tongue,' and ' What's the mat-
It 4 ter
SERTOUS REFLECTIONS
ter with you?' Which words he learned of me, from
my frequent faying so to him, when he -used to make
his ordinary wild noise and screaming, that I did not
like.
The more I was fatisfied that there was nothing in
the room, at least to be seen, the more another concern
came upon me. c Lord!' fays I aloud, 1 this is the
Devil.' 'Hold your tongue,' fays Poll. I was so
mad at the bird, though the creature knew nothing of
the matter, that, if he had hung near me, I believe I
should have killed him. I put my cloaths on, and fat
me down, for I could not sind in my heart to go to
bed again; and, as I fat down,—* I am terribly
frightened,' faid I. 'What's the matter with you?'
fays Poll. 'You toadj' faid I, * I'd knock your
brains out, if you were here.' 'Hold your tongue,'
fays he again; and then sell to chattering, Robin
Crusoe, and, Poor Robin Crusoe, as he used to do.
Had I been in any reach of a good temper, it had
been enough to have composed me; but I was quite
gone; I was fully posiessed with a belies that it was the
Devil; and I prayed most heartily to God, to be deli-
vered from the power of the evil spirit.
After some time, I composed myself a little, and
went to bed again; and lying just in the posture as I
was in before, I selt a little of the tingling in my blood
which I selt before, and I resolved to lie still, let it be
what it would; it came up as high as my knee, as be-
fore, but no higher; and now I began to see plainly,
that it was all a distemper,—that it was something pa-
ralytic, and that affected the nerves; but I had not
either experience of such a thing, or knowledge of
,diseases enough to be fully satisfied of the nature of
them,
them, and whether any thing natural, any numbness,
or dead palfey, affecting one part of the thigh, could
feel as that did: some months aster that, I selt some-
thing of the very fame again, at my first lying down
in my bed, for three or four nights together, which
at first gave me a little concern as a distemper, but at
last gave me such fatisfaction that the first was nothing
but the fame thing in a higher degree, that the pleasure
of knowing it was only a disease, was far beyond the
concern at the danger of it: though a dead palsey, to
one in my condition, might reasonably have been one
of the most frightful things in nature; since, having
nobody to help me, I must have inevitably perished for
mere want of food,—not being able to go from place
to place to setch it.
But to go back to the casein hand, and to the ap-
prehension I had been in: all the several months that
passed between the first of this and the last, I went
about, with a melancholy, heavy heart, fully fatisfied
that the Devil had been in my room, and lay upon my
bed.
Sometimes I would try to argue myself a little out
of it; asking myself whether it was reasonable to
imagine the Devil had nothing else to do, than to come
thither and only.lie down upon me, and go away about
his business, and fay not one word to me? What end
it could answer? And whether I thought the Devil was
really busied about such trifles? Or whether he had
not employment enough, of a higher nature; so that
such a thing as that could be worth his while?
But still then I was answered, with my own thoughts
returning, thus, What could it be? Or, if it was not
a Devil, what was k? This I could not answer by any
means
means at all; and so I still sunk under the belief that
it was the Devil, and nothing but the Devil.
You may be sure, while I had this fancy in my
head, I was, of course, over-run with the vapours, and
had all the hypochondriac fancies, that ever any me-
lancholy head could entertain; and what with rumi-
nating on the print of a foot upon the fand, and the
weight of the Devil upon me in my bed, 1 made no
difficulty to conclude, that the Old Gentleman really
visited the place: and, in a word, it had been easy to
have possessed me, if 1 had continued so much longer,
that it was an enchanted island,—that there were a
million of evil spirits in it,—and that the Devil was
lord of the manor.
I scarce heard the least noise, near, or far off, but I
started, and expected to see a Devil; every distant bush,
upon a hill, if I did not particularly remember it before,
was a man; and every stump, an apparition; and I
scarce went twenty yaids together, by night or by day,
without looking behind me.
Sometimes, indeed, I took a little heart, and would
fay, ' Well, let it be the Devil if it will, God is master
of the Devil, and he can do me no hurt, unless he is
permitted; he can be nowhere, but he that made him
is there too;' and, as I faid afterwards, when I was
frightened with the old goat in a cave; ' He is not fit
to live all alone in such an island, for twenty years,
that would be afraid to see the Devil.'
But all these things lasted but a short while, and the
vapours that were raised at first, were not to be laid so
easily; for, in a word, it was not mere imagination,
but it was the imagination railed up to disease: nor did
it ever quite wear off till I got my man Friday with me,
of
267
of whom I have faid so much; and then, having com-
pany to talk to, the hypo wore off, and I did not sec
any more devils after that.
Before I leave this part, I cannot but give a caution
to all vapourish, melancholy people, whose imagina-
tions run this way; I mean, about seeing the devil,
apparitions, and the like; namely, that they should
never look behind them, and over their shoulders, as
they go up stairs; or look into the corners and holes
of rooms, with a candle in their hands; or turn about,
to see who may be behind them, in any walks, or dark
fields, lanes, or the like; for, let such know, they will
see the Devil, whether he be there or no: nay, they
will be so persuaded that they do see him, that their
very imagination will be a devil to them wherever
they go.
But aster all this is faid, let nobody suggest, that be-
cause the brain-fick fancy, the vapourish, hypochon-
driac imagination represents spectres and spirits to us,
and makes apparitions for us, that therefore there are
no such things as spirits; both good and evil, any more
than we should conceive, that there is no devil, be-
cause We do not see him.
The Devil has witnesses of his being and nature,
just as God himself has of his; they are not indeed so*
visible, or so numerous, but we are all able to bring
evidence of the existence of the Devil from our own
frailties, as we are to bring evidence of the existence of
God from the faculties of our fouls, and from the
contexture of our bodies.
As our propensity to evil, rather than good, is a tes-
timony of the original depravity of human nature;
so the harmony between the inclination and the occa-r
sion.
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
fion is a testimony, which leaves the presence of the
evil spirit with us out of the question..
Not that the Devil is always the agent in our temp-
tations; for though the Devil is a very diligent sellow,
and always appears ready to fall in with the allurement,
yet the Scripture clears him, and we must do so too, of
being the main tempter; it is our own corrupt, de-
bauched inclination, which is the first moving agent:
and therefore the Scripture fays, * A man is tempted,
when he is drawn away of his own lusts, and enticed.'
The Devil, who, as I faid, is a very diligent sellow
in the insernal work, and is always ready to forward the
mischief, is also a very cunning sellow, and knows
how, most dextrously, to suit alluring objects to the
allurable dispositions; to procure ensnaring things,
and lay them in the way of the man whom he finds so
easy to be ensnared; and he never fails to prompt all
the mischief he can: full of stratagem and art to en-
snare us, by the help of our corrupt affections,—and
these are called Satan's devices.
But having charged Satan ho'me in that part, I must
do the Devil that justice, as to own, that he is the most
slandered, most abused creature alive; thoufands of
crimes we lay to his charge, that he is not guilty of;
thousands of our own insirmities we load him with,
which he has no hand in; and thoufands of our sins,
which, as bad as he is, he knows nothing of; calling
him our tempter, and pretending we did so and so, as
the Devil would have it; when, on the contrary, the
Devil had no share in it, and we were only 'led away
of our own lusts, and enticed.'
But now, having made this digression in the Devil's
desence, I return to the main question,—that of the
being
being of the Devil, and of evil spirits; this, I believe,
there is no room to doubt of: but this, as I have ob-
served, is not the thing; these are not the spirits I ain
speaking of; but I shall come directly to what I mean,
and speak plain, without any possibility of being mis-
understood.
I make no question, but that there is not only a
world of spirits, but that there is a certain knowledge
of it, though to us impossible, as to the manner of it;
there is a certain converse between the world of spirits,
and the spirits in this world; that is to fay, between
spirits uncased or unembodied, and souls of men em-
bodied, or cased up in flesh and blood, as we all are on
this side death.
It is true, that we cannot describe this converse of
spirits, as to the way of it, the manner of the commu-
nication, or how things are mutually conveyed from
one to another. How intelligences are given or re-
ceived, we know not; we know but little of their
being conveyed this way, from the spirits unembodied,
to ours that are in lise; and of their being conveyed
that way; namely, from us to them;—of that we know
nothing. The latter certainly is done without the
help of the organ; the former is conveyed by the
understanding, and the retired faculties of the soul,—
of which we can give very little account.
For Spirits, without the help of voice, converse.
Let me, however, give, as reasons for my opinion,
some account of the consequences of this converse of
• spirits; I mean, such as are quite remote from what
we call apparition, or appearance of spirits; and I omit
these, because I know they are objected much against,
.and
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
andthey bear much scandal, from the frequent imposi-
tions of our fancies and imaginations upon our judg-
ments and understandings, as above.
But the more particular discoveries of this converse
os spirits, and which to me are undeniable, are such as
follows; namely,
Dreams, Impulses, Voices,
Hints, Noises, Apprehensions,
Involuntary Sadness> &c.
Dreams are dangerous things to talk of; and we
have such dreaming about them, that, indeed, the least
encouragement to lay any weight upon them, is pre-
sently carried away by a sort of people that dream
waking; and that run into such wild extremes about
them, that indeed we ought to be very cautious what
we fay of them.
It is certain, dreams of old were the ways by which
God himself was pleased to warn men, as well what to
do, as what not to do; what services to perform, what
evils to shun. Joseph, the husband of the blessed Vir-
gin Mary, was appeared to in both these: Matt. ii. 13,
ig. He was directed of God, in a dream, to go into
Egypt; and he was bid return out of Egypt, in a
dream; and, in the fame chapter, the wise men of the
east were warned of God, in a dream, to depart into
their own country another way, to avoid the fury of
Herod.
Now, as this, and innumerable instances through the
whole Scripture, consirm, that God did once make use
of this manner to convey knowledge and instruction to
men, I wim I could have this question well answered,
viz. Why are we now to direct people to take no
notice of their dreams?
But
But farther, it appears, that this was not only the
method God himself took, by his immediate power;
but it is evident, he made use of it by the ministry of
spirits. The Scripture fays, in both the cases of
Joseph above-named, ' That the angel of the Lord
appeared to Joseph in a dream.' Now, every unem-
bodied spirit is an angel of the Lord, in some sense;
and as angels and spirits may be the fame thing, in.
respect of this influence upon us in dreams, so it is
still; and when any notice for good, or warning against
evil, is given us in a dream, I think it is no arrogance
at all for us to fay, the angel of the Lord appeared to
us in a dream; or to fay, some good spirit gave me
warning of this in a dream: take this which way you
will.
That I may support this, with such undeniable ar-
guments, drawn from examples of the fact, as no man
will, or reasonably can oppose, I first appeal to the ex-
perience of observing people; I mean, such people as
observe these things without a superstitious dependence
upon the signification of them; that look upon dreams
but with such a moderate regard to them, as may
direct to a right use of them. The question 1 would
ask of such is, whether they have never found any re-
markable event of their lives, so evidently foretold
them by a dream, as that it must, of necessity, be true,
that some invisible Being forefaw the event, and gave
them notice of it? And that, had that notice been
listened to, and the natural prudence used, which would
have been used if it had been certainly discovered, that
evil event might have been prevented?
I would ask others,' whether they have not, by
dreams, been so warned of evil really approaching, as
that
that taking the hint, and making use of the caution
given in those dreams, the evil has been avoided. If I
may speak my own experience, I must take leave to
fay, that I never had any capital mischief besel me in
my lise, but I have had notice of it by a dream; and
if I had not been that thoughtless, unbelieving crea-
ture, which I now would caution other people against,
I might have taken many a warning, and avoided many
of the evils that I afterwards sell into, merely by a total,
obstinate neglect of those dreams.
In like manner, I have, in some of the greatest dis-
tresses of my lise, been encouraged to believe, fiVmly
and fully, that I mould, one time or other, be deliver-
ed; and I must acknowledge, that in my greatest, and
most hopeless banishment, I had such frequent dreams
of my deliverance, that I always entertained a firm and
fatisfied belief, that my last days would be better than
my first: all which has effectually come to pass.
From which, 1 cannot determine, as I know some
do, that all dreams are mere dosings of a delirious head;
delusions of awaking devil, and relicts of the day's
thoughts and perplexities, or pleasures: nor do I see
any period of time fixed between the two opposite cir-
cumstances; namely, when dreams we're to be esteem-
ed the voice of God, and when the delusion of the
Devil. .
I know some have struggled hard to fix that parti-
cular article, and to settle it as a thing going hand in
hand with the Jewish institutions; as if the oracle
ceasing in the temple with the consummation of the
typical law, all the methods which Heaven was pleased
to take, in the former times, for revealing his will to
men, were to cease also at the fame time, and the
gospel
gospel revelation being fully and effectually supplied by
the mission of the Holy Spirit, dreams, and all the uses
and signisications of dreams, were at an end; and the
esteem and regard to the warnings and instructions of
dreams, was to expire also.
But the Scripture is point blank against this, in
the history of fact, relating to Ananias, and the con-
version of St. Paul; and in the story of St. Peter, and
Cornelius the devout centurion at Antioch; both of
them eminent instances of God's giving notice of his
pleasure to men, by the interposition or medium of a
dream. The first of these, is in Aiis ix. 10. ' There
was a certain disciple at Damascus, named Ananias;
to him faid the Lord in a vision,' he. : the words
spoken in this vision to Ananias, directing to go and
seek out one Saul of Tarsus, go on thus, v. 12.: 'and
hath seen in a vision, a man named Ananias com-
ing in.'
The other passage is of St. Peter, and Cornelius the
Centurion, Ails^. v. 3, 10, 11. In the third verse
it is faid,' Cornelius, fasting and praying, faw a vision
which, afterwards, in the twenty-second verse, is called
an holy angel warning him: in the thirtieth verse, it is
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 273
the fame time, v. 10. it is faid, ' St. Peter was praying,
and sell into a trance:' this we all agree to be a pos-
session of sleep, or a deep sleep; and in this trance, it
is faid, he faw Heaven opened; that is to fay, he
dreamed that he faw Heaven opened; it could be no-
thing else; for no interpreters will offer to insist, that
Heaven was really opened: also the hearing a voice,
v. 13, 15. must be in a dream. Thus it is apparent,
the will of God, concerning what we are to do, or not
Vol. III. S ta
to do ; what is, or is not to befall us; is and has been
thus conveyed by vision or dream, since the expiration
of the Levitical dispenfation, and since the mission of
the Holy Ghost.
When then did it cease? And if we do not know
when it ceased, how then are we sure it is at all ceased;
and what authority have we now, to reject all dreams,
or visions of the night, as they are called, more than
formerly?
I will not fay, but there may be more nocturnal de-
lusions now in the world, than there were in those
times; and, perhaps, the Devil may have gained more
upon mankind in these days, than he had thenj—
though we are not let into those things enough, to
know whether it is so or not: nor do we know, that
there were not as many unsignifying dreams in those
days, as now; and, perhaps, as much to be faid against
depending upon them: though, I think, there is not
one word, in Scripture, faid, to take off the regard men
might give to dreams, or to lessen the weight which
they might lay on them.
The only text, that I think looks like it, is the flout
Joseph's brethren put upon him, or threw out at him,
when they were speaking of him with contempt: Ge-
nesis xxxvii. 19. ' Behold this dreamer cometh:' and
again, v. 20. ' Let us slay him, and cast him into
some pit, and we shall see what will become of his
dreams.*
This, indeed, looks a little like the present language
against dreams; but even this is sufficiently rebuked
in the consequences; for those dreams of Joseph's did
come all to pass, and proved the superior influence
such.
such things have upon the affairs of men, in spight of
all the contempt they can cast upon them.
The maxim I have laid down to myself, for my con-
duct in this affair, is, in sew words, that we stiould
not lay too great stress upon dreams, and yet not
wholly neglect them.
I remember, I was once present where a long dis-
pute was warmly carried on, between two persons of
my acquaintance, upon this very subject; the one a
layman, the other a clergyman; but both very pious
and religious persons. The first thought there was no
heed at all to be given to dreams; that they could have
no justisiable original; that they were delusions, and no
more; that it was atheistical to lay any stress upon
them; and that he could give such objections against
them, as that no man of good principles could avoid
being convinced by; that as to there being a commu-
nication from the invisible to the visible world, it was
a chimæra; and that he faw no foundation for believ-
ing any reality in such a thing, unless I would set up
for a popish Limbus or purgatory, which had no foun-
dation in the Scripture.
I. He faid, if dreams were from the agency of any
prescient being, the notices would be more direct, and
the discoveries clear; not by allegories and emblema-
tic fancies, expressing things impersect and dark: for
to what purpose should spirits unembodied sport with
mankind, warning him of approaching-mischiess by
the most ridiculous enigmas, sigures, &c. leaving the
wretch to guess what awaited him, though of the ut-
most consequence, and to perish if he mistook the
meaning of it; and leaving him, sometimes, persectly
at a loss to know whether he was right or wrong; and
S a without
without any rule or guide to walk by, in the most dif-
ficult eases.
II. He objected, that, with the notice of evil, sup-
pose it to be rightly understood, there was not given si
power to avoid it; and therefore it could not be al-
ledged, that the notice was any way kind, and that it
was not likely to proceed from a benesicent spirit, but
merely fortuitous, and of no signisicancy.
III. He objected, that if such notices as those were
of such weight, why were they not constant; but that
sometimes they were given, and sometimes omitted,
though cases were equally important; and that there-
fore they did not seem to proceed from any agent,
whose actions were to be fairly accounted for.
IV. He faid, that oftentimes we had very distinct
and formal dreams, without any signisication at all;
that we could neither know any thing probable, or any
thing rational of them; and that it would be profane
to suggest that to come from Heaven, which was too
apparently foolish and inconsistent.
V. As men were not always thus warned, or sup-
plied with notices of good or evil, so all men were not
alike supplied with them; and what reason could we
give, why one man, or one woman, should not have
the fame hints as another.
The clergyman gave distinct answers to all these ob-
jections; and to me, I consess, very fatisfactory: whe-
ther they may be so to those that read them, is no con-
cern of mine,—let every one judge for himself.
I. He faid, that as to the signisication of dreams, and
the objections against them, because dark and doubtful,
that they are expressed generally by hieroglyphica re-
presentations, similies, allusions, and figurative emble-
matic
277
matic ways of expressing things, was true; and that, by
this means, for want of interpretation, the thing was
not understood, and, consequently, the evil not shunned.
This, he faid, was the only difficulty that remained to
him in the case; but that he could see nothing in it
against the signisication of them, because thus it was
before: for dreams were often allegoric and allusive,
when they were evidently from God; and what the end
and design of Providence in that was, we could not pre-
tend to enquire.
II. To the second, he faid, we charged God foolish-
ly, to fay he had given the notice of evil without the
power to avoid it,—which he denied; and affirmed,
that if any one had not power to avoid the evil, it was
no notice to him ; that it was want of giving due heed
to that notice, not for want of the notice being suffi-
cient, that any evil followed, and that men first neglect-
ed themselves, and then charged the judge of all the
earth, with not doing right.
III. Likewise he faid, the complaint, that these no-
tices were not constant, was unjust; for he doubted not
but they were so; but our discerning was crazed and
clouded by our negligence in not taking due notice of
it; that we hoodwinked our understanding, by pre-
tending dreams were not to be regarded; and the voice
really spoke, but we refused to hear, being negligent of
our own good.
IV. In the fame sense he answered the fourth, and
said, it was a mistake to fay, that sometimes dreams hai
no import at all; he observed, it was only to be faid, none
that we could perceive the reason of; which was owing
to our blindness and supine negligence, to be secure at
?ne time, and our heads too much alarmed at another;
S3 (•
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
so that the spirit, which we might he faid to be con.
versing with in a dream, was constantly arid equally
kind and careful; but our powers, not always in the
fame state of action, nor equally attentive to, or reten-
tive of the hints that were given; or things might be
rendered more or less intelligible to us, as the powers of
our foul were more or less dozed or fomniated with the
oppression of vapours from the body, which occasions
sleep: for though the soul cannot be faid to sleep itself,
yet how far its operations may be limited, and the un-t
derstanding prescribed, by the sleepiness of the body,
fays he, 1 will not undertake; let the anatomist judge
of.it, who can account for the contexture of the parts,
and for their operations, which I cannot answer to.
V. As to the last question, why people are not equals
ly supplied with such warnings, he faid, this seemed to
be no question at all in the case; for Providence itself
might have some share in the direction of it, and then
that rovidence might perhaps be limited by some su-
perior direction, the fame that guides all the solemn
dispositions of nature, and was a wind blowing where
it listeth . that as to the converse of spirits, though
he allowed the thing itself, yet he did not tie it up to a
stated course of conversing, that it should be the fame
always, and to all people, and on all occasions; but that
it seemed to be spontaneous, and consequently arbitra-
ry, as if the spirits linembodied had it left to them to
converse as they thought sit, how, where, and with
whom they would; that all he answered for in that
discourse, was for the thing itself; that such a thing
there was, but why there was so much of it, or why
no more, was none of his business, and, he believed, a
discovery was not yet made to mankind of that part.
J thought
I thought it would be much to the purpose, to re-
mark, this opinion of another man, because it corres-
ponded so exactly with my own; but I have not done
with my friend, for he led me into another enquiry,
which indeed I had not taken so much notice of be-
fore; and this was introduced by the following ques-
tion:
You seem, fays he, to be very inquisitive obout
dreams, and to doubt, though I think you have no
reason for it, os the reality of the world of spirits, which
dreams are such an evidence of. Pray, fays he, what
think you of waking dreams, transes, visions, noises,
voices, hints, impulses, and all these waking testimo-
nies of an invisible world, and of the communication,
that there is between us and them, which are generally
entertained with our eyes open.
This led me into many reflections upon past things,
which I had been witness to as well in myself as in
other people, and particularly in my former solitudes,
when I had many occasions to mark such things as
these; and I could not but entertain a free converfa-
tion with my friend upon this subject, as often as I had
opportunity, of which I must give some account.
I had, one day, been conversing so long with him,
upon the common received notions of the planets be-
ing habitable, and of a diversity of worlds, that I think
verily, I was for some days like a man transported into
these regions myself; whether my imagination is more
addicted to realizing the things I talk of, as if they
were in view, I know not; or whether, by the power
of the converse of spirits I speak of, I was, at that time,
enabled to entertain clearer ideas of the invisible world,
I really cannot tell; but' I certainly made a journey to
all those supposed habitable bodies in my imagination,
and I know not but it may be very useful to tell you
what I met with in my way, and what the wiser I am
for the discovery; whether you will be the wiser for
the relation at second hand, I cannot answer for that.
I could make a long discourse here of the power of
imagination, and how bright the ideas of distant things
may be found in the mind, when the foul is more than
ordinarily agitated. It is certain, the extraordinary
intelligence conveyed in this manner, is not always re-
gular; sometimes it is exceedingly confused, and the
brain being not able to digest it, turns round too fast;
this tends to lunacy and distraction, and the swiftness
of the motion these ideas come in with, occasions a
commotion in nature, the understanding is mobbed
with them, disturbed, runs from one thing to another,
and digests nothing; this is well expressed in our com-
mon way of talking of a mad-man, namely, that his
head is turned. Indeed, I can liken it to nothing so
wellj as to the wheels of a wind-mill; which, if the
fails, or wings, are set, and the wind blows a storm, run
round so fast, that they will set all on fire, if a skilful
hand be not ready to direct and manage it.
But not to enter upon this whimsical description of
lunacy, which perhaps may be nobody's opinion but
my own, I proceed thus: that when the head is strong,
and capable of the impressions; when the understand-
ing is empowered to digest the insinite variety of ideas,
which present to it from the extended fancy; then, I
fay, the soul of man is capable to act strangely upon
the invisibles in nature, and upon futurity, realizing
every thing to itself in such a lively manner, that what
it thus thinks of, it really sees, speaks to, hears, con-
's ve rfes
verses with, &c. as lively, as if the substance was really
before his face; and this is what I mean by those that
dream waking, by visions, trances, or what you please
to call them; for it is not necessary to this part, that
the man should be asleep.
I return to my share of these things. It was after
my conversing with my learned friend, about the hea-
venly bodies, the motion, the distances, and the bulk
of the planets; their situation, and the orbits they
move in; the share of light, heat, and moisture, which
they enjoy; their respect to the Sun, their influences
upon us, and, at last, the possibility of their being habit-
able, with all the arcana of the skies; it was on this
occasion, I fay, that my imagination, always given to
wander, took a flight of its own; and as I have told
you, that I had an invincible inclination to travel, so I
think I travelled as sensibly, to my understanding, over
all the mazes and wastes of insinite space, in quest of
those things, as ever I did over the defarts of Karaka-
thay, and the uninhabited wastes of Tartary; and, per-
haps, may give as useful an account of my journey.
When first my fancy raised me up in the consines of
this vast abyss, and having now travelled through the
misty regions of the atmosphere, could look down as I
mounted, and fee the world below me, it is scarce pos-
sible to imagine how little, how mean, how despicable
every thing looked; let any man but try this experi-
ment of himself, and he shall certainly find the fame
thing; let him but fix his thoughts so intensely upon
what is, and must necessarily be seen, in a stage or two
higher than where we now live, removed from the par-
ticular converse with the world, as to realize to his
imagination what he can suppose to be there, he shall
find all that is below him, as distant objects always do,
lessen in his mind as they do in his sight.'
Could a man subsist without a supply of food, and
live but one mile in perpendicular height from the sur-
face, he would despise lise and the world at such a rate,
that he would hardly come down to have it be all his
own; the foul of man is capable of being continually
elevated above the very thoughts of human things; is
capable of travelling up to the highest and most distant
regions of light; but when it does, as it rises above the
earthly globe, so the things of this globe sink to him.
When I was at first lifted up in my imaginary travels,
this was the first thing of moment I remarked; name-
ly, how little the world, and every thing about it, seem-
ed to me. I am not given to preach, or drawing long
corollaries, as the learned call them; but 1 commend it
to my friends to observe, that could we always look
upon the things of lise with the fame eyes, as we shall do
when we come to the edge of time; when one eye can,
fts it were, look back on the world, and the other look
forward into eternity, we should fave ourselves the
trouble of much repentance, and should scorn to touch
many of those things, in which now we fancy our chief
selicity is laid up: believe me, we shall see more with
half an eye then, and judge better at first glance, than we
can now, with all our pretended wisdom and penetra-
tion. , In a word, all the paslions and affections suffer
a general change upon such a view, and what we defire
before, we contemn then with abhorrence.
Having begun to soar, the world was soon out of
fight, unless that, as I rose higher, and could look at
her in a due position as to the fun, 1 could see her turn-
ed into a moon, and shine by reflection: * Aye, shine
on,'
on,' said I, » with thy borrowed rays, for thou hast but
very sew of thy own.'
When my fancy had mounted me thus beyond the
vestiges of the earth, and leaving the atmosphere behind
me, I had set my firm foot upon the verge of infinite;
when I drew no breath, but subsisted upon pure æther,
it is not possible to express fully the vision of the place;
first, you are to conceive of sight as unconfined, and
you'see here at least the whole solar system at one view.
Nor is your sight bounded by the narrow circumser-
ence of one fun, and its attendants of planets, whose
orbits are appropriated to its proper system; but above
and beyond, and on every side, you see innumerable
suns, and attending on them, planets, fatellites, and in-
serior lights proper to their respective systems, and all
those moving in their subordinate circumstances, with-
out the least confusion, with glorious light and splendor
inconceivable.
In this first discovery, it is most natural to observe,
how plainly it is to be seen, that the reason of the crea-
tion of such immense bodies as the fun, stars, planets,
and moons in the great circle of the lower heaven,. is
far from being to be found in the ftudjf of nature, on
the surface of our earth: but he that will see thorough-
ly, why God has formed the heavens the work of his
hands, and the moon and the stars which he has made,
must soar up higher; and then as he will see with other
eyes than he did before, so he will see the god of na-
ture has formed an infinite variety, which we know
nothing of, and that all the creatures are a reason to
one another for their creation. .
I could not forget myself, however, when I was got
up thus high; I fay, I could not but look back upon
the
the state of man in this lise; how consined from tllefe
discoveries; how vilely employed in biting and de-
vouring, envying and maligning one another, and all
for the vilest trifles that can be conceived.
But I was above it all here; and all those things
-which appeared so afflicting before, gave me not the
least concern now; for the foul being gone of this
errand, had quite different notices of the whole state of
lise, and was neither influenced by passions or affections
as it was before.
Here I faw into many things by the help of a sedate
enquiry, that we can entertain little or no notion of, in
a state of common superficial lise ; and I defire to leave a
sew remarks of this imaginary journey, as I did of my
ordinary travels.
When I came, I fay, to look into the solar system, as
I have hinted, I saw persectly the emptiness of our mo-
dern notions, that the planets were habitable worlds;
and shall give a brief description of the case, that others
may see it too, without the necessity of taking so long a
journey.
And first, for the word habitable, I understand the
meaning of it to be, that the place it is spoken of, is
qualified for the subsistence and existence of man and
beast, and to preserve the vegetative and sensitive lise;
and you may depend upon it, that none of the planets*
except the moon, are in this sense habitable; and the
moon, a poor little watery damp thing, not above as
bjg as Yorkshire, neither worth being called a world,
nor capable of rendering lise comfortable to mankind,
if indeed supportable; and, if you will believe one's
mind capable of seeing at so great a distance, I assure
you, I did not see man, woman, or child there, in all
my
contemplative voyage to it: my meaning is, I did not
fee the least reason to believe, there was or could be any
there. As to the rest of the planets, I will take them in
their order: Saturn, (the remotest from the fun, which,
is in the centre of the system) is a vast extended globe,
of a substance cold and moist, its greatest degree of light
is never so much as our greatest daiknefs may be laid
to be in clear weather, and its cold unfufFerable; and
if it were a body composed of the fame elements as our
earth, its sea would be all brass, and its earth all iron;
that is to fay, both would be continually frozen, as the
north-pole in the winter solstice. What man, or men,
and of what nature, could inhabit this frigid planet, un-
less the Creator must be supposed to have created ani-
mal creatures for the climate, not the climate for the
creatures. All the notions of Saturn's being a habit-
able world, are contrary to nature, and incongruous
with sense; for Saturn is at so infinite a distance from
the fun, that it has not above one ninetieth part of the
light and heat that we enjoy on our earth; so that the
light there, may be faid to be much less than our star-
light, and the cold ninety times greater than the coldest
day in our winter.
Jupiter is in the fame predicament; his constitution,
however in its degree much milder than Saturn, yet
certainly is not qualisied for human bodies to subsist,
having only one twenty-seventh part of the light and
heat that we enjoy here; consequently, its light is, at
best, as dim as our twilight, and its heat so little in the
summer of its situation, as to be as far from comfort-
able, as it is in its winter situation insupportable.
Mars, if you will believe our ancient philosophers,
is a fiery planet, in the very disposition of its influence,
as
as well as by the course of its motion; and yet even
here, the light is not above one-half, and its heat one-
third of ours. And, on the other hand, as Saturn is
cold and moist, so this planet is hot and dry, and would
admit no habitation of man, through the manisest in-
temperance of the air, as well as want of light to make
it comfortable, and moisture to make it fruitful; for, by
the nature of the planet, as well as by clear-sighted ob-
servation, there is never any rain, vapour, fog, or dew
in that planet.
Venus and Mercury are in the extreme the other
way, and would destroy nature by their heat and daz-
zling light, as the other would by their darkness and
cold; so that you may depend upon it, I could see very
clearly, that all these bodies were neither inhabited or
habitable: and the earth only, as we call it, being seat-
ed between these intemperances, appeared habitable;
surrounded with an atmosphere, to desend it from the
invasion of the inconsistent æther, in which perspiration
could not be performed by the lungs, and by which the
needful vapour it sends forth, is preserved from dissipat-
ing into the waste and abyss, and is condensed, and
timely returns in showers of rain to moisten, cool, and
nourish the exhausted earth.
It is true, the way I went, was no common road, yet
I found abundance of passengers going to and fro here,
and, particularly, innumerable armies of good and evil
spirits, who all seemed busily employed, and continual-
ly upon the wing, as if some expresses passed between
the earth, (which, in this part of my travels, I place be-
low me,) and some country insinitely beyond all that I -
could reach the sight of; for, by the way, though I take
upon me, in this sublime journey, to see a great deal of
tlie
invisible world, yet I was not arrived to a length to see
into any part of the world of light, beyond it all; that
vision is beyond all, and I pretend to fay nothing of it
here, except this only, that a clear view of this part,
with optics unclouded, is a great step to prepare the
mind for a look into the other.
But to return to my station in the highest created
world: flatter not yourselves that those regions are un-
inhabited, because the planets appear to be so. No, no,
I assure you this is that world of spirits, or, at least, is
a world of spirits.
Here I faw a clear demonstration of Satan being the
prince of the power of the air; it is in this boundless
waste he is consined: whether it be his busy, restless
inclination has posted him here, that he may affront
God in his government of the world, and do injury to
mankind in mere envy to his happiness, as the famed
Mr. Milton fays; or whether it is, that by the eternal
decree of Providence, he is appointed to be man's con-
tinual disturber, for divine ends to us unknown; this
I had not wandered far enough to be informed of,
those secrets being lodged much higher, than imagina-
tion itself ever travelled.
But here, I fay, I found Satan keeping his court, or
camp, we may call it which we please. The innumer-
able legions that attended his immediate service were
such, that it is not at all to be Wondered, that he sup-
plied every angle of this world, and had his work going
forward, not in every country only, but even in every
individual inhabitant of it, with all the dexterity and
application imaginable.
This fight gave me a just idea of the Devil, as a
tempter, but really let me into a secret which I did not
so
2
so well know before, or at least did not consider; name-
ly, that the Devil is not capable of doing half the mis-
chief in the world, that we lay to his charge; that he
works by engines and agents, stratagems and art, is
true, and a great deal is owing to his vigilance and ap-
plication; for he is a very diligent sellow in his calling;
but it is plain, his power is not so great as we imagine;
he can only prompt to the crime, he cannot force us to
» commit it; so that, if we sin, it is all our own, the
Devil is only to be charged with the art of insinuation;
just as he began with Eve, he goes on with us; in
short, he reasons us out of our resolutions to do well,
and wheedles us to an agreement to do ill; working us
up to an opinion, that what evil we are about to do is
no sin, or not so great a sin as we seared, and so draws
us by art into the crime we had resolved against; this
indeed the Scripture intimates, when it speaks of Satan's
devices, the subtilty of the wicked one, his lying in
wait, &c. But to charge the Devil with forcing us to
offend, is doing the Devil a great deal of wrong: our
doing evil, is from the native propensity of our wills;—
bumanum cji peccare. I will not enter here into the
dispute about an original corruption in nature, which
1 know many good men, and learned men, dispute;
but that there is a secret aptness to offend, and a secret
backwardness to what is good; which, if it is not born
with us, we can give no account how we came by,—
this, I think, every man will grant; and that this is
the Devil that tempts us, the Scripture plainly tells us,
when it fays, ' Every man is tempted, when he is
d/awn away of his own lust, and enticed.'
There is a secret love of folly and vanity in the mind,
and manjiind are hurried down the stream of their own
affections,
affections into crime; it is agreeable to them to do this,
and it is aforce upon nature not to do it.
Vice is down hill, and when we do offend,
"Tis nature all, we act as we intend.
Virtue's up hill, and all against the grain;
Resolv'd reluctant, and purfu'd with pain.
But to return to the Devil; his power not extend-
ing to creation, and being not able to force the world
into an open rebellion against Heaven, as doubtless he
would do if he could, he is left to the exercise of his
skill; and, in a word, we may fay of.him, that he lives
by his wits; that is to fay, maintains his kingdom by
subtilty and most exquisite cunning: and if my vision
of his politics is not a new discovery, I am very much
mistaken.
His innumerable legions, as I hinted above, like aids
du camp to a general, are continually employed to carry
his orders, and execute his commissions in all parts of
the world; and in every individual to oppose the au-
thority of God, and the selicity of man, to the utmost
of his.power..
The first and greatest part of his government, is over
those favage nations where he has obtained to set him-
self up as God, and to be worshipped instead of God;
and I observed, that though having full possession of
these people, even by whole nations at a time, that is
the easiest part of his government; yet he is far from
neglecting his interest there, but is exceeding vigilant
to keep up his authority among those people. This he
does by sending messengers into those parts, to answer
the pawawings or conjurings even of the most igno-
rant old wizard; raising storms, and making noises and
Vol. III. T shrieks
shrieks in the air; flashes of insernal fire, and any
thing to fright the people, that they may not forges
him, and that they may have no other gods but him.
He has his peculiar agents for this work, which he
makes detachments of, as his occasions require; some
to one part of the world, some to another; as to North
America, even as far as to the frozen provinces of
Greenland; to the north of Europe; to the Lapland-
ers, Samoiedes, and Mongul Tartars; also to the Gog
and Magog of Asia, and to the devil-makers of China
and Japan; again to the southern parts of Asia, to the
isles of the Indian and South Seas, and to the south
parts of America and Africa.
Through all these parts he has an uncontrouled
.power, and is either Worshipped in person, or by his
representatives, the idols and monsters which the poor
people bow down to; and Satan has very little trouble
with them.
He employs, indeed, some millions of his misiip-
naries in those countries, who labour ad propaganda
Jidem, and fail not to return, and bring him an account
of their success; and I doubt not, but some of them'
were at hand in my island, when the savages appeared
there: for if the Devil had not been in"them, they
would hardly have come straggling over the sea so far,
to devour one another.
In all these countries, the brutality, the cruelty, and'
ravenous, bloody dispositions of the people, is to me a
certain testimony, that the Devil has full possession of
them.
But to return to my observations, in the exalted state
of my fancy, I must tell you, that though the Devil
carried on his schemes of government, in those blinded
, parts
parts of the world, with great ease, and all things went
to his mind, I found he had more difficulty in the nor-
thern parts of the temperate zone; I mean, our climate,,
and the rest of Christendom; and, consequently, he
did not act here by whole squadrons, and by generals;
but was obliged to carry on his business among us by
particular solicitations; to act by particular agents, up-
on particular persons; attacking the personal conduct
of men in a manner peculiar to himself. But so far was,
this difficulty from being any advantage to the world,
or difadvantage to the Devil, that it only obliged him
to make use of the more engines; and as he had no
want of numbers, I observed, that his whole clan seem-
ed busy on this side; the number of which consists of
innumerable millions: so that, in Ihort, there was not
a devil wanting, no, not to manage every individual
man, woman, and child in the world. ,
• How, and in what manner evil angels attend us,
what their business, how far their power extends, and
how far it is restrained, and by whom, were all made
plain to me at one view, in this state of ecclaircissement
that I stood in now, and I will describe it, if I can, in
a sew heads of fact; you may enlarge upon them as
experience guides. :- . •
And first, the limitations of the Devil's power are
necessary to be understood, and how directed: for exr
ample, you must know, that though the numbers of
these evil spirits, which are thus diligently employed in
mischief, are so insinitely great, yet the numbers of
good angels or good spirits, which are employed by a
superior authority, and from a place insinitely distant
and high above the Devil's bounds, is not only equalf
I fay, equal at least in number, but insinitely superior
T a in
in power, and it is this particular which makes it plain,-
that all the Devil does, or that his agents can do, is by
continual subtilty, extreme vigilance and application,
under infinite checks, rebukes, and callings off by the
attendant spirits, who have power to correct and re-
strain him upon all occasions; just as a man does a dog
ora thief, when he is discovered.
On this account, it is first plain, I fay, that the Devil
can do nothing by force; he cannot kill, maim, hurt,
or destroy; if he could, mankind would have but a
very precarious state of lise in the world: nay, the
Devil cannot blast the fruits of the earth, cause dearth,
droughts, famine, or scarcity; neither can he spread
noxious fumes in the air, to insect the world; if any of
those things were in his power, he would soon unpeo-
ple God's creation, and put his Maker to the necessity
of a new fiat, or of having no more human creatures to
worship and honour him.
You will ask me, how I came to know all this? I
fay, ask me no questions, till the elevation of your fancy
carries you up to the outer edge of the atmosphere, as I
tell you mine did: there you will see the prince of the
air in his full state, managing his univerfal empire with
the most exquisite art. But if ever you can come to a
clear view of his person, do but look narrowly, and you
will see a great clog at his foot, in token of his limited
power; and though he is himself immense in bulk, and
moves like a fiery meteor in the air, yet you always see
a hand, with a thunderbolt, impending just over his
head; the arm coming out of a fiery cloud, which is a
token of the sentence he is under ; that at the end of his
appointed time, that cloud shall break, and that hand
strike
ftrike him with the thunder represented, down, down
for ever, into a place prepared for him.
But all this does not hinder him, who is prompted
by insernal rage against the kingdom of God and the
welfare of man, from pulhing mankind, as above, upon
all the methods of their own ruin and destruction, by
alluring baits, ^cunning artifice, night-whispers, infu-
sing wicked desires, and fanning the flames of\ mens*
Lusts, pride, avarice, ambition, revenge, and all the
wicked excursions of corrupt nature.
It would take up a long tract by itself, to form a
system of the Devils politics, and to lay down a body
of his philosophy: I observed, however, that some of
his general rules are such as these.
I. To infuse notions of liberty into the minds of
men, that it is hard they should be born into the
world with inclinations, and then be forbidden to gra-
tify them; that such and such pleasures mould be pre-
pared in the nature of things, made suitable and proper
to the senses and faculties; which, on the other hand,
are prepared in mere constitution, and placed in his
foul, and that then he should be forbidden, under the
penalty of a curse, to taste them; that to place an ap-
petite in the man, and a strong powerful gust to these
delights, and then declare them fatal to him, would be
laying a snare to mankind in his very constitution, and
making his brightest faculties be the betrayers of his
foul to misery; which would not consist with justice,
much less with the goodness of a creator,
II. To persuade from hence, that the notions of fu-
ture punishments are fables and amusements; that it
is not rational to think a just God would prepare infi-
nite and eternal punishments, for sinite and trivial of-
T 3 sences;
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
sences; that God does riot take notice of the minute
acts of lise, and lay every slip to our charge; but that
the merciful dispositions of God, who'so bountifully
directs the whole world to be assistant to the profit and
delight of mankind, has certainly given him leave to
enjoy it at sill, and take the comfort of it without sear,
III. Of late, indeed, the Devil has learned; for
devils may improve, as well as men in the arts of do-
ing ill: at last, I fay, he has learned to infuse a wild
notion into the heads of some people, who are first fit-
ted for it, by having reasoned themselves, in favour of
their loose desires, up to a pitch, that there is no such
thing as a God or a future state at all.
Now, as at first, the Devil was not fool enough to
attempt to put this jest upon man, his own antiquity
and eternity being a contradiction to it: sol found,
among my new discoveries, that the Devil took this
absurdity from man himself, and that it went among
Satan's people for a new invention. I found also, that
there was a black party employed upon this new sub-
tilty; these were a sort of devils, for Satan never wants
instruments, who were called Insinuators, and who
were formerly employed to prompt men to crimes by
dreams; and here I shall observe, that I learned a way
how to make any man dream of what I please: for ex-
ample, suppose one to be sound asleep,or, as we fay, in
a deep sleep, or dead asleep, let another lay his mouth,
eloseto his ear, and whisper any thing to him so softly as
not to awaken him, the sleeping man shall certainly
dream of what was so whispered to him.
Let no man despise this hint; nothing is more sure,
than that many of our dreams are the whispers of the
Devil; who, by his Infinuators, whisoeis into our
„ - | heads
heads what wicked things he would have our thoughts
entertain and work upon; and take this with you, as
you go, those insinuating devils can do this as well
when we are awake, as when we are asleep; and this
will bring me to what I call impulses upon the mind,
which are certainly whispers in the ear, and no other,
and come either from good angels attending us, orfrom
the Devil's insinuators, which are always at hand, and
may be judged of, according as the subject our thoughts
are prompted to work upon, are,good or evil.
From whence, but from these insinuators, come our
causeless passions, our involuntary wickedness, sinning
in desire as effectually, as by actual committing the
crime we desire to commit?
Whence comes imagination to work upon wicked
and vicious objects, when the person is fast asleep, and
when he had not been under the preparation of wicked
discourse, or wicked thoughts, previous to those ima-
ginations? Who forms ideas in the mind of man?
Who presents beautiful or terrible figures to his fancy,
when his eyes are closed with sleep? Who, but these
insinuating devils, who invisibly approach the man
sleeping or waking, and whisper all manner of lewd,
abominable things into his mind.
Mr. Milton, whose imagination was carried up to
a greater height than 1 am now, went farther into the
abyss of Satan's empire a great way, especially when he
formed Satan's palace of Pandemonium; I fay, he was
exactly of this opinion, when he represented the Devil
tempting our mother Eve, in the shape of a toad lying
just at her ear, when she lay fast asleep in her bower;
where he whispered to her ear all the wicked things
which she entertained notions of by night, and which
T 4 prompted
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
prompted her, the next day, to break the great com-
mand, which was the rule of her lise; and accordingly
he brings in Eve telling Adam what an uneasy night's
rest she had, and relating her dream to him.
This thought, however laid down in a kind of jest, is
very seriously intended sand would, if well digested, di-
rect us very clearly in our judgment of dreams, viz. not
to suggest them to be always things of mere chance; but
1 that sometimes they are to be heeded, as useful warn-
ings of evil or good, by the agency of good spirits; as
at other times they are the artful insinuations of the
Devil, to inject wicked thoughts, and abhorred, abo-
minable ideas into the mind; which we ought not
only as much as possible to guard against, but even to
repent of, so far as the mind may have entertained and
acted upon them.
From this genera! vision of the Devil's management
of his affairs, which I must own I have had with my
eyes wide open, I find a^great many useful observations
to be made; and first, it can be no longer strange, that
while the commerce of evil spirits is so free, and the in-
tercourse between this world and that, is thus open, I
fay, it can be no longer strange, that there are so many
silent ways of spirits conversing; I mean spirits of ail
kinds.
For as I hive observed already, there is a residence
of good spirits; but they are placed infinitely higher,
out of the reach, and out of the sight of this lower or-
bit of Satan's kingdom; as those pass and repass invisi-
ble, I consess, 1 have yet had no ideas of them, but
those which I have received from my first view of the
insernal region: if I should have any superior eleva-
tions, and should be able to see the economy of Hea-»
yen,
297
ven, in his disposition of-things on earth, I shall be
as careful to convey them to posterity as they come in.
However, the tranfactions of good spirits with man,
are certainly the fame; for as God has, for a protection
and faseguard to mankind, limited the Devil from
affrighting him, by visible appearances in his native and
hellish deformity, and the horrid shape he would ne-
cesfarily bear; so, for man's selicity, even the glorious
angels of Heaven are very seldom allowed, at least not
lately, to appear in the glorious forms they formerly
took, or indeed in any form, or with a voice; the re-
straint of our fouls in the case of flesh and blood we
now wear, not admitting it, and not being able to fa-
miliarize those things to us; man being by no means,
in his incorporated state, qualisied for an open and easy
converfation with unembodied spirits.
Moreover, this would be breaking into the limits
which the wisdom and goodness of God has put to our
present state; Lmean, as to futurity, our ignorance in
which, is the greatest selicity of human life; and with-
out which necesfary blindness, man could not support
lise, for nature is no . way able to support a view into
futurity; I mean not into that part of futurity which
concerns us in our state of lise in this world.
I have often been myself among the number of those
fools, that would be their own fortune-tellers; but
when I look thus beyond the atmosphere, and see a
little speculatively into invisibles, I could easily per-
ceive, that it is our happiness that we are short-sighted
creatures, and can see but a very little before us: for ex-
ample, were we to, have the eyes of our fouls opened
through the eyes of our bodies, we should spe this very
immediate region of air which we breathe in, thronged
with
spirits, to us, blessed be God, now invisible, and which
would otherwise be most frightful: we should see into
the secret tranfactions of those messengers, who are em-
ploye s when the passing foul takes its leave of the re-,
luctant body, and perhaps see things nature would
shrink back from with the utmost terror and amaze-
ment. In a word, the curtain of Providence, for the
disposition of things here; and the curtain of judgment,
for the determination of the state of fouls hereafter,
would be alike drawn back; and what heart could sup-
port here its future state in life, much less that of its
future state after life, even good or bad.
It is then our selicity, that the converse of spirits,
and the visions of futurity, are silent, emblematic, and
done by hints, dreams, and impulses, and not by clear
vision and open discovery; they that defire a fuller and
plainer sight of these things, ask they know not what.
And it was a good answer of a gipsey, when a lady of
my acquain ance asked her to tell her fortune; * Do
not ask me, Lady,' faid the gipsey, ' to tell you what
you dare not hear.' The woman was a little honester
than her prosession intimated, and freely consessed it
was all a cheat, and that they knew nothing of for-
tunes; but had a course or round of doubtful ex-
pressions, to amuse ignorant people, and get a little
money.
Even the Devil's oracles, for such no doubt they
were at Delphos, and at other places, though the Devil
seemed, at that time, to have some liberties granted him,
which, it is evident, have since been denied him, were
allowed to be given only in doubtful expressions, dour
ble entendres, echoes of words, and such like: For
example,
example, a man going to sea, and enquiring of tho
oracle, thus:
Have I just cause the seas and storms to fear?
Echo. -. '- , Fear.
Another.
Shall we, the Parthian bowmen, fight or fly?
Echo. - Fly.
Such dark replies, and other words doubtful and
enigmatic, were frequently given and taken for answers,
by which the deluded world were kept in doubt of that
futurity they hunted after: but Satan, even then, was
not permitted to speak plain, or mankind to see what
awaited him behind the dark veil of futurity; nor was
it proper, on any account whatsoever, that it should be
otherwise.
But before I come to this, let me put some limits
to the elevations and visions I have mentioned before;
for as I am far from enthusiastic in my notions of
things, so I would not lead any one to fancy them-
selves farther enlightened than is meet, or to see things
unseeable, as St. Paul heard things unutterable.
And therefore let me add here, that the highest rap-
tures, trances, and elevations of the soul, are bounded
by the eternal decree of Heaven; and let men pretend
to what visions they please, it is all romance; all be-
yond what I have talked of above, is fabulous and ab-
surd; and it will for ever be true, as the Scripture fays,
not only * those things are hid from the eye,' but even
from the conception.
Upon this occasion I must own, that I think it is
(Criminal to attempt to form ideas either of Hell or of
Heaven
Heaven in the mind, other than as the Scripture has
described them, by the state rather than the place; we
are told, in plain words, ' it hath not entered into the
heart of man to conceive,'either.of what is prepared
for the future state of the happy or miserable; it is
enough for us to entertain the general notion, the fa-
vour of God is heaven, and the loss of it the most
dreadful of all hells.
A Heaven of joy must in his presence dwell;
And in his absence every place is Hell.
My meaning is this; all visions, or propounded vi-
sions, either of Heaven or Hell, are mere delusions of
the mind, and generally are fictions of a waking, be-
wildered head; and you may see the folly of them in
the meanest of the descriptions, which generally end in
shewing some glorious place, fine walks, noble illus-
trious palaces, gardens of gold, and people of shining
forms, and the like. Alas! these are all so short, that
they are unworthy the thoughts of a mind elevated two
degrees above darkness and dirt: all these things
amount to no more than Mahomet's Alcoran, and
the glorious state of things represented by him to his
believers. In Ihort, all this makes only a heaven of
fense, but comes so infinitely short of what alone must,
or can be a heaven to an exalted glorisied spirit, that I
as much want words to express how contemptible the
best of these descriptions are, as to a true description of
heaven, as I do to express a true idea, or description of
heaven myself.
And how should this be done? We can form no idea
of any thing that we know not and have not seen, but
in the fprm of something that we have seen. How
then.
then can we form an idea of God or Heaven, in any
form but of something which we have seen or known?
JBy what image in the mind can we judge of spirits? By
what idea conceive of eternal glory? Let us cease to
imagine concerning it; it is impossible to attain; it is
criminal to attempt it.
Let me, therefore, hint here, that supposing myself,
as before, in the orbit of the fun, take it in its immense
distance as our astronomers conceive of it, or on the
edge only of the atmosphere, with a clear view of the
whole solar system, the region of Satan's empire all in
view, and the world of spirits laid open to me.
Yet let me give you this for a check to your imagi-
nation, that even here, the space between finite and in-
finite is as impenetrable as on earth, and will for ever
be so, till our spirits being uncased, shall take their
flight to the center of glory, where every thing shall be
seen as it is; and therefore you must not be surprised,
if I am come down again from the verge of the world
of spirits, the fame short-sighted wretch, as to futurity
and things belonging to Heaven and Hell, as I went
up; for elevations of this kind are meant only to give
us a clearer view of what we are, not of what we shall
be; and it is an advantage worth travelling for too.
All this I thought necessary to prevent the whimfical
building of erroneous structures on my foundation, and
fancying themselves carried farther than they are able
to go.
I come therefore back to talk of things familiar, and
particularly to mention in the next place, some of
those other ways, by which we have notice given of this
converse of spirits which I have been speaking of; for
the
the whispers and insinuators I have mentioned, g<*
sometimes farther than ordinary.
One of those other methods is; when, by strong im-
pulses of the mind, as we call them, we are directed to
do, or not to do, this or that particular thing that we
have before us to do, or are under consultation about*
I am a witness to many of these things, as well in my
own lise, as in my observation of others.
I know a man, who being at some distance from
London, not above six or seven miles, a friend that
came to visit and dine with him urged him to go to
London. What for, fays his friend, is there any busi-
ness wants me? Nay, nothing, fays the other, but for
your company; I do not know of any thing wants
you; and so gave over importuning him. But as his
friend had given it over, a strong impulse of mind
seized him, and followed him like a voice, with this,
* go to London, go to London.' He put it by several
times, but it went on still, ' go to London, go to Lon-
don;' and nothing else could come upon his thoughts,
but 'go to London.' He came back to his friend,
* hark ye,' fays he,' tell me sincerely, is all well at Lon-
don? Am I wanted there? Did you ask me to go to
London with you on any particular account?' ' Not
I,' fays his friend, * in the least; I saw all your family,
and all is very Well there; nor did they fay they had
any particular occasion for you to return ; I only ask it,
as I told you, for the fake of your company.' So he put
off going again, but could have no quiet, for it still fol-
lowed him; and, no doubt, a good spirit communica-
ted it, ' go to London; and, at length, he resolved he
would go, and did so; and when he came there,
he found a letter and messengers had been at his
house
house to seek him, and to tell him of a particular busi-
ness, which was, first and last, worth above a thoufand
pounds to him, and which, if he had not been found
that very night, would have been in danger of being
lost.
I seriously advise all sober thinking persons, not to
disregard those powerful impulses of the mind, in
things otherwise indifferent or doubtful; but believe
them to be whispers from some kind spirit, which sees
something that we cannot see, and knows something
that we cannot know.
Besides, unless infinite power should take off the
silence that is imposed upon the inhabitants of the in-
visible world, and allow them to speak audibly, nothing
tan be a plainer voice; they are words spoken to the
mind, though not to the ear; and they are a certain in-
telligence of things unseen, because they are given by
persons unseen, and the event consirms it beyond all
dispute.
I know a man, who made it his rule always to obey
these silent hints ; and he has often declared to me,
that when he obeyed them he never miscarried, and if
he neglected them, or went on contrary to them, he
never succeeded; and gave me a particular case of his
own, among a great many others, wherein he was thus
directed. He had a particular case befallen him, where-
in he was under the displeasure of the government, and
was prosecuted for a misdemeanor, and brought to
a trial in the King's Bench court, where a verdict was
brought against him, and he was cast; and times run-
ning very hard, at that time, against the party he was
of, he was afraid to stand the hazard of a sentence, and
absconded, taking care to make due provision for his
bail,
bail, arid to pay them wfiatever they might suffer. Id
this circumstance he was in great distress, and no way-
presented unto him, but to fly out of the kingdom,
which being to leave his family, children, and employ
ment, was very bitter to him, and he knew not what
to do; all his friends advised him not to put himself
into the hands of the law, which, though the offence
was not capital, yet, in his circumstances, seemed to
threaten his utter ruin. In this extremity, he selt one
morning, (just as he had awaked, and the thoughts of
his misfortune began to return upon him;) I fay, he
felt a strong impulse darting into his mind thus, ' write
a letter to them:' it spoke so distinctly to him, and, as
it were, forcibly, that, as he has often faid since, he can
scarce persuade himself not to believe but that he heard
it; but he grants that he did not really hear it, too. .
However, it repeated the words daily and hourly to
him; till at length, walking about in his chamber where
he was hidden, very pensive and fad, it jogged him
again, and he answered aloud to it, as if it had been a
voice, 1 who shall I write to?' It returned immediately,
'write to the Judge.' This pursued him again for
several days, till at length he took his pen, ink, and
paper, and fat down to write, but-knew not one word
of what he should fay; but dabitur in bac hora, he
wanted not words: it was immediately impressed on
his mind, and the words flowed upon his pen, in a
manner that even charmed himselj7, and silled him with
expectations of success.
The letter was so strenuous in argument, so pathetic
in its eloquence, and so moving and persuasive, that as
soon as the judge read it, he sent him word he should
be easy, for he would endeavour to make that matter
light
light to him; and, in a word, never left it, till he ob-
tained to stop prosecution, and restore him to his liber-
ty and to his family.
These hints^ I fay, are of a nature too significant to
be neglected; whence they come, is the next enquiry.
I answer, they are the whispers of some subsisting spirit,
communicated to the soul without the help of the or-
gan, without the assistance of a particular sound, and
Without any other communication; but take it as you
go, not without the merciful disposition of that Power
that governs that world, as well as this that we are sen-
sible of; how near those spirits are to us, who thus
foresee what concerns us, and how they convey these
hints into our minds, as well waking as sleeping, or
how they are directed, that I could not discover, nor
can yet resolve, no, not in the highest of my imaginary
elevation, any more than in what manner they are li-
mited and restrained.
I have been asked by some, to whom I have talked,
freely of my frequent applications to these things, if I
knew any thing by those observations, of the manner
of the disposition of the human foul, after its departure
out of the body? I mean, as to its middle state, and whe-
ther, as some think, it has a wandering existence in the
upper part of the waste or abyss near to, but not in a
present, state os selicity? Whether it is still confined
within the atmosphere of the earth, according to others,
as in a limbus, or purgatory? Or in the circle of the
fun? as others fay. Whether 1 knew or perceived any
thing of our Saviour's being ascended into the body of
the sun only, and not into the highest heaven, receiving
his redeemed fouls to himself, and into an incorpora-
tion with his glory there, till the restitution of all
Vol. III. U things?
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
things? Whether s perceived any thing of Satan being
possessed of the reprobate fouls as they departed; and of
his substitutes, as executioners, being empowered and
employed to torment them, according to the received
notions of the wise contemplators of such things?
I answered, as I do now, that not only nothing of
all this appears; but, on the contrary, such serious con-
templations as mine, give a great and abundant reason
to be fatisfied, that there is nothing in it all, but mere
dream and enthusiastic conjecture: I own, that the
agents I mentioned, make use of all those things to ter-
rify and affright poor ignorant people out of their
senses; and to drive them often into desperation, and
after to restore them by a cure that is worse than the
distemper; namely, by a hardness and coldness of tem-
per, rejecting entirely all the notions of eternity and fu-
turity, and so fitting them to go out of the world as they
lived in it, viz. without troubling themselves with what
is to come after it.
But I return to the article of impulses of the mind;
for I lay greater weight upon these, than upon any of
the other discoveries of the invisible world, because they
have something in them relating to what we are about,
something directing, something to guide us in'avoiding
the evils that attend us, and to accepting, or rather em-
bracing opportunities of doing ourselves good when
they present, which many times, for want of the know-
ledge of our way, we irrecoverably let slip.
Voices, apparitions, noises, and all the other affright-
ing things, which unavoidably follow the neighbour-
hood of spirits in the air we breath in, seem to have
much less signification, as to us, than these seasonable,
kind
kind whispers to our fouls, which, it is plain, are di-
rected for the advantage of lise.
It seems hard, that mankind should be so open to
the secret insinuators, the whispering devils I have been
speaking of, who are, night and day, sleeping and wak-
ing, working upon his senses by the arts and fubtilties
of hell, to fill his imagination with a thoufand devilish
contrivances, to gratify his Vanity and lust; and that
our thoughts should be always ready to receive the im-
pressions they make, pressed to follow the insernal
counsel, be awake to listen to. all his directions, but
should be deaf to the instructions of any kind spirits
that would influence us for our advantage; and insen-
sible of those impressions which are made upon us for
our immediate good, by an agent good in itself, and
acting from a principle, whatever it be, of good to us.
We have a foolish faying, though taken from some-
thing that is more significant than we imagine, when
any danger has surprised us. * Well, my mind misgave
me when I was going about it: well, I knew some mis-
chief would come of it.' Did you so? And why then
did you do it? Why did you go on? Why, when your
mind misgave you, did you not obey the friendly cau-
tion? Whence do you think your mind received the
speaking, though silent impression? Why did not you
listen to it, as to a voice? For such a one it was, no
doubt: and let all those unthinking people, who go on
in any thing they are upon, contrary to those secret
silent impressions upon their minds; I fay, let them
know and observe it, they will very seldom fail of meet-
ing some mischief in the way; they will very seldom
fail of miscarrying in the way: I fay very seldom, be-
cause I would not take upon me to prescribe things po-
U 2 * sitively,
sitively, which the reader will take me up short in, and
say, how do I know it? But I will take the liberty to
fay, I durst be positive in it, relating to myself; and I
durst be positive from the nature and reason of the
thing.
As to my own experience, I wave faying much of it,
but that, in general, I never flighted these impulses, but
to my great misfortune; I never listened to and obeyed
them, but to my great advantage: but I chuse to argue
from the reason of them, rather than from my own ex-
perience.
As they are evident warnings of what is to come,
and are testisied daily and hourly by thcathings coming
to pass afterwards; so they are undeniable testimonies
that they proceed from some being intelligent of those
things that are at hand, while they are yet to come.
If then I am fatisfied, that it is a notice given from a
something, be it what it will, which is fully informed
of what is attending me, though concealed froni me,,
why should s slight the hint given me from any thing
that knows what I know not; and especially, for ex-
ample, for avoiding evils to come?
I know a person, who had so strong an impression:
upon her mind, that the house she was in would be
burnt that very night, that she could not go to sleep;
the impulse she had upon her mind pressed her not to-
go to bed, which, however, she resisted, and went to
bed; but was so terrisied with the thought which, as
she called it, run in her mind, that the house would be
burnt, that she could not go to sleep.
She had made so much discovery of her apprehen-
sions in the family, that they were all in a fright, and
applied themselves to search from the top of the house
i to
to the bottom, and to see every fire and every candle
fase out; so that, as they all faid, it was impossible any
thing could happen in the house: and they sent to the
neighbours on both sides, to do the like. Thus far
they did well; but had she obeyed the hint which
pressed upon her strangely not to go to bed, she had
done much better; for the fire was actually kindled at
that very time, though not broken out.
In about an hour after the whole family was in bed,
the house just over the way, directly opposite, was all in
a flame; and the wind, which was very high, blowing
the flame upon the house this gentlewoman lived in, so
filled it with smoke and fire in a sew moments, the
streets being narrow, that they had not air to breathe,
or time to do any thing, but jump out of their beds
and save their lives. Had she obeyed the hint given,
and not gone to bed, she might have faved several
things of value, which she lost; but as she neglected
that, and would go to bed, the moments she had spared
to her, Were but just sufficient to get out of bed, get
some cloaths on, and get down stairs; for the house
was on fire in half a quarter of an hour.
It might be asked here, why could not the fame kind
spirit have intimated, by the fame whispers, where the
danger lay, and from what quarter it was to be expect-
ed? In what manner the fire would attack them, and
that it would come from the other side of the street, the
wind blowing it directly upon them?
To this, I answer, that it is our business the more
vigilantly to observe and listen to the hints which are
given, seeing the intimations are not so particular as
we might wish, without enquiring into the reason? why
they are given no plainer. We have a great deal of
U 3 reason
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
reason so believe, the kind spirit that gives these intima-
tions, and whispers thus to us, gives us all the light it is
permitted to give, and whispers as much either as it
knows, or as it is allowed to communicate; otherwise,
why does it give any intimations at alls But, on the
other hand, it may be alleged, that enough is intima-
ted to suffice for our fasety, if we will obey the intima-
tion; and it would be a much more reasonable ques-
tion, to ask, why we slight and disobey the impression
that we acknowledge to have received, rather than why
the intimation was no plainer.
A person of my acquaintance, being to go to New
England by sea, two ships presented, and the masters
earnestly solicited to take him as a passenger. He asked
my advice, prosessing, that as well the ships, as the cap-
tains, were persectly indifferent to him; both the men
being equally agreeable to him, and the vessels equally
good. I had my eye upon this notion of impulses,
and pressed him to observe strictly, if he had not some
secret motion of his. mind to one ship rather than an-
other; and he faid he had riot.
After some time, he accidentally met one of the cap-
tains, and falling into terms with him, agreed for his
passage, and accordingly prepared to go on board; but
from the very time that he made the agreement, nay,
even while he was making the bargain, he had a strong
impression on his mind that he should not go in that
ship.
it was some days after this, that he told me of these
impressions, which increased on him every day; upon
which I pressed him earnestly not to go, but to take
passage with the other. After he had resolved upon
this, he came to me, and told me, that he had, with
some
3U
some difficulty, and some loss, put off the first ship; but
that now he had the fame, or rather stronger aversion
to going in the second ship; and had a strong impres-
sion on his mind, that if he went in the second ship, he
should be drowned. I bid him consider it a little, and
tell me if he had any farther intimations of it; and he
continued to tell me, that he had no rest about his go-
ing in either of those ships; and yet his affairs lay so,
that he was under a necessity of going, and there was no
other ship put up upon the Exchange for going.
I pressed him, however, not to venture by any means.
I convinced him, that those impulses of his mind,
were the whispers of some kind spirits that faw things
farther than he could, and were certainly given him as
cautions to fave him from some mischief which he
might not foresee; that it could be no evil spirit, be-
cause the keeping him back could be no injury to him,
of such a nature as would gratify the Devil in any part
of his usual defires; it must therefore be something for
his good, and he ought to be very cautious how he
flighted the silent admonition. In a word, I pre-
possessed him so much in aid of the secret impulses of
his own mind, that he resolved not to go that year;
and he faw clearly afterwards, that the secret intimation.
was from a good hand, for both the ships miscarried;
the first being taken by the Turks, and the latter cast
away, and all the men lost, the ship foundering at sea,
as was supposed, for she was never heard of.
I could sill this tract with accounts of this nature;
but the reason of the case is stronger that the example;
for as it is an intimation of something future, and that
is to come to pass, it is certain there is a state in which
what is future and must come to pass is known; and
v 4 why
why should we not believe the news, if it comes from
the place where the certainty of it is known?
Some give all this to a prescience peculiar to the soul
itself, and of a-kin to that we call the second fight; but
I see no ground for this but mere presumption. Others
call it an afflatus, which, they think, is a distemper of
the brain. Others call it a sympathetic power of the
soul, foreboding its own difasters. But all this is short
of the thing; for here is not a foreboding only, which
indeed is often selt, but is expressed another way; but
here is a direct intelligence; a plain intimation of the
evil, and warning to avoid it: this must be more than
an afflatus, more than a sympathy; this must be from a
certain knowledge of a thing that ex'ijls not, by a some-
thing that does exist, and must be communicated by a
converse of spirits unembodied, with the spirit embo-
died, for its good; unless you will call it divine revela-
tion; which I see no ground for.
All these reasonings make it abundantly our concern
to regard these things, as what we are greatly concern-
ed in: however, that is not the chief use I make of
them here; but,
I. They abundantly explain the nature of the world
of spirits, and the certainty of an existence after death.
II. They consirm, that the disposition of Providence
concerning man, and the event of things, are not so
much hidden from the inhabitants of that world as they
are from us: as also,
III. That spirits unembodied see with a sight dif-
fering from us, and ave capable of knowing what at-
tends us, when we.know nothing of it ourselves.
This offered many useful reflections to my mind,
which, however, it is impossible for me tp communi-
cate
313
-cate with the same vivacity, or to express with the fame
lise, that the impressions they make on my own
thoughts came with.
The knowledge of there being a world of spirits,
may be many ways useful to us; and especially that of
their seeing into futurity, so as to be able to communi-
cate to us, by what means soever they do it, what we
shall or shall not do, or what shall or shall not befall
us; to communicate dangers before us, so as they may
be avoided; and mischiess awaiting us, so as they may
be prevented; and even death itself, so as we may pre-
pare for it: for we may certainly, if we would attend
to these things, encreasc our acquaintance with them,
and that very much to our advantage.
I would be far from prompting the crazy imagina-
tions of hypochondriac distempered heads, which run
men out to so many extravagancies, and which, in fix-
ing their thoughts upon the real world of spirits, make
this an imaginary world of spirits to them ; who think
they are talked to from the invisible world by the
howling of every dog, or the screeching of every owl.
I believe it was much of this vapourish, dreaming fancy,
by which the augurs of the Romans determined events
from the flying of birds, and the entrails of beasts. It
will be hard for me to be prevailed. on to suppose, that
even those intelligent spirits which I speak of, who are
able, by such easy ways as the impulses of our minds,
dreams, and the like, to convey the knowledge of
things to us, can be put to the necessity, or find reason
to mtike use of the agency of dogs and birds, to convey
their notices by; this would be to suppose them to be
much more consined in their converse with us, than we
evidently find they are; and, on the other hand, would
suppose
suppose the inanimate world to have more knowledge
of the invisible than we have; whereas, on the other
hand, we know they have nothing at all to do with it.
There is only this to' be faid for it, namely, that
those inanimate creatures do it involuntarily, and, as
it were, under the power of a possellion.
I will not affirm, but that the invisible inhabitants I
have been speaking of, may have power to act upon the
brute creatures, so as to employ them, or make use of
their agency in the warnings and notices which they
give to us of things to come; but that the brutes have
otherwise any farther fight of things than we have, I
can see nothing at all of that. It is true, Balaam's ass
faw the angel with the flaming sword, standing in the
road, when the prophet did not; but the reason is
plainly expressed, the angel was really there, and actual-
ly presenting terror to them, with a flaming sword in
his band; only the prophet's eyes were miraculously
withheld, that he could not see him.
I shall unriddle this mystery of the agency of beasts
and birds, as far as reason dictates; and it seems to be
easy, upon the scheme of the nearness of the spirits I
am speaking of to us, and their concern to convey in-
telligence to us. They may, I fay, have power to ter-
rify the brutes, by horrible apparitions to them, so as
to force those howlings and screechings we have been
told of, and to do this in such places, and at such times,
as shall suit with the circumstances of the family or
person concerned; and so far their faid extraordinary
howlings and screechings may be signisicant: but that
the brutes can, either by fense, or by extraordinary
sight, have any foreknowledge os things in futurity re-
lating to us or to themselves, this has no foundation
in
3i5
in reason or philosophy, any more than it has in reli-
gion. Matter may act upon material objects, and so
the understanding or sense of a brute may act upon
- visible objects : but matter cannot act upon immate-
rial things ; and so the eye of a beast cannot see a spirit,
or the mind of a brute act upon futurity, eternity, and
the sublime things of a state to come.
What use then the spirits we speak of, inhabiting the
invisible world, can make of the inanimate world to
direct them, as missionaries to us, I do not see; neither
did I, in all my altitudes, perceive they employed any-
such agents.
It is from the misunderstanding of these things, that
we place abundance of incidents merely fortuitous, to
the Devil's account, which he knows nothing of:
many a storm blows, that is none of his raising; many
a midnight noise happens, that is none of his making:
if Satan, or his instruments, had one-tenth part of the
power, either of the air, or in the air, or over the ele-
ments, that we give them, in our imaginations, we.
should have our houses burnt every night, hurricanes
raised in the air, floods made in the country; and, in
a word, the world would not be habitable. But you
remember I told you, as powerful as he is, he is chain-
ed; he has a great clog at his foot, and he can do no-
thing by violence, or without permission.
I might hint here at abundance of idle, ridiculous
Devils, that we are daily told of, that come and only
make game among us, put out our candles, throw chairs
and stools about the house, breakglasses, make a smoke,
a stink of brimstone, kc. whereas, after all, the Devil
has no more sulphur about him than other folks ; and
J pan answer for it, that Satan is not disposed for
mirth j
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
mirth; all the frolics and gambols we ascribe to him,
I dare fay, are antics of our own brain. I heard of a
house in Essex, which they told me was haunted, and
that every night the Devil, or a spirit, call it which you
will, came into such a room, and made a most terrible
knocking, as if it had a hammer or a mallet, and this
for two or three hours together. At length, upon
looking about in an empty closet in that room, there
was found an old mallet, and this was presently con-
cluded to be the mallet which the Devil made such a
noise with; so it was taken away: but the next night,
they faid, the Devil made such a racket for want of the
mallet, that they were obliged to leave the mallet there
again; and every night, the Devil would come and
knock in the window, for two or three hours together,
with that mallet. I have seen the room, and the mal-
let, in neither of which was any thing extraordinary,
but never heard the noise, though I fat up to wait for
it; nor after causing the mallet to be taken away, was
there any noise: belike the mannerly spirit would not
disturb us who were strangers.
This passed for a most eminent piece of walking or
haunting; and all the difficulty was, to enquire to what
purpose all this disturbance was made, seeing there was
no end answered in it; and 1 always thought the Deyil
was too full of business to spend his time to no man-
ner of purpose.
At last, all the cheat was discovered, viz. that a
monkey, kept in a house three or four houses from it,
had found the way into that room, and came every
night almost, about midnight, and diverted himself
with the frolic, and then went home again.
It
If these things were not frequently detected, it Would
be a great scandal upon the Devil, that he had nothing
to employ himself in, more signisicant than rapping all
night with a hammer, to frighten and disturb the neigh-
bours, making noises, putting out candles, and the like.
When we come into the invisible state, of which we
now know so little, we shall be easily convinced, that
the Devil is otherwise employed, and has business of
much more importance upon his hands.
It would be very insignisicant, to have us so fre-
quently warned against Satan's devices, to have us be
cautioned to be sober and vigilant, knowing that our
adverfary, the Devil, goes about like a roaring lion,
seeking, &c. All these things import, that he is dili*
gent jn attacking us, watching all advantages, hunting
us down, circumventing, waiting, and constantly ply-
ing us with snares, that he may trepan and devour us.
This admits not of any of those simple, ludicrous, and
senseless digressions, which we set him to work upon
in our imaginations.
Perhaps it may be expected I should enter here upon
the subject of apparitions, and discourse with equal cer-
tainty of that yet undecided question, concerning the
reality of apparitions, and whether departed fouls can
revisit the place of their former existence, take up
shapes, bodies, and visible and apparent beings; assume
voices, and concern themselves with the affairs of lise*
of families, persons, and even of estates, and the like,
as many have affirmed they have been witnesses to.
I must be allowed to leave this where I find it; there
are some difficulties which I am not yet got over in it;
nor have I been elevated high enough to determine
that
that point, and shall not venture to decide it, without
more certainty than I am yet arrived to.
I would warn all people, not to suffer their imagina-
tions to form shapes and appearances where there are
none; and I may take upon me to fay, that the Devil
himself does not appear half so often as some people
think they see him; fancy governs many people, and a
sick brain forms strange things to itself: but it does not
follow from thence, that nothing can appear, because
nothing does at that time.
However, as my design is to instruct, not amuse, so
I fay, 1 forbear to enter upon a subject, which I must
leave as doubtful as I find it, and consequently talk of
to no purpose.
I have heard of a man, that would allow the reality
of apparitions, but would have it be nothing but the
Devil; that the souls of men departed, or good spirits,
never appeared. It happened, that to this very man
something appeared, as he faid, and insisted upon it to
the last.. He faid, he faw the shape of an ancient man
pass by him in the dusk of the evening, who, holding
up his hand, as it were in a threatening posture, faid
aloud, * O wicked creature! repent, repent!' He was
exceedingly terrisied, and consulted several people about
it, who all advised him seriously to take the advice; for
his lise made it well known, it seems, that he stood in
need of it. But being seriously debating about it, one
of his friends asked what he thought of the apparition,
and whether it was any of the Devil's business to bid
him repent; this puzzled his thoughts, and, in a word,
he grew a very sober man: but, after all, it was a real
man, and no apparition that spoke to him, though his
frightened fancy made him affirm that he vanished out
of
of his fight, which he did not. And the person who
did it, being a grave and pious gentleman, met him by
mere accident, without any design, and spoke as he did,
from the knowledge he had of his being indeed a most
wretched, wicked fellow. By the way, the gentleman
had the opportunity to hear the use that was made of
it, and to hear himself mistaken for an apparition of
the Devil; but he was so prudent as not to discover it
to the man, lest the reformation, which was the conse-
quence of the fright, should wear off, when he should
know that there was nothing in the thing but what
was common.
If we would always make the like good use of Satan's
real appearances, I do not know but it would go a great
way to banish him from the visible world; for I am
well assured he would very seldom visit us, if he thought
his coming would do us any good; at least, he would
never come but when he was sent; he would never
come willingly: for he is so absolutely at the divine
dispofal, that if Heaven commands, he must go, though
it were to do the good he abhors; not that I believe
Heaven ever thinks fit to employ him in doing good;
if ever he is let loose, it is to act in judgment, as an in-
strument of vengeance; and some are of opinion, he is
often employed as a destroying angel, though I do not
grant that; I can hardly think the justice of God would
gratify Satan's gust of doing evil so far, as to suffer him
to be even so much as an executioner: but that is by
the way.
I have another turn to give this part of my obser-
vations; which, though perhaps some may not think
st> much to the purpose, as entering into a critical en-
quiry
quiry aster the Devil's particular mission in these case's;
yet I think otherwise.
I have observed, that some desperate people make a
very ill use of the general notion, that there are no ap-
paritions nor spirits at all; and really the use they
make of it, is worse than the extreme of those, who, as
I faid, make visions and devils of every thing they see
or hear: for these men persuade themselves there are
no spirit- at all, either in the1 visible or invisible world;
and carrying it on farther, they next annihilate the
Devil, and believe nothing about him, either of one
kind or another.
This would not be of so much bad consequence, if
it was not always followed by a worse; namely, that
when they have prevailed with themselves to believe
there is no Devil, the next thing is, and they soon
come to it, that there is no God ; and so atheism takes
its rise in the fame sink, with a carelessness about fu-
turity.
I have no mind to enter upon an argument to prove
the being of our Maker, and to illustrate his power by
words, who has so many undeniable testimonies in the
breasts of every rational being to prove his existence.
But I have a mind to conclude this work with a Ihort
history of some atheists, which I met with many years
ago; and whether the facts are testified or not, may be
equally useful in the application, if you do not think
them a little too religious for you.
Some years ago, there was a young gentleman, a
scholar at the University, eminent for learning and vir
tue; of prompt parts, and great proficiency; insomuch,
that he was taken great notice of by the masters and
fellows, and every one promised fair in their thoughts
for
for him, that he would be a great man. It happened,
whether from his earnest desire of more knowledge, or
the opinion of his own great capacity, 1 know not
which, that this gentleman, falling-upon the study of
divinity, grew so opinionative, so very positive and dog-
matic in his notions in religious things, that by degrees
it came to this height, that his tutor faw plainly, he
had little more than notions in all his religious pre-
tences to knowledge, and concluded he would either
grow enthusiastic, or obstinately profane and atheistic.
He had three chums, or companions, in his studies,
and they all sell into the fame error, as well by the con-
sequence of a great deal of wit and little grace, as by the
example and leading of this other young gentleman,
who was indeed their oracle, almost in every thing.
As his tutor, who was a very good man, seared for
him, so it came to pass with him, and all the rest; for
they ran up their superficial notions in divinity to such
a height, that instead of reasoning themselves into good
principles of religion, they really reasoned themselves
out of all religion whatsoever; running on to expunge
every right idea from their minds, pretending those
things really were not, of which they could not desine
both how and what they were; they proceeded to deny
the existence of their. Maker, the certainty of a future
state, a resurrection, a judgment, a heaven, or a hell.
They were not contented to fatisfy themselves with,
these impious foundations, but they set up to dispute in
private societies against all revealed religion; thereby
bringing on themselves the curse denounced in Scrip-
ture against those that do evil, and teach men so to do.
In a little time they grew so public, that more company
came in, and which was worse, many joined with them
Vol. III. X in
in principle, or, as I should rather have faid, in casting
off all principles, and they began to be famous in th»
place, though to the offence of all good men, and were
called The Atheistical Club.
They soon began to see sober, religious people shun
them; and, in some time, upon information given, they
were obliged, by authority, to separate, for sear of pu-
nishment; so that they could not hold their public dis-
putations, as they began to do ; yet they abated nothing
of their wicked custom ; and this dreadful creature, who
set up at the head of the rest, began to be so open in his
blasphemies, that he was at length obliged to fly from
the University.
However, he went a great while before it came ta
that; and though he had been often admonished, yet,
instead of reclaiming, he grew the more impious, mak-
ing the most facred things his jest, and the subject of
his ridicule. He gave out, that he could frame a new
gospel, and a much better system of religion than that
which they called Christian; and that, if he would
trouble himself to go about it, he would not fail to-
draw in as great a part of the world to run after him,
as had been after any other. 1 care not to repeat any
of his blasphemous words; it is not to be supposed,
there can be any blasphemous, abominable thing, that
this set of wicked, wretched young men did not run
into; neither any wickedness, of that kind, within
their reach, which they did not commit.
It would be too long to enter into the particular his-
tory of these men, and how it pleased God to dispose
of them ; they might be in number, before they separa-
ted, about twenty-two in all: I shall tell you os some of
them, however, who did not run such lengths as the rest.
These
There was a young man, who frequented their society,
though, as he afterwards faid, he was rather persuaded
to be among them, than to be one of them; he had,
however, too' much yielded to their delusions; and
though they made him very much their jest, because
they found he still retained some little sense of a God,
and of a future state in his mind, yet he had yielded
dreadfully to them, and began to do so more and more
every day.
It happened one day, this young man was going to
their hellish society, and not minding the weather, the
clouds gathered over his head, and he was stopped by a
sudden shower of rain in the street: it rained so very
hard, that it obliged him to stand up in the gate-way of
an inn for some time; while he was standing here, a
great flash of lightning, more than ordinarily, sur-
prized him; it seems, the fire-coming so directly in his
face, that he selt the very warmth of it, and was ex-
ceedingly startled; in the fame moment almost, as is
natural in the case, followed such a clap of thunder,
that persectly astonished him. The rain continuing,
kept him in the gate-way, as I faid, for a good while,
till he had time for such reflections as these, ' Where
am I going? What am I going about? Who is it has
stopped me thus? Why are these thunders, these rains,
and this lightning thus terrible? And whence are they?'
And with the rest, came in this thought, warm and
swift as the lightning which had terrisied him before,
'What if there should be a God? What will become of
me then?' Terrisied with these things, he starts out of
the gate-way into the street, notwithstanding the wet,
and runs back through the rain, faying to himself as he
went, * I will go among them no more.' When he
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 323
.
came home to his chambers, he sell into dreadful ago-
nies of mind, and at length broke out thus: ' What
have I been doing? Have I been denying the power
that made me? Despising that God whose fire flaflied
just now in my face; and which, had not that mercy I
have abused interposed, might have burned me to death t
What kind of creature am I?' While he was thus giv-
ing vent to his reflections, a near relation of his, a
pious, good man, who had often used to speak veryplain-
ly to him of the horrid sin he was guilty of, happened
to come to visit him.
The young man had thrown himself upon his bed,
and had, with the deepest sense of his madness, and most
serious reproaches of himself for his horrid lise, been
expressing himself to his friend, and he had been com-
forting him in the best manner he could, when, after a
while, he defired his friend to retire, that he might be a
little alone, and might give vent to his thoughts with
the more freedom; and his friend, taking a book in his
hand, staid in the outer room.
In this interval came another scholar to the door,
who was one of the wicked company I mentioned just
now: he came not to visit this first gentleman, but to
call him to go with him to the usual meeting of their
dreadful society; and knocking at his chamber door,
.the gentleman who was left in the chamber, stepped
to the door, and looking through a little grate, not only
knew the person, but knew him to be one of the wick-
ed company I have-been speaking of. Now, as he was
very loath his friend should have such an interruption
to the good disposition he was then in; so, above all,
he was loath he should be persuaded to go any more
among that miserable gang; wherefore, he opened the
door
door a little way, so as he was not very distinctly seen,
and speaks aloud, in the person of his friend, thus: 'O
Sir, beseech them all to repent; for, depend upon it,
there is a God; tell them I fay so:' and with that, he
shut the door upon him violently, giving him no time
to reply, and going back into his friend's room, took
no notice of any body having been at the door at all.
The person who knocked at the door, you may sup-
pose, was one of the leaders of the company, a young
scholar of good parts and sense, but debauched by that
horrid crew; and one that had made himself eminent
for his declared opposition to all the common notions
of religion; a complete atheist, and publicly so, with-
out God, or the desire of God in the world: however,
as he afterwards consessed, the repulse he met with at
the door, and which he thought came from his friend,
gave him a strange shock at first, and silled him with
horror. He went down the college stairs in the great-
est confusion imaginable, and went musing along a good
-way, hot knowing where he was, or whither he went;
and in that embarrassment of thought, went a whole
street out of the way; the words had made an unusual
impression upon his mind; but he had his other sur-
prises too, for he thought his friend, for he believed
firmly that it was he that had spoken to him, had treat-
ed him very rudely.
Sometimes he resented it, and reflected upon it as an
affront, and once or twice was upon the point of going
back again to him, to know the reason of his using him
so, and to demand fatisfaction. But still the words,
there is a God, dwelt upon his mind, ' And what if it
should be so?' fays he, * what then?' Upon this ques-
tion to himself, the answer immediately occurred to his
X 3 mind,
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
mind, ' What then? Why then I am undone: for
have not I declared war against the very notion; desied
all pretenders to it, as mere enthusiasts and men of
whimsy?' However, after these thoughts, his mind
cooled a little again; and it offered to him, no doubt
injected by an evil spirit, that he should not trouble
himself with enquiring into it one way or another, but
be easy.
This pacisied him for a little while, and he shook off
the surprise he was in; the hardened temper seemed to
return, and he kept on his way towards the hellish so-
ciety that he was- going to before: but still the words
returned upon him, There is a God, and began to bring
some terror with it upon his mind; and the last words
of his friend came into his mind often, tell them I fay so..
This filled him with a curiosity which he could not
withstand, viz. of going back to his friend, and en-
quiring of him, what discoveries he had made of this
kind? How he came to have changed his mind so sud-
denly? And especially, how he was arrived to acertain-
ty ofthe thing?
I told you, that there had been a great shower of
rain, which had stopped the first young gentleman in
his way out; it seems, the day was still showery, and a
little rain happening to fall again, as this gentleman
went by a bookseller's shop, he stops at the door, to
stand up a little out of the wet.
There happens to be sitting in the shop, reading a
book, a gentleman of his acquaintance, though far dif-
fering from him in his principles, being a very sober,
studious, religious young man; a student in divinity of
the fame college; who, looking up, calied him in, and
aster a sew common falutes, he whispers in his ear;—
Student-
Student. I was looking in an old book here just now,
'and began the following short dialogue; and I found
four lines written on the back of the title page, which
put me in mind of you.
Atheist. Me! Why did they put you in mind of me?
Stud. I will tell you presently; come hither.
[He retires into a back room, and
calls the other after him.
Ath. Well, now tell me.
Stud. Because I think they are very fit for such an
atheistical wretch as you to read.
Ath. You are very civil."
Stud. You know you deserve it.
Ath. Come, let me see them, however.
Stud. Let me look in your face all the while then.
Ath. No, you sha'n't.
Stud. Then you sha'n't see them.
Ath. Well, let it alone then.
Stud. Come, give me your hand, you shall see them,
if you will promise to read them over three times. .
Ath. There is my hand, I'll read them out to you.
Stud. I'll hold your hand all the while, because I'll
be sure of your performance.
Ath. I'll warrant you I'll read them.
[He reads.
But if it should fallout, as who can tell?
That there may be a God, a Heaven, and Hell:
Had I not best consider well, for fear
'T Ihou'd be too late when my mistakes appear.
[He held him by the hand till that word, and
then let it go, presting gently one of his fingers.
Stud. Well, what do you fay to them?
X 4 Ath,
Ath. I'll tell you my thoughts farther by and by;
but first tell me, what did you press my hand for when
you let it go?
Stud. Did you seel no motion within you, when you
read those words, There may be a God?
Ath. What motion? What do you talk of?
Stud. Come, do not deny it; for I am a witness
against you.
Ath. Witness, for what? I have killed nobody; I
have robbed nobody, if you would turn informer, I
value not your evidence.
Stud. No, no, I shall not turn informer of that kind;
but I am a witness in your Maker's behalf.
Ath. What can you witness I
Stud. I'll tell you what I can witness; I can testify .
that your own conscience is against you, in your im-
pious denying the existence of that God that gave you
lise; you could not conceal it; I tell you I selt it.
Ath. How do you pretend to know what my con-
science dictates to me, or what the result of secret re-
flections may be in the mind? You may be mistaken;
have a care; you know you are not to bear false wit-
ness.
Stud. It is in vain to struggle with it; it is not to be
concealed; you betrayed yourself, I tell you.
Ath. How betrayed myself? You are mighty dark in
your expreflions.
Stud. Did I not tell you, I would look in your face
all the while you read? Did I not see into the distrac-
tion of your foul? Did you not turn pale at the very
words, when your tongue faid, There may be a God?
.Was there not a visible horror in your countenance,
when you read the word Heaven? A horror, which
signified!
signified a sense of your having no share in it, or hope
about it? And did I not seel a trembling in your very
joints, as I held you by the hand, when you read the
word Hell?
Ath. And was that it you held me by the hand for?
Stud. Indeed it was; I was persuaded I should find
it; for I could never believe, but an atheist had always
a hell within him, even while he braved it out against a
hell without him.
Ath. You speak enough to frighten one:—Ho«rcanyou
say, so positively, a tiding which you cannot be sure of?
Stud. Never add sin to sin, it is in vain to deny it.
Ath. Well, well, it is none of your business ; who
made you my father consessor?
, [He is a little angry.
Stud. Nay, do not be angry with your friend; and
though you are, do but take the hint, and be as angry
as you will.
Ath. What hint? What is it you aim at? Your
hints are all so general, I can make nothing of them.
Stud. I aim at nothing but your eternal selicity; I
thought those lines very apposite to your case, and was
wishing you had them, before I happened to see you.
I thought, that such a reflection in the case of atheism,
so natural, so plain, especially blessed from Him whose
secret voice can effectually reach the mind, might be
some means to open your eyes.
Ath. Open mine eyes! to what?
Stud. To something that I am persuaded you see
already in part, though I find you struggle hard against
your own convictions.
Ath. What is this something you speak of?
Stud.
Stud. I mean, in a sew words, what the lines you
have read mean, viz. ' That perhaps there may be a
God, a heaven, and hell.
Ath. I don't know but there may.
[He observes tears Jiand in bis eyes.
Stud. Well, I see it begins to touch you; if you are
uncertain, that is a step to conviction; and the rest of
the words you have read, are a most natural inserence
in your case.
You'd best consider well, for fear
*T stiou'd be too late when your mistakes appear.
Ath. What would you have me consider?
Stud. I am not able to enter into that part now; the
first thing, is to persuade you to look in; listen to the
voice of conscience; I am fatisfied you stand convicted
at that bar; you cannot plead not guilty there.
Ath. Convicted of what?
Stud. Of having acted contrary to the light of nature,
cf reason, and indeed of common sense; most impi-
ously denied the God whose air you breathe in, whose
earth you tread on, whose food you eat, whose cloaths
you wear; who is your lise, and will be your judge.
Ath. I do not absolutely deny; I tell you, I don't
know but there may be a God.
Stud. You don't know but there may! O Sir, I be-
seechyou repent; for certainly there is a God, depend
upon it; I say so.
Ath. You frighten me.
[He Jlarts, and looks surprised.
Stud. Indeed I think it may well frighten you.
Ath. But you frighten me upon a quite different ac-
Count from what you imagine; I am indeed very mi di
3 surprised,
surprised, and so would you too, if you knew the cir-
cumstance.
Stud. What circumstance,?
Ath. Pray did you hear those words spoken any
where to day before you spoke them?
Stud. No, not I.
Ath. Was you at Mr. 's chamber about half an
hour ago?
Stud. I have not been there this month past; I have
given over visiting him, and all such as he is, long ago.
Ath. Have you seen him to-day, or when did you last
see him? Did he speak those words to you, or you to
him?
Stud. I have not seen him since I faw him with you
about fourteen days ago; when your discourse, even
both of you, was so blasphemous, and so atheistical, as
made my very heart tremble, and I resolved never to
come into company with either of you again; and it
was that very discourse, that made me think of you
when I found those lines in this book; I should think
it an evident discovery of God, and what I might hope
should best forward your conviction, if his providence
should have sent you to this door at that minute, to re-
ceive the hint on this occasion.
Ath. There is something more than common in
every thing that has happened to me to day.
Stud. If you would explain yourself a little, I might
fay more; but you know very well, I cannot make the
least guess at what you mean.
Ath. Ask me no more questions, there must be a Gon
or A Devil in being.
[He looks wildly and amazed.
Stud,
SERIOUS REFLECTIONS
Stud. Dear friend, there are both, depend upon it;
but I beseech you compose your mind, and do not re-
ceive the conviction with horror, but with comfort and
hope.
Ath. One or other of them has been concerned in
what has happened to me to-day; it has been a strange
day with me.
Stud. If it relates only to these things, perhaps it
may be of use to you to communicate the particulars;
at least, it may give some vent to the oppression of
thought which you seem to be under; you cannot open
your mind to one that has more earnest desires to do
you good, though perhaps pot sufficiently furnished to
advise you.
Ath. I must tell it or burst.
[H re he gave him the whole story of his going to
his friend's chamber, in order to take him with
him to the wicked club they had kept, and how
he Lad met with him at the door, and said the
same words to him that the student had repeat-
ed; and when he had done, fays he to his
friend,
And who now do you think must dictate the fame
words to him, and afterwards to you, to fay to me on the
fame occasion.
Stud. Who do I think! Nay, who do you think?
Ath. Who! The Devil, if there is a devil.
Stud. Why, do you think the Devil preaches re-
pentance?
[Hestandsstock-still, andfays not a word, which
the other perceiving, goes on;
Pray think seriously, for I see it does a little touch
your reason; is it likely the Devil should bid either of
4
us, or both of us, intreat you to repent? Is it the Devil,
think you, that would pronounce the certainty of the
great truth I speak of? Is it his business to convince
you that there is a God?.
Ath. That's very true.
Stud. One thing, however, I will fay in Satan's be-
half; and that is, that he never came up to your height
of finning. The Devil has frequently set up himself,
and persuaded poor deluded people to worship him as
a God; but, to do him justice, he never had the impu-
dence to deny the being of a God; that is a sin purely
human, and even among men very modern too; the
invention of witty men, as they call themselves; a way
they have lately found out to cherish superlative wick-
edness, and flatter themselves, that they shall have no
audit of their accounts in a future state; of whom it
may indeed be faid, in that particular, they have out-
finned the Devil.
Ath. Indeed I think we have.
Stud. I wish you would consider a little farther of it.
Ath- What can men consider that have gone that
length?
Stud. Yes, yes, remember what St. Peter faid of
Simon the sorcerer.
Ath. What was that?
Stud. Read Acts, viii. 22. -' Repent therefore of this
thy wickedness, and pray God, if perhaps the thought
of thine heart may be forgiven thee.'
Ath. No, no; the last of your verses is against me
there most directly.
Its all too late, now my mistakes appear.
Stud.
Stud. No, no; remember what you faid, that it must
be a God or a Devil.
Ath. What is that to the purpose?
Stud. Why you seemed fatisfied that it could not be
from the Devil.
. Atb. But what the better am I for that, if the other
is my enemy?
Stud. Much the better if it was from God; if the
words you heard were from God, and that two uncon-
certed persons so eminently concurred in speaking to
you, you cannot believe God would bid you repent, if
it was too late, or if he were your irreconcilable
enemy; on the contrary, if you believe it to be the
voice of his providence, you ought'to listen to and
obey it.
Ath. You have a strange power of persuasion; there
is no resisting your argument.
Stud. It is not in me to persuade, but Heaven may
make use of me to convince.
Atb. To convince, is to persuade ; I am convinced
that I have been a dreadful wretch.
Stud. I am persuaded you were convinced of that
before.
Ath. I cannot deny but my heart always struck me;
a kind of chill horror ran through my veins, when I
have uttered the blasphemous opinions that I have been
drawn into; my very blood stagnated at the thought of
it, and I look back on it with astonishment.
Stud. I tell you, I selt a tremor even in your flesh,
when you read the words, a God, a Heaven, a Hell.
Ath. I consess to you, my very heart funk within me
at the words,' who can tellmy foul answered, that I
could tell myself, that it both is and must be so.
Stud.
Stud. Conscience is a faithful and never-failing evi-
dence in his Maker's behalf.
Ath. It is a very terrible evidence against me, and
where will it end?
Stud. I hope it will end where it began; I mean, in
a heavenly call to you to repentance.
Ath. That is not always the consequence of convic-
tion.
Stud. You must therefore distinguish again, of what
proceeds from Heaven, what from Hell; the voice of
God, and the voice of the Devil; the first calls upon
you to repent, the last prompts you to despair,
Ath. Despair seems to be the natural consequence of
denying God; for it struts out the power that can alone
restore the mind.
Stud. The greater is that love which refuses to be
shut out; that sends such a heavenly summons to you
to repent, and in so eminent a manner. It is not your
having been an enemy, a blasphemer, a denyerof God.
Peter denied Christ three times; nay, the third time he
even abjured him; and yet mark the words, * The
Lord looked on him, and immediately he repented.'
Ath. My case is worse than Peter's.
Stud. And yet you see you are called on to repent.
Ath. I think you are called to make me repent;
there is is no answering you.
Stud. Amen; may 1 have the blessing of being an in-
strument to so good a work; there seems to be some-
thing extraordinary in it all.
Ath. It is all a surprise to me :—How came I hither?
5W.*Nay, how came I hither? How came this book
here? Who writ the lines in the frontispiece? How
eame I to read them? It is all a dream to me.
Ath.
Ath. How came you to think of me upon the read-
ing them? And how came 1 here just at the moments
and out of my way too? .
'[He lifts up his hands and cries out, There is a
God! Certainly there is I I am convinced of
it s It must be so I
Stud. Nothing more certain; nor is there any doubt
but all these things are of him.
Ath. But there are yet greater things behind; I wish
you would go with me to my friend, Mr. -'s cham-
ber: I am persuaded something yet more extraordinary
must have befallen him.
Stud. With all my heart.
[They both go to the first gentleman's chamber,
and found him at home, very much out of
order, but willing enough to discourse with
them.
Ath. Well, friend of mine, I hope you are better dis-
posed to your friends than when I faw you last.
Gent. Truly, when I faw you last, I was disposed
of by the Devil, and so I doubt was you; I hope I shall
never come into that horrid place again.
Ath. What horrid place?
Gent. You know where I mean; I tremble at the
very thoughts of the place, and much more of the com-
pany; I wish I could prevail upon you to come no
more among them too; I assure you, if I know myself,
and if God would assist me to do it, I would much ra-
ther go to a stake to be burned.
Stud. I rejoice in such an alteration, Sir, upon you;
I hope our friend here is of the fame mind; lo»g may
it continue in you both.
Ath.
Ath. Well, pray tell us something of the occasion of
this happy alteration; for it will seem still more strange,
how you came to be instrumental to my change, if I
know nothing of the means that brought about your
own.
Gent. Mine, I assure you, was all from Heaven:
not the light that shone about St. Paul, was more im-
mediately from Heaven, than the stroke that touched
my foul; it is true, I had no voice without, but a voice
has spoken, 1 hope, effectually to my understanding; I
had voice enough to tell me how I was in the hands of
that Power, that Majesty, that God, whom I had wick-
edly, and with a hardness not to be expressed, disowned
and denied.
Stud. Pray, Sir, if you care to have it known, give
us some account of the particulars of this wonderful
thing.
Gent. Sir, I shall do it freely; I think I ought not
to conceal it.
\Here he gives an account of the surprise he was
'in by the lightning; how he was flopped in
his way to his wicked company, and went back
to his chamber.
Ath. Well, now I will no more wonder at the falu-
tation you gave me, when I came to call you, but thank
you for it.
Gent. What falutation?
- Ath. Why, when I was at your chamber about two
hours ago.
Gent. You at my chamber 1
Ath. Nay, you need not conceal it, for I have told
our friend here all the story.
Vol. III. Y Gent.
Gent. I know nothing of what you talk of, much
less what you mean.
Ath. Nay, what need you go about to conceal it? I
tell you, I do not take it ill; I hope I may hare reason
to be thankful for what you said to me, and look upon
it as spoken from Heaven; for I assure you, it has been
an introduction to that light in my thoughts, which I
hope shall never be extinguished.
Gent. Dear friend, as I believe you are serious, so I
hope you believe 1 am so; I prosess I know nothing of
all you talk about.
Ath. Why, was I not at your door this afternoon, a
little after the great mower of rain?
Gent. Not that I know of.
Ath. Why, did not I knock at your chamber-door,
and you come to the door yourself and speak to me?
Gent. Not to-day, I am very sure of it.
Ath. Am I awake? Are you Mr. ?Am I sore
we are all alive, and know what we are faying, and to
whom?
Gent. I beseech you unriddle yourself, for I am sur-
prised.
Ath. Why, about three o'clock this afternoon, I
came to this chamber-door; I knocked; you came and
opened the door; I began to speak ; you interrupted me,
and
[ Here he repeats the passage at large, and his
own thoughts and resentment, as before.
Gent. Depend upon it, it was some voice from Hea-
ven, it was nothing of mine; I have not been at the
door since two of the clock, when I came first in, but
have been on the bed, or in my study, ever since;
wholly
I
Wholly taken up with my own thoughts, and very much
indisposed.
[The young man turns pale, andfalls into a swoon.
There was a great deal more belonging to this story,
but it is too long for the present purpose; I have re-
lated this part on several accounts, and it hits the pur-
pose I am upon many ways.
First. Here is a visible evidence of God, and of his
being and nature fixed so in the mind, that not
the most hardened atheist can deny it; nature
recoils at every endeavour to suppress it, and
the very pulfation of his blood shall discover and
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 339
Secondly. Yet, even in this, we fee how the power
of imagination may be worked up, by the secret
agency of an unknown hand: how'many things
concurred to make this man believe he had seen
an apparition, and heard a voice; and yet there
was nothing in it, but the voice of a man unseen
and mistaken. The young man was so surprised
at his friend's declaring that he knew nothing
of his coming there, that he concluded it had
been all a vision or apparition that opened the
door, and that it was a voice that had spoken to
him, of what kind he knew not; and the reflec-
tion upon this surprised him so much, as threw
him into a swoon; and yet here was neither
vision or voice, but that of an ordinary person,
and one who meant well, and faid well.
It is not to be doubted, but that many an apparition,
related with a great deal of certainty in the world, and
of which good ends have followed, has been no more
than such a serious mistake as this.
Y 3 But
But before I leave it, let me observe, that this should
not at all hinder us from making a very good use of
such things; for many a voice may be directed from
Heaven, that is not immediately spoken from thence;
as when the children cried Hofannah to our Saviour,
they fulsilled the Scripture, which faid,' out of the
mouths of babes and sucklings, thou hast ordained
praise;' so, doubtless, He that hath made all things, and
created all things, may appoint instruction to be given
by fortuitous accidents, and may direct concurring cir-
cumstances to touch and affect the mind as much, and
as effectually, as if they had been immediate and mira-
culous.
Thus was the two persons happening to fay the fame
words to the atheist; the strange reading of those lines,
when the person came into the bookseller's shop; the
incident of his running into the shop for shelter; and
many the like things of the fame nature, and ordered
in the fame manner as the cock crowing when Peter de-
nied Christ; which, though wonderfully concurrent
with what his blessed Master had foretold, yet was no
extraordinary thing in a cock, who naturally crows at
such a time in the morning.
In a word, all these things serve to convince us of a
great superintendency of divine Providence in the
minutest affairs of this world; of a manisest exist-
-ence of the invisible world; of the reality of spirits;
and of the intelligence between us and them. I hope I
have faid nothing of it to misguide anybody, or to assist
them to delude themselves; having spoken of it with the
utmost seriousness in my design, and with a sincere de-
fire for a general good.
x
TRUE-BORN ENGLISHMAN;
S A T I RE.
Statuimus pacem, et securitatem, et concordiam judicium et jusli-
tiam, inter Anglos et Normannos, Francos, et Britones Walliæ .
et Cornubiæ, Pictos et Scotos Albaniæ, iimiliter inter Francos
et Insiilanos, Provincias, et Patrias, quæ pertinent ad coro-
nam nostram, ct inter omnes nobis subjectos, firmiter et invio-
labiliter obscrvari. Charta Regis Gulielmi. Conquijitoris,
De Paris Publica.—Cap. i.
QPEAK
- ° Wheth
That make
Less happy
Wfay civij f
Than all ov
F°ols ou
Jhe court r
i,he grand,
10 get s0
*0rthk ~
forth
^ florid,
agood
And
INTRODUCTION.
SPEAK, Satire, for there's none can tell like thee,
Whether 'tis folly, pride, or knavery,
That makes this discontented land appear
Less happy now in times of peace, than war;
Why civil seuds disturb the nation more
Than all our bloody wars have done before.
Fools out of favour, grudge at knaves in place,
And men are always honest in disgrace.
The court preferments make men knaves in course,
But they which would be in them, would be worse.
'Tis not at foreigners that we repine, « .
Would foreigners their perquisites resign:
The grand contention's plainly to be seen,
To get some men put out, and some put in.
For this our senators make long harangues,
And florid members whet their polish'd tongues;
Statesmen are always fick of one disease,
And a good pension gives them present ease.
That's the specisick makes them all content
With any king and any government.
Good patriots at court abuses rail,
And all the nation's grievances bewail;
Y 4 But
But when the sovereign balfam's once apply'd,
The zealot never fails to change, his side;
And when he must the golden key resign,
The railing spirit comes about again.
Who mall this bubbled nation difabuse,
While they their own selicities refuse?
Who at the wars have made such mighty pother,
And now are falling out with one another;
With needless sears the jealous nation sill,
And always have been fav'd against their will:
Who fifty millions sterling have disburs'd,
To be with peace and too much plenty curs'd.
Who their old monarch eagerly undo,
And yet uneasily obey the new.
Search, Satire, search; a deep incision make;
The poison's strong, the antidote's too weak:
'Tis pointed truth must manage this dispute,
And downright English Englishmen confute.
. Whet thy just anger at the nation's pride,
And with keen phrase repel the vicious tide.
To Englishmen their own beginnings shew,
And aikthem why they slight their neighbours so.
Go back to elder times and ages past,
And nations into long oblivion cast,
To old Britannia's youthful day; retire,
And therefor true-born Englishmen enquire.
Britannia freely will disown the name,
And hardly knows herself from whence they came
Wonders that they of all men should pretend
To birth and blood, and for a name contend!
Go back to causes where our follies dwell,
And setch the dark original from hell ;—
Speak, Satire,—for there's none like thee can tell.
TRUE-BORN ENGLISHMAN;
A
SATIRE.
PART I.
WHEREVER God erects a house of pray'r,
The Devil always builds a chapel there;
And 'twill be found upon examination,
The latter has the largest congregation;
For ever since he first debauch'd the mind,
He made a persect conquest of mankind.
With uniformity of service, he
Reigns with a gen'ral aristocracy.
No non-conforming sects disturb his reign,
For of his yoke there's very sew complain.
He knows the genius and the inclination,
And matches proper fins for every nation:
He needs no standing'army government;
He always rules us by our own consent.
His laws are easy, and his gentle sway
Makes it exceeding pleafant to obey.
The list of his vicegerents and commanders,
Outdoes your Cæfars or your Alexanders.
They never fail of his insernal aid,
And he's as certain ne'er to be betray'd.
Through
Through all the world they spread his vast command,
And death's eternal empire is maintain'd.
They rule so politicly and so well,
As if they were lords justices of hell;
Duly divided to debauch mankind,
And plant insernal dictates in the mind.
Pride, the first peer and president of hell,
To his share Spain, the largest province, sell.
The subtle prince thought fittest to bestow
On these the golden mines of Mexico,
With all the silver mountains of Peru,
Wealth which in wise hands would the world undo;
Because he knew their genius to be such,
Too lazy, and too haughty to be rich.
So proud a people, so above their fate,
That if reduc'd to beg, they'll beg in state:
Lavish of money to be counted brave, ,
And proudly starve, because they scorn to fave.
Never was nation in the world before
So very rich, and yet so very poor.
Lust chose the torrid zone of Italy,
Where blood serments in rapes and sodomy:
Where swelling veins o'erflow with livid streams,
With heat impregnate from Vefuvian flames:
Whose flowing sulphur forms insernal lakes,
And human body of the soil partakes.
There nature ever burns with hot defires,
Fann'd with luxuriant air from subterranean fires.
Here undisturb'd, in floods of scalding lust,
Th' insernal king reigns with insernal gust.
Drunk'nnefs, the darling favourite of hell,
Chose Germany to rule; and rules so well,
No subjects more obsequiously obey,
None please so well, or are so pleas'd as they:
The cunning artist manages so well,
He lets them bow to heaven, and drink to hell.
If but to wine and him they homage pay,
He cares not to what deity they pray;
What God they worship most, or in what way;
Whether by Luther, Calvin, or by Rome
They fail for heaven, by wine he steers them home.
Ungovern'd passion settled first in France,
Where mankind live in haste, and thrive by chance;
A dancing nation, fickle and untrue,
Who've oft undone themselves, and others too:
Prompt the insernal dictates to obey,
And in hell's favour none more great than they.
The pagan world he blindly leads away,
And personally rules with arbitrary sway:
The mask thrown off, plain Devil his title stands,
And what elsewhere he tempts, he there commands.
There with full gust th' ambition of his mind
Governs, as he of old in heaven design'd:
Worfliipp'd as God, his Painim altars smoke,
Embru'd with blood of those that him invoke.
'The rest by deputies he rules as well,
And plants the distant colonies of hell.
By1 them his secret power he well maintains,
And binds the world in his insernal chains.
By zeal the Irish, and the Russ by folly;
Fury the Dane,—the Swede by melancholy;
By stupid ignorance the Muscovite;
The Chinese, by a child of hell, call'd wit:
Wealth makes the Persian too effeminate,
And poverty the Tartars desperate:
The Turks and Moors by Mah'met he subdues,
And God has given him leave to rule the Jews:
Rage rules the Portuguese, and fraud the Scotch,
Revenge the Pole,—and avarice the Dutch.
Satire, be kind, and draw a silent veil,
Thy native England's vices to conceal;
Or if that task's impossible to do,
At least be just, and shew her virtues too;
Too great the first; alas! the last too sew.
England, unknown as yet, unpeopled lay;
Happy! had she rcmain'd so to this day.
And not to ev'ry nation been a prey.
Her open harbours, and her sertile plains,
The merchants glory these,—and those the swains,
To every barb'rous nation have betray'd her,
Who conquer her as oft as they invade her.
So beauty, guarded but by innocence,
That ruins her which should be her desence.
Ingratitude, a devil of black renown,
Possess'd her very early for his own;
An ugly, surly, sullen, selfish spirit,
Who Satan's worst persection does inherit;
Second to him in malice and in force,
All devil without,—and all within him worse.
He made her first-born race to be so rude,
And susfer'd her to-be so oft subdu'd;
By several crowds of wandr'ing thieves o'er-run,
Often unpeopled, and as oft undone.
While every nation that her powers reduc'd,
Their language and their manners introduc'd;
From whose mix'd relicks, our compounded breed
By spurious generation does succeed;
Making a race uncertain and uneven,
Deriv'd from all the nations under heaven.
The Romans first with Julius Cæfar came,
Including all the nations of that name;
Gauls, Greeks, and Lombards ; and, by computation,
Auxiliaries or slaves of every nation.
With Hengist, Saxons; Danes with Sueno came,
In search of plunder, not in search of fame.
Scots, Picts, and Irish from th' Hibernian shore,
And conquering William brought the Normans o'er.
All these their barb'rous offspring left behind,
The dregs of armies, they—of all mankind;
Blended with Britons who before were here,'
Of whom the Welsh have blest the character.
From this amphibious, ill-born mob, began
That vain, ill-natur'd thing,—an Englishman.
The customs, surnames, languages, and manners
Of all these nations, are their own explainers.
Whose relicks are so lasting, and so strong,
They've left a Shiboleth upon our tongue,
By which, with easy search, you may distinguish
Your Roman-Saxon-Danish-Norman-English.
The great invading Norman let us know
What conquerors in after-times might do;
To every musqueteer he brought to town,
He gave the lands,—which never were his own.
When first the English crown he did obtain,
He did not send his Dutchmen home again.
No re-assumptions in his reign were known;
Dav'nant might there have let his book alone.
No parliament his army could disband,
He rais'd no money,—for he paid in land.
He gave his legions their eternal station,
And made them all freeholders of the nation.
He canton'd out the country to his men,
And every soldier was a denizen.
The rascals thus enrich'd, he calf d them lords, "|
To please their upstart pride with new-made words ; I
And doomsday-book his tyranny records. J
And here begins our ancient pedigree,
That so exalts our poor nobility.
'Tis that from some French trooper they derive,
Who with the Norman bastard did arrive.
The trophies of the families appear; "j
Some shew the sword, the bow, and some the spear t
Which their great ancestor, forsooth, did wear J
These in the herald's register remain,
Their noble-mean extraction to explain:
Yet who the hero was, no man can tell,
Whether a drummer, or a colonel.
The silent record blushes to reveal
Their undescended, dark original.,
But grant the best; how came the change to pass,
A true-born Englishman of Norman race?
A Turkish horse can shew more history,
To prove his well-descended family.
Conquest, as by the moderns 'tis express'd,
May give a title to the lands posiess'd;
But that the longest swordshould be so civil
To make a Frenchman English,—that's the devil I
These are the heroes who despise the Dutch,
And rail at new-come foreigners so much;
Forgetting that themselves are all deriv'd
From the most scoundrel race that ever liv'd j
A horrid
A horrid crowd of rambling thieves and drones,
Who ranfack'd kingdoms, and dispeopled towns.
The Pict and painted Briton, treach'rous Scot,
By hunger, theft, and rapine hither brought;
Norwegian pirates, buccaneering Danes,
Whose red-hair'd offspring every where remains;
Who, join'd withNorman-French, compound thebreed
From Whence your true-born Englishmen proceed.
And, lest by length of time, it be pretended
The climate may this modern breed have mended,
Wise Providence, to keep us where we are,
Mixes us daily with exceeding care:
We have been Europe's sink,—the jakes, where she
Voids all her offal, outcast progeny.
From our fifth Henry's time, the strolling bands
Of banish'd fugitives from neighb'ring lands,
Have here a certain fanctuary-found,
Th' eternal refuge of the vagabond;
Where, in but half a common age of time,
Borr'wing new blood and manners from the clime,
Proudly they learn all mankind to contemn,
And all their race are true-born Englishmen.
Dutch, Walloons", Flemings, Irishmen, and Scots,
Vaudois, and Valtolins, and Hugonots,
In good Queen Bess's charitable reign,
Supply'd us with three hundred thoufand men:
Religion, (God, we thank thee !) sent them hither;
Priests, Protestants, the devil aud all together:
Of all prosessions, and of every trade,
All that were persecuted or afraid,
Whether for debt, or other crimes they fled, .
David at Hackelah was still their head..
The
The offspring of this miscellaneous crowd
Had not.their new plantations long enjoy'd,
But they grew Englishmen,—and rais'd their throats
At foreign shoals of interloping Scots.
The royal branch from Pict land did succeed,
With troops of Scots and scabs from North-by-Tweed j
The seven first years of his pacisic reign,
Made him and half his nation Englishmen.
Scots from the northern, frozen banks of Tay,
With packs and plods came whigging all the way:
Thick as the locusts which in Ægypt swarm'd,
With pride and hungry hopes completely arm'd;
. With native truth, diseases, and no money,
Plunder'd our Canaan of the milk and honey.
Here they grew quickly lords and gentlemen,
And all their race are true-born Englishmen.
The civil wars, the common purgative,
Which always us'd to make the nation thrive,
Made way for all that strolling congregation,
Which throng'd on pious Charles's restoration.
The royal refugee our breed restores
With foreign courtiers, and with foreign whores;
And carefully re-peopled us again,
Throughout his lazy, long, lascivious reign,
With such a blest, and true-born English fry,
As much illustrates our nobility.
A gratitude which will so black appear,
As future ages must abhor to hear,
When they look back on all that crimson flood
Which stream'd in Lindsey's and Caernarvon's blood ,
Bold Strafford, Cambridge, Capel, Lucas, Lisle,
Who crown'd in death his father's fun'ral pile.
The loss of whom, in order to supply,
With true-born English nobility,
Six bastard dukes survive his luscious reign,
The labours of Italian Castlemain, }-
French Portsmouth, Taby Scot, and Cambrian. J
Besides the num'rous bright and virgin throng,
Whose semale glories shade them from my song.
This offspring, if one age they multiply,
May half the House with English Peers supply:
There with true English pride they may contemn
Schomberg and Portland, new-made noblemen.
French cooks, Scotch pedlars, and Italian whores,
Were all made lords, or lords progenitors.
Beggars and bastards by his new creation,
Much multiply'd the peerage of the nation;
Who will be all, ere one short age runs o'er,
As true-born lords as those we had before.
Then to recruit the Commons he prepares,
And heal the latent breaches of the wars;
The pious purpose better to advance,
H' invites the banish'd Protestants of France:
Hither for God's-fake, and their own, they fled,
Some for religion came, and some for bread:
Two hundred thoufand pair of wooden shoes,
Who, God be thank'd, had nothing left to lose;
To Heav'n's great praise, did for religion fly,
To make us starve our poor in charity.
In ev'ry port they plant their fruitful train,
To get a race of true-born Englishmen:
Whose children will, when riper years they see,
Be as ill-natur'd and as proud as we:
Call themselves English, foreigners despise,
Be surly like us ail,—and just as wise.
Vol. III. Z Thus
Thus from a mixture of all kinds, began
That het'rogeneous thing, an Englishman:
In eager rapes and furious lust begot,
Betwixt a painted Briton and a Scot.
Whose gend'ring offspring quickly learn'd to bow,
And yoke their heisers to the Roman plough:
From whence a mongrel, half-bred race there came,
With neither name, nor nation, speech or fame.
In whose hot veins new mixtures quickly ran,
Infus'd betwixt a Saxon and a Dane.
While their rankvdaughters, to their parents just,
Receiv'd all nations with promiscuous lust.
This nauseous brood directly did contain
The well extracted blood of Englishmen.
Which medley, canton'd in a heptarchy,
A rhapsody of nations to supply,
Among themselves maintain'd eternal wars,
And still the ladies lov'd the conquerors.
The Western Angles all the rest subdu'd;
A bloody nation, barbarous and rude:
Who by the tenure of the sword possest
One part of Britain, and subdu'd the rest.
And as great things denominate the small,
The conqu'ring part gave title to the whole-
The Scot, Pict, Briton, Roman, Dane, submit,
And with the English-Saxon all unite:
And these the mixture have so close pursu'd,
The very name and memory's fubdu*d:
No Roman now, no Briton does remain;
Wales strove to separate, but strove in vain:
The silent nations undistinguish'd fall,
And Englishman's the common name for all.
3 Fate
Fate jumbled them together, God knows hoii);
Whate'er they were, they're true-born English now.
The wonder which remains is at our pride,
To value that which all wise men deride;
For Englishmen to boast of generation,
Cancels their knowledge, and lampoons the nation.
A true-born Englishman's a contradiction*
In speech an irony, in fact a fiction:
A banter, made to be a test of fools,
Which those that use it justly ridicules,
A metaphor, invented to express
A man a-kin to all the universe.
For as the Scot, as learned men ha' faid,
Throughout the world their wand'ring speed ha' spread;
So open-handed England, 'tis believ'd,
Has all the gleanings of the world receiv'd.
Some think of England 'twas our Saviour meant,
The gospel should to all the world be sent:
Since, when the blessed sound did hither reach,
They to all nations might be faid to preach.
'Tis well that virtue gives nobility,
How shall we else the want of birth and blood supply?
Since scarce one family is left alive,
Which does not from some foreigner derive.
Of sixty thoufand English gentlemen,
Whose names and arms in registers remain,
We challenge all our heralds to declare
Ten families which English-Saxons are*
France justly boasts the ancient noble line
Of Bourbon, Montmorency, and Lorrain.
The Germans too their House of Austria show,
And Holland their invincible Nassau.
Z 2 Lines
Lines which in heraldry were ancient grownr
Before the name of Englishman was known.
Even Scotland too, her elder glory shows,
Her Gordons, Hamiltons, and her Monroes;
Douglas, Mackays, and Grahams, names well knows,
Long before ancient England knew her own.
But England, modern to the last degree, "]
Borrows or makes her own nobility,!
And yet she boldly boasts of pedigree; J
Repines that foreigners are put upon her,
And talks of her antiquity and honour:
Her S—11s, S Is, C Is, De la, M rs, -|
M ns and M ues, D—s, and V rs, J
Not one have English names, yet all are English Peers. J
Your Houblons, Papillons, and Lethuliers, ]
Pass now for true-born English knights and 'squires, |
And make good senate members, or lord mayors. J
Wealth, howsoever got, in England makes
Lords of mechanicks, gentlemen of rakes:
Antiquity and birth are needless here;
'sis impudence and money makes a peer.
Innumerable city knights, we know,
From Bluecoat Hospitals and Bridewell flow.
Draymen and porters sill the city chair,
And foot-boys magisterial purple wear.
Fate has but very small distinction set
Betwixt the counter and the coronet.
Tarpaulin lords, pages of high renown,
Rise up by poor mens valour, not their own.
Great families of yesterday we show,
And lords, whose parents were—the Lord knows who.
357
PART II.
THE breed's describ'd : Now Satire, if you can,
Their temper show; for manners make the man.
Fierce as the Briton; as the Roman brave;
And less inclin'd to conquer, than to fave:
Eager to sight, and lavish of their blood;
And equally of sear and forecast void.
The Pict has made 'em four, the Dane morose;
False from the Scot, and from the Norman worse.
What honesty they have, the Saxons gave them;
And that, now they grow old, begins to leave them;
The climate makes them terrible and bold,
And English beef their courage does uphold:
No danger can their daring spirit pall,
Always provided—that their belly's full.
In close intrigues their faculty's but weak,
For gen'rally whate'er they know they speak:
And often their own councils undermine
Ky their infirmity, and not design;
From whence the learned fay it does proceed,
That English treasons never can succeed;
For they're so open-hearted, you may know
Their own most secret thoughts, and others too.
The lab'ring poor, in spight of double pay,
Are faucy, mutinous, and beggarly:
So lavish of their money and their time,
TJjat want of forecast is the nation's crime.
Z 3 Good
Good drunken company is their delight;
And what they get by day they spend by night.
Dull thinking seldom does their heads engage,
But drink their youth away, and hurry on old age.
Empty of all good husbandry and sense;
And void of manners most, when void of pence.
Their strong aversion to behaviour's such,
They always talk too little, or too much.
So dull, they never take the pains to think:
And seldom are good-matur'd, but in drink.
In English ale their dear enjoyment lies,
For which they'll starve themselves and families.
An Englishman will fairly drink as much
As will maintain two families of Dutch:
Subjecting all their labour to their pots,
The greatest artists are the greatest sots.
The country poor do by example live,
The gentry lead them, and the clergy drive;
What may we not from such examples hope?
The landlord is their God, the priest their Pope,
A drunken clergy, and a swearing bench,
Has giv'n the reformation such a drench,
As wise men think there is some cause to doubt,
Will purge good manners and religion out.
Nor do the poor alone their liquor prize,
The fages join in this great facrisice.
The learned men who study Aristotle,
Correct him with an explanation bottle;
Praise Epicurus rather than Lyfander,
And Aristippus more than Alexander.
The doctors too their Galen here resign,
And gen'rally prescribe specisic wine,
The graduate's study's grown an easier task,
While for the urinal they toss the flafit.
The surgeon's art grows plainer ev'ry hour,
And wine's the balm which into wounds they pour.
Poets long since Parnassus have forfaken,
And fay the ancient bards were all mistaken.
Apollo's lately abdicate and fled,'
And good King Bacchus governs in his stead;
He does the chaos of the head resine,
And atom thoughts jump into words by wine;
The inspiration's of a finer nature;
As wine must needs excel Parnassus water.
Statesmen their weighty politics resine,
And soldiers raise their courages by wine;
Cecilia gives her choristers their choice,
And let's them all drink wine—to clear their voice.
Some think the clergy first found out the way,
And wine's the only spirit by which they pray.
But others, less profane than so, agree
It clears the lungs and helps the memory:
And therefore all of them divinely think, -
Instead of study, 'tis as well to drink.
And here I would be very glad to know,
Whether our Asgilites may drink or no.
Th' enlightning fumes of wine, would certainly
Assist them much when they begin to fly:
Or if a fiery chariot should appear,
Inflam'd by wine, they'd ha' the less to sear.
Even the gods themselves, as mortals fay,
Were they on earth, wou'd be as drunk as they:
Nectar would be no more celestial drink,
They'd all take wine, to teach them how to think.
Z 4 But
But English drunkards, gods and men out-do,
Drink their estates away, and senses too.
Colon's in debt, and if his friends should fail
To help him out, must die at last in gaol;
His wealthy uncle sent a hundred nobles,
To pay his trifles off, and rid him of his troubles
But Colon, like a true-born Englishman,
Drank all the money out in bright champaign;
And Colon does in custody remain.
Drunk'ness has been the darling of the realm,
E'er since a drunken pilot had the helm.
In their religion, they are so unev'n,
That each man goes his own by-way to heaven.
Tenacious of mistakes to that degree,
That ev'ry man pursues it sep'rately,
And fancies none can sind the way but he:
So shy of one another they are grown,
As if they strove to get to heav'n alone.
Rigid and zealous, positive and grave,
And ev'ry grace, but charity, they have:
This makes them so ill-natur'd and uncivil,
That all men think an Englishman the devil.
Surly to strangers, froward to their friend;
Submit to love with a reluctant mind;
Refolv'd to be ungrateful and unkind.
If by necessity redue'd totask,
The giver has the difficultest task:
For what's bestow'd they aukwardly receive,
And always take less freely than they give.
The obligation is their highest grief;
And never love, where they accept relief.
So sullen in their sorrows, that 'tis known,
They'll rather die than their afflictions own:
And if reliev'd, it is too often true,
That they'll abuse their benefactors too:
For in distress their haughty stomach's such,
They hate to see themselves oblig'd too much;
Seldom contented, often in the wrong;
Hard to be pleas'd at all, and never long.
If your mistakes their ill-opinion gain,
No merit can their favour re-obtain:
And if they're not vindictive in their fury,
'Tis their unconstant temper does secure ye;
Their brain's so cool, their passion seldom burns;
For all's condens'd before the flame returns:
The sermentation's of so weak a matter,
The humid damps the fume, and runs it all to water.
So tho' the inclination may be strong,
They're pleas'd by fits, and never angry long.
Then if good nature shows some slender proof,
They never think they have reward enough;
But like our modern Quakers of the town,
Expect your manners, and return you none.
Friendship, th' abstracted union of the mind,
Which all men seek, but very sew can find;
Of all the nations in the universe,
None talk on't more, or understand it less:
For if it does their property annoy,
Their property their friendship will destroy.
As you discourse them, you shall hear them tell
All things in which they think they do excell:
No panegyric needs their praise record;
An Englishman ne'er wants his own good word.
His long discourses gen'rally appear
Pi ologu'd with his own wond'rous character:
But
But first, t' illustrate bis own good name,
He never fails his neighbour to defame:
And yet he really designs no wrong;
His malice goes no farther than his tongue.
But pleas'd to tattle, he delights to rail,
To fatisfy the lech'ry of a talc.
His own dear praises close the ample speech,
Tells you how wife he is; that is, how rich:
For wealth is wisdom; he that's rich is wise;
And all men learned poverty despise:
His generosity comes next,—and then
Concludes that he's a true-born Englishman;
And they, 'tis known, are generous and free,
Forgetting, and forgiving injury:
Which may be true, thus rightly understood,
Forgiving ill turns, and forgetting good.
Cheerful in labour, when they've undertook it,
But out of humour, when they're out of pocket.
But if their belly and their pocket's full,
They may be phlegmatic, but never dull:
And if a bottle does their brains resine,
It makes their wit as sparkling as their wine.
As for the gen'ral vices which we find
They're guilty of, in common with mankind,
Satire, forbear, and silently endure;
We must conceal the crimes we cannot cure.
Nor shall my verse the brighter sex defame;
For English beauty will preserve her name.
Beyond dispute, agreeable and fair,
And modester than other nations arc:
For where the vice prevails, the great temptation
Is want of money more than inclination.
In general, this only is allow'd,
They're something noisy, and a little proud.
An Englishman is gentlest in command;
Obedience is a stranger in the land:
Hardly subjected to the magistrate;
For Englishmen do all subjection hate.
Humblest when rich, but peevish when they're poor,
And think whate'er they have, they merit more.
The meanest English plowman studies law,
And keeps thereby the magistrates in awe;
Will boldly tell them what they ought to do,
And sometimes punish their omissions too.
Their liberty and property's so dear,
They scorn their laws or governors to sear:
So bugbear'd with the name of slavery,
They can't submit to their own liberty.
Restraint from ill, is freedom to the wise;
But Englishmen do all restraint despise.
Slaves to the liquor, drudges to the pots,
The mob are statesmen, and their statesmen sots.
Their governors they count such dang'rous things,
That 'tis their custom to affront their kings:
So jealous of the pow'r their kings possess'd,
They suffer neither power nor kings to rest.
The bad with force they eagerly subdue; "j
The good with constant clamours they pursue: >
And did King Jesus reign, they'd murmur too. J
A discontented nation, and by far
Harder to rule in times of peace than war:
Easily set together by the ears,
And full of causeless jealousies and sears:
Apt to revolt, and willing to rebel,
And never are contented when they're well.
No
No government cou'd ever please them long,
Cou'd tie their hands, or rectify their tongue.
In this to ancient Israel well compar'd,
Eternal murmurs are among them heard.
It was but lately that they were opprest,
Their rights invaded, and their laws supprest:
When nicely tender of their liberty,
Lord! what a noise they made of slavery.
In daily tumults shew'd their discontent;
Lampoon'd their king, and mock'd his government.
And if in arms they did not first appear,
'Tis want of force, and not for want of sear.
In humbler tone than English us'd to do,
At foreign hands, for foreign aid they sue.
William, the great successor of Nassau,
Their prayers heard, and their oppressions faw:
He faw and fav'd them: God and him they prais'd;
To this their thanks, to that their trophies rais'd.
But glutted with their own selicities,
They soon their new deliv'rer despise;
Say all their prayers back, their joy disown,
Unsing their thanks, and pull their trophies down:
Their harps of praise are on the willows hung;
For Englishmen are ne'er contented long.
The rev'rend clergy too! and who'd ha' thought
That they, who had such non-resistance taught,
Should e'er to arms against their prince be brought?'
Who up to heav'n did regal pow'r advance,
Subjecting English laws to modes of France;
Twisting religion so with loyalty,
As one cou'd never live, and t'other die.
And yet, no sooner did their prince design
Their glebes and perquisites to undermine,
But all their passive doctrines laid aside,
The clergy their own principles deny'd:
Unpreach'd their non-resisting cant, and pray'd
To heav'n for help, and to the Dutch for aid.
The church chim'd all her doctrines back again,
And pulpit champions did the cause maintain;
Flew in the face of all their former zeal,
And non-resistance did at once repeal.
The Rabbies fay it would be too prolix, "J
To tie religion up to politics; . >
The church's fasety issuprema lex. J
And so, by a new sigure of their own,
Their former doctrines all at once disown.
As laws post fatto in the Parliament,
In urgent cases have obtain'd assent;
But are as dang'rous precedents laid by,
Made lawful only by necessity.
The rev'rend fathers then in arms appear,
And men of God became the men of war.
The nation, fit'd by them, to arms apply,
Assault their antichristian monarchy;
To their due channel all our laws restore,
And made things what they shou'd ha' been before.
But when they came to sill the vacant throne,
And the pale priests look'd back on what they'd done;
How English liberty began to thrive,
And Church of England loyalty outlive:
How all their persecuting days were done,
And their deliv'rer plac'd upon the throne;
The priests, as priests are wont to do, turn'd tail;
They're Englishmen, and nature will prevail.
Now they deplore the ruins they ha' made,
And murmur for the master they betray'd.
Excuse
Excuse those crimes they cou'd not make him mend,
And suffer for the cause they can't desend.
Pretend they'd not have carried things so high,
And proto-martyrs make for Popery.
Had the prince done as they design'd the thing,
Ha' set the clergy up to rule the king;
Taken a donative for coming hither,
And so ha' left their king and them together,
We had, fay they, been now a happy nation.
No doubt we'd seen a blessed reformation:
For wise men fay't's as dangerous a thing,
A ruling priesthood, as a priest-rid king.
And of all plagues with which mankind are curst,
Ecclesiastic tyranny's the worst.
If all our former grievances were seign'd,
King James has been abus'd, and wetrepann'd;
Bugbear'd with Popery, and power despotic,
Tyrannic government, and leagues exotic:
The Revolution's a fanatic plot,
William a tyrant, and King James was not:
A factious army, and a poison'd nation,
Unjustly forc'd King James's abdication.
But if he did the subject's rights invade,
Then he was punish'd only, not betray'd;
And punishing of kings is no such crime,
But Englishmen ha' done it many a time
When kings the sword of justice first lay down,
They are no kings, tho' they possess the crown.
Titles are shadows, crowns are empty things;
The good of subjects is the end of kings:
To guide in war, and to protect in peace;
Where tyrants once commence the kings do cease:
367
For arbitrary power's so strange a thing,
It makes the tyrant, and unmakes the king.
If kings by foreign priests and armies reign,
And lawless power against their oaths maintain,
Then subjects must ha' reason to complain.
If oaths must bind us when our kings do ill,
To call in foreign aid is to rebel.
By force to circumscribe our lawful prince,
Is wilful treason in the largest sense:
And they who once rebel, must certainly
Their God, and king, and former oaths defy,
If we allow no mal-administration
Could cancel the allegiance of the nation:
Let all our learned sons of Levi try,
This eccles'astic riddle to untie:
How they cou'd make a step to call the prince,
And yet pretend to oaths of innocence.
By th' first address they made beyond the seas,
They're perjur'd in the most intense degrees;
And without scruple, for the time to come,
May swear to all the kings in Christendom,
And truly, did our kings consider all,
They'd never let the clergy swear at all;
Their politic allegiance they'd refuse,
For whores and priests will never want excuse.
But if the mutual contract was dissolv'd,
The doubts explain'd, the difficulty solv'd:
That kings, when they descend to tyranny,
Dissolve the bond, and leave the subject free.
The government's ungirt when justice dies,
And constitutions are non-entities.
The nation's all a mob, there's no such thing
As lords or commons, parliament or king.
A great
A great promiscuous crowd the hydra lies,
Till laws revive, and mutual contract ties:
A chaos, free to chuse for their own share,
What case of government they please to wear:
If to a king they do the reins commit,
All men arc bound in conscience to submit:
But then that king must by his oath assent
To postulata* of the government;
Which if he breaks, he cuts off the entaily
And power retreats to its original.
This doctrine has the fanction of assent,
From nature's univerfal parliament.
The voice of nations, and the course of things,
Allow the laws superior are to kings.
None but delinquents wou'd have justice cease;
Knaves rail at laws, as soldiers rail at peace:
For justice is the end of government,
As reason is the test of argument.
No man was ever yet so void of sense,
As to debate the right of self-desence;
A principle so grafted in the mind,
With nature born, and does like nature bind:
Twisted with reason and with nature too;
As neither one nor t'other can undo.
Nor can this right be less when national:
Reason which governs one, shou'd govern all.
Whate'er the dialect of courts may tell,
He that his right demands, can ne'er rebel.
Which right, if 'tis by governors deny'd,
May be procur'd by force, or foreign aid.
For tyranny's a nation's term of grief;
As folks cry fire, to hasten in relief.
Arid when the hated word is heard about,
All men should come to help the people out.
Thus England cry'd, Britannia's voice was heard;
And great Nassau to rescue her appear'd
Call'd by the univerfal voice of fate*
God and the peoples legal magistrate.
Ye heav'ns regard! Almighty Jovci look down,
And view the injured monarch on the throne;
On their Ungrateful heads due vengeance take,
Who sought his aid, and then his aid forfake.
Witness, ye pow'rs! it was our call alone,
Which now our pride makes us asham'd to own.
Britannia's troubles setch'd him from afar,
To court the dreadful casualties of war;
But where requital never can be made>
Acknowledgment's a tribute seldom paid.
He dwelt in bright Maria's circling arms,
Desended by the magic of her charms,
From foreign sears, and from domestic harms.
Ambition found no fuel for her fire,
He had what God cou'd give, or man desire.
Till pity rouz'd him from his soft repose,
His lise to unseen hazards to expose;
"Till pity mov'd him in our cause t' appear;
Pity! that word which now we hate to hear.
But English gratitude is always such,
To hate the hand which does oblige too much.
Britannia's cries gave birth to his intent,
And hardly gain'd his unforeseen assent
His boding thoughts foretold him he should find
The people fickle, selfish, and unkind:
Which thought, did to his royal heart appear
More dreadful than the dangers of the war;
Vol. III. A a For
For nothing grates agen'rous mind so soon,
As base returns for hearty service done.
Satire, be silent; awfully prepare
Britannia's song, and William's praise to hear:
Stand by, and let her chearfully rehearse
Her grateful vows in her immortal verse.
Loud fame's eternal trumpet let her sound;
Listen ye distant poles, and endless round.
May the strong blast the welcome news convey
As far as sound can reach, or spirit fly.
To neighb'ring worlds, if such there be, relate
Our hero's fame, for theirs to imitate:
To distant worlds of fp'rits let her rehearse;
For spirits without the helps of voice converse.
May angels hear the gladsome news on high,
Mix'd with their everlasting symphony;
And hell itself stand in suspense, to know
Whether it be the fatal blast, or no.
BRITANNIA.
"THE fame of virtue 'tis for which I sound,
And heroes with immortal triumphs crown'd:
Fame built on solid virtue, swifter flies
Than morning light can spread my eastern skies.
The gafh'ring air returns the doubling sound,
And loud repeating thunders force it round:
Echoes return from caverns of the deep,
Old Chaos dreams on't in eternal sleep.
Time hands it forward to its latest urn,
From whence it never, never shall return:
Nothing is heard so far, or lasts so long;
'Tis heard by ev'ry ear, and spoke by ev'ry tongue
S71
"My hero, with the fails of honour furl'd,
Rises like the great genius of the world;
By fate and fame wisely prepar'd to be
The foul of war, and lise of victory.
He spreads the wings of virtue on the throne,
And ev'ry wind of glory fans them on;
Immortal trophies dwell upon his brow,
Fresh as the garlands he has won but now.
"By different steps the high ascent he gains,
And diff'rently that high ascent maintains.
Princes for pride and lust of rule make war,
And struggle for the name of conqueror.
Some sight for fame, and some for victory;
He sights to fave, and conquers to set free.
"Then seek no phrase his titles to conceal,
And hide with words what actions must reveal:
No parallel from Hebrew stories take,
Of god-like kings my similies to make:
No bprrow'd names conceal my living theme,
But names and things directly I proclaim.
His honest merit does his glory raise,
Whom that exalts, let no man sear to praise;
Of such a subject no man need be shy,
Virtue's above the reach of flattery:
He needs no character, but his own fame,
Nor any flatt'ring titles, but his name. .. -
William's the name that's spoke by ev'ry tongue,
William's the darling subject of my song.
Listen, ye virgins, to the charming found,
And in eternal dances hand it round:
Your early off'rings to this altar bring,
Make him at once a lover and a king.
A a 2 May
May he submit to none but to your arms,
Nor ever be subdu'd, but by your charms!
May your soft thoughts for him be all sublime,
And ev'ry tender vow be made for him.
May he be first in ev'ry morning thought,
And heav'n ne'er heas a pray'r, when he's left out.
May ev'ry omen, ev'ry boding dream,
Be fortunate by mentioning his name;
May this one charm insernal pow'rs affright,
And guard you from the terrors of the night.
May ev'ry chearful glass, as it goes down
To William's health, be cordials to your own.
Let ev'ry song be choruss'd with his name,
And mufic pay her tribute to his fame.
Let ev'ry poet tune his artful verse,
And in immortal strains his deeds rehearse;
Or may Apollo never more inspire
The disobedient bard with his seraphic fire.
May all my sons their grateful homage pay,
His praises sing, and for his fasety pray."
Satire return to our unthankful isle,
Secur'd by heav'n's regard, and William's toil:
To both ungrateful, and to both untrue;
Rebels to God, and to good nature too.
If e'er this nation be distress'd again,
To whomsoe'er they cry, they'll cry in vain.
To heav'n they cannot have the face to look;
Or if they should, it would but heav'n provoke.
To hope for help from man wou'd be too much,
Mankind wou'd always tell 'em of the Dutch:
How
373
How they came here, our freedoms to maintain,
Were paid, and curs'd, and hurry'd home again.
How by their aid we first dissolv'd our fears,
And then our helpers damn'd for foreigners.
'Tis not our English temper to do better,
For Englishmen think ev'ry man their debtor.
'Tis worth observing, that we ne'er complain'd
Of foreigners, nor of the wealth they gain'd,
'Till all their services were at an end.
Wise men affirm it is the English way,'
Never to grumble till they come to pay;
And then they always think, their temper's such,
The work too- little, and the pay too much.
As frighted patients, when they want a cure,
Bid any price, and any pain endure;
But when the doctor's remedies appear,
The cure's too easy, and the price too dear.
Great Portland ne'er was banter'd, when he strove
For us his master's kindest thoughts to move.
We ne'er lampoon'd his conduct, when employ'd
King James's secret counsels to divide;
Then we caress'd him as the only man
Which could the doubtful oracle explain;
The only Hushai able to repel
The dark designs of our Achitophel.
Compar'd his master's courage to his sense,
The ablest statesman, and the bravest prince.
Ten years in English service he appear'd,
And gain'd his master's and the world's regard;
But *tis not England's custom to reward.
The wars are over, England-needs him not,
Now he's a Dutchman, and the lord knows what.
A a 3 - Schomberg,
}
Schomberg, the ablest soldier of his age,
With great Nassau did in our cause engage:
Both join'd for England's rescue and desence,
The greatest captain, and the greatest prince.
With what applause his stories did we tell?
Stories which Europe's volumes largely swell:
We counted him an army in our aid;
Where he commanded, no man was afraid.
His actions with a constant conquest shine,
From Villa-Vitiofa to the Rhine.
France, Flanders, Germany, his fame consess,
And all the world was fond of him,—but us:
Our turn first serv'd, we grudg'd him the command-;
Witness the grateful temper of the land!
We blame the king, that he relies too much
On strangers, Germans, Hugonots, and Dutch;
And seldom wou'd his great affairs of state
To English counsellors communicate.
The fact might very well be answer'd thus:
He has so often been betray'd by us, *
He must have been a madman, to rely
On English gentlemen's fidelity.
For laying other arguments aside,
This thought might mortify our English pride,
That foreigners have faithfully obey'd him,
And none but Englishmen have e'er betray'd him.
They have our ships and merchants bought and sold,
And barter'd English blood for foreign gold:
First to the French they sold our Turkey fleet,
And injur'd Talmarsh next, at Camaret.
The king himself is fhelter'd from their snares,
Not by his merit, but the crown he wears:
Expe-
375
Experience tells us 'tis. the English way,
Their benefactors always to betray.
Then let us boast of ancestors no more,
Or deeds of heroes done in days of yore,
In latent records of the ages past,
Behind the rear of time in long oblivion plac'd;
For if our virtues must in lines descend,
The merit with the families would end,
And intermixtures wou'd most fatal grow;
For vice wou'd be hereditary too:
The tainted blood wou'd, of necessity,
Involuntary wickedness convey.
Vice, like ill nature, for an age or two,
May seem a generation to pursue:
But virtue seldom does regard the breed;
Fools do the wise, and wise men fools succeed.
What is't to us, what ancestors we had?
If good, what better? Or what worse, if bad?
Examples are for imitation set,
Yet all men follow virtue with regret.
Cou'd but our ancestors retrieve their fate,
And see their ofsspring thus degenerate;
How we contend for birth and names unknown,
And build on their past actions, not our own;
They'd cancel records, and their tombs deface,
And openly disown the vile degen'rate race:
For fame of families is all a cheat,
"sis personal virtue only makes us great f
THE
c
O F
THE COLLECTIVE BODY
O F
THE PEOPLE OF ENGLAND,
EXAMINED AND ASSERTED..
a der
kgal
Y0
your
the gr
nation
listing
Prince-
Portior
the faic
as wel]
Fron
,u*. as
distribu
pr;ety.
LORDS SPIRITUAL and TEMPORAL,
AND
The COMMONS of ENGLAND. *
My Lords and Gentlemen,
THE vindication of the original right of all
men to the government of themselves, is so far from
a derogation from, that it is a confirmation of your
legal authority.
Your Lordships, who are of our Nobility, have
your original right, your titles and dignities, from
the greatness of your shares in the freeholds of the
nation; if merit has raised any of your ancestors to
distinguishing honours,—or if the royal favour of
princes has dignisied families,—it has always been
thought fit to bestow, or to enable them to purchase, a
portion of the freeholds of England, to be annexed to
the faid titles; in order to make such dignities rational,
as well as support the succession of honour.
From hence you are vested with sovereign, judica-
ture, as being the most proper to be trusted with the
distribution of justice in that country, of which you
are supposed to have, and once had, the principal pro-
From hence you sit in parliament as a branch of our
constitution, being part of the collective body, repre-
senting no body but yourselves, and as a testimony that
the original of all power centers in the Whole.
The rest of the freeholders have originally a right to
sit there with you; but, being too numerous a body,
they have long since agreed, that, whenever the king
thinks fit to advise with his people, they will chuse a
certain sew out of their great body, to meet together
with your Lordships.
Here, in short, is the origin of parliaments ; and
here,—if power at any time meets with a cess,—if go-
vernments and thrones become vacant,—to this origi-
nal all power, of course, returns :—this is the happy
center in the great circle of politic order.
From hence, at the late revolution, when King
James deserted the administration, and his present
Majesty (King William) was in arms in England,
nature directed the people to have recourse to your
Lordships, and to defire your appearance as the heads
of the great collective body; and all the champions for
the great arguments of divine right could not, in that
exigence, have recourse to one precedent, nor to one
rule of proceeding, but what nature would have dicta-
ted to the meanest judgment, viz.—.That the nation
being left without a governor, the proprietors Jhould meet
to consider of another.
And you, Gentlemen of the House of Commons,
who are the representatives of your country, you are
this great collective body in miniature,—you are an
abridgement of the many volumes of the English na-
tion.
To
To you they have trusted, jointly with the king and
the lords, the power of making laws, raising taxes,
and impeaching criminals :—But how ?—'Tis in the
Name of all the Commons of England,—whose
representatives you are.
All their power is yours, as you are a full and free
representative :—I nowhere attempt to prove what
powers you have not: possibly the extent of your legal
authority was never fully understood, nor have you
ever thought fit to explain it:—But this I may be bold
to advance, that whatever powers you have, or may have,
you cannot exercise them but in the name of the Com-
mons of England ; and you enjoy them as their repre-
sentative, and for their use.
All this is not faid to lessen your authority,—nor can
it be the interest of any British freeholder to lessen the
authority of the Commons assembled in Parliament.
You are the conservators of our liberties, the exposi-
tors of our laws, the levyers of our taxes, and the re-
dressers of our grievances,—the king's best counsellors,
and the people's last refuge.
But if you are dissolved, for ye are not immortal; or
if you are deceived, for you are not infallible; it was
never yet supposed, till very lately, that all power dies
with you.
You may die, but the People remain;—you may be
dissolved, and all immediate right may cease ;—power
may have its intervals, and Crowns their interregnum; but
ORIGINAL POWER ENDURES TO THE SAME ETER-
NITY the world endures to:—and while there
is people, there may be a legal authority delegated,
though all succession of substituted power were at an end.
Nor
Nor have I advanced any new doctrine,—nothing
but what is as antient as nature, and born into the
world with our reason: and I think it would be z sin
against the Parliament of England, to suggest that they
would be offended either with the doctrine or the au-
thor, since it is what their own authority is built upon,
and what the laws of England have given their assent
unto, by confirming the acts of the last collective body
of the people, from whence the present settlement of
the nation does derive.
Wherefore I make no apology for protection, or
favour, as to the fact; as to language—I am ready
to ask pardon if I offend; declaring my intention is
neither for nor against either person or party.—As there
is but one interest in the nation, I wish there were but
one party, and that that party would adhere to unbiassed
justice, and pursue the honour and interest of the Pro-
testant Religion, and the English Liberty.
THE
ORIGINAL POWER. &c.
IHAVE observed, when interest obliges any person
or party to. desend the cause they have espoused,
they please themselves with fancying they conceal their
private designs, by covering their discourses with gay
titles.'
Like a certain act of parliament, which in the pre-
amble'calls itself, An Ail for the Relief of Creditors,
but in its effect was really An Ail for the Relief of
Debtor s-
Thus 'some Gentlemen place fine specious titles on
their books, as sura Populi Anglicani, A Vindication of
the Rights of the Commons of England, and A Vindica-
tion of the Rights of the Lords, and the like; and with
large and high encomiums upon the excellency of our
constitution, treat the levity of some peoples judgments
with fine notions; whereas the true end and design is
desending the interest and party they have espoused.
The desence of the rights of the representative body
of the people, understood by the name^f the Commons
of England in parliament, is a great point; and so plain
are their rights, that it is no extraordinary task to de-
send them: but for any man to advance, that they are
so august an assembly that no objection ought to be
made
made to their actions, nor no reflection upon their con-
duct, though the fact be true; and that it is not to be
examined whether the thing said be trufc, but what au-
thority the person speaking has to fay it, is a doctrine
wholly new, and seems, to me, to be a badge of more
slavery to out own representatives than ever the people
of England owes them, or than ever they themselves
expected.
This, therefore, together with some invasions of the
peoples rights, made public by several modern authors,
are the reasons why I have adventured, being wholly
disinterested and unconcerned either for persons ot
parties^ to make a short essay at declaring the rights of
the people of England, not representatively, but col-
lectively considered. * .
And with due deserence to the representative body
of the nation, I hope I may fay, it can be no diminution
of their rights, to assert the rights of that body from
whom they derive the powers and privileges of their
house, and which are the very foundation of their be-
ing. For if the original right of the people be over-
thrown, the power of the representative, which is sub-
sequent and subordinate, must die of itself.
And because I have to do rather with reason and the
nature of the thing, than with laws and precedents, I
shall make but very little use of authors, and quota-
tions of statutes; since fundamentals and principles are
superior to laws or examples.
To come directly to what I design in the following
papers, it is necessary to lay down some maxims, other
than what a late * author has furnished us with.
I; Salus
* Sir H. Molesworth's Vindication of the Commons.
t. Salus Populi supr etna Lex: All government, and
consequently our whole constitution, was originally
designed, and is maintained, for the support of the peo-
ples property, who are the governed.
a. That all the members of government, whether
King, Lords, or Commons, if they invert the great end
of their institution, the public good, cease to be in the
fame public capacity;
And pow'r retreats to its original.
i
3. That no collective or representative body of men
whatsoever, in matters of politics, any more than reli-
gion, are, or ever have been infallible.
4. That reason is the test and touch-stone of laws;
and that all law or power that is contradictory to rea-
son, is, ipso fafto, void in itself, and ought not to be
obeyed.
These four generals run through the whole follow-
ing discourse.
Some other maxims, less general, are the consequence
of these; as,
First, That such laws as are agreeable to reason and
justice being once made, are binding both to King,
Lords and Commons, either separately or conjunctively^
till they are actually repealed in due form.
That if cither of the three powers do dispense with,
suspend, or otherwise break any of the known laws so
made, they injure the constitution; and the power so
acting, ought to be restrained by the other powers not
concurring, according to what is lately allowed, "That
every branch of power is designed as A check upon each other.
But if all the three powers mould join in such an
irregular action, the constitution suffers a convulsion,
dies, and is dissolved of course.
Vol, HL B b Not
Nor does it suffice to fay, that King, Lords and
Commons can do no wrong; since the mutual consent
of parties, on which that foolish maxim is grounded,
does not extend to every action King, Lords and
Commons are capable of doing.
There are laws which respect the common rights of
the people, as they are the parties to be governed; and
with respect to these, the King can do no wrong; but
all is laid upon his ministers, who are accountable.
And there are laws which particularly respect the
constitution; the King, Lords and Commons, as they
are the parties governing: in this regard each branch
may wrong and oppress the other; or altogether, may
do wrong to the people they are made to govern.
The King may invade the peoples properties, and if
the Lords and Commons omit to desend and protect;
them, they all do wrong, by a tacit approving those
abuses they ought to oppose.
The Commons may extend their power to an exor-
bitant degree, in imprisoning the subjects, dispensing
with the Habeas Corpus act, giving unlimited power to
their serjeant to oppress the people in his custody,
withholding writs of election from boroughs and
towns, and several other ways; which if they are not
checked, either by the King, or the Lords, they are alto-
gether parties to the wrong, and the subject is appa-
rently injured.
The Lords may err in judicature, and deny justice to
the Commons, or delay it upon punctilios and studied
occasions; and if neither the King nor the Commons
take care to prevent it, delinquents are excused, and
criminals encouraged; and all are guilty of the trench
of common justice.
That
. That to prevent this, it is absolutely necessary that,
in matters of dispute, the single powers should be go-
verned by the joint, and that nothing should be so insist-
ed upon as to break the correspondence.
That the three should be directed by the law; and
where that is silent, by reason.
That every person concerned in the law, is in his
measure a judge of the reason ; and therefore, in his pro-
per place, ought to be allowed to give his reason in case
of dissent.
That every single power has an absolute negative
upon the acts of the other; and if the people, who are
without doors, sind reason to object, they may do it by
petition.
But because, under pretence of petitioning, seditious
and turbulent people may foment disturbances, tumults
and disorders; the subjects right of petitioning being
yet recognized and preserved, the circumstances of
such petitions are regulated by laws, as to the numbers
and qualities of the persons petitioning.
But the laws have no where prescribed the petitioners
to any form of words ; and therefore no pretence of in-
decency of expression can be so criminal as to be de-
structive of the constitution; because, though it may
deserve the resentment of the petitioned, yet it is not
an illegal act, nor a breach of any law.
And yet the representative body of the people ought
not to be bantered or affronted neither, at the will and
pleasure of any private person without doors, who sinds
cause to petition them.
But if any expression be offensive to the House, it
seems reasonable that the persons who are concerned
therein should be required to explain themselves: and'
B b 2 if,
if, upon such explanation, the house finds no fatisfac-
tion as to the particular affront, they are at liberty to
proceed as the law directs; but no otherwise.
And to me, the silence of the law, in that case, seems
to imply, that rejecting the petition is a contempt due
to any indecency of that nature, and as much resent-
ment as the nature of the thing requires: but as to
breaking in upon personal liberty, which is a thing the
law is so tender of, and has made so strong a sence
about, I dare not affirm it is a justisiable procedure; no,
not in the House of Commons.
It is alleged, that it has been practised by all parlia*
ments ; which is, to me, far from an argument to prove
the legality of it.
I think it may pass for a maxim, that a man cannot
be legally punished for a crime which there is no law to
prosecute. Now, since there is no law to prosecute a
man for indecency of expression in a petition to the
House of Commons, it remains a doubt with me how
they can be legally punished.
Precedents are of use to the houses of parliament,
where the laws are silent, in things relating to them-
selves, and are, doubtless, a sufficient authority to act
from. But whether any precedent, usage, or custom,
of any body of men whatever, can make a thing law-
ful which the laws have expressly forbid, remains a
doubt with me.
The good of the people governed is the end of all
government, and the reason and original of governors;
and upon this foundation it is that it has been the
practice of all nations, and of this in particular, that
if the mal-administration of governors have extended
to tyranny and oppression, to destruction of right and
* i justice,
1
justice, overthrowing the constitution, and abusing the
people, the people have thought it lawful to re-assume
the'right of government in their own hands, and to
reduce their governors to reason.
The present happy restoring of our liberty and con-
stitution is owing to this fundamental maxim,
That kings, when they descend to tyranny,
Dissolve the bond, and leave the subject free.
If the people are justisiable in this procedure against
the King, I hope I shall not be censured if I fay, that
if any one should ask me, whether they have not the
fame right, in the fame cases, against any of the three
heads of the constitution? I dare not answer in the
negative.
I may be allowed to suppose any thing which is pos-
sible; and I will therefore venture to suppose, that in
the late King's reign the House of Commons, then
sitting, had voted the restoration of Popery in England,
in compliance with the King's inclination.
I doubt not but it had been lawful for the grand
juries, justices of the peace, and freeholders of any
county, or of every county, to have petitioned the
House of Commons not to proceed in giving up their
religion and laws.
And in case of refufal there, they might petition the
House of Lords not to have passed such a bill.
And in case of refufal there, they might petition the
King and put him in mind of his coronation engage-
ment.
And in case of refufal to that petition, they might
petition the King again to dissolve the Parliament, or
otherwise to protect their liberties and religion.
B b 3 And
And if these peaceable applications failed, I doubt
not but they might associate for their mutual defence
against any invasion of their liberties and religion, and
apply themselves to any neighbouring power or poten-
tate for assistance and protection.
If this be not true, 1 can give but a slender account
of our late revolution; which, nevertheless, I think to
be founded upon the exact principles pf reason and jus-
tice.
And suppose again, the people thought themselves in
danger of an invasion from France, and thereupon the
counties of Kent and Sussex should have petitioned the
House to take them into consideration; who, in such
case, were like to be the scat of the war, and first ex-
posed to the enemy; would anybody fay, the occasion
did not arise in the county from whence such petition
did proceed?
In this univerfal right os the people, consists our ge-
neral fasety: fer notwithstanding all the beauty of our
constitution, and the exact symmetry of its parts, about
which some have been so very elegant, this noble, well-
contrived system has been overwhelmed; the govern-
ment has been inverted, the people's liberties have been
trampled on, and parliaments have been rendered useless
and insignisicant:—And what has restored us? The last
resort has been to the people; vex Dei has been found
there, not in the representatives, but in their original,
the represented.
And what has been the engine that has led the na-
tion to it? The reason and nature of the thing. Rea-
son governs men, when they are masters of their senses,
ps naturally as fire flics upwards, or water descends.
For
For wbat is it that King, Lords, and Commons as-
semble? It is to reason together concerning the weighty
matters of the state, and to act and do for the good of
the people, what shall be agreeable to reason and justice.
I grant, it is reasonable that every branch should be
vested with due powers, and those powers be equally
distributed. •
But if they must be vested with power, somebody
must vest them with it; if these powers must be distri-
buted, somebody must distribute them:—So that
There must be some power prior to the power of
King, Lords, and Commons, from-which, as the
streams from the fountain, the power of King, Lords,
and Commons is derived.
And what are all the different terms which statesmen
turn so often into fine words to serve their ends; as,
reason of state, public good, the commonwealth, the
English constitution, the government, the laws of Eng-
land, the liberties of England, the fleets, the armies, the
militia of England, the trade, the manufactures of Eng-
land? All are but several terms, drawn from and redu-
cible to the great term, the People of England.
That is the general, which contains all the particulars,
and which had all power before any of the particulars
had a being. And from this consideration it is, that
some, who yet would be opposers of this doctrine, fay,
when it serves their turn, that all the great offices which
. have the title of England annexed to them, ought to be
nominated and approved by the people of England, as
the High Chancellor of England, High Admiral of
England, and the like.
That power which is original, is superior; God is
the fountain of all power, and therefore is the supreme:
B b 4 and
and if we could suppose a prior and original of the divine
power, that original would be God, and be superior;
for all subsequent power must be subject and inserior to
the precedent.
The power vested in the three heads of our constitu-
tion, is vested in them by the people of England; who
were a people before there was such a thing as a consti-
tution.
And the nature of the thing, is the reason of the
thing: it was vested in them by the people, because the
people were the only original of their power; being the
only power prior to the constitution.
For the public good of the people, a constitution and
government were originally formed; from the mutual
consent of these people, the powers and authorities of
his constitution are derived: and for the preservation
of this constitution, and enabling it to answer the ends
of its institution in the best manner possible, those
powers were divided.
The second maxim is a rational, natural consequence
of the former; that at the final, casual, or any other
determination of this constitution, the powers are dis-
solved, and all authority must derive, dt novo, from the
first fountain, original, and cause of all constitutions,—
the governed.
Now it cannot be supposed this original fountain
should give up all its waters; but that it reserves a
power of supplying the streams: nor have the streams
any power to turn back upon the fountain, and invert
its own original:—All such motions are eccentric and
unnatural.
There must always remain a supreme power in the
original to supply, in case of the dissolution of delegated
power.
The
The people of England have delegated all the execu-
tive power in the King; the legislative in the King,
Lords, and Commons; the sovereign judicature in the
Lords; the remainder is reserved in themselves, and
not committed, no, not to their representatives. All
powers delegated, are to one great end and purpose, and
no other, and that is, the public good. If either, or all
the branches to whom this power is delegated, invert
the design, the end of their power, the right they have
to that power ceases; and they become tyrants and
usurpers of a power they have no right to.
The instance has been visible, as to kings, in our
days; and history is full of precedents in all ages, and
in all nations; particularly in Spain, in Portugal, in
Sweden, in France, and in Poland.
But in England, the late revolution is a particular
instance of the exercise of this power.
King James, on the approach of a foreign army, and
the general recourse of the people to arms, sled out of
the kingdom. What must the people of England do?
They had no reason to run after him; there was no-
body to call a parliament, so the constitution was en-
tirely dissolved.
The original of power, the people, assembled in con-
vention, to consider of delegating new powers for their
future government; and accordingly made a new settle-
ment of the crown, a new declaration of right, and a
new representative of the people; and what if I should
fay, they ought to have given a new fanction to all pre-
cedent laws?
It remains to argue from hence; but what course
must the people of England take, if their representatives
exercise
txercise the power entrusted with them, to the ruin of
the constitution?
It has been advanced, that every man must submit,
and not presume to argue against it, upon any supposi-
tion of mismanagement.
I can see no reason given to confirm such a position;
for unless we will place the original of power in the
persons representing, not in the persons represented,
it cannot be made out, that there ought to be no com-
plaint upon the score of mismanagement.
It is not the design of this discourse to lessen the au-
thority of Parliament: but all power must centre some-
where. If it is in the three branches of the constitu-
tion, it is there inherently and originally, or it is there
by deputation. If it be there by deputation, then there
must be a power deputing, and that must be both prior,
and consequently superior to the deputation, as before.
If we will come off of this, we must fly to the old
weak refuge of a power jure divino; a doctrine, which
the most famed pretenders to, have lived to be asiiamed
of, and whose foundation is so weak, that it is not
worth while to expose it.
I should therefore have been very glad, that for the
persecting the desence of the English constitution, the
gentlemen who have begun so well, would have gone
forward to recognize the power of the people of Eng-
land: and their undoubted right to judge of the in-
fractions made in their constitution, by either parties
. abusing the particular powers vested in them; and in-
verting them, by turning them against the people they
are designed to desend.
That they would have stated fairly what the people of
England are to do, if their representatives lhall here-
after
after betray the liberties or religion of the people they
are intrusted with the desence of.
What by the laws of nature and reason is to be ex-
pected, and what by the laws of our constitution are
allowed.
To fay it cannot be supposed the House of Commons
can ever betray their trust, is a compliment no man is
bound to make them: Humanum eft err are. We have
seen parliaments err, and do what succeeding parlia-
ments have thought fit to undo. And as that which
has been, may be ; so that may be, which never has been
before.
We have seen parliaments comply with kings to
the ruin of the nation; and we have seen parliaments
quarrel with kings, to the overturning of the constitu-
tion, dissolving the House of Lords, and suppressing the
Monarchy.
We have seen parliaments concur so with the fate
and fortunes of princes, as to comply backward and
forward, in deposing and reinthroning alternately two
kings as often as victory put power into their hands;
I mean Henry the Sixth, and Edward the Fourth, who
were kings and prisoners five or six times, and always
the Parliament complied with the conquerors.
We have seen a parliament confirm Henry the Se-
venth, who really had rro right at all to the succession,
and rescind all the preceding parliament had done.
Afterwards, in matters of religion, King Henry the
Eighth made a Popish parliament pull down the supre-
macy of Rome, and set up the King's; and afterwards
suppress all the religious houses in the nation. His
son pulled up Popery by the roots, and planted the Re-
formation ; ftili the Parliament complied. Queen Mary
re-esta-
re-established Popery, and unravelled both the Reforma-
tion of King Edward, and all the acts of church and
state relating to her mother's divorce; and still the Par-
liament consented. One parliament voted Queen Mary
legitimate, and Queen Elizabeth a bastard: another
parliament legitimated Queen Elizabeth, and repudi-
ated Queen Mary. Queen Elizabeth undid all her
sister had done, and suppressed all the proceedings of
Popery; and all was by Authority of Parliament.
So that this parliamentary branch of power is no
more infallible than the kingly*
If then, upon the subversion of *he laws, and inter-
foption of common justice, the center of power is in
the people, a fortiori, the people are all concerned in
every degree of such a subversion. .
And it is the most reasonable thing in the world,
that those who, upon a total subversion are the suf-
ferers, and have a right to the re-establishmcnt, should
have a right to take cognizance of any degree of inva-
sion made upon their right, and which tends to that
general subversion.
It would be nonsense to suppose, that that which has
all the greater powers, should not have the less.
Can the peoples good be the main and only end of
government, and the peoples power be the last resort
when government is overwhelmed by the errors of
governors? And have these people no right, not so
much as to be sensible of the ruin of their liberties,
till it is absolutely compleated ?—It would be ridicu-
lous.
The truth is, in right reasoning, the first invasion
made upon justice, either by the tacit or actual assent
of the three heads of our constitution, is an actual
disso-
dissolution of the constitution; and, for ought I can
see, the people have a right to dispossess the incumbent,
and commit the trust of government, dt novo, upon that
first act.
But I chuse rather to put the argument upon total
subversions of right, order, and desence; and I am sure
nobody will dispute it with me there.
And here, if I have any foresight, lies an absolute
security for us against that bugbear, which so many
pretend to be frighted at,—a commonwealth.
The genius of this nation has always appeared to
tend to a monarchy,—a legal, limited monarchy; and
having had in the late revolution a full and uninter-
rupted liberty to cast themselves into what form of
government they pleased, there was not discovered the
least inclination in any party towards a commonwealth,
though the treatment they met with from their last two
kings, had all in it that could be, to put them out of
love with monarchy.
A commonwealth can never be introduced but by
such invasions of right as must make our constituted
government impracticable. The reason is, because
men never willingly change for the worst; and the
people of England enjoy more freedom in our regal,
than any people in the world can do, in a popular
government.
The people of England can never chuse a common-
wealth government, till they come to defire less liberty
than they now enjoy; that is, till they come tp be
blind to their own interest. 'Tis true, example is no
argument; but I might freely appeal to the friends of
the last republic in England, to answer this question :-—
Whether the people of England, during the short go-
vernment
vernrfient of Parliament in England, which was erro-
neously called a commonwealth, did, or whether they
taw, under any commonwealth government, sounded
ever so wisely, enjoy greater privileges and advantages
than under the present constitution, in its full and free
exercise, uninterrupted by the excesses of kings, evil
counsellors, parties and passions?
If any shall pretend, that the late parliament is aimed
at'in this, I hope I may have as much liberty to sap-
pose they are mistaken; for the days of judging by
inuendo, are at an end.
If any thing seem to lie that way, the error must be
theirs, who have so mean thoughts of them, as to
think the coat will fit them: if it does, they are wel-
come to .wear it. For my part, I declare myself to
intend only the bringing things to such a right un-
derstanding as may preserve the balance of power;
and I hope, I cannot offend any free representative
of the people of England in faying, that what power
they have, they receive from the people they represent;
and, that some powers do still remain with the people,
which they never neither divested themselves of, nor
committed to them.
Nor can I be sensible of offending, if I fay, that it is
possible for a House of Commons to be in the wrong:
'tis possible for a House of Commons to be misled by
factions and parties: 'tis possible for them to be bribed
by pensions and places, and by either of these extremes,
to betray their trust, and abuse the people who entrust
them. And, if the people should have no redress in
such a case, then would the nation be in the hazard of
being ruined by their own representatives. And 'tis a
wonder to find it asserted in a certain treatises * That
rt is not to be supposed, that ever the House of Com-
mons can injure the people who entrust them.' There
can be no better way to demonstrate the possibility of a
thing than by proving it has been already.
And we need go no farther back than to the reign
of King Charles the Second, in which we have seen
lists of 180 members who received private pensions from
the Court: and if anybody shall ask whether that Par-
liament preserved the balance of power in the three
branches of our constitution, in the due distribution
some have mentioned, I am not afraid to answer in the
negative.
And why, even to this day, are gentlemen so
fond of spending their estates to fit in that House,
that ten thoufand pounds have been spent at a time to
"be chosen; and now, that way of procuring elections
is at an end, private briberies and clandestine contri»
vances are made use of to get into the House. No
man would give a groat to Jit where he cannot get
a groat for fitting, unless there were either parties te gra-
tis, profits to bs made, or interefi to support.
If then these things are possible, it seems to me not
so improper for the people, who are the original and
end of the constitution, and have the main concern in
it, to be very felicitous that the due balance of power
be preserved; and decently, and, according to law, al'
ways to shew their dislike and resentment at any public
encroachment, which either branch of the constitution
shall make on each other, or on the whole, be it by
their own representatives, or any where else.
The excellency of our constitution consists of the
symmetry of parts, and the balance of power; and if this
; balance
balance be broken, one part grows too great for the
other, and the whole is put into confusion.
1 am not undertaking to find fault with our constitu-
tion, though I do riot grant neither, that it is capable
of no amendment; but 1 would endeavour to make
way, by retreating to originals, for every member to
perform its proper function, in order to put the general
body into its regular motion.
For, as in the natural body, if any member, either
by contraction of the organ, dislocation, or other acci-
dent, fails in the performance of its proper duty, the
locomotive faculty is either interrupted, and the body
distorted; or at least, the regularity of natural motion
is invaded. So in the body politic; if one branch of
the general union err, and that error is not corrected,
the whole constitution suffers a shock, and there is an
infraction of the general order.
To give some instances of this, it will be needful to
enter a little into history; and we need not go far to
inform ourselves, that there has been a time when the
weakness of our constitution has appeared.
Our constitution, when all the fine things in the
world have been faid of it, is not impregnable; when
power has been thrown wholly into one scale, the other
has always been trampled under-foot, and overthrown
by it.
The regal power, under King Charles the—FiHtJ
over-balanced the Lords and Commons, to the invad-
ing the right of levying taxes, vested wholly in the
Parliament, and to the discontinuing Parliaments for
fourteen years; and the many convulsions the consti-
tution selt in that time, is too melancholy a subject to
reflect upon.
The
The House of Commons, in the next settlement,
over-balanced the Lords; and power being added to
one side, tossed the upper House quite out of the scale,
absolutely annihilated the very being of the Peers, as a
House, and voted them out of the constitution.
By the restoration, the constitution returned to its
original, and the balance was poised again. What at-
tempts have since been made to overthrow it, are need-
less to be insisted upon; but the nature of the thing
leads me to make one remark,—that if the king can do
no wrong, nor is not punishable or blamable by our con-
stitution, but the ministry; then we have acted strange-
ly in the late revolution; in which the king, who must
be innocent, only suffered; and the ministry, who
must be guilty, not only were excused, but intrusted
and employed.
Not that I am of some peoples opinion neither, who
think that the late king had hard measure in being de-
posed, when he was really not accountable. For I pre-
sume I may affirm, that the deposing King James,
was founded upon his deserting the nation, not his
maladministration : for had he continued in England,
you might possibly have subdued him, and took him
prisoner, but there had been no room for transposing
the crown while he had been alive.
And 'tis allowed by all, that those persons who ad-
vised him to quit the kingdom, by flying out of it,
either wilfully betrayed him, or very ignorantly gave
him the only counsel which could compleat his ruin.
When parliaments, if ever that unhappy time shall
come again, mould be either destroyed, or which is as
bad, be corrupted, and betray the people they represent;
the people themselves, who are the original of all dele-
Vol. III. C c gated
gated power, have an undoubted right to desend their
lives, liberties, properties, religion and laws, against
all manner of invasion or treachery, be it foreign or
domestick; the constitution is dissolved, and the laws
of nature and reason act of course, according to the
follo'wing system of government:
The government's ungirt when justice dies,
And constitutions are non entities: -
The nation's all a mob; there's no such thing
As Lords and Commons, Parliament or King.
A great promiscuous croud the hydra lies,
Till laws revive, and mutual contract ties:
A chaos, free to chuse for their own share
What case of government they please to wear.
If to a king they do the reins commit,
All men are bound in conscience to submit;
But then that king must by his oath assent
To postulatas of the government:
Which if he breaks, he cuts off the intail,
And pow'r retreats to its original.
It may be objected, but who are these people to
whom power must thus retreat? It must be the whole
people. If there be one negative, every one having an
equal right, the real claim of power is impersect: And
since there can be no general collective meeting of the
whole community, there can be no execution of their
power; and therefore, this does not justify a sew of
that body in the name of the rest, to execute any part
of that power.
This may be answered:—Though, upon a dissolution
of government, all the people, collectively, cannot be
enquired of as to what they will have done, yet one ne-
gative ought not to interrupt the whole.
I will
403
1 will suppose a general dissolution of government in
any country, such as was seen in this nation at the last
revolution.
The people, assembled in a univerfal mob, to take
the rightof government upon themselves, are not to be
supposed to give their personal suffrages to every article,
but they may agree to a convention of such persons
as they think fit to intrust, to constitute it neve,
and may delegate their power, or part of it, to such a
convention; and in such case, a general concurrence
is to be supposed, unless there be a public dissent.
Now suppose the general collective body of the peo-
ple should not unanimously agree, it is owned the
power could not be univerfally delegated, and there a di-
vision would follow; but in such case, those who dis-
sented from such an agreement, must declare their dis-
sent, and agree to any other form of government for
themselves, and so divide from the other body; and if
they do not divide, they in efsect do not dissent.
But then this division must be before any members
are delegated by them to convene.
For example: Suppose the freeholders in Cornwall,
in such a case should fay, We do not approve of your
deputing men to meet and consult of a new govern-
ment and constitution; we are resolved to be governed
by such a man of our own country.
This resolution being against no law, and that coun-
try having sent no members to represent them, and to
join with the rest of the body, they cannot be legally
disturbed or punished, or forced to unite with the rest
of the nation.
Such a division might be looked upon as a misfor-
tune to the general body, and unkind in the country,
Cc 2 of
or part dividing from the rest; but in the nature of the
thing, it could not be unjust.
Because any body of men are at liberty, upon the
dislblutioh of former contracts, to be governed by such
laws and persons, and in such manner as they shall
think fit.
Yet is there no sear of such a division in a country
so depending on its several parts as this is; because the
rest would render them so uneasy, that their interest
would compel them to comply.
Note, I do not place this right upon the inhabitants,
but upon the freeholders; the freeholders are the pro-
per owners of the country: It is their own, and the
other inhabitants are but fojourners, like lodgers in a
house, and ought to be subject to such laws as the free-
holders impose upon them, or else they must remove;
because the freeholders having a right to the land, the
other have no right to live there but upon sufferance.
In former days, the freehold gave a right of govern-
ment to the freeholder; and vassalage and villainage
was derived from this right, that every man who will
live in my land shall be my servant; if he won't, let
him go about his business, and live somewhere else:
and it is the fame still, in right reasoning.
And I make no question but property of land is the
best title to government in the world: and if the king
was univerfal landlord, he ought to be univerfal gover-
nor of right; and the people so living on his lands,
ought to obey him, or go off his premises.
And if any single man in England (hould at any time
come to be landlord of the whole freehold of England,
he could indeed have no right to dispossess the king,
till the present legal settlement of the crown failed; be-
cause
cause it was settled by those that had then a right to
settle it.
But he would immediately be the full representative
of all the counties in England, and might elect him-
self knight of the mire for every county, and the she-
riff of every county must return him accordingly.
He would have all the baronies and titles of honour
which are intailed upon estates devolved upon him, and
upon any expiration of the settlement, would be king
by natural right.
And he would be king upon larger terms than ever
any man was legally King of England; for he would
be king by inherent right of property.
When therefore I am speaking os the right of the
people, I would be understood of the freeholders; for
all the other inhabitants live upon sufferance, and ei-
ther are the freeholders servants, or having money to
pay rent, live upon conditions, and have no title to
their living in England, other than as servants, but
what they must pay for.
Upon this foot it is that, to this day, our law suffers
not a foreigner to purchase any of the freeholds of
England:—For if a foreigner might purchase, your
neighbours (having money to spare) might come and
buy you out of your own country, and take possession
by a legal and indisputable right.
This original right was the first foundation of the
several tenures of land in England; some held of the
king, some of the lord, some by knight's service, soc-
cage, and'the like, and some were called freeholds.
The lords of manors had their homages, and their
services from their tenants, as an acknowledgment
that the right of the land gave a certain right of
govern-
government to the possessor over all the tenants and in-
habitants.
But he that possessed the least freehold, was as much
lord of himself and of that freehold, as the greatest no-
bleman in the nation; he owed no homage or service, no,
not to the king, other than is limited by laws of his own
making; that is, as he was represented in parliament.
And as a thing which will put this argument
out of all question, the right to lands, manors, and
lordships, was not originally a right granted by pa-
tents from kings, or acts of parliament, but a na-
tural right of possession, handed down by custom and
ancient ufage; as the inheritance from the still
still more ancient possessors, and prescription or usage
time out of mind, is to this day allowed to be a suffici-
ent title in several cases, where conveyances, deeds,
charters, and writings of estates are silent; especially as
to buttings, boundings of land, highways, footpaths,
water-courses, bridges, and the like.
This right, as all right originally, is founded upon
reason; for it would be highly unreasonable, that those
people who have no share of the house, should live in
it whether he that built it will or no. No person has
any right to live in England, but they to whom Eng-
land belongs; the freeholders of England have it in
possession; England is their own, and nobody has any
thing to do here but themselves.
If they permit other people to live here, well and
good; but no man but a freeholder lives here upon
any terms but permijsu Juper'iorum; and he pays rent
for his licence to live here.
Thus the liberties and privileges of towns and cor-
porations are founded upon acts of parliament, to con-
firm charters or grants from the crown; by which the
freeholders
freeholders give their consent that such and such bo-
dies of men living in such towns, shall enjoy certain
privileges, in consideration of their being so consi-
derably serviceable to the nation, by paying taxes,
maintaining the poor, by manufactures, trade, and the
like, notwithstanding they are not possessed of any part
of the freehold.
And it is observable, the king cannot give this pri-
vilege, so as to enable any of these corporations to send
representatives to parliament. None but the freehol-
ders of England (and such towns in conjunction, to
whom the freeholders have already granted such pri- ,
Yileges) can give a qualisication of such a nature, as is
a receiving them into an equal state of privilege with a
freeholder. ,
^Every man's land is his own property ; and it is a
trespass in the law for another man to come upon his
ground without his consent. If the freeholders should
all agree, that such a man shall not come upon their
land ; that they will not let him a house for his money;
that whose land soever he sets his foot on, the owner
shall indict him for a trespass, as by law he may, the
man must fly the nation of course.
Thus the freeholders having a right to the possession
of England, the reason must be good that they must
have the fame right to the government of themselves,
that they have to the government of the rest of the
inhabitants; and that there can be no legal power in
England, but what has its original in the pojfejfors ; for
properly is the foundation of power.
Still I allow, that of this power so derived from pro-
perty, the House of Commons are the abridgement;'
they are the freeholders of England in miniature; to
them all needful powers and privileges are committed, to
* make
make them capable of acting for the people they repre-
sent , and, extremities excepted, they are our last resort;
but if they employ those privileges and powers against
the people, the reason of those powers is destroyed,
the end is inverted, and the power ceases of course.
From hence it is reasonable to give them instruc-
tions; and though they are not conditionally chosen
as to their instructions, yet they ought in honour to
think themselves under equal obligation to stand by
those instructions.
Instructions to members are like the power given to
an arbitrator, in which, though he is left fully and
freely to act, yet it is in considence of his honour
that he will think himself bound by the directions he
receives from the person for whom he acts.
If an arbitrator inverts the design of his principal, he
destroys the end of his election, and is sure never to be
entrusted again.
- The House of Commons are our fanctuary against
the oppression of princes, the nation's treasurers, and the
desenders of their liberties; but all these titles signify,
that at the fame time they are the nation's servants.
The House of Commons also are mortal, as a house j
a king may dissolve them, they may die and be extinct;
but the power of the people has a kind of eternity with
respect to politic duration : parliaments may cease, but
the people remain; for them they were originally made,
by them they are continued and renewed; from them
they receive their power, and to them, in reason, they
ought to be accountable.
THE END.
