Robinson Crusoe
Retold For Little Folks

c*
QWLCS LGRAttwlGl
— Nemt York V|
... /


Robinson Crusoe
CRUSOE IS CAST ON A DESERT ISLAND
"V/TY name is Robinson Crusoe, and my father was a merchant
who lived in the city of York. When a boy I ran away
from home to go to sea, but after some years of a sailor's life I
bitterly regretted my conduct. The ship I was on was overtaken
by a violent storm, and I and the rest of those on board were
obliged to try and save ourselves in a small boat. The fury
of the tempest overturned the boat and threw us all into the
water. As I was a good swimmer I managed to keep afloat,
tijl at last the waves cast me, more dead than alive, upon a
large piece of rock. I grasped firm hold of this, and as soon
as I could breathe again I clambered up the cliffs to the shore,
and there I sank down upon the grass, safe beyond the reach
of the water.
"* ROBINSON CRUSOE
The first thing I did was to thank God for having spared uty
life. Then I thought of my poor comrades, who no doubt had
all been drowned. After a while I began to look around me
to see what kind of place I was in, and as far as I could discover
I was alone on a desolate coast. So although it had not been my
fate to die with my companions, yet I was in a sad plight, for I
was wet to the skin, and had no dry clothes into which I could
change. Neither had I any food to eat or water to drink. I
also feared there might be wild beasts upon the land where I was
that would kill and eat me, for I had no weapon with which to
defend myself. These thoughts all but drove me mad, and I
ran up and down the shore, wringing my hands and crying aloud.
At last it grew dark, and I was so very tired that I sat down
to try and think how I could spend the night in safety. Seeing
a large thick fir-tree not far off I decided to climb amid
its branches, and stay there till daylight, when I could see
my surroundings more clearly. So I found a resting-place
amid the green boughs of the tree, and there I fell into
a deep sleep.
When I awoke it was broad day, the wind had dropped,
and the sea was quite calm. I got down from my perch,
and walked to the shore* There I saw that our ship had
been lifted off the sand by the swelling of the tide during
the night, and was driven up almost as far as the rock
whereon I had been dashed. Then the thought struck me
that, if I waited until the tide had ebbed far out, I could
easily reach the ship's side, and might be able to get some
clothes and food out of her. This idea filled me with new
hope, and I eagerly watched for the ebbing of the tide.
At about noon I could walk within a quarter of a mile of
r
the ship, so I plunged into the water and swam up to
her. My next difficulty was to find a way in which to get
on board, for the vessel lay aground and high out of the
water. I swam round her twice, and the second time I
spied a small piece of rope which was hanging down over
her side, and so low that I could just get hold of it. By
the help of this rope I pulled myself up on to the ship. Here
I found that She had a great deal of water in her, but that
she lay on the side of a bank of hard earth, so that her
stern stood high out of the water, while her bow was nearly
level with the surface. This had left free from damp all. that
was contained in the part that stood up, and to my great joy the
place where the food was kept happened to be in this part.
I at once set to work to see what was spoilt and what was
good. I was fortunate enough to discover some clothes, and
also a box of tools, which proved to be the most useful prize
to me. I found, too, some powder and shot that were
untouched by the water, with some guns, swords, and a
couple of pistols.
We had taken two cats and a dog on board with us, and
when these poor animals heard me moving about they came
running up, showing every sign of joy at the sight of me again.
I was none the less pleased to see them, and determined to
take them to shore with me, where I should be very glad of
their companionship.
Now what I wanted more than anything else was a boat,
in which to carry the things to land, but as there was not one
to be had I decided to make ^a raft with those pieces of wood
I could find on the ship. Before I commenced this work,
however, as I was extremely hungry, I paid a visit to the
ship's larder, and there had
a good meal, which the dog
and cats shared with me. I
also filled my pockets with
biscuits, which I ate as I
went about looking for wood
with which to make my raft.
I found some large spars
and planks, and some old
masts, and round each of
these I tied a piece of rope
so that it could not drift
away, and then flung it into
the sea.
When this was done I
went down the side of the
ship and tied them, each one to the next, at both ends.
I then laid two or three short pieces of plank across, and so
made a very fair raft.
On to this raft, which was strong enough to bear any
reasonable weight, I put as many things as it would hold,
and then, with the aid of an old oar I found in the ship, I
managed to guide my craft to land.
This was by no means an easy task, and once I and my
goods were all but cast into the seai but at last, after much
care and trouble, I succeeded in getting my cargo safely upon
shore.
The next thing I did was to make a little tent, with a sail, and
the chests and boards which I had brought ashore on the raft.
Into this tent I carried everything the sun or the rain would spoiL

Then, as I was.quite-tired
out with my work, I spread a
rug upon the ground inside-my
shelter, put my gun by my side,
and fell fast asleep.
The next day I again went
to the ship with my raft, for I
was determined.to get' everything
out of her I possibly • could. I
found a great many most "useful
things, such as -some big bags
of nails, a big roll of sheet
lead, a large quantity of bread,
flour, sugar, cheese, a little
corn, and, above all, that most
useful thing called a grindstone.
Besides this I took away all the
iron and the wood I could carry, as I thought it might prove
of great service to me. I cut down the masts of the ship,,
and sawed, them into pieces^that I could lower down the side
of the vessel on to my raft. I took with me*also, two barrels
of musket bullets, seven muskets and a fowfing-piece, a large
bag full of small shot, and all the men's clothes that I could
find. Feeling sure that they would come in useful, I took with
me all the sails that I could get.
I was very much afraid when I was away from land, that
my food would be eaten on the shore. But when I came back,
I found no sign of any visitor; only there sat a creature like a
wild cat upon one of my chests. When I came towards it, it ran
away a little distance, and then stood still, U sat very calmly and

looked me full in the face, as if it wanted to make friends with me.
I pointed my gun at it, but as it did not understand what it was,
it did not move an inch. I threw it a piece of biscuit, which it
ate, and then it looked for more. But since I had no more to
spare, the creature walked away.
Each day when the tide was out I went over to the wreck
and brought away as much as I could carry, and right glad
I was that I lost no time in doing so, for on the tenth day
the wind blew a great gale, and that night there was a storm.
When I went to look out to sea the next morning, there was
no chip to be seen. She had been torn to pieces by the waves.
My next thought was of how I could build myself some
sort of house to live in, for I did not feel at all safe in my tent
I had a fear that savages or wild beasts might come upon me
at any time.
By going up to the top of a hill I could see a good way
round the land I was upon, and as far as my sight could tell
me, I was on an island, which appeared to be uninhabited except
by wild birds and animals. But I did not know whether
savages ever visited that part of the coast, and I was in great
dread lest any should come and discover me.
So I looked about for a suitable spot whereon to build
myself a safer, stronger shelter. I discovered a little green
plain on the side of a rising hill, which seemed to me to be
just the place I wanted. The hill was of rock, and in that
part of it just by the plain there was a hollow place worn a
little way in. It was here I decided to make my home.
First of all I drew a half circle upon the ground before
the hollow place in the rock, and on this I pitched two rows
of strong stakes, one row a little distance from the other.
&
^PITOK
[
\\
\
w)
\ \\
& \

I drove them into the ground till they stood very firm like
piles. Then I took the pieces of iron chain I had got from
the ship, and laid them all round, one upon another, between
these two rows of stakes. When I had done this it was
so strong a fence that neither man nor beast could get into
it, or over it. The way I got in myself was by a short
ladder, which, when I was safely over, I drew up after me;
and so I felt I was completely fortified.
I next removed my tent and put it up inside this fence, and
I also made a second and larger covering to go right over the
whole. This formed a double tent, and as I made the outer one
with tarpaulin it was very strong and weather-proo£
When I had done this I began to work my way into
the hollow of the rock, and thus I made me a cave, which
served like a, cellar to my house. I carried the earth and
stones which I dug out of the rock through my tent, and
laid them within my fence, which raised the ground about
a foot and a half.
I had found a very good hammock in the ship, and I
slung this up in my shelter so that it served me for a bed,
and was a most comfortable one too.
When my fortress was complete, I next proceeded to fetch al!
the things I had brought from the ship, and place them within
my cave. It took me some time to do this, as the last lot
were still on the shore where I had left them when I landed,
for I had been too tired to
bring them up the cliff then.
Besides this work I found
time to go out every day in
search of food. I took my
gun and my dog and shot
a wild duck, or any beast
I could see. I had to eat
the flesh of any bird or beast
that was fit to make a meal
of, and I kept the skins of
all the animals I killed and
stretched and dried them.
Of course I made a fire, by
which I cooked the meat
before I ate it
I was fortunate enough
r

to discover a spring of fresh water not far from where I liac!
pitched my tent, so that I felt that for some little time I was
provided for.
CRUSOE MAKES HIS HOME COMFORTABLE
A FTER I had been upon the island ten or twelve days,
it came into my thoughts that I soon should not know
what day it was, or which was Sunday in the week. So I
got a piece of wood and, with my knife, I cut these words
upon it: "I came on shore here on the 30th of September,
1659". Then I fixed a high post into the ground outside
my tent, and nailed the wood on it, in the shape of a cross.
Every morning I cut a notch upon the sides of this post,
and when it was Sunday I cut a notch twice as long as the
rest. When it was the first day of a new month I cut one
as long again as that long one, and thus I kept my calendar
and knew how the time went.
It was very hot in the part of the world I was in, so much
so, that I had to lie down in the middle of the day, and go
on with my work early in the morning and in the cool of
the evening. I arranged my day in this manner. Directly
I had eaten some breakfast I went out with my gun and my
dog for three hours, then I worked till about eleven o'clock,
after which I cooked and ate whatever I had been able to
get fcr my dinner. From twelve till two I lay down in my
tent, and then in the evening I set to work again.
While out on my walks about the island, I discovered a
!;ind of wild pigeon that made its home in the holes in the
rocks. I was able to catck some of these birds, and found

them very goad to eat. I took one or two of the young ones
out of a nest and brought them up myself, hoping they would
stay with me as pets, but when they grew up they flew away,
which showed they were happier in their natural state.
I had a great wish to put a roof of wood over my tent,
and also make myself a chair and a table. To do this I
needed some smooth planks of wobd, and I spent many hours
of patient toil to get these. I had first to cut down a tree,
lay the trunk along the ground, and set to work to hew it flat
on either side with my axe. When I had brought it to be
as thin as a plank, I hammered it smooth with my mallet.
In. this way I made rafters for the roof of my house, and
a smooth top for my table. I also managed to make a very
fair specimen of a chair.
My next care was to arrange all my belongings in decent
order, so that everything should be ready to my hand. I have
already mentioned that I brought all my goods into the cave
at the back of my tent, where they lay in a confused heap,
and thus took up a vast deal of room, while I had to search
among them for anything I needed.
I made some large shelves, which I fixed up all along one
side of my cave, and upon these I placed my nails, tools,
and such-like things. I also knocked pieces of v/ood into
the wall of the reck, upon which I hung my guns and those
articles that would hang up. When all was finished I felt
very proud and pleased with the result of my labour, for my
cave looked so neat, and, now that they were ail spread out

in order, my belongings looked very many, and very useful
ones too.
As I had found some ink on the ship, when I grew tired
of work I was able to amuse myself by writing, which I could
then do in comfort, for I had made for myself a table and chair
which were more or less comfortable.
I thought I would like to enlarge my cave, and so give
myself more room to move about in, so I next turned my
attention to this task. I sorely needed three things which
I had not, to help me with the work. These were a pick-
axe, a shovel, and a wheel-barrow.
For a pick-axe I had to make use of an iron crow-bar,
which served my purpose fairly well, but was very heavy to
handle. As to a wheel-barrow, 1 had to manage without one,
and instead I made me a wooden thing something like a
hod in which labourers carry mortar, and in this I carried
away the earth I dug out of my cave. But a spade or a
shovel I could not do without, so I taxed my brain to find a
way in which to make one.
While walking through the forest I noticed a kind of tree
which is sometimes called the iron-tree, because the wood of
it is so exceedingly hard. Then it struck me that I might
make a spade out of this hard wood. So, with much labour,
and almost spoiling my axe, I managed to cut off a piece
of the- trunk of the tree. I spent hours cutting and shaping
this into a shovel, till at length I had one that did very well
for my use.
It took me just four days, always excepting the time I spent
in going out in search of food, to make the hod and shovel,
and when they were completed I began to work my way

into the rock. I did this sideways, and as the earth was loose
and sandy I got on fairly quickly.
It was fortunate I could busy myself in this way just then,
for it began to rain very heavily, so I could not have worked
out-of-doors. I got very wet going out to kill game for my
meals; and, as the rain lasted many days, I determined that
when it was fine I should get in as large a supply of food as
possible, so that I need not go hunting in the bad weather.
- While I was busy enlarging my house it occurred to me
that I might work round in the rock till I came to the outside
again, and if I did this I should have a back way into my
tent. So I hollowed out a large space in the earth, gradually
turning tne passage, till I came out a few yards beyond my
tent I then made a door to this opening in the rock, and
thus I had a back entrance into my house, as well as a great
deal more room inside.
As I had no candles or light of any Sort I had to go to
bed directly it was dark. I did not like this at all. so my
next care was. to find some way to make a lamp, and after
a little thought I succeeded in doing so. First I made a
small dish of clay, which I baked hard in the sun. Then I
saved the fat of the dead goats, which I melted into grease
and put in the dish. In this I placed a shred of rope, which
served as a wick. Thus I had a lamp, which, though it did
not give a very brilliant light, was good enough to see by.
Once as I was at work by my tent I had a bad fright,
for suddenly some of the earth fell from the edge of the hill
above me, while two of the posts I had set up gave a loud
crack. I was afraid the cliff might be going to fall upon me,
so I got over my wall and ran down the hill as quickly as
1 could. When I reached tne bottom I felt the ground shake
beneath me, and then I knew it was an earthquake. I sank
upon my knees overcome with terror, while the earth shook so
much that it Would have brought down a strong house. The
sea became fierce with the violence of the shock, and the wind
blew a great gale.
The storm raged so wildly that the very trees were torn
up by their roots. This lasted three hours, during which time
I lay upon the ground, not knowing what to do to save
myself. But at length all became calm once more, and then
the rain fell in torrents. I got so wet that I was forced to
seek refuge in my cave again, although 1 was still in fear
r
L'
/.«*.. .V^^'i-. '\\](,
/ / m

vht^r
lest it should fall in upon me. However, as all was quiet,
at last I grew more at ease; but I hoped there would not
be another earthquake while I was upon the island!
Once when I was out with my gun I shot at a young
goat and broke its leg, but did not kill it. I caught the poor
little thing and carried it home. Then I bound up its leg
and took care of it, and in time the leg became quite well,
while the goat grew tame and fed upon the green at my door.
I also caught a young parrot, which I took home with me.
After a while I taught it to speak, and it learnt to call me
by my name quite distinctly, and would amuse me very much
by repeating sentences after me as I sat at work.
Though I had made such a strong fence round my tent
I still did not feel quite safe. So I dug up a lot of turf, and
piled this outside my wall till it entirely covered it. When
this was done the place might have been part of the earth
as God had made it, for no one could have told it was the
work of man. Thus, had any people come upon the shore
they would never have guessed there was a human dwelling-
place upon the cliff. So I now felt secure in my home.
I had brought from the ship a small bag, which had in
it what I thought were but a few husks of corn and some
dust. So, as I could make use of the bag, I threw out the
husks on the ground by my tent. Some weeks after, much


fo my astonishment, I saw a few stalks of barley growing
out of the earth. I was very puzzled, as I was sure no corn
grew wild in that place. Then it occurred to me that I
had thrown the husks out of the bag on to this spot, which
explained how the barley came to grow. I also saw some
stalks of rice, so there must have been some seeds of that
in the bag also. I took care to save the ears of this corn
to sow them in the proper season, that in time I might
be able to make bread. I also kept the rice to sow.
That same day I discovered a large tortoise, or turtle,
lying on the shore. This was the first that I had seen,
although I found out afterwards that there were hundreds
on the other side of the island. I killed this one and cooked
the flesh of it, which I found a pleasant change after goat's
CRUSOE MAKES CLOTHES FOR HIMSELF
flesh; for I had had no other kind of meat since I had come
on this horrible island. I found in the turtle sixty eggs, which
were also very good to eat.
CRUSOE MAKES MANY USEFUL THINGS
I
HAD been much troubled by the loss of one of my cats,
which had run away from me and had entirely disappeared
for some weeks. I feared she must be dead, as I could see
no sign of her about the island. However, one day when
I was at work in my tent, I was very surprised to hear a
loud mewing outside. I pushed up the door in my roof,
and, looking out, I saw my lost cat, and with her three little
kittens! I was pleased to see my puss again, although much
astonished at the sight of her family; but as she evidently
expected me to take them all into my home, I did so. The
kittens were strong little creatures and soon grew into big
cats, so that I had rather more of them than I wanted!
It was about this time that I passed some of my most
miserable days upon the island, for I fell ill. I felt very cold
and strange, with great pain in my head and limbs. I had
to go to bed, and was filled with fear at my sad and lonely
state; for I was sick, with no one to comfort or help me.
I was ill for some days but was just able to cook some of
the turtle's eggs, which, fortunately, I had by me. I ate these
and drank a little rum, and then lay still in my hammock
waiting till I felt better. One day I happened to look in
my chest to find something, and I saw my Bible lying among
the things. I think God must have sent me to the chest,
for X had forgotten the book was there. I took it out to
read as 1 lay still, and in it I saw the words in which God
bids us call upon Him in our hour of need and He will
help us. This promise sank into my heart, and I knelt
down to beg the Almighty to aid me in my distress.
Soon after I fell into a deep sleep and did not wake till
late the next day. I then felt I had much more strength,
and was able to get up and go on with my work. I was
weak for some days, but at last grew quite well again. Each
morning I read the Bible, and God sent His love and peace
into my heart, which gave me great consolation in my lonely
life.
I had now been on the island some time, and as yet I had
not been very far from the part where I lived. So I thought
I would take a long walk with my dog and see what I could
discover. I found some sugar-canes growing wild, and also
many different kinds of fruit, such as limes, melons, and
grapes. I was right glad of these, for they were very fresh
and ripe. There were also orange, lemon, citron, and cocoa
trees. In fact that part of the island farther from the shore
was so beautiful and green and rich, that I decided to build
myself a kind of bower in which I could sleep when I felt I
should like to spend a few days there. I did this, and made
a fence round it the same as I had round my tent, and there
I lay quite safe all night.
I cut a lot of twigs from the trees about my country
house, as I named it, and these twigs I laid in the sun till
they became quite dry. Then I gathered them into bundles
and took them to my cave. I amused myself for some time
making baskets with the twigs. I made a large number of-all
kinds and sizes, and they were of great service to me.^ Some
strong, deep ones I intended to keep my corn in, instead of
sacks, and others I used for carrying things in. Indeed I
seldom went out after this without a basket on my back in case
I wanted to bring something home with me. There were two
other things I much needed, and these were a jug to hold
liquid, and a pot or sauce-pan in which I could make broth.
So I set to work to see if I could supply these wants as I had
done others.
With this idea I turned my hand to pottery, and shaped
some jugs out of clay. You would have laughed if you
had seen the odd, ugly things I made. Some of them fell in
and some fell out, while others came to pieces just as I thought
I had them firm and whole. However, at last I had two
large clay jars, which I dried hard in the sun. But, alas!
although these jars would hold things dry, they would not bear
being put over the fire to boil water in. As I dearly wanted
to make myself some broth I was very disappointed, till to
my great delight I discovered a way in which I could make
them strong enough. I had had a large fire to cook my food,
and when I put it out I saw a piece of one of my clay jars in
the ashes, burnt hard as a stone and red as a tile. "So," said
I, "if a piece will burn so hard, a whole jar will do the same."
I went to work at once and made a great fire round three
large jars, till they were red-hot right through. I let them
burn all night, and next day I had some pots as hard as
could be, in which I could boil my meat to make broth.
I next had to think about making myself some clothes, for
those I had were then quite worn out. I have already told you
that I kept and dried the skins of the beasts I shot, and these now
became useful. The first thing I made from them was a large

'iillli^WK
fur cap, and this answered so well that I soon made a whole
suit. I cut the clothes very loose, so that I should not be too
hot in them, and when I went cut in the rain I found that
the wet ran off the fur, which !:spt me almost dry.
Then I thought I should like to make an umbrella, not so
much to keep off the rain as the sun, which was very fierce
indeed. I took a world of pains over this, and it was a long
time before I could get anything that would do. I made many
attempts, but they were of no use. However, as I had set
my mind upon having my umbrella, I worked hard until I had
succeeded in making one. The most difficult part was getting
it to shut up and to open again. As I did not always want to
have to carry it spread over my head, I did not feel satisfied
until I had got it to let down and draw in. At last I managed
this; so when there was neither sun nor rain I could close my
umbrella and use it as a walking-stick.
From one side of the island I could see the .coast of
the mainland not very far distant. The sight filled me with
longing for a boat, in which I could go out to sea and
reach some place Avhere I might find means to get back to
my friends.
This idea took such hold of me that I determined to try
to make a canoe, such as the Indians make, out of the
trunk of a great tree. I chose a tree as near as possible to
the water, and many a weary stroke it cost me to get the
trunk upon the ground and to cut and hew it into the shape
of a boat. All this took me a very long time, but when
at last my boat was finished
I thought myself well paid
for all my toil. The next
task was to get the boat
to the sea, and I found I
could not drag or push it
to the shore, as it was far
too heavy for one man to
shift. So, as I could not
take it to the water, the only
other thing to do was to
bring the water to the boat.
To do this I had to dig
out a dock from the shore
to the place where the boat
lay. This meant much more
labour; but I did it all with "jnhJ^

a will, because I knew that in the end I should have a boat
in which to go off to sea.
Besides digging this dock I had other things to attend
to, and among these was my crop of rice and barley.
The seeds I had sown bid fair to yield me a good supply
of corn, but I found there were thieves that would rob me
of it. First came the wild goats and hares, which ate it so
close that it could not shoot into stalks. So I had to build
a fence round to keep the beasts out, and I set my dog to
guard it at night, Thus I got rid of the thieves, for soon
they would not venture near the place.
But when the corn grew to the ear, all the wild fowls
flew round ahd pecked at it till I saw they would leave me
none. So I fetched my gun and shot at them, and this gave
them such a scare that they all went off, screaming loudly. But
as soon as I had gone back they all came in a cloud to feast
upon my corn. I was at a loss to know what to do, till at
last I thought of a plan by which I might save my crop. I
shot three of the birds and hung their dead bodies on a
stick, to warn all the others that their fate would be the same if
they came near. This kept them in so much fear that they not
only kept off the corn, but would not come to that part of
the land at all. Of this I was very glad, you may be sure.
CRUSOE MAKES A VOYAGE
t-JAVING got my boat to the sea I was eager to get into
her, and make a trip round the island, that I might see
how she went in the water. So I proceeded to fit out my
little craft ready for the journey. I put up a small mast
in her, and made a sail out of one that I had taken from the
ship. Then I made some lockers, or boxes, in which to put
food, powder and shot, or anything I thought it wise to take
with me.
I also cut a long hollow place in the inside of the boat,
where I could lay my gun, making a flap to hang over it,
to keep it dry. I fixed my umbrella in the stern, so that
it stood up behind me as I sat, and could keep the sun of!
my head. For an anchor I took a piece of broken iron
grappling that I had brought from the ship.
As I intended going right round the island I put a good
supply of food in my boat. I also took with me two thick
coats, which were in one of the seamen's chests. I thought
one of these would serve me as a bed, and the other as a
blanket. For I made up my mind to anchor my boat in
some safe spot where I could pass the night, and then
continue my journey the following morning.
Thus fully prepared I went out to sea. I made a very
fcir start, but when I had gone some little distance I found
a great ledge of rocks lying out a good way into the sea,
partly under the water and partly above it. Beyond these
there stretched a long shoal of dry sand, extending as far
as my eye could reach. So that to get round this I should
have to go a very long way out to sea
When first I discovered this I was going to give up my
trip and return to my tent; then I thought I would anchor
my boat and go ashore where I was, to see if I could find
out how far this shoal really extended.
Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on land,
climbing up a hill which seemed to overlook the point I wished

to view. There I saw the full length of the trail of sand, and
since it was not such a very great distance out I decided to
venture round it. Accordingly I got into my boat once more
and pushed off. I soon regretted my rash act, for when I reached
the sand, all at once I felt my boat carried under me at a rapid
pace. I tried in vain to stop it, but to my horror I found I
was caught in a strong current of water, which swept me far
out to sea. I cannot describe my terror when I realized the
position in which I was; for I was being driven out into the
wide ocean and was quite unable to guide my boat against
the force of the water. I felt I should never reach land any
more, and my heart sank at the thought of the danger I was in.
For six long hours I was borne over the waves, and then
at length a breeze blew up and I set my sail to meet it. To
my deep joy and thankfulness the boat went before the wind,
and in a few more hours I had brought my little craft safe to shore.
When I had landed I fell upon my knees and thanked God
for having once more delivered me out of my terrible danger.
Then I fetched the food which I had brought with me and
enjoyed a good meal on the beach. After that I drew my
boat up into a little cove, and, being quite worn out with
the labour and the peril of my voyage, I lay down and was
soon fast asleep.
I awoke the next morning feeling much refreshed, and
began to wonder how I was going to get home with my
boat. I had gone through such dreadful risk upon the sea
that I could not attempt to return by water. I therefore re-
solved to find some place where I could hide my boat, and
then to set out back to my tent on foot As I walked along

the coast I came upon a little bay, which was just the place
I wanted for my boat. So I stowed her safely away under
some trees, and taking my umbrella and my gun I prepared
for my march home.
I found the walk a very pleasant one, and as I passed
some trees I surprised a flock of beautiful bright-coloured
parrots, who flew out and surrounded me, nearly touching my
head and face.
When it grew dusk I had reached my country house, or
bower, and as I knew I should not be able to get back to my
cave before nightfall, I decided to sleep there and proceed
upon my journey the next morning. So 1 got over the fence
and lay down among the soft leaves, where I very soon fell
fast asleep.
Now judge, if you can, what a shock I must have had
when I was awakened by a voice calling me by my name
several times.
"Robin, poor Robin Crusoe!" said the voice; "where have
you been, Robin Crusoe?"
So deep in sleep was I at first, being dead tired after the
hard work I had done, that I thought it must be a dream.
But when I heard my name again called in a clear voice, quite
near me, I gave a great start and sprang up in fright. As
soon as I did so my eyes fell on my parrot, which sat on a
twig by me, and then I knew at once that it was he who had
called to me. He said the words just as I had taught him;
and when I realized it was he it made me smile to think
how he had startled me.
I held out my hand to him, and calling him by his name.
the dear old creature came and sat on my thumb, and
4
•;
did all he could to show me
how glad he was to see me
once more. He continued talk-
ing to me, "Poor Robin Crusoe!
How did you come here? Where
have you been?" In this way
I carried him home along with
me to my tent
I had now had enough of
the sea for some time, and had
plenty to do thinking over the
great danger in which I had
been. I should have been very
glad to have had my boat on
my side of the island again, but
I did not know how it could be
done. So I had to be happy without the boat, which had taken
so many months of hard work to make.
As soon as I had settled down again I was not idle, for,
as I then had a good supply of corn, I next turned my hand
to bread-making. I made a deep round dish out of the iron-
wood, and also a great beater with which to pound my corn
into flour. To sift the meal from the bran I made use of
some muslin that I found in one of the chests I had got from
the ship. Then came the question—how was I to bake my
bread without an oven? This is how I did it. The hearth
of my fire was made of clay tiles. When the wood was
burnt red I drew it on to this hearth, and there I let it lie
till the place was very hot. I then swept off" the wood and
put my loaves down. Over them I put one of my large clay

pots, and round the pot I drew all the fire. Thus I baked
my bread as well as if it had been done in the best oven in
the world. In the same way I baked some cakes of the rice.
There was one thing I much longed to have, and that
was a pipe. A great deal of tobacco grew wild on the island,
and I often wished I could have a smoke. So I tried to
make myself a pipe out of clay, as I had made my pots and
dishes. The first two or three attempts were failures, and
broke when I put the hot wire down their stems to make
the air passage. But at last I got one through which I
could draw the smoke quite well. It was an ugly, clumsy-
looking thing, but caused me much joy and comfort, for I
dearly liked a smoke when resting from my labours.
I now discovered that my powder was almost finished,
and I knew that once
this was gone I should
never be able to get any
more. So I had to think
how I should be able, if I
had no powder, to kill a
goat so as to have meat.
Therefore my next
plan was to get some
goats, that I might tame
them and have a flock of
my f own. But as they
were all so wild I did
not know how to catch
them. However, at last
I set a trap for them


and caught five. The way in which I made a trap was
this. First I dug a large pit in the earth, in a pface
where the goats usually went to feed. Over this pit I placed
a frame made of twigs, and upon this I put some corn and
dry rice. I did this in such a way that when the goats ate
they would fall into the pit, and the frame would close and
shut them in. Thus I caught three kids and two goats, which,
though they had a fall, were not at all hurt. In fact one old
he-goat was so fierce that I had quite a sharp fight with hirh.
I let him go at last, and he ran off as fast as he could
I also let the other goat go free, and kept only the three kids.
I tied cords to these and led them home with me.
It took me a good while to tame them, but 1 gave them
sweet corn to eat and was very kind to them till at last they
grew to know me and lost their fear. To prevent them from
running wild when they grew up, I had to set about doing
something to keep the tame ones from the wild. The only
way to do this was to have a piece of ground, fenced around
with a hedge or with palings, to keep them in so well that
those inside could not get out and those outside could not get in.
This was terribly hard work for one man, but it was so
necessary that I at once set about looking for a piece of ground
where there was likely to be something for goats to eat, water
for them to drink, and cover to keep them from the sua

/
When I found a suitable place I made a hedge rouaoi it
and then turned the kids loose in it. In about a year and a
half, I had a flock of about twelve goats—kids and all; and
in two years more, I had three and forty, besides several
that I took and killed for my food.
Thus I got my tame herd. I learnt to milk these goats,
and in time to make butter and cheese, which were a great
treat to me.
I have already mentioned that there was a quantity of
grape vines upon the island, and this fruit, in the form of
raisins, now served as an agreeable addition to my larder. I
cut a number of bunches and hung them in the sun to dry.
By this means, I obtained raisins when the fresh fruit was
not to be had.
CRUSOE FINDS A FOOTPRINT ON THE SHORE
TT would have made you smile to see .me and my pets at
our meals. First there was the king of the island, who
was myself; then came my parrot, my dog, and my two cats,
one on either side of me. Each of these had a bit now and
then from my hand, while the parrot would talk to us all the time.
Now I began to think I should like to walk round to the
other side of the island, and see if my boat was still where I
had left her. This inclination increased upon me every day,
till at length I resolved to take the journey. A very queer-
looking man you would have thought me, had you met me on
my way! I wore my hat and suit of goats' skin, and had my
gun in oRe hand and my umbrella in the other. Stockings
and shoes I had none, and from my waist I hung a saw,
while at my back I carried
a basket. Fastened in my
belt, which was also of
goats' skin, I had a dagger
and a pouch full of powder
and shot. As for my face,
it was burnt brown by the
sun, and my hair and beard
were very long and had a
somewhat wild appearance.
In this kind of dress I
went my new journey, and
was out three or four days.
When I arrived at the bay
I found that my boat was
still where I had fastened
it, quite safe among the trees. I so much wished to get her
to the part of the coast where I lived that I almost made up
my mind to try and go back in her by water.
Then the memory of the terrible danger I had been in
before put me in such fear lest the same might happen
again that I gave up the idea. Instead, I made another
resolution, which was more safe, though it would cost me
much labour. This was to make another boat, so that I
should have one if I ever needed it near my home. I had
no further adventures upon this journey, and returned to my
tent eager' to start upon this next piece of work.
But an event happened soon after, which put all my plans to
flight. One day, as I was by the sea-shore, I saw the print
of a man's naked foot, which was very plainly to be seen in the

soft sand. I stood still like one thunderstruck, or as if I
had met a ghost. Then I had a good look all round and up
and down the shore, but I could not see the sign of a man,
nor anything else but this one print of a foot. I went up to
the top of a small hill near that I might have a better view
of the surrounding land, but there was nothing to be seen
save the wide stretch of coast. A thousand confused thoughts
all rushed into my mind at once, as I tried to imagine how
that footprint came to be there. It was evident that a man
must have been on that part of the shore, and this idea filled
me with extreme terror, for I feared it might be some cannibals
who had landed there.
Before leaving the spot I went to the mark again, to make
perfectly sure I had seen aright. But there was no room for

any doubt, for the exact print of a foot lay in the sand, toes,
heel, and ever}' part completely shown. I gave one last look
and then ran back home as fast as my legs could carry me. I
was so terrified that I glanced behind me at every two or three
steps, thinking each bush or tree hid some savages who would
spring out upon me. I hardly paused to breathe till I had got
over my wall and was safe in my tent.
I had no sleep that night, for my mind was too much filled
with frightful ideas and fancies. Indeed, the dread of falling
into the hands of cannibals so possessed me that I dare not
go out of my house for the next two or three days. At last it
struck me that it might possibly be the print of my own foot that
I had seen, which had been left when I was on that part of
the island before. So that all my fears might have been for
no reason at all.
After this explanation occurred to me I ventured outside
my tent once more, but I went about with much dread, for
I felt I might have to run for my life at any time. As nothing
happened, by degrees I grew bolder, and made up my mind
to go to the footprint again, and put my foot down upon
it, to see if it was a mark I had left myself. But when
I came to measure it by my own foot I saw that it could
not be the same, for mine was not so large by a great deal
This told me that some stranger must have been on shore
there, and my old fear returned to me.
All I could think of then was to make the guard round
my house yet more strong, so that no one could come at me
when I was inside. So I built yet another wall, in which
I made holes for my guns to go through. I put six of ^ the
guns I had got from the ship all round, in such a way that
J could fire them all off at once if I chose. When this was
done I set to work to plant young trees outside the place
where my home was. Thus in time I had a wood so strong
and thick that no one could pass through it. I found a way
to get in and out myself by means of my ladder, but no one
else could have guessed how to do this.
My next care was for my flock of goats. I had a fear
lest they should be hurt, or lest any man should steal them
from me. The best plan I could think of was to set a fence
round two or three bits of ground, as much out of sight as
I could find, and to put some of the goats in each piece.
Then, thought I, if one lot are found and taken, the others
will still be left me.
At this time I discovered a natural cave in the earth,
which went in a vast way. It was near the place where I had
my bower in the woods, and was at the foot of a large rock.
The mouth of it was very dark, and only just big enough
to allow me to walk in. When first I went in I had a
great shock, for I saw two bright eyes that shone like stars
in the gloom.
At this sight I made more haste, to get out than I had
done to get in. But at length I said I would not be a
coward, but would go and see whose eyes they were. So
I took up a light and in I went. This time I heard a
loud sigh, which made my hair stand on end with fright.
Still I did not turn back, but held up my light to see
whence it came. And there I saw a very old goat, which
lay on the ground. The poor beast tried to rise, but was
not able to do so. I saw he was dying of old age, so
I left him there to end his days in peace, and went
on my way in the cave. When I got through the narrow
part I found myself in a large high vault, the walls of which
shed gleams of gold and brilliant light all round. The floor
was dry and level, and had a sort of small loose gravel upon
it. I think there must have been gold and precious stones
in the rock, as it gave forth such a glow.
I was very glad to have discovered this cave, which, besides
being such a fine sight, was so safe a place to hide in.
The poor old goat died very soon, and I dug him a grave
near the place where he. lay.
One day, as I was about to start out for my daily walk, I
was surprised to see the light of some fire upon the shore.
I stopped short in alarm at the sight, and then hurried back
into my tent. But I could not rest quietly indoors, for I was
very excited and felt I must
find out what this fire was.
So I got my ladder and
mounted to the top of the
hill. Then, pulling out my
spying • glass, which I had
taken on purpose, J lay flat
on the ground, and began
to look for the place
whence the smoke arose.
I soon saw, to my horror,
that a number of savages
were sitting round a fire
which they had made to
human flesh. Their canoe#

/
were lying on the shore near,
so I supposed they intended
going back when they had
finished their cruel feast.
I cannot describe the
feeling of disgust and of fear
this sight gave me, and I
anxiously waited to see what
the cannibals would do. To
my great joy they did as I
had expected, for all went off
again in their boats. This
showed me that they came to
the island only to have their
horrible meals, and that they
would not be likely to find
my home if I kept good
watch for them, and could hide myself whenever they were about.
One night, not long after this, it blew a great gale and I heard
the firing of a gun. I started up and ran as fast as I could
to the hill to find out if I could see or hear whence it had
been fired. When I got to the top, the gun went off again,
and I could see by the flash that it came from far out at sea.
This told me it must be some ship lost in the storm, in need
of help. Though I was powerless to help them, I thought
they might help me. So I gathered all the dry wood I could
get near at hand, and having made a pile of it on the hill, I
set light to it. The wood being very dry, there was soon a
bright blaze. But the rest of the night passed, and though
I kept up my fire, there were no more signs of the ship.

When daylight came I saw, to my deep grief, the wreck \
of a large ship cast upon the rocks. And in a day or two the •
corpse of a poor boy was washed ashore. \
CRUSOE RESCUES A SAVAGE
O
NE night, as I sat thinking, an idea suggested itself to
me of a way in which it might be possible to return
to my friends. If I could but get one of the savages into
my hands I would make him help me to take a large boat
out to sea, and show me how to get to the mainland. So,
said I to myself, cost what it may, the next time they come
on this shore I will have one for my own.
A whole year passed by, then at last one day I found
that the savages were there again. The first signs* that I saw
were five boats on the sands not far from my tent. I knew
that each boat held four or six men, so, I was afraid that
I could not hope to take one of the savages to make him my
slave. For, how could I, with no one to help me, fight so
many wild blacks? For a while, therefore, I lay quiet in my
castle, full of disappointment and of gloomy thoughts. Then
I felt that I could not remain still any longer, so I prepared
all my guns ready for an attack, and going to the outside of
my tent I listened eagerly to hear if I could distinguish
any sound made by the cannibals. But as nothing reached
my ears I became very impatient to see what they were doing,
and I decided to mount the hill and have a view of them.
So I got over my wall and went to the very top of the
cliff, where, hiding myself behind some high, round pieces of
rock, I took a good look at the savages through my glass.
I saw that they had lighted a
fire, and were all leaping in a
wild dance round it. Then
ray gaze fell on two poo"*
wretches who lay upon the
ground by them. One of the
savages went up to them and
gave the first a blow on the
head with his club. The
poor man fell dead instantly,
and it made me turn sick to
think that they would soon
cook and eat him. Just then
the other poor creature saw
there was a chance for him
to save his life, while they
were busy with their cruel knives. So he ran off with all speed,
and came towards me. This gave me a great fright, for I thought
that the whole tribe would come to catch him, and that they might
find me and my home. But I lost some of my fear when I
saw that not more than three ran in chase, and that these could
not run half so fast as he who fled from them.
They soon came to that part of the shore, where as the
tide was up, the sea met the rocks, and here I thought the
poor man must surely be caught But he made a plunge into
the water and swam through it. Then on he flew as swiftly as
a dart. Two of those who were on his track could swim, but
the third could not; so this one returned to the others. The
two who followed took much more time to swim than the man
who ran from them, so that he got a long start

Now, thought I, is my chance to get a slave, by saving
this poor black's life. So off I went at full speed to my tent,
and I got two guas\ Then I went round a short cut that I
knew till I found myself at the back of the savage who fled and
in front of those who gave him chase. I called aloud, and
this made the first man start and look round.
When he saw me he was as much in fear of me as of those
who came to catch him. But I made a sign for him to come
back; then I ran up to those who were chasing him, and, with
a blow from my gun, I laid the first on the ground. At this
the man with him took his bow and arrow and would have
shot me had I not fired at him first. The poor black who
fled stood stock-still, and I could see he was terrified at the
noise and the smoke of my gun, and that he would soon
fly from me too. So I made signs to him to come near,
and I did all I could to make him see that I wished to
be his friend.
At last he came close to me, and, falling full length on
the ground before me, he laid his head at my feet. Then
he lifted my foot and put it upon his head. By doing this
he meant to show that he would be my slave for ever. I mads
him get up, and with smiles and kind words I let him know
that 1 would not harm him.
He said some words to me, which, though I did not under-
stand their meaning, I thought most pleasant to hear, as they
were the' first sound of a man's voice, except my own, that I
had heard for many long years.
Then I took the poor fellow to my cave and gave him
some bread ani dried grapes to eat, with a drink of fresh
water.
The rest of the savages did not try to find the two whom
I had killed, but must have gone back in their boats, for we
saw no more of them.
I soon taught my new companion to speak to me and to
understand what I said to him. First, I let him know his
name should be Friday, as that was the day upon which I
saved his life.
Then I gave him some clothes to wear, and a very comical
figure he looked in them at first. As he had never worn any
proper clothes before, he did not know how to put them on;
and when he had got them on he was very awkward in them.
However, after a while he became quite used to them and
was very glad indeed to have them.


In a short time we went to the place where the cannibals
had had their dreadful feast, and I made Friday put all the
bones in a heap, and burn them to ashes. As he did so I
saw that he would have liked to eat some of the flesh, for he
was still a savage at heart. But I made signs to show him
how the very thought of eating human flesh turned me sick with
horror and loathing, and that if he did so I would kill him.
Then he became filled with shame, and did not show any such
wish again. I taught him to eat bread and drink broth instead,
and it was very funny to see him with his basin and spoon. He
generally dipped his fingers in the basin, and found it most
difficult to carry a spoonful of soup to his mouth. But after
a few days he began to eat like any ordinary man, and found
decent food a great deal nicer than human flesh.
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led on the island.
Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the names of
almost everything I had need of, and of every place to which
I had to send him. In short, I now had a companion, and
thus could make use of my tongue again.
CRUSOE MAKES ANOTHER BOAT
'TPHERE was one thing that Friday told me, which put
a new idea into my head. He said that once a small
boat full of white men had come on shore in his land. His
tribe had not done them any injury, but had let them have
food and drink. It occurred to me that these men must
have come off the wreck which I had seen, so I asked Friday
to tell me if he thought that they were still in his country.
He said that they were when he left it.
After this talk I thought a good deal of how I could join
these white men. So I told Friday we would make a big
boat and that he should go home in it. At this he became
very grave and sad, but made no answer.
"Why are you so sad?" I asked.
"Are you cross with me?" said he. "What me done?"
I told him that I was not cross with him at all.
"Then why send me home?" he said.
"Why!" I cried. "Would you not like to go back to
your own people?"
"Yes, yes," he replied. "But only if we both go. No
me and not you." There were tears in his eyes as he spoke,
which let me see how true was his love for me. So I
told him that if we could go we should do so together.
The next thing that we did was to make a large boat.
I again chose a tree as near the water as possible, and we
set to work with a will to cut and hew it into shape. In
a month's time we had a fine boat, and in another two weeks
we had got her into the water. To do this we cut the trunks
of several smaller trees, which we used as rollers, and upon
these we pushed our craft to the shore.
"Can we go to your land in her?" I then asked Friday.
"'Yes, yes," he answered. "We can go in her very well,
even though great wind blow."
Having got the boat into the sea, we fixed her safely up
at the edge of the water by means of long poles, which we
drove into the sand upon either side of her and fastened securely
with rope. I then went to work to make a mast and a sail, and
to fit her with a rudder. For the mast I chose a straight young
cedar-tree, which I found not far off, and which 1 set Friday to
cut down. As for the sail, I managed to make one out of
the pieces I had left from those I had brought from the ship.
When all this was done I had to teach Friday how to sail and
to guide our craft. For, although he knew very well how to
paddle a canoe, he knew nothing about a sail and a rudder, and
was most amazed when he saw me work the boat by these means.
So I showed him how the sail jibbed, or filled this way or that
as the course changed, and how the boat could be worked
to and fro in the water by the rudder. After a little practice
he became well used to all these things and was a very
good sailor.
Having made all ready for our departure from the island,
I began to lay by a store of food to take with us upon our
journey. I was busy one morning upon something »f this
kind, when I called to Friday and bid him go to the sea-
shore and see if he could find a turtle or tortoise. He had
not been gone long when he came running back, and before
I had time to speak to him he cried out: "O master! O sorrow!
Obad!"
"What is it, Friday?" said I.
"There come one, two, three canoes to shore!" he replied.
By this he meant that three boats full of savages were on
their way to land.
*'WelI," I answered, "do not be afraid. We must fight
them. Will you stand by me, Friday, and do as I bid you?"
"Yes, yes," he replied, "me shoot. But there come great
lot, and we are but two!"
"Never mind that," said I; "our guns will scare those
whom we do not kill,"
So I made Friday take the guns and load them with
powder and shot, while I got two pistols, ready for our fight.
I hung my big sword by my side, and I gave Friday a hatchet
to carry. When we were thus prepared, I took my glass and
went up the hill to see what I could discover. I saw that
there were twenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoe^
upon the shore, and that the cannibals had come, as before,
to feast upon the dead bodies of the prisoners.
They had landed just where a number of trees grew close
to the sea, and I made up my mind that we would go into
this wood and await our chance to attack the wretches, and,
if possible, to save their victims. So I again went to Friday
and asked him if he were ready to stand by me, and help
to defend me, if I did the same for him.
"Me die when you bid, Master," he answered readily.
We then divided our arms and set off to march to the
wood. When we arrived there I bade Friday go softly

among the trees and look to see what the savages were doing.
He did so and returned to tell me that they were all about the
fire, and that near them there lay bound upon the sand a
white, bearded man, whom they would soon kill and eat. I
was filled with horror at the mention of the white, bearded
man, and, going forward myself, I saw plainly by my glass a
white man who lay upon the beach with his hands and feet tied
together. He was dressed like a European, and it made my
blood run cold to think that he should meet- with such a
dreadful fate. I determined to do all in my power to save
him, even if it meant the loss of my own life. So I turned
to my faithful black, and said: "Now, Friday, do as I bid
you and do not fail!"
Friday again promised to obey
me in all things. I then took aim
at the savages with my gun, and
Friday did likewise.
"Fire!" said I, and we both
let fly at them. Friday took his
aim better than J did, for he
killed three of the savages, and
wounded three more, while I
only killed one and wounded
another. All the others sprang
up and looked wildly about.
They were so amazed and
terrified that they did not know
which way to run, or what to do.
Friday kept his eyes fixed upon
me, and I bade him do just
as I did. Then, while the cannibals were looking about in
every direction to see where the firing came from, I presented
my gun again, and Friday did the same with his.
"Are you ready?" said I.
"Yes," he answered.
"Then fire!" I cried. Again we shot into the midst
of the savages, and killed five and wounded many more.
"Now, Friday," I continued, "follow me!"
So saying I rushed out of the wood and showed myself
to the cannibals, while Friday, with much courage, came forward
to my side. I told him to keep firing at the rest while I
went and tried to save the poor white man, who still lay bound
upon the sands. When I got to his side I pulled out my

knife and cut the cords which were round his hands and feet,
at the same time asking him who he. was.
"A Christian," he replied. But he was so weak and
faint that he could hardly speak. When he recovered he
began to try and thank me for delivering him, but I stopped
him, and said that there was no time to talk then, as we must
all fight for our lives. He replied that he was strong enough
to do his share; so I put into his hands a gun and sword,
which he took very eagerly.
Meanwhile Friday had been firing at the savages and had
killed a great number. Some leapt into their canoes, and
I saw them fall into the boat, overcome by terror. However,
they managed to get out to sea before Friday had time to shoot
them. The others let fly their
arrows at us, and we had a
sharp fight against them. The "v~
white man fell upon them like -*
a fury, killing many with his
sword as well as with his gun.
When Friday had used all
his powder and shot he went
at them with his hatchet, and
seemed determined to put an
end to the lot of them. Some
flew into the wood, when Friday
gave chase and killed three of
them. But one was too nimble
for him and managed to get to
the sea, into which he plunged
desperately, and swam out with
-

alt his might to those who had escaped in the canoe. I then
called Friday and gave him some powder and shot from my
own pouch, bidding him get his gun and reload it. After this
the three of us stood together and fired again at the rest
of the cannibals. Their arrows fell thickly about us, but at
length all those who did not get off to sea were killed.
When I went to one of the boats left on shore by our
enemies, I was surprised to find another poor black lying in
the bottom of the canoe. He was bound hand and foot, as
the white man had been, and was almost dead with fear. I
immediately cut the cords and tried to help him to stand up;
but he could not speak nor move, and groaned most piteously.
He appeared to think I had only unbound him in order to
take him to be killed. When Friday came,up I bade him
speak to the poor fellow and make him understand that I should
do him no harm. I told him to give the man a drink of water
to revive him. But when Friday came to hear his voice and
look into his face he at once fell upon his neck and kissed
him, then cried, sang, and danced like a madman. It was
some time before I could make him speak to me and tell me
what was the matter, but when he grew a little quieter he
said it was his father. The two were so glad to meet that
it did my heart good to see them.
44 Have you any bread left for your father, Friday?" said I.
He shook his head, and answered: "None. Ugly dog eat
all up self!"
By this he meant that he had eaten all his bread. So I
gave him a small cake out of my own pouch, and also some
dried grapes. He took these to the old man, then left the
boat and ran off at such a rate that he was out of sight before
I could ask him why he went. But in a little while he returned,
and I found that he had been home for a jug of fresh water
to quench his father's thirst. He then most tenderly helped
the poor black to get out of the boat, and supported him while
he walked up the beach. The old man was still very faint and
weak, so Friday made him sit down by some trees while he
gave him a drink of water, and did all he could to help him
to recover his strength and spirits. I was quite moved by the
affection and devotion he showed towards his parent, and the
white man appeared equally touched by the scene.
We then took the two men home with us, and made beds
for them to rest on, for they were both very weak. In feet
the poor white man was really ill from all he had gone
through. When he was quite well again, I had a long talk
with him, and he told me he was a Spaniard, and had been
on the wreck I had seen. He said ten more men had got to
land with him, and were now with the savages, and in much
fear of their lives. They could not get away, as they had no
ship, nor had they any tools with which to build one. I said
I would like to help them if I could, and that if they could
come to my island we might make a fine ship together,
which would take us all to our friends. He replied that he
was sure that they would be only too glad to do so, and would
feel very grateful indeed if I would send them help.
So I made up my mind to send the Spaniard and Friday's
father to see these men, and bring them back to the island.
When I suggested this to my guest he said he would be very
pleased to go to fetch his friends.
Therefore one day, when there was a fine wind,, he and the
old black went off in one of the boats, in which the savages
had brought them. I gave them food and guns to take with
them, and wished them all luck upon their journey.
CRUSOE LEAVES THE ISLAND
GOME days after the Spaniard and the old negro had gone,
Friday came running to me, and said: "They are come!
They are come! I can see a boat!" I ran up the hill to look
out, and there was a boat on its way to our shore. But
I also saw a large ship far out at sea, and it was an
English ship. I cannot describe the joy I felt when I saw
one of our own ships! Yet I had some doubts, for I did
not know if the men who were in the boat were friends or
foes. So I told Friday to lie quiet, for these were not the ones
we expected. Just then the small boat came to shore, and I
saw there were ten white men in it Three of them had their1
hands tied together with a rope. When they were taken out of
the boat they fell on their knees as if to beg for their lives.
Then I saw one of the others lift up his arm as if to strike
them. However, he did not do so, but left them lying on the
shore while he and his companions went inland, as if to see
in what kind of place they were.
They all went into the wood, and in an hour or two I
saw that they had lain down and gone to sleep. The three
bound men still lay by a great tree. So, as the rest were asleep,
I made up my mind to go to them, and see if I could help
them. With Friday at my heels I went round to where
they were. When they caught sight of me they had such
a fright at my strange dress and wild appearance that
they were about to run away from me.
?'Have no fear," said I, "for I am your friend. Tell me
how you come to be in -this sad state, and whether I and my
man can help you?"
"I was the captain of that ship you see," answered one
of the men. "The crew are a bad lot, and when we were
out at sea they rose up against me, and tried to kill me, so
that they could have the ship for their own. Then they
changed their minds, and instead of taking my life they brought
me and my two mates to this island, where they intend to
leave us. We feared we must die, as we did .not think there
was anyone here to save us!"
"Well," said I, "these brutes are now asleep not far off.
If I help you to get free, will you give me your word to be
true to me, and take me and my man to England in your
ship?"
The captain said he would be more than glad to do
this; so I unbound his hands, and those of his mates, and gave
them a gun each. As we approached the sleeping men they
heard us, and sprang to their fcet. When they saw us all
with arms, they knelt down to beg us to spare them. We told
them we would do so if they would promise to be true and to
obey our commands. They gave us their word that they would
do as we wished, so we did not harm them. But the captain
told me that they were such bad men that it would be better
not to let them come on the ship with us, as they were not to
be trusted.
So I told them that, although they deserved to be hanged,
we would spare their lives and leave them behind to live upon
the island as I had done. They were quite willing to remain,
so I left them all my things for their use, and told them how
to make their bread, plant their corn, and do all I had done
myself. I also left a letter with them, which I told them to
give to the Spaniards and to Friday's father, when they returned
to the island. In this letter I explained how I came to leave
the place, and I promised to send a ship to take them all to
their homes as soon as I could. Then Friday and I prepared
to get into the boat that was to take us on board the vessel.
I took with me my goat-skin hat, my umbrella, and my parrot.
My poor old dog had died some time before.
I knew not what to do for joy when I saw the fine
vessel which was waiting to take me back to home and
friends. As we rowed away I took one long, last look at the
island upon which I had spent so many lonely years.

*.&..-• .

J
Retold For Little Folks

c*
QWLCS LGRAttwlGl
— Nemt York V|

Robinson Crusoe
CRUSOE IS CAST ON A DESERT ISLAND
"V/TY name is Robinson Crusoe, and my father was a merchant
who lived in the city of York. When a boy I ran away
from home to go to sea, but after some years of a sailor's life I
bitterly regretted my conduct. The ship I was on was overtaken
by a violent storm, and I and the rest of those on board were
obliged to try and save ourselves in a small boat. The fury
of the tempest overturned the boat and threw us all into the
water. As I was a good swimmer I managed to keep afloat,
tijl at last the waves cast me, more dead than alive, upon a
large piece of rock. I grasped firm hold of this, and as soon
as I could breathe again I clambered up the cliffs to the shore,
and there I sank down upon the grass, safe beyond the reach
of the water.
The first thing I did was to thank God for having spared uty
life. Then I thought of my poor comrades, who no doubt had
all been drowned. After a while I began to look around me
to see what kind of place I was in, and as far as I could discover
I was alone on a desolate coast. So although it had not been my
fate to die with my companions, yet I was in a sad plight, for I
was wet to the skin, and had no dry clothes into which I could
change. Neither had I any food to eat or water to drink. I
also feared there might be wild beasts upon the land where I was
that would kill and eat me, for I had no weapon with which to
defend myself. These thoughts all but drove me mad, and I
ran up and down the shore, wringing my hands and crying aloud.
At last it grew dark, and I was so very tired that I sat down
to try and think how I could spend the night in safety. Seeing
a large thick fir-tree not far off I decided to climb amid
its branches, and stay there till daylight, when I could see
my surroundings more clearly. So I found a resting-place
amid the green boughs of the tree, and there I fell into
a deep sleep.
When I awoke it was broad day, the wind had dropped,
and the sea was quite calm. I got down from my perch,
and walked to the shore* There I saw that our ship had
been lifted off the sand by the swelling of the tide during
the night, and was driven up almost as far as the rock
whereon I had been dashed. Then the thought struck me
that, if I waited until the tide had ebbed far out, I could
easily reach the ship's side, and might be able to get some
clothes and food out of her. This idea filled me with new
hope, and I eagerly watched for the ebbing of the tide.
At about noon I could walk within a quarter of a mile of
r
the ship, so I plunged into the water and swam up to
her. My next difficulty was to find a way in which to get
on board, for the vessel lay aground and high out of the
water. I swam round her twice, and the second time I
spied a small piece of rope which was hanging down over
her side, and so low that I could just get hold of it. By
the help of this rope I pulled myself up on to the ship. Here
I found that She had a great deal of water in her, but that
she lay on the side of a bank of hard earth, so that her
stern stood high out of the water, while her bow was nearly
level with the surface. This had left free from damp all. that
was contained in the part that stood up, and to my great joy the
place where the food was kept happened to be in this part.
I at once set to work to see what was spoilt and what was
good. I was fortunate enough to discover some clothes, and
also a box of tools, which proved to be the most useful prize
to me. I found, too, some powder and shot that were
untouched by the water, with some guns, swords, and a
couple of pistols.
We had taken two cats and a dog on board with us, and
when these poor animals heard me moving about they came
running up, showing every sign of joy at the sight of me again.
I was none the less pleased to see them, and determined to
take them to shore with me, where I should be very glad of
their companionship.
Now what I wanted more than anything else was a boat,
in which to carry the things to land, but as there was not one
to be had I decided to make ^a raft with those pieces of wood
I could find on the ship. Before I commenced this work,
however, as I was extremely hungry, I paid a visit to the
ship's larder, and there had
a good meal, which the dog
and cats shared with me. I
also filled my pockets with
biscuits, which I ate as I
went about looking for wood
with which to make my raft.
I found some large spars
and planks, and some old
masts, and round each of
these I tied a piece of rope
so that it could not drift
away, and then flung it into
the sea.
When this was done I
went down the side of the
ship and tied them, each one to the next, at both ends.
I then laid two or three short pieces of plank across, and so
made a very fair raft.
On to this raft, which was strong enough to bear any
reasonable weight, I put as many things as it would hold,
and then, with the aid of an old oar I found in the ship, I
managed to guide my craft to land.
This was by no means an easy task, and once I and my
goods were all but cast into the seai but at last, after much
care and trouble, I succeeded in getting my cargo safely upon
shore.
The next thing I did was to make a little tent, with a sail, and
the chests and boards which I had brought ashore on the raft.
Into this tent I carried everything the sun or the rain would spoiL

Then, as I was.quite-tired
out with my work, I spread a
rug upon the ground inside-my
shelter, put my gun by my side,
and fell fast asleep.
The next day I again went
to the ship with my raft, for I
was determined.to get' everything
out of her I possibly • could. I
found a great many most "useful
things, such as -some big bags
of nails, a big roll of sheet
lead, a large quantity of bread,
flour, sugar, cheese, a little
corn, and, above all, that most
useful thing called a grindstone.
Besides this I took away all the
iron and the wood I could carry, as I thought it might prove
of great service to me. I cut down the masts of the ship,,
and sawed, them into pieces^that I could lower down the side
of the vessel on to my raft. I took with me*also, two barrels
of musket bullets, seven muskets and a fowfing-piece, a large
bag full of small shot, and all the men's clothes that I could
find. Feeling sure that they would come in useful, I took with
me all the sails that I could get.
I was very much afraid when I was away from land, that
my food would be eaten on the shore. But when I came back,
I found no sign of any visitor; only there sat a creature like a
wild cat upon one of my chests. When I came towards it, it ran
away a little distance, and then stood still, U sat very calmly and

looked me full in the face, as if it wanted to make friends with me.
I pointed my gun at it, but as it did not understand what it was,
it did not move an inch. I threw it a piece of biscuit, which it
ate, and then it looked for more. But since I had no more to
spare, the creature walked away.
Each day when the tide was out I went over to the wreck
and brought away as much as I could carry, and right glad
I was that I lost no time in doing so, for on the tenth day
the wind blew a great gale, and that night there was a storm.
When I went to look out to sea the next morning, there was
no chip to be seen. She had been torn to pieces by the waves.
My next thought was of how I could build myself some
sort of house to live in, for I did not feel at all safe in my tent
I had a fear that savages or wild beasts might come upon me
at any time.
By going up to the top of a hill I could see a good way
round the land I was upon, and as far as my sight could tell
me, I was on an island, which appeared to be uninhabited except
by wild birds and animals. But I did not know whether
savages ever visited that part of the coast, and I was in great
dread lest any should come and discover me.
So I looked about for a suitable spot whereon to build
myself a safer, stronger shelter. I discovered a little green
plain on the side of a rising hill, which seemed to me to be
just the place I wanted. The hill was of rock, and in that
part of it just by the plain there was a hollow place worn a
little way in. It was here I decided to make my home.
First of all I drew a half circle upon the ground before
the hollow place in the rock, and on this I pitched two rows
of strong stakes, one row a little distance from the other.
&
^PITOK
[
\\
\
w)
\ \\
& \

I drove them into the ground till they stood very firm like
piles. Then I took the pieces of iron chain I had got from
the ship, and laid them all round, one upon another, between
these two rows of stakes. When I had done this it was
so strong a fence that neither man nor beast could get into
it, or over it. The way I got in myself was by a short
ladder, which, when I was safely over, I drew up after me;
and so I felt I was completely fortified.
I next removed my tent and put it up inside this fence, and
I also made a second and larger covering to go right over the
whole. This formed a double tent, and as I made the outer one
with tarpaulin it was very strong and weather-proo£
When I had done this I began to work my way into
the hollow of the rock, and thus I made me a cave, which
served like a, cellar to my house. I carried the earth and
stones which I dug out of the rock through my tent, and
laid them within my fence, which raised the ground about
a foot and a half.
I had found a very good hammock in the ship, and I
slung this up in my shelter so that it served me for a bed,
and was a most comfortable one too.
When my fortress was complete, I next proceeded to fetch al!
the things I had brought from the ship, and place them within
my cave. It took me some time to do this, as the last lot
were still on the shore where I had left them when I landed,
for I had been too tired to
bring them up the cliff then.
Besides this work I found
time to go out every day in
search of food. I took my
gun and my dog and shot
a wild duck, or any beast
I could see. I had to eat
the flesh of any bird or beast
that was fit to make a meal
of, and I kept the skins of
all the animals I killed and
stretched and dried them.
Of course I made a fire, by
which I cooked the meat
before I ate it
I was fortunate enough
r

to discover a spring of fresh water not far from where I liac!
pitched my tent, so that I felt that for some little time I was
provided for.
CRUSOE MAKES HIS HOME COMFORTABLE
A FTER I had been upon the island ten or twelve days,
it came into my thoughts that I soon should not know
what day it was, or which was Sunday in the week. So I
got a piece of wood and, with my knife, I cut these words
upon it: "I came on shore here on the 30th of September,
1659". Then I fixed a high post into the ground outside
my tent, and nailed the wood on it, in the shape of a cross.
Every morning I cut a notch upon the sides of this post,
and when it was Sunday I cut a notch twice as long as the
rest. When it was the first day of a new month I cut one
as long again as that long one, and thus I kept my calendar
and knew how the time went.
It was very hot in the part of the world I was in, so much
so, that I had to lie down in the middle of the day, and go
on with my work early in the morning and in the cool of
the evening. I arranged my day in this manner. Directly
I had eaten some breakfast I went out with my gun and my
dog for three hours, then I worked till about eleven o'clock,
after which I cooked and ate whatever I had been able to
get fcr my dinner. From twelve till two I lay down in my
tent, and then in the evening I set to work again.
While out on my walks about the island, I discovered a
!;ind of wild pigeon that made its home in the holes in the
rocks. I was able to catck some of these birds, and found

them very goad to eat. I took one or two of the young ones
out of a nest and brought them up myself, hoping they would
stay with me as pets, but when they grew up they flew away,
which showed they were happier in their natural state.
I had a great wish to put a roof of wood over my tent,
and also make myself a chair and a table. To do this I
needed some smooth planks of wobd, and I spent many hours
of patient toil to get these. I had first to cut down a tree,
lay the trunk along the ground, and set to work to hew it flat
on either side with my axe. When I had brought it to be
as thin as a plank, I hammered it smooth with my mallet.
In. this way I made rafters for the roof of my house, and
a smooth top for my table. I also managed to make a very
fair specimen of a chair.
My next care was to arrange all my belongings in decent
order, so that everything should be ready to my hand. I have
already mentioned that I brought all my goods into the cave
at the back of my tent, where they lay in a confused heap,
and thus took up a vast deal of room, while I had to search
among them for anything I needed.
I made some large shelves, which I fixed up all along one
side of my cave, and upon these I placed my nails, tools,
and such-like things. I also knocked pieces of v/ood into
the wall of the reck, upon which I hung my guns and those
articles that would hang up. When all was finished I felt
very proud and pleased with the result of my labour, for my
cave looked so neat, and, now that they were ail spread out

in order, my belongings looked very many, and very useful
ones too.
As I had found some ink on the ship, when I grew tired
of work I was able to amuse myself by writing, which I could
then do in comfort, for I had made for myself a table and chair
which were more or less comfortable.
I thought I would like to enlarge my cave, and so give
myself more room to move about in, so I next turned my
attention to this task. I sorely needed three things which
I had not, to help me with the work. These were a pick-
axe, a shovel, and a wheel-barrow.
For a pick-axe I had to make use of an iron crow-bar,
which served my purpose fairly well, but was very heavy to
handle. As to a wheel-barrow, 1 had to manage without one,
and instead I made me a wooden thing something like a
hod in which labourers carry mortar, and in this I carried
away the earth I dug out of my cave. But a spade or a
shovel I could not do without, so I taxed my brain to find a
way in which to make one.
While walking through the forest I noticed a kind of tree
which is sometimes called the iron-tree, because the wood of
it is so exceedingly hard. Then it struck me that I might
make a spade out of this hard wood. So, with much labour,
and almost spoiling my axe, I managed to cut off a piece
of the- trunk of the tree. I spent hours cutting and shaping
this into a shovel, till at length I had one that did very well
for my use.
It took me just four days, always excepting the time I spent
in going out in search of food, to make the hod and shovel,
and when they were completed I began to work my way

into the rock. I did this sideways, and as the earth was loose
and sandy I got on fairly quickly.
It was fortunate I could busy myself in this way just then,
for it began to rain very heavily, so I could not have worked
out-of-doors. I got very wet going out to kill game for my
meals; and, as the rain lasted many days, I determined that
when it was fine I should get in as large a supply of food as
possible, so that I need not go hunting in the bad weather.
- While I was busy enlarging my house it occurred to me
that I might work round in the rock till I came to the outside
again, and if I did this I should have a back way into my
tent. So I hollowed out a large space in the earth, gradually
turning tne passage, till I came out a few yards beyond my
tent I then made a door to this opening in the rock, and
thus I had a back entrance into my house, as well as a great
deal more room inside.
As I had no candles or light of any Sort I had to go to
bed directly it was dark. I did not like this at all. so my
next care was. to find some way to make a lamp, and after
a little thought I succeeded in doing so. First I made a
small dish of clay, which I baked hard in the sun. Then I
saved the fat of the dead goats, which I melted into grease
and put in the dish. In this I placed a shred of rope, which
served as a wick. Thus I had a lamp, which, though it did
not give a very brilliant light, was good enough to see by.
Once as I was at work by my tent I had a bad fright,
for suddenly some of the earth fell from the edge of the hill
above me, while two of the posts I had set up gave a loud
crack. I was afraid the cliff might be going to fall upon me,
so I got over my wall and ran down the hill as quickly as
1 could. When I reached tne bottom I felt the ground shake
beneath me, and then I knew it was an earthquake. I sank
upon my knees overcome with terror, while the earth shook so
much that it Would have brought down a strong house. The
sea became fierce with the violence of the shock, and the wind
blew a great gale.
The storm raged so wildly that the very trees were torn
up by their roots. This lasted three hours, during which time
I lay upon the ground, not knowing what to do to save
myself. But at length all became calm once more, and then
the rain fell in torrents. I got so wet that I was forced to
seek refuge in my cave again, although 1 was still in fear
r
L'
/.«*.. .V^^'i-. '\\](,
/ / m

vht^r
lest it should fall in upon me. However, as all was quiet,
at last I grew more at ease; but I hoped there would not
be another earthquake while I was upon the island!
Once when I was out with my gun I shot at a young
goat and broke its leg, but did not kill it. I caught the poor
little thing and carried it home. Then I bound up its leg
and took care of it, and in time the leg became quite well,
while the goat grew tame and fed upon the green at my door.
I also caught a young parrot, which I took home with me.
After a while I taught it to speak, and it learnt to call me
by my name quite distinctly, and would amuse me very much
by repeating sentences after me as I sat at work.
Though I had made such a strong fence round my tent
I still did not feel quite safe. So I dug up a lot of turf, and
piled this outside my wall till it entirely covered it. When
this was done the place might have been part of the earth
as God had made it, for no one could have told it was the
work of man. Thus, had any people come upon the shore
they would never have guessed there was a human dwelling-
place upon the cliff. So I now felt secure in my home.
I had brought from the ship a small bag, which had in
it what I thought were but a few husks of corn and some
dust. So, as I could make use of the bag, I threw out the
husks on the ground by my tent. Some weeks after, much


fo my astonishment, I saw a few stalks of barley growing
out of the earth. I was very puzzled, as I was sure no corn
grew wild in that place. Then it occurred to me that I
had thrown the husks out of the bag on to this spot, which
explained how the barley came to grow. I also saw some
stalks of rice, so there must have been some seeds of that
in the bag also. I took care to save the ears of this corn
to sow them in the proper season, that in time I might
be able to make bread. I also kept the rice to sow.
That same day I discovered a large tortoise, or turtle,
lying on the shore. This was the first that I had seen,
although I found out afterwards that there were hundreds
on the other side of the island. I killed this one and cooked
the flesh of it, which I found a pleasant change after goat's
CRUSOE MAKES CLOTHES FOR HIMSELF
flesh; for I had had no other kind of meat since I had come
on this horrible island. I found in the turtle sixty eggs, which
were also very good to eat.
CRUSOE MAKES MANY USEFUL THINGS
I
HAD been much troubled by the loss of one of my cats,
which had run away from me and had entirely disappeared
for some weeks. I feared she must be dead, as I could see
no sign of her about the island. However, one day when
I was at work in my tent, I was very surprised to hear a
loud mewing outside. I pushed up the door in my roof,
and, looking out, I saw my lost cat, and with her three little
kittens! I was pleased to see my puss again, although much
astonished at the sight of her family; but as she evidently
expected me to take them all into my home, I did so. The
kittens were strong little creatures and soon grew into big
cats, so that I had rather more of them than I wanted!
It was about this time that I passed some of my most
miserable days upon the island, for I fell ill. I felt very cold
and strange, with great pain in my head and limbs. I had
to go to bed, and was filled with fear at my sad and lonely
state; for I was sick, with no one to comfort or help me.
I was ill for some days but was just able to cook some of
the turtle's eggs, which, fortunately, I had by me. I ate these
and drank a little rum, and then lay still in my hammock
waiting till I felt better. One day I happened to look in
my chest to find something, and I saw my Bible lying among
the things. I think God must have sent me to the chest,
for X had forgotten the book was there. I took it out to
read as 1 lay still, and in it I saw the words in which God
bids us call upon Him in our hour of need and He will
help us. This promise sank into my heart, and I knelt
down to beg the Almighty to aid me in my distress.
Soon after I fell into a deep sleep and did not wake till
late the next day. I then felt I had much more strength,
and was able to get up and go on with my work. I was
weak for some days, but at last grew quite well again. Each
morning I read the Bible, and God sent His love and peace
into my heart, which gave me great consolation in my lonely
life.
I had now been on the island some time, and as yet I had
not been very far from the part where I lived. So I thought
I would take a long walk with my dog and see what I could
discover. I found some sugar-canes growing wild, and also
many different kinds of fruit, such as limes, melons, and
grapes. I was right glad of these, for they were very fresh
and ripe. There were also orange, lemon, citron, and cocoa
trees. In fact that part of the island farther from the shore
was so beautiful and green and rich, that I decided to build
myself a kind of bower in which I could sleep when I felt I
should like to spend a few days there. I did this, and made
a fence round it the same as I had round my tent, and there
I lay quite safe all night.
I cut a lot of twigs from the trees about my country
house, as I named it, and these twigs I laid in the sun till
they became quite dry. Then I gathered them into bundles
and took them to my cave. I amused myself for some time
making baskets with the twigs. I made a large number of-all
kinds and sizes, and they were of great service to me.^ Some
strong, deep ones I intended to keep my corn in, instead of
sacks, and others I used for carrying things in. Indeed I
seldom went out after this without a basket on my back in case
I wanted to bring something home with me. There were two
other things I much needed, and these were a jug to hold
liquid, and a pot or sauce-pan in which I could make broth.
So I set to work to see if I could supply these wants as I had
done others.
With this idea I turned my hand to pottery, and shaped
some jugs out of clay. You would have laughed if you
had seen the odd, ugly things I made. Some of them fell in
and some fell out, while others came to pieces just as I thought
I had them firm and whole. However, at last I had two
large clay jars, which I dried hard in the sun. But, alas!
although these jars would hold things dry, they would not bear
being put over the fire to boil water in. As I dearly wanted
to make myself some broth I was very disappointed, till to
my great delight I discovered a way in which I could make
them strong enough. I had had a large fire to cook my food,
and when I put it out I saw a piece of one of my clay jars in
the ashes, burnt hard as a stone and red as a tile. "So," said
I, "if a piece will burn so hard, a whole jar will do the same."
I went to work at once and made a great fire round three
large jars, till they were red-hot right through. I let them
burn all night, and next day I had some pots as hard as
could be, in which I could boil my meat to make broth.
I next had to think about making myself some clothes, for
those I had were then quite worn out. I have already told you
that I kept and dried the skins of the beasts I shot, and these now
became useful. The first thing I made from them was a large

'iillli^WK
fur cap, and this answered so well that I soon made a whole
suit. I cut the clothes very loose, so that I should not be too
hot in them, and when I went cut in the rain I found that
the wet ran off the fur, which !:spt me almost dry.
Then I thought I should like to make an umbrella, not so
much to keep off the rain as the sun, which was very fierce
indeed. I took a world of pains over this, and it was a long
time before I could get anything that would do. I made many
attempts, but they were of no use. However, as I had set
my mind upon having my umbrella, I worked hard until I had
succeeded in making one. The most difficult part was getting
it to shut up and to open again. As I did not always want to
have to carry it spread over my head, I did not feel satisfied
until I had got it to let down and draw in. At last I managed
this; so when there was neither sun nor rain I could close my
umbrella and use it as a walking-stick.
From one side of the island I could see the .coast of
the mainland not very far distant. The sight filled me with
longing for a boat, in which I could go out to sea and
reach some place Avhere I might find means to get back to
my friends.
This idea took such hold of me that I determined to try
to make a canoe, such as the Indians make, out of the
trunk of a great tree. I chose a tree as near as possible to
the water, and many a weary stroke it cost me to get the
trunk upon the ground and to cut and hew it into the shape
of a boat. All this took me a very long time, but when
at last my boat was finished
I thought myself well paid
for all my toil. The next
task was to get the boat
to the sea, and I found I
could not drag or push it
to the shore, as it was far
too heavy for one man to
shift. So, as I could not
take it to the water, the only
other thing to do was to
bring the water to the boat.
To do this I had to dig
out a dock from the shore
to the place where the boat
lay. This meant much more
labour; but I did it all with "jnhJ^

a will, because I knew that in the end I should have a boat
in which to go off to sea.
Besides digging this dock I had other things to attend
to, and among these was my crop of rice and barley.
The seeds I had sown bid fair to yield me a good supply
of corn, but I found there were thieves that would rob me
of it. First came the wild goats and hares, which ate it so
close that it could not shoot into stalks. So I had to build
a fence round to keep the beasts out, and I set my dog to
guard it at night, Thus I got rid of the thieves, for soon
they would not venture near the place.
But when the corn grew to the ear, all the wild fowls
flew round ahd pecked at it till I saw they would leave me
none. So I fetched my gun and shot at them, and this gave
them such a scare that they all went off, screaming loudly. But
as soon as I had gone back they all came in a cloud to feast
upon my corn. I was at a loss to know what to do, till at
last I thought of a plan by which I might save my crop. I
shot three of the birds and hung their dead bodies on a
stick, to warn all the others that their fate would be the same if
they came near. This kept them in so much fear that they not
only kept off the corn, but would not come to that part of
the land at all. Of this I was very glad, you may be sure.
CRUSOE MAKES A VOYAGE
t-JAVING got my boat to the sea I was eager to get into
her, and make a trip round the island, that I might see
how she went in the water. So I proceeded to fit out my
little craft ready for the journey. I put up a small mast
in her, and made a sail out of one that I had taken from the
ship. Then I made some lockers, or boxes, in which to put
food, powder and shot, or anything I thought it wise to take
with me.
I also cut a long hollow place in the inside of the boat,
where I could lay my gun, making a flap to hang over it,
to keep it dry. I fixed my umbrella in the stern, so that
it stood up behind me as I sat, and could keep the sun of!
my head. For an anchor I took a piece of broken iron
grappling that I had brought from the ship.
As I intended going right round the island I put a good
supply of food in my boat. I also took with me two thick
coats, which were in one of the seamen's chests. I thought
one of these would serve me as a bed, and the other as a
blanket. For I made up my mind to anchor my boat in
some safe spot where I could pass the night, and then
continue my journey the following morning.
Thus fully prepared I went out to sea. I made a very
fcir start, but when I had gone some little distance I found
a great ledge of rocks lying out a good way into the sea,
partly under the water and partly above it. Beyond these
there stretched a long shoal of dry sand, extending as far
as my eye could reach. So that to get round this I should
have to go a very long way out to sea
When first I discovered this I was going to give up my
trip and return to my tent; then I thought I would anchor
my boat and go ashore where I was, to see if I could find
out how far this shoal really extended.
Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on land,
climbing up a hill which seemed to overlook the point I wished

to view. There I saw the full length of the trail of sand, and
since it was not such a very great distance out I decided to
venture round it. Accordingly I got into my boat once more
and pushed off. I soon regretted my rash act, for when I reached
the sand, all at once I felt my boat carried under me at a rapid
pace. I tried in vain to stop it, but to my horror I found I
was caught in a strong current of water, which swept me far
out to sea. I cannot describe my terror when I realized the
position in which I was; for I was being driven out into the
wide ocean and was quite unable to guide my boat against
the force of the water. I felt I should never reach land any
more, and my heart sank at the thought of the danger I was in.
For six long hours I was borne over the waves, and then
at length a breeze blew up and I set my sail to meet it. To
my deep joy and thankfulness the boat went before the wind,
and in a few more hours I had brought my little craft safe to shore.
When I had landed I fell upon my knees and thanked God
for having once more delivered me out of my terrible danger.
Then I fetched the food which I had brought with me and
enjoyed a good meal on the beach. After that I drew my
boat up into a little cove, and, being quite worn out with
the labour and the peril of my voyage, I lay down and was
soon fast asleep.
I awoke the next morning feeling much refreshed, and
began to wonder how I was going to get home with my
boat. I had gone through such dreadful risk upon the sea
that I could not attempt to return by water. I therefore re-
solved to find some place where I could hide my boat, and
then to set out back to my tent on foot As I walked along

the coast I came upon a little bay, which was just the place
I wanted for my boat. So I stowed her safely away under
some trees, and taking my umbrella and my gun I prepared
for my march home.
I found the walk a very pleasant one, and as I passed
some trees I surprised a flock of beautiful bright-coloured
parrots, who flew out and surrounded me, nearly touching my
head and face.
When it grew dusk I had reached my country house, or
bower, and as I knew I should not be able to get back to my
cave before nightfall, I decided to sleep there and proceed
upon my journey the next morning. So 1 got over the fence
and lay down among the soft leaves, where I very soon fell
fast asleep.
Now judge, if you can, what a shock I must have had
when I was awakened by a voice calling me by my name
several times.
"Robin, poor Robin Crusoe!" said the voice; "where have
you been, Robin Crusoe?"
So deep in sleep was I at first, being dead tired after the
hard work I had done, that I thought it must be a dream.
But when I heard my name again called in a clear voice, quite
near me, I gave a great start and sprang up in fright. As
soon as I did so my eyes fell on my parrot, which sat on a
twig by me, and then I knew at once that it was he who had
called to me. He said the words just as I had taught him;
and when I realized it was he it made me smile to think
how he had startled me.
I held out my hand to him, and calling him by his name.
the dear old creature came and sat on my thumb, and
4
•;
did all he could to show me
how glad he was to see me
once more. He continued talk-
ing to me, "Poor Robin Crusoe!
How did you come here? Where
have you been?" In this way
I carried him home along with
me to my tent
I had now had enough of
the sea for some time, and had
plenty to do thinking over the
great danger in which I had
been. I should have been very
glad to have had my boat on
my side of the island again, but
I did not know how it could be
done. So I had to be happy without the boat, which had taken
so many months of hard work to make.
As soon as I had settled down again I was not idle, for,
as I then had a good supply of corn, I next turned my hand
to bread-making. I made a deep round dish out of the iron-
wood, and also a great beater with which to pound my corn
into flour. To sift the meal from the bran I made use of
some muslin that I found in one of the chests I had got from
the ship. Then came the question—how was I to bake my
bread without an oven? This is how I did it. The hearth
of my fire was made of clay tiles. When the wood was
burnt red I drew it on to this hearth, and there I let it lie
till the place was very hot. I then swept off" the wood and
put my loaves down. Over them I put one of my large clay

pots, and round the pot I drew all the fire. Thus I baked
my bread as well as if it had been done in the best oven in
the world. In the same way I baked some cakes of the rice.
There was one thing I much longed to have, and that
was a pipe. A great deal of tobacco grew wild on the island,
and I often wished I could have a smoke. So I tried to
make myself a pipe out of clay, as I had made my pots and
dishes. The first two or three attempts were failures, and
broke when I put the hot wire down their stems to make
the air passage. But at last I got one through which I
could draw the smoke quite well. It was an ugly, clumsy-
looking thing, but caused me much joy and comfort, for I
dearly liked a smoke when resting from my labours.
I now discovered that my powder was almost finished,
and I knew that once
this was gone I should
never be able to get any
more. So I had to think
how I should be able, if I
had no powder, to kill a
goat so as to have meat.
Therefore my next
plan was to get some
goats, that I might tame
them and have a flock of
my f own. But as they
were all so wild I did
not know how to catch
them. However, at last
I set a trap for them


and caught five. The way in which I made a trap was
this. First I dug a large pit in the earth, in a pface
where the goats usually went to feed. Over this pit I placed
a frame made of twigs, and upon this I put some corn and
dry rice. I did this in such a way that when the goats ate
they would fall into the pit, and the frame would close and
shut them in. Thus I caught three kids and two goats, which,
though they had a fall, were not at all hurt. In fact one old
he-goat was so fierce that I had quite a sharp fight with hirh.
I let him go at last, and he ran off as fast as he could
I also let the other goat go free, and kept only the three kids.
I tied cords to these and led them home with me.
It took me a good while to tame them, but 1 gave them
sweet corn to eat and was very kind to them till at last they
grew to know me and lost their fear. To prevent them from
running wild when they grew up, I had to set about doing
something to keep the tame ones from the wild. The only
way to do this was to have a piece of ground, fenced around
with a hedge or with palings, to keep them in so well that
those inside could not get out and those outside could not get in.
This was terribly hard work for one man, but it was so
necessary that I at once set about looking for a piece of ground
where there was likely to be something for goats to eat, water
for them to drink, and cover to keep them from the sua

/
When I found a suitable place I made a hedge rouaoi it
and then turned the kids loose in it. In about a year and a
half, I had a flock of about twelve goats—kids and all; and
in two years more, I had three and forty, besides several
that I took and killed for my food.
Thus I got my tame herd. I learnt to milk these goats,
and in time to make butter and cheese, which were a great
treat to me.
I have already mentioned that there was a quantity of
grape vines upon the island, and this fruit, in the form of
raisins, now served as an agreeable addition to my larder. I
cut a number of bunches and hung them in the sun to dry.
By this means, I obtained raisins when the fresh fruit was
not to be had.
CRUSOE FINDS A FOOTPRINT ON THE SHORE
TT would have made you smile to see .me and my pets at
our meals. First there was the king of the island, who
was myself; then came my parrot, my dog, and my two cats,
one on either side of me. Each of these had a bit now and
then from my hand, while the parrot would talk to us all the time.
Now I began to think I should like to walk round to the
other side of the island, and see if my boat was still where I
had left her. This inclination increased upon me every day,
till at length I resolved to take the journey. A very queer-
looking man you would have thought me, had you met me on
my way! I wore my hat and suit of goats' skin, and had my
gun in oRe hand and my umbrella in the other. Stockings
and shoes I had none, and from my waist I hung a saw,
while at my back I carried
a basket. Fastened in my
belt, which was also of
goats' skin, I had a dagger
and a pouch full of powder
and shot. As for my face,
it was burnt brown by the
sun, and my hair and beard
were very long and had a
somewhat wild appearance.
In this kind of dress I
went my new journey, and
was out three or four days.
When I arrived at the bay
I found that my boat was
still where I had fastened
it, quite safe among the trees. I so much wished to get her
to the part of the coast where I lived that I almost made up
my mind to try and go back in her by water.
Then the memory of the terrible danger I had been in
before put me in such fear lest the same might happen
again that I gave up the idea. Instead, I made another
resolution, which was more safe, though it would cost me
much labour. This was to make another boat, so that I
should have one if I ever needed it near my home. I had
no further adventures upon this journey, and returned to my
tent eager' to start upon this next piece of work.
But an event happened soon after, which put all my plans to
flight. One day, as I was by the sea-shore, I saw the print
of a man's naked foot, which was very plainly to be seen in the

soft sand. I stood still like one thunderstruck, or as if I
had met a ghost. Then I had a good look all round and up
and down the shore, but I could not see the sign of a man,
nor anything else but this one print of a foot. I went up to
the top of a small hill near that I might have a better view
of the surrounding land, but there was nothing to be seen
save the wide stretch of coast. A thousand confused thoughts
all rushed into my mind at once, as I tried to imagine how
that footprint came to be there. It was evident that a man
must have been on that part of the shore, and this idea filled
me with extreme terror, for I feared it might be some cannibals
who had landed there.
Before leaving the spot I went to the mark again, to make
perfectly sure I had seen aright. But there was no room for

any doubt, for the exact print of a foot lay in the sand, toes,
heel, and ever}' part completely shown. I gave one last look
and then ran back home as fast as my legs could carry me. I
was so terrified that I glanced behind me at every two or three
steps, thinking each bush or tree hid some savages who would
spring out upon me. I hardly paused to breathe till I had got
over my wall and was safe in my tent.
I had no sleep that night, for my mind was too much filled
with frightful ideas and fancies. Indeed, the dread of falling
into the hands of cannibals so possessed me that I dare not
go out of my house for the next two or three days. At last it
struck me that it might possibly be the print of my own foot that
I had seen, which had been left when I was on that part of
the island before. So that all my fears might have been for
no reason at all.
After this explanation occurred to me I ventured outside
my tent once more, but I went about with much dread, for
I felt I might have to run for my life at any time. As nothing
happened, by degrees I grew bolder, and made up my mind
to go to the footprint again, and put my foot down upon
it, to see if it was a mark I had left myself. But when
I came to measure it by my own foot I saw that it could
not be the same, for mine was not so large by a great deal
This told me that some stranger must have been on shore
there, and my old fear returned to me.
All I could think of then was to make the guard round
my house yet more strong, so that no one could come at me
when I was inside. So I built yet another wall, in which
I made holes for my guns to go through. I put six of ^ the
guns I had got from the ship all round, in such a way that
J could fire them all off at once if I chose. When this was
done I set to work to plant young trees outside the place
where my home was. Thus in time I had a wood so strong
and thick that no one could pass through it. I found a way
to get in and out myself by means of my ladder, but no one
else could have guessed how to do this.
My next care was for my flock of goats. I had a fear
lest they should be hurt, or lest any man should steal them
from me. The best plan I could think of was to set a fence
round two or three bits of ground, as much out of sight as
I could find, and to put some of the goats in each piece.
Then, thought I, if one lot are found and taken, the others
will still be left me.
At this time I discovered a natural cave in the earth,
which went in a vast way. It was near the place where I had
my bower in the woods, and was at the foot of a large rock.
The mouth of it was very dark, and only just big enough
to allow me to walk in. When first I went in I had a
great shock, for I saw two bright eyes that shone like stars
in the gloom.
At this sight I made more haste, to get out than I had
done to get in. But at length I said I would not be a
coward, but would go and see whose eyes they were. So
I took up a light and in I went. This time I heard a
loud sigh, which made my hair stand on end with fright.
Still I did not turn back, but held up my light to see
whence it came. And there I saw a very old goat, which
lay on the ground. The poor beast tried to rise, but was
not able to do so. I saw he was dying of old age, so
I left him there to end his days in peace, and went
on my way in the cave. When I got through the narrow
part I found myself in a large high vault, the walls of which
shed gleams of gold and brilliant light all round. The floor
was dry and level, and had a sort of small loose gravel upon
it. I think there must have been gold and precious stones
in the rock, as it gave forth such a glow.
I was very glad to have discovered this cave, which, besides
being such a fine sight, was so safe a place to hide in.
The poor old goat died very soon, and I dug him a grave
near the place where he. lay.
One day, as I was about to start out for my daily walk, I
was surprised to see the light of some fire upon the shore.
I stopped short in alarm at the sight, and then hurried back
into my tent. But I could not rest quietly indoors, for I was
very excited and felt I must
find out what this fire was.
So I got my ladder and
mounted to the top of the
hill. Then, pulling out my
spying • glass, which I had
taken on purpose, J lay flat
on the ground, and began
to look for the place
whence the smoke arose.
I soon saw, to my horror,
that a number of savages
were sitting round a fire
which they had made to
human flesh. Their canoe#

/
were lying on the shore near,
so I supposed they intended
going back when they had
finished their cruel feast.
I cannot describe the
feeling of disgust and of fear
this sight gave me, and I
anxiously waited to see what
the cannibals would do. To
my great joy they did as I
had expected, for all went off
again in their boats. This
showed me that they came to
the island only to have their
horrible meals, and that they
would not be likely to find
my home if I kept good
watch for them, and could hide myself whenever they were about.
One night, not long after this, it blew a great gale and I heard
the firing of a gun. I started up and ran as fast as I could
to the hill to find out if I could see or hear whence it had
been fired. When I got to the top, the gun went off again,
and I could see by the flash that it came from far out at sea.
This told me it must be some ship lost in the storm, in need
of help. Though I was powerless to help them, I thought
they might help me. So I gathered all the dry wood I could
get near at hand, and having made a pile of it on the hill, I
set light to it. The wood being very dry, there was soon a
bright blaze. But the rest of the night passed, and though
I kept up my fire, there were no more signs of the ship.

When daylight came I saw, to my deep grief, the wreck \
of a large ship cast upon the rocks. And in a day or two the •
corpse of a poor boy was washed ashore. \
CRUSOE RESCUES A SAVAGE
O
NE night, as I sat thinking, an idea suggested itself to
me of a way in which it might be possible to return
to my friends. If I could but get one of the savages into
my hands I would make him help me to take a large boat
out to sea, and show me how to get to the mainland. So,
said I to myself, cost what it may, the next time they come
on this shore I will have one for my own.
A whole year passed by, then at last one day I found
that the savages were there again. The first signs* that I saw
were five boats on the sands not far from my tent. I knew
that each boat held four or six men, so, I was afraid that
I could not hope to take one of the savages to make him my
slave. For, how could I, with no one to help me, fight so
many wild blacks? For a while, therefore, I lay quiet in my
castle, full of disappointment and of gloomy thoughts. Then
I felt that I could not remain still any longer, so I prepared
all my guns ready for an attack, and going to the outside of
my tent I listened eagerly to hear if I could distinguish
any sound made by the cannibals. But as nothing reached
my ears I became very impatient to see what they were doing,
and I decided to mount the hill and have a view of them.
So I got over my wall and went to the very top of the
cliff, where, hiding myself behind some high, round pieces of
rock, I took a good look at the savages through my glass.
I saw that they had lighted a
fire, and were all leaping in a
wild dance round it. Then
ray gaze fell on two poo"*
wretches who lay upon the
ground by them. One of the
savages went up to them and
gave the first a blow on the
head with his club. The
poor man fell dead instantly,
and it made me turn sick to
think that they would soon
cook and eat him. Just then
the other poor creature saw
there was a chance for him
to save his life, while they
were busy with their cruel knives. So he ran off with all speed,
and came towards me. This gave me a great fright, for I thought
that the whole tribe would come to catch him, and that they might
find me and my home. But I lost some of my fear when I
saw that not more than three ran in chase, and that these could
not run half so fast as he who fled from them.
They soon came to that part of the shore, where as the
tide was up, the sea met the rocks, and here I thought the
poor man must surely be caught But he made a plunge into
the water and swam through it. Then on he flew as swiftly as
a dart. Two of those who were on his track could swim, but
the third could not; so this one returned to the others. The
two who followed took much more time to swim than the man
who ran from them, so that he got a long start

Now, thought I, is my chance to get a slave, by saving
this poor black's life. So off I went at full speed to my tent,
and I got two guas\ Then I went round a short cut that I
knew till I found myself at the back of the savage who fled and
in front of those who gave him chase. I called aloud, and
this made the first man start and look round.
When he saw me he was as much in fear of me as of those
who came to catch him. But I made a sign for him to come
back; then I ran up to those who were chasing him, and, with
a blow from my gun, I laid the first on the ground. At this
the man with him took his bow and arrow and would have
shot me had I not fired at him first. The poor black who
fled stood stock-still, and I could see he was terrified at the
noise and the smoke of my gun, and that he would soon
fly from me too. So I made signs to him to come near,
and I did all I could to make him see that I wished to
be his friend.
At last he came close to me, and, falling full length on
the ground before me, he laid his head at my feet. Then
he lifted my foot and put it upon his head. By doing this
he meant to show that he would be my slave for ever. I mads
him get up, and with smiles and kind words I let him know
that 1 would not harm him.
He said some words to me, which, though I did not under-
stand their meaning, I thought most pleasant to hear, as they
were the' first sound of a man's voice, except my own, that I
had heard for many long years.
Then I took the poor fellow to my cave and gave him
some bread ani dried grapes to eat, with a drink of fresh
water.
The rest of the savages did not try to find the two whom
I had killed, but must have gone back in their boats, for we
saw no more of them.
I soon taught my new companion to speak to me and to
understand what I said to him. First, I let him know his
name should be Friday, as that was the day upon which I
saved his life.
Then I gave him some clothes to wear, and a very comical
figure he looked in them at first. As he had never worn any
proper clothes before, he did not know how to put them on;
and when he had got them on he was very awkward in them.
However, after a while he became quite used to them and
was very glad indeed to have them.


In a short time we went to the place where the cannibals
had had their dreadful feast, and I made Friday put all the
bones in a heap, and burn them to ashes. As he did so I
saw that he would have liked to eat some of the flesh, for he
was still a savage at heart. But I made signs to show him
how the very thought of eating human flesh turned me sick with
horror and loathing, and that if he did so I would kill him.
Then he became filled with shame, and did not show any such
wish again. I taught him to eat bread and drink broth instead,
and it was very funny to see him with his basin and spoon. He
generally dipped his fingers in the basin, and found it most
difficult to carry a spoonful of soup to his mouth. But after
a few days he began to eat like any ordinary man, and found
decent food a great deal nicer than human flesh.
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led on the island.
Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the names of
almost everything I had need of, and of every place to which
I had to send him. In short, I now had a companion, and
thus could make use of my tongue again.
CRUSOE MAKES ANOTHER BOAT
'TPHERE was one thing that Friday told me, which put
a new idea into my head. He said that once a small
boat full of white men had come on shore in his land. His
tribe had not done them any injury, but had let them have
food and drink. It occurred to me that these men must
have come off the wreck which I had seen, so I asked Friday
to tell me if he thought that they were still in his country.
He said that they were when he left it.
After this talk I thought a good deal of how I could join
these white men. So I told Friday we would make a big
boat and that he should go home in it. At this he became
very grave and sad, but made no answer.
"Why are you so sad?" I asked.
"Are you cross with me?" said he. "What me done?"
I told him that I was not cross with him at all.
"Then why send me home?" he said.
"Why!" I cried. "Would you not like to go back to
your own people?"
"Yes, yes," he replied. "But only if we both go. No
me and not you." There were tears in his eyes as he spoke,
which let me see how true was his love for me. So I
told him that if we could go we should do so together.
The next thing that we did was to make a large boat.
I again chose a tree as near the water as possible, and we
set to work with a will to cut and hew it into shape. In
a month's time we had a fine boat, and in another two weeks
we had got her into the water. To do this we cut the trunks
of several smaller trees, which we used as rollers, and upon
these we pushed our craft to the shore.
"Can we go to your land in her?" I then asked Friday.
"'Yes, yes," he answered. "We can go in her very well,
even though great wind blow."
Having got the boat into the sea, we fixed her safely up
at the edge of the water by means of long poles, which we
drove into the sand upon either side of her and fastened securely
with rope. I then went to work to make a mast and a sail, and
to fit her with a rudder. For the mast I chose a straight young
cedar-tree, which I found not far off, and which 1 set Friday to
cut down. As for the sail, I managed to make one out of
the pieces I had left from those I had brought from the ship.
When all this was done I had to teach Friday how to sail and
to guide our craft. For, although he knew very well how to
paddle a canoe, he knew nothing about a sail and a rudder, and
was most amazed when he saw me work the boat by these means.
So I showed him how the sail jibbed, or filled this way or that
as the course changed, and how the boat could be worked
to and fro in the water by the rudder. After a little practice
he became well used to all these things and was a very
good sailor.
Having made all ready for our departure from the island,
I began to lay by a store of food to take with us upon our
journey. I was busy one morning upon something »f this
kind, when I called to Friday and bid him go to the sea-
shore and see if he could find a turtle or tortoise. He had
not been gone long when he came running back, and before
I had time to speak to him he cried out: "O master! O sorrow!
Obad!"
"What is it, Friday?" said I.
"There come one, two, three canoes to shore!" he replied.
By this he meant that three boats full of savages were on
their way to land.
*'WelI," I answered, "do not be afraid. We must fight
them. Will you stand by me, Friday, and do as I bid you?"
"Yes, yes," he replied, "me shoot. But there come great
lot, and we are but two!"
"Never mind that," said I; "our guns will scare those
whom we do not kill,"
So I made Friday take the guns and load them with
powder and shot, while I got two pistols, ready for our fight.
I hung my big sword by my side, and I gave Friday a hatchet
to carry. When we were thus prepared, I took my glass and
went up the hill to see what I could discover. I saw that
there were twenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoe^
upon the shore, and that the cannibals had come, as before,
to feast upon the dead bodies of the prisoners.
They had landed just where a number of trees grew close
to the sea, and I made up my mind that we would go into
this wood and await our chance to attack the wretches, and,
if possible, to save their victims. So I again went to Friday
and asked him if he were ready to stand by me, and help
to defend me, if I did the same for him.
"Me die when you bid, Master," he answered readily.
We then divided our arms and set off to march to the
wood. When we arrived there I bade Friday go softly

among the trees and look to see what the savages were doing.
He did so and returned to tell me that they were all about the
fire, and that near them there lay bound upon the sand a
white, bearded man, whom they would soon kill and eat. I
was filled with horror at the mention of the white, bearded
man, and, going forward myself, I saw plainly by my glass a
white man who lay upon the beach with his hands and feet tied
together. He was dressed like a European, and it made my
blood run cold to think that he should meet- with such a
dreadful fate. I determined to do all in my power to save
him, even if it meant the loss of my own life. So I turned
to my faithful black, and said: "Now, Friday, do as I bid
you and do not fail!"
Friday again promised to obey
me in all things. I then took aim
at the savages with my gun, and
Friday did likewise.
"Fire!" said I, and we both
let fly at them. Friday took his
aim better than J did, for he
killed three of the savages, and
wounded three more, while I
only killed one and wounded
another. All the others sprang
up and looked wildly about.
They were so amazed and
terrified that they did not know
which way to run, or what to do.
Friday kept his eyes fixed upon
me, and I bade him do just
as I did. Then, while the cannibals were looking about in
every direction to see where the firing came from, I presented
my gun again, and Friday did the same with his.
"Are you ready?" said I.
"Yes," he answered.
"Then fire!" I cried. Again we shot into the midst
of the savages, and killed five and wounded many more.
"Now, Friday," I continued, "follow me!"
So saying I rushed out of the wood and showed myself
to the cannibals, while Friday, with much courage, came forward
to my side. I told him to keep firing at the rest while I
went and tried to save the poor white man, who still lay bound
upon the sands. When I got to his side I pulled out my

knife and cut the cords which were round his hands and feet,
at the same time asking him who he. was.
"A Christian," he replied. But he was so weak and
faint that he could hardly speak. When he recovered he
began to try and thank me for delivering him, but I stopped
him, and said that there was no time to talk then, as we must
all fight for our lives. He replied that he was strong enough
to do his share; so I put into his hands a gun and sword,
which he took very eagerly.
Meanwhile Friday had been firing at the savages and had
killed a great number. Some leapt into their canoes, and
I saw them fall into the boat, overcome by terror. However,
they managed to get out to sea before Friday had time to shoot
them. The others let fly their
arrows at us, and we had a
sharp fight against them. The "v~
white man fell upon them like -*
a fury, killing many with his
sword as well as with his gun.
When Friday had used all
his powder and shot he went
at them with his hatchet, and
seemed determined to put an
end to the lot of them. Some
flew into the wood, when Friday
gave chase and killed three of
them. But one was too nimble
for him and managed to get to
the sea, into which he plunged
desperately, and swam out with
-

alt his might to those who had escaped in the canoe. I then
called Friday and gave him some powder and shot from my
own pouch, bidding him get his gun and reload it. After this
the three of us stood together and fired again at the rest
of the cannibals. Their arrows fell thickly about us, but at
length all those who did not get off to sea were killed.
When I went to one of the boats left on shore by our
enemies, I was surprised to find another poor black lying in
the bottom of the canoe. He was bound hand and foot, as
the white man had been, and was almost dead with fear. I
immediately cut the cords and tried to help him to stand up;
but he could not speak nor move, and groaned most piteously.
He appeared to think I had only unbound him in order to
take him to be killed. When Friday came,up I bade him
speak to the poor fellow and make him understand that I should
do him no harm. I told him to give the man a drink of water
to revive him. But when Friday came to hear his voice and
look into his face he at once fell upon his neck and kissed
him, then cried, sang, and danced like a madman. It was
some time before I could make him speak to me and tell me
what was the matter, but when he grew a little quieter he
said it was his father. The two were so glad to meet that
it did my heart good to see them.
44 Have you any bread left for your father, Friday?" said I.
He shook his head, and answered: "None. Ugly dog eat
all up self!"
By this he meant that he had eaten all his bread. So I
gave him a small cake out of my own pouch, and also some
dried grapes. He took these to the old man, then left the
boat and ran off at such a rate that he was out of sight before
I could ask him why he went. But in a little while he returned,
and I found that he had been home for a jug of fresh water
to quench his father's thirst. He then most tenderly helped
the poor black to get out of the boat, and supported him while
he walked up the beach. The old man was still very faint and
weak, so Friday made him sit down by some trees while he
gave him a drink of water, and did all he could to help him
to recover his strength and spirits. I was quite moved by the
affection and devotion he showed towards his parent, and the
white man appeared equally touched by the scene.
We then took the two men home with us, and made beds
for them to rest on, for they were both very weak. In feet
the poor white man was really ill from all he had gone
through. When he was quite well again, I had a long talk
with him, and he told me he was a Spaniard, and had been
on the wreck I had seen. He said ten more men had got to
land with him, and were now with the savages, and in much
fear of their lives. They could not get away, as they had no
ship, nor had they any tools with which to build one. I said
I would like to help them if I could, and that if they could
come to my island we might make a fine ship together,
which would take us all to our friends. He replied that he
was sure that they would be only too glad to do so, and would
feel very grateful indeed if I would send them help.
So I made up my mind to send the Spaniard and Friday's
father to see these men, and bring them back to the island.
When I suggested this to my guest he said he would be very
pleased to go to fetch his friends.
Therefore one day, when there was a fine wind,, he and the
old black went off in one of the boats, in which the savages
had brought them. I gave them food and guns to take with
them, and wished them all luck upon their journey.
CRUSOE LEAVES THE ISLAND
GOME days after the Spaniard and the old negro had gone,
Friday came running to me, and said: "They are come!
They are come! I can see a boat!" I ran up the hill to look
out, and there was a boat on its way to our shore. But
I also saw a large ship far out at sea, and it was an
English ship. I cannot describe the joy I felt when I saw
one of our own ships! Yet I had some doubts, for I did
not know if the men who were in the boat were friends or
foes. So I told Friday to lie quiet, for these were not the ones
we expected. Just then the small boat came to shore, and I
saw there were ten white men in it Three of them had their1
hands tied together with a rope. When they were taken out of
the boat they fell on their knees as if to beg for their lives.
Then I saw one of the others lift up his arm as if to strike
them. However, he did not do so, but left them lying on the
shore while he and his companions went inland, as if to see
in what kind of place they were.
They all went into the wood, and in an hour or two I
saw that they had lain down and gone to sleep. The three
bound men still lay by a great tree. So, as the rest were asleep,
I made up my mind to go to them, and see if I could help
them. With Friday at my heels I went round to where
they were. When they caught sight of me they had such
a fright at my strange dress and wild appearance that
they were about to run away from me.
?'Have no fear," said I, "for I am your friend. Tell me
how you come to be in -this sad state, and whether I and my
man can help you?"
"I was the captain of that ship you see," answered one
of the men. "The crew are a bad lot, and when we were
out at sea they rose up against me, and tried to kill me, so
that they could have the ship for their own. Then they
changed their minds, and instead of taking my life they brought
me and my two mates to this island, where they intend to
leave us. We feared we must die, as we did .not think there
was anyone here to save us!"
"Well," said I, "these brutes are now asleep not far off.
If I help you to get free, will you give me your word to be
true to me, and take me and my man to England in your
ship?"
The captain said he would be more than glad to do
this; so I unbound his hands, and those of his mates, and gave
them a gun each. As we approached the sleeping men they
heard us, and sprang to their fcet. When they saw us all
with arms, they knelt down to beg us to spare them. We told
them we would do so if they would promise to be true and to
obey our commands. They gave us their word that they would
do as we wished, so we did not harm them. But the captain
told me that they were such bad men that it would be better
not to let them come on the ship with us, as they were not to
be trusted.
So I told them that, although they deserved to be hanged,
we would spare their lives and leave them behind to live upon
the island as I had done. They were quite willing to remain,
so I left them all my things for their use, and told them how
to make their bread, plant their corn, and do all I had done
myself. I also left a letter with them, which I told them to
give to the Spaniards and to Friday's father, when they returned
to the island. In this letter I explained how I came to leave
the place, and I promised to send a ship to take them all to
their homes as soon as I could. Then Friday and I prepared
to get into the boat that was to take us on board the vessel.
I took with me my goat-skin hat, my umbrella, and my parrot.
My poor old dog had died some time before.
I knew not what to do for joy when I saw the fine
vessel which was waiting to take me back to home and
friends. As we rowed away I took one long, last look at the
island upon which I had spent so many lonely years.


J
