 
 
THE'
L. I F E
AND MOST SURPRISING
A D V: E N T U R E &
OF-
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
OF YORK, MARINER;
Who Iked Eight; and Twenty- Years, in an Unin-
habited Island on the Coast- of America^ neayy
the Mouth of the great River Oroono.que*
WITH AN ACCOUNT OF HIS DELIVERANCE THENCE;-/
AND.S . OTHER-SURPRISING ADVE^Tmm .-.
THE TWENTY-SIXTH EDITION.
POINTEE© BY ]> NUTTALL, .for LaCKINGTON/,
Allen and Co. and W... Baynes, London; .
J. - Hemingway, Blackburn.; /
W, Bíbby, Chorley.,- .
I8:00o- .
íSu.
TV
PRE F A G E.
IF ever the ßory of any private
man's adventures in the world zvere worth
making public, and zvere acceptable when
publ'ifhtd, the editor of this account thinks
this will befo.
The wonders of this man's life exceed
all that (he thinks) is to be found extant;
the life of one man beingfcur ce capable of
*  greater variety.
The ßory is told with modefly, with fe-
rioufnefii and zvith a religious application
&f events to the ufes to which wife men
.alzvays apply them, viz. to the inftruction
of others by his example, and to jußify
and honour the zvifdom of Providence in
all the variety of our circumßances, let
them happen how they will.
The editor believes the thing to be a
juß hiß or  of facts; neither is there any
appearance of fiction in it: and though be.
iv
PREFACE.
is well aware there are many, who on
account of the very fingular prefervations
the author met with, will give it the name
of a romance; yet in which ever of thefe
lights it flail be viewed, he imagines, that
« the improvement of it, as well as the di~
veffion, as to the inßruction of the reader,
will be the fame; andas fach without far-
ther compliment to the world he thinks he
does them a great fervice in the public
gation.
tut
UFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
KOBINSON CRUSOE.
IWAS born iii York, itt tíie year 1632, ct a re-
putable family. My father was a native of Bre-
men, who, by merchandizing at Hull for fome time,
gairied a very plentiful fortune. He married my
mother at York, who received her fir ft breath in
tnat country: and as her maiden name was Kobin-
fbn, I was called Robinfon^Kreutznäef; which not
being eafilyvpronounced in the Efltgtifh tongue, we
aie.commonly known by the name of Crufoe.
1 was the youngeft of three brothers. The elded
was a lieutenant-colonel iivLocfchart's regiment, but
ilain by the Spaniards 1 what became of the other,
I could never learnv
No charge nor pains were wanting in my educa-
tion. My father defigned me for the law; yet no-
thing would ferve me but I mull go to fea, both
againft the will of my father, the tears ot my mother,
and the entreaties of friends. One morning my fa-
ther expoftulated very warmly with me. What rea-
ion, fays he, have you to leave your native country,
where there muft be a' more certain profpeft of con-
tent and happinefs, to enter into a wandering con-
dition of uneafmefs ancf uncertainty? He recom-
mended to mc Augur's wiih, Neither to de fire poverty
nor riches; that a middle ftate of life was the moít
happy; "<md that the high towering thoughts of raifing
©nr condition by wandering abroad, were furrounded
with mifery and danger, and often ended with coit*
iufion and diiappointment* I entreat you, nay, I
command you, (fays he) to defift from thefe inten-
tions. Confjder your elder brother, who laid down
his life for his hon'our, of*rather loft it for his dil*
obedience to my will. If you will go (added he)
my prayers fhall however be offered up for your
preservation; but a time may come, when, defolate,
oppreffed, or forfaken, you may wiflx you hid ta-
ken your poor delpifed father's council.—He pro-
nounced thefc words with fuch a moving and pa-
ternal eloquence, white floods of tears ran down his
aged checks, that it fcemed to Hem the torrent of
my rei'olutions* But this foon wore off, and a lit-
tle after  informed my mother, that I could not
fettle to any bufinefs, rny xefofutions were fo firöng
to fee the world; and begged (be would gain my
father's confent only to go one voyagej which* if
it did nea prove .proipcipus, I would never attempt
a fécond» But my defue was as vain as my folly in
aflung. My mother paffionately ex pre (fed her dif-
like of this pr.opofal, telling me, 'Ihatjhefaw I was t
bent upon my own deflruttion, contrary to their wilt and
my duty, ße. would fay no more, but lectue me to myfelf to,
fh whatever Ípleafed',.
I was\, I think, about nineteen years old, when-
one time being at Hull,. 1 met a ichool-fellow of
mine, going along with .his father, who was ma 
of a {hip, to London; and acq,uauxted him with my
wandering delires, he allured me of a free paifagc^
aod a plentiful ihare of what was neceflary, -Thus*
without imploring a.bleffing, or taking a: farewell of
my parents, 1 took (hipping on the fi,rit of Septem-
ber 16*51. We iet fail loon after; and our (hip had
fcarce left the Mumber aiiern, when there arofe fa
violent a ftorm, that being extremely fea-fick I con-
cluded the judgments of God defervedly followed
rqe for my difobedience to my,dear parents, li
was then I called to mind the good advice of my
father; how eafy and confortable was a middle
fhte of life; and I firmly refolved, if it pleafed God
to fet me on dry land once more, 1 would return to
my parents, implore their forgivenefs, and bid a
final adieu to my wandering inclinations.
Such were my thoughts while the ftorm conti-
nued; but thefe good reiolutions decrealed with
the danger; more cipecialiy when my companion
&amc to rrie, clapping me on the (houkkr: What
Bob I laid lie, 'Jure you was not frightened laß night with'
Jcarre a capful of whd?—An*l do you, cried I, call fuch
a violent"jhnn a capful of wind? a Jlorm; you fool yov,
iaid he/this is nothing a goodJhip qnd'sca-rvom always
baffles fuch a joolifi 'fquail of wind as that: Eut you re a
frefh water failor: Come- boy> tur^n out, fee xvhat fne
peather we have now> and  good howl of punch will
drown all our faß [arrows* In ihort, the punch w-dS*-
made, 1 was drunk, and in one night's time drowned1
both my repentance and my good refblutions; for-
getting entirely the vows and promifes 1 made lit
my diílreís: arid whènever äny reflections would
return on me, what by company, and what by
drinking, 1 foon mafterèd thofe fit's* as Ï dbridtngly
called them. But this only made way for ariö rh er
trial; whereby I could not out tee how muèh Í was
beholden to kind providence»- *
Upon the fix-th day w came tb an anchor 4jn*Har-
wich road, where we lay wind- bound with /fume
NevicaiVIe (hips; and there being good ahchdragc,
and our cables' found >~ the fe urn en forgot their late
toil and danger, and fpent tfeeir time as iwerty as if
the J. had been otT fhöre; But on the eight h day
there aroíc a briik gale of-wind, which prevented our
tiding it up the river; and fiill increasing., onV (hip
rode forecaftle in, and fhipped feveraP large fëas.
 was not long before horror feiaed; the ftrameti
themiefves,- and I heard the maffef exp¥efs tHis me-
lancholy ejaculation, Bord kavcrtimy upon us, xve flail
all-he loß and undone! For my part fiok unto death, F
kept my cabin, till the univerfal and terribly dread-
ful aftpreheoiionsS of our fpeedy fat$ mude me
upon deck; and there I was affrighted- indeed* The
fea went mountains high: I could fee nothing but
diftrefs around us; two "(hips had cut their mails 01*
boards and anothe* was foundered: two more that
bad loft their anchqrs, were forced out to the mercy
€>f the ocean; and, to fave our lives, we were forced
%o cut the foremaft ar>d mai.nmaft quite away.
Who- is there fo ignorant as not to j,udge of my
«Trea-dfuF condition? 1 was but a frefh-water failor»
and therefore it.feemed more terrible» Our fhip
was very goods*, but overloaded; which jnade the
failors often cry, out,. ,Ske would founder: Words Í
was then ignorant of*. Ail this while the ftorm con-
tinuing and rather increaGng, the mafier and the
moft fober part of his raen went to prayers, expeél-
isg* death every moment» la the middle of the
night  ne.cried out, She had ffrung a leak: another*
That there mat. four feet water in the hold.. I was juft
ready to expire with fear* when immediately all
hands were called to the pump; and the men forced
me alio in that extremity to [hare with them in their
labour. While we were thus employed* the mafier
efpying fome light colliers, j&red gun as a fignal of
diftrefs ¿ and I not underfia-nding what it meant
and thinking that either thefiiipbroke*or fome dread*-
ful thing happened, fell infcoa fwoon. Even in that
common condition of wo-e* wobody minded me, ex-
cepting to tbruft me afide with their feet, thinking
me dead, and. it was a great while before I recovered*
Happy it was- for us, when?, upon the %nal given,
fchéy ventured out their boats.to fave our. lives. All
our pumpiibg had beçn in vain, and vain had all our
attempts been, bad they not  to our (hip's fide>
and our mera caft them a> rope, over t.foe ftern with ai
buoy to it,- which after great labour they got hold
of¿ and we hauling then**.to ^ got into their boat*,
and? left otir fhip, whkta we perpeived fink in left
t\mo a qua iter of an how £ andr thus I karri ed whafc
was rayant ^  at fea* And now the. 
iiKfcl&uüy Labouied to recoven tbeij own üup bul
the fea ran fo high, and the wind blew fo hard,
that they thought it convenient to hale within fhore;
which with great difficulty and danger, at hit we
happily effected, landing in a place called Cromer,
not .far from .Winterton light-houfe; from whence
we all walked to Yarmouth* where, a¿ objeéts of
pity, many good people furniihed us with neceffarics
to carry us either to Hull or London*
Strange, after all this, like the prodigal fon, Î did
not return to my father; who, hearing of the ihip's
calamity, for a long time thought me entombed 'm
the deep. No doubt but I ihouid bave ßared in his
fatted calf> as the.fcripture expieffeth it: but my 
fate, (till pufhed roe on, in fpite of the powerful con-
victions of reaioh,and conscience.
When we had befen at Yarmouth three days, I met
my old companion, who had given me the invitation
to go on board along with his father. His behaviour
and fpeeeh were altered, and in a melancholy manner,
.aíked me how Ï did, telling his father who 1 was and
how I had made this voyage for a trial only to proceed
further abroad. Upon; which the old gentleman
turning to. me, gravely faid, Young man, you ought
never to go to fea*any more, but take this for a certain Jign
that you .never  profper in a feafaring condition. Sir,
anfwered I, will you take the iame refolution? // is
a different cafe, faid he, it is my calling, and confeqiiently
my duty; but as you have made this voyage for. a trial, you
fee what ill fuccefs heaven has fet before your eyes; anà
perhaps our míferies bave been on your account, like Jonah
in theßipof Tarlhiih. But pray what are. you, and on
what account did you g& fo feat Upon which I very
freely declared my whole ftory; at the end of which*
he made this exclamation: Ye facred powers! what
had I eotnmiued,^hat fuch a wretch ihouid enter
into my (bip*,to heap upon me fuch a deluge of mi-
feries f But foón reeolleftine; hrs paffions,  man^
faid he, tf you do. not go backf defend upon k,wherewr you
go> you; will meet with difaßers and difappointment s till your
Jqther's words are fulfilled upon you* ' And Co we paited^
F thought at firft to rèturn home; but'4 dpv
pofed' that good motiony. as tiiiirking' l  Be*
laughed at by my neighbour^ and acquaintance.' ' S&
Orange is the nature of youth, who arc not aihämeefe
to fin, but. yet aihamed to repent1;: and-fo far fromb
being aihamed of thofe  for which they may
Be accounted fools,: they, think it folly to return to
their dtity, which-is thé principal rriarb of wiidorm
ïn íhort, h travelled up to fondón, refó'íving upon a<
voyage; and  voyage  fdonheárd of,, by my ac-
quaintance-with a'captaitrwho took a fancy to me, to
go to the- coat! of Guinea. Having fome money,,
and .appearing like a gentleman -, I went onboard not.
ás a common fa i lor or forernaibman , nay¿ the —
mander agreed tfhould go tlvatvoyage wifrrhim with*-
out anyN-èxjpénce; that i íhould be His meffmateandi
companion;and'I was very welcome to carry any thing.,
with me, and make the heft merchandife I could.
'rbleiFed my happy fortune* and humbly'thanked
my captain for this qrFer;, and acquainting my friends
in Yorkiliire, forty pounds, were lent me, the great eft:
part of which'my dear; father and -mother contri*
bufëd tóV'wit'R whichbought toys and trifles* as
the cafjtairi': dke6red; me; My;captain- alfo taught
me navigation1, how" to keep an account of the ihip*s
courfè, take arr obfervafion, and led me into tha
Knowledge of'feveral ufeful branches of the mathema*
ties. A'ndMhdeed'thrs voyage made trie both a failor
and a merchant; for  brought > five pound*
nine on mees of gold duft for my adventure, which
prqdueedy.at my return to London^ almoft three hun¿
dred pounds. But in this voyage I was extremely fiele9
being throwti' ihro a violent calenture through the
exceffive Heat, trading upbn t he coaft from 'the* ht i-
tudé of fifteen degrees north'even to the line itfelf,
But alas  my dear friend thVcaptaih departed this
life fooh after his arrival* Tins was'a fenfible grief
to rhe, yet  re fol ved to go another voyage with his*
mate, who had now got the command of the ih\p0,
Tibi s proved a very unCuccelbful one-^for though L
did not carry quite a hundred pounds of my late-ac-
quired wealth, (fo thát I had two hundred pounds
left, Which I repofed with the captains widow, who
was an honeft gentlewoman) yet my misfortunes in
tliis unhappy voyage were very great. For our ihip
failing towards the Canary iflands, we were chafed by
a Salee rover; and in fpite of all the hafte we could
make, by crolidingas much canvas as our yards could
fpread, or our rnaih carry, the pirate gained upon us,
fo tíiat we prepared ourfelves to fight. They had
eighteen guns, and we had but twelve. About three
in the afternoon, there was a defperate engagement,
wherein many were killed and wounded on both
fidês; but finding ourfelves overpowered with num-
ber?; our íhíp difábléd, and we too impotent to have
the leaft hopes of iïïccefs, wè were forced to fun en-
der; and accordingly were all carried prifoners into
the port of Salee. Our men were fent to the Empe-
ror's court to be fold there; but the pirate captain
taking notice of me, kept me to be his own ilave.
In this condition, I thought myfelf the moft mi-
ferable creature on èàrth, and the prophecy of my
fjthcr came afreih into1 my thoughts. However, my
condition wa§ better than I thought it to be, as will
foon appear.. Some hopes indeed I hai that my new
patron would go to fea again, where he might be
taken by a Spani(h or Portuguele man of war, and
then I ihould be fet at liberty. But in this I was
mtftaken; for he never took me with him, but left
me to look after his little garden, and do the drudgery
of his houfe, and when he returned from fea, would
make me lie in the cabin, and look after the . I
had no one that 1 could communicate my thoughts
to, which were continually meditating my efcape;
no Englifhman, lrifhman, or Scotchman here, but
myfelf; and for two years could fee nothing prac-
ticable, but only pleafed myfelf with the imagination.
After fome^ength of time, my patroneas I found,
grew fo poor that he could not fit out his ilrip as
uiual; and then he ufed conftantly, once or twice a
week, if the weather was faif, to go but a fi flung,,
taking me and a ; young; Morefcp 'boy Up ¿Q¡\¿; th'<r
boat; and fo much pleafed was hé wit; h; me for thy
dexterity in Gátching the fifh, that he would; ¡ often
fend me with a Moor, who \'*s one of his lurçfmeiv
and the Morcfco youth,,to cateo a diib of fifh lor him-#-
One morning, as we were at the fport, theré arofc
.fuch a thick fog, that we loft fight of the ihore; and
rowing we knew not which way, we laboured all the'
night and in the morning, found ourfelves in the
ocean,, two leagues from land. However, we attained
there at length, and made the greater hafte, becaufe
our fi'ooiachs were exceeding (harp and hungry, hi
order to prevent fuch.difaflcrs for the future my pa-
tron ordered a carpenter to build a little ftate-room<
or cabin irt the middle of tlie boat, with 3 place be-
hind it to ftèçr'and to hale home rhe main-fheet, witfo
other corivenièneies to'keep him ¡fropri the Weather, as
alio lockers to put in all manner of provifions, with
ihoulder of mutton fail, gibingover the ca&inv
In this he frequently took us'out a fifhin^; and*
one time inviting two or three pcribns of diftmclion
to go with him, inade proviflbn extraordinary, pro-
viding alio three fufces with powder and (hot, that
they might have i  e fport ab fowl mg along the fca-
coaft. The next mortling the boa>t was nude,clean,\
her ancient and pendants out» and- every thing;
ready; but their minds altering, my patron ordered'
 to go a fifhing,. for that his gueits v/ould certainly
lpp with, him that night.
'And now I began to think of my deliverance in-"
deed, 1 order to this-1 perfuaded the Moor to get
fome provifions on board*, as not dinng to meddle-
with our patron's; and he taking my advice, we
ftored1 ourfelves with rufk bifcuit, and1 three jars of'
water» Befidës,; 1 privately conveyed into the boat
a 'bottlc of brandy, fome twine,, thready a;hanri'nerr'
fritchet, anda faw; and, in particular, fome bees-
wax, which was a great comfort to rne, anc} (erved to*
jadbke candles. 1 then perfuaded Muley (for. fo toátt'
•fhe Moor called) to procure iqmc powder and /hot,
pretending to kill fea curlews, which he"innocently
and readily agreed to. In fhurt, being provided
with all things neceflary we failed out,' reioiving for
tny part to eicape, though it ti'ould'coft me my life.
When we had paiTed the c;tftle,'we fill to fifhi.ng;
biit though í knew there wa:. 'bite, I diííembíed the
matter, in order to 'put' further out to fea. ..Accord-
ingly we ran a league further: when giving the boy
the"helm, and pretending to Hoop for íomcthíng, Í
feizéd Mulcy by futprife, and threw fnm overboard.
As He was an excellent Twimmer, he ioon arofe, and
made towards the boat: upon which, 1 took out a
fufee, and prefented at him: 'Muley, fud L 1 never
yet defigned to do you any harm, and leek nothing now but
my redemption. 1 how you are able enough to fwim to
ßore, and fave your life; but if you arc refohed to follow
me, to the endangering of mine, the very moment you pro-
ceed, I imli Jlio.ot you through the head. The harnilefs
creature, at theie words, turned himfclf from me, and
J make no doubt got fafe to land. Then turning to
the boy Xury, I perceived he trembled at the à£Hon;
but I put Him but of äll fear, telling himt that if he
would be true and faithful to me, 1 would do well
by him. And therefore, faid'I, you muß jlroke your
face to be faithful, and, as theTurks have learned you,
jwear by Mahomet, and the beard of your father, or elfe
I will throw you into the fea alfo. So innocent did the
child' then look, and with fuch an obliging fmiíe
eonfeñted, that I readily believed him, and from that
day forward began to love him entirely*
We then purfued our voyage; and, left they
fhould think me gone to the Strejgbts mouth, I kept
to the fouthwardto the truly Barbarian coaft \ but,
in the du ( of the evening 1 changed my courfe,
and fleering direifly S. arid by E. that I might keep
near the fhore; and having a freih gale of wind, with
a pleafant (booth fea, by three o'clock next, day I
•wavS 50 mile* beyond the4 Emperor of Morocco's
dominions, Yet it ill having the dreadful apprehcu-
fioii of being retaken, 1 continued failing for five
days fucceffively, till fuch time as the wind (hi/ting
to the fouthward, made me çoftelude, that if any
veffel was in chafe of me, they would proceed no
farther. After fo much fatigue arjd thought,  an-
chored at the mouth of a little river, I knew not
what, or where; neither did I tfrcn fee any people.
What I principally wanted ,was freih water; and I
was refolved about duik to fwim aihore. But no
fooner did the gloomy cJouds of night begin to fuc-
ceed the declining day, thaw we heard fuch barking,
roaring, and howling of wild creatures, that one
might have thought the very ftrongeft mongers of
nature or infernal fpjrits, had their refidence there*
Poor 2£ury, almofl: de^d with fear* entreated me riot
to gp on move that njghU .SuppojingI don*t, Xury,
iaid I, and in the morning we Jlioula feè> men who are
worfethan thofe we fear, what ttyen? 0 den we may give
dem de ßoot gun, replied Xury, laughing, and ae gun
make dem all run away. The wit, and broken Englifh
which the boy had learned among the captives of
our nation, pleafed me entirely; and, to add to his
chcerfulnefs,. I gave him a dram óf the bottle: w«
could get but little fleep all the niçht fpr tbofe ter-,
rible howlings they ma.de; and, indeed, we weiß,
both vçry much affitghfed, when, by the rollings
of the water, and other tokens, we juflly concluded
one of thofe monflrrs made towards our boat, I
could not fee till it came within two oars length,
when taking my fufee, 1 let fly at him* Whether
I hit him or no, 1 cannot tell; but he made towards
the ihore, and the noife of my gurí increafed die
ftupendous noife of the rrumßers.
The next morning I was refolved to go oal fliore
to get freili.water, and venture ray life among the
beails or fava&es, fliould either attack me* ,
laid, he would take cue of the jars, and %bring we
fome. I a,fked him, why he .would go, and not 1?
The poor boy,anfwereçl, If xvïld mans come, they eat
me, you go away. A mind fcarcely npw to be imi-
tated^fo contrary to felf- prefervation, the maft pow-
erful law of nature! This indeed increafed my affec-
tion to the, child. Well clear Xury, faid I, we will
both go aßore0 .bö(h kill wild mans* and they flail eat
'neither of us. So giving Xury a piece of ruik bread
.to eat, and a dram, we waded aihore carrying no-
thing with us but our arms, and two,jars for water*
I did not go out of fight of the boat, as dreading
the favages coming down the river in their canoes ;,
but the boy feeing a low defcent or vale about a mile
in the country, he wandered to iti and then running;
'back tó me with great precipitation, I thought he
was puifljed by fome favage or wild bea<ft^ upon
which I approached, refolving to periih or protect
him from danger. As he came nearer to me I iaw
Something hanging over his ihoulders, which was a
creature he had (hot, like a hare, but different in co-
lour and longer legs.j however, we were glad.of it:
vfor it proved who'lefonie and nouriming meat: but
what added to our joy was, my boy affured me there
was plenty of water, and that he fee no wilfi mans..
And greater ftill was our comfort, -when we found
freih water in the creek, where we were, when the
tide was out, without going fb far into the country.
In this place L began to confidcr that the Canary
-and Cape de Verde iflànds lay not far off;; but having
.no inftrument, I knew not what latitude, or when t®
iiand off to fea for them; yet my hopes were, I
Should meet fome Engliih trading veflels, who would
-relieve and takers in.
The place I was in was no doubt that wild count 
inhabited only by a few, that lies between the Empe-
ror of Morocco's dominions and the Negroes, it is
filled with wild beafts, and the Moors ufe it for hunt-
ing chiefly. From this place I thought >l faw the top
of the mountain Teneriffe in the Canaries: which
made me try twice to attain it; but was as often drove
'back, and fo forced to purfue ray fortune along ibore.
Earty one morning we came to an anchor -under a
üttle point of land, butpretty high; and the tide be-
G
ginning to flow, we lay ready to go further in. Bai
Xury, whofe yQuthful and penetrating eyes were
iharper^thaai m'we, in a foft tone, defired me to keep
far from fa-ad, Left we ihould be devoured. For look
yander master, fajd he„ and fee de dreadful monjler/aß
ajleep on de fide of de kUL Accordingly looking where
4ie pointed, I efpied a fearful monfter indeed. It was
a terrible great lion that lay on ibore, covered as .it
\yere by .a íhade of a piece of the hill.
Xury, faid I, youßall go onßore and kill him. But
the boy looked amazed; Me kill him, fays he, he eat
Fme at one mouth: meaning  mouthful. Upon
which 1 bid him lie ftill, and charging ray uiggeft gu¡»
with two flugs, and a good charge of powder, I tocfk
(the beft aim I could to ihoot him through*the head;
but his leg lying .over his n©fe, the ilug broke hie
.3cnee-bonc;* The lion awaking with the pain, got
up, but foon fell down, giving the rnoft hideous groan
J ever heard: hut taking,my fécond piece, I ihot him
through the head, and then he lay ftruggling for life.
Upon this Xury took heart and defired my leave to
go on (höre. Go, then, faid I. Upon which, taking
a little gun in one hand, he fwam to fliore with the
other, and coming clofe up to the lion, put a period
to his life, ,fey rihooting him again through the head,
But this was Spending .our amunition in^vain, the
iîefh notvbeing good to.eat. Xury was like a cham-
pion and comes qn board for a hatchet, to cut off the
Jiead of his.enemy; but not having ftrength to per-
form it, he cut off and brought me a foot. I bethought
me however that his &in would be of ufe. This
work coft -yaud me a whole day: when fpreading
it on the top of ou*r cabin, the hot beams of the fun
4ïffecbaHy dried it in two days time, and.it afterwards
d'erved me for a bed -to lie on.
And now we failed foutherly, living fparingly on
.our provifions, and went no oftner on  ¿han we
•were obliged for freih water. .My defign was to
¿riake the'river Gambia or Senegal, ,or any where
the Cape de Verde, in hopes to zne.et ibrus
European fhip. If Providence did not fo favour me,*
ray next couife was to feek for the i (lands, or lofe*
my life among the negroes. And in a word, I put
mv whole iirefs upon this? " Either that I riiuft 
with feme ihip or certainly peri ill."
ao day as we were failing along, we faw people'
flrand o i the {here looking at us we could alfo per-
ceive theywere black and- ftark naked, Ivwas inclined*
Ho go omihtvre^ but Xu.ry cried no, rio; however, I*
approached.nearer, and  found they rua along the
ihore by mfra good way'.* They had rio weapons in>
their hands, except one, who held a long flick, which*
Xury told me was*a lance,- with* which they could kill3
at a great dHbnce. I talked to ihera byfigns*, zné-,
msce them fenfyble I wanted fomething to eat; they
beckoned to me to ft op my boáty -while two of thenv
ran up into the country, and in lefsvthsm half archour
came back, and brought with them two pieces of
dry fleih, and fome corn, which we kindly accepted ::
and to prevent any fears on either Ilde, they brought'
the food to the' ihore, laid it down, then went anif?
iW^d a great way off- till we fetched it on board, and*
then .came cloie tov us' agaim •
Öut while we were: returning thápíés* ta themr jb««#.
ïng  we could afluid» iwo. mighty creatures came:
from the mountains, one as it were purfumg the othes?
with great fury, which we were the rather inclined'
to believe, as they feldom appear but in the nighty
and both théfe fwíftíy paffing by the negïoes, jumped
into the iea7 wantonly fwimming: about, as though-
the diverfion of the waters had «put a, ftopto their
fierce nefs. At laft one of them coming nearer to my
boat than I expected or deft red r I {hot him diréñly
through the head upon whicli he funk Hrnnediately*
yet rifxtig again, would have wiHingly made to the?
ihore; but between the wbund and the^ft rang ling of
the water, he died before he could* r«ach it. . 
It is ^ to exprefs, the confiéernaíiorr the
poor negroes were in at the firing of my gun 5-, mucfc
lefs cariJLmention- their furprifey. when they psrcei.v?3¿-
. / -2 ,
the creature to be flaio by it. I made figns to them,
to draw near it wich a rope, and then gav.e it to them
îo hale on ihore. It was a beautiful leopard* which
made me defire its fkin and the negroes fee m i ng to-,
covet the carcafe, 1 freely gave it them. As for the
other leopard,, it made to ihorçy and ran with a pro-
digious fwiftnefs out of fight-.' The negroes having!
kindly furniihed us with water, and with what roots
and grains their country, afforded, I took my leave,,
and, after eleven days fail, came in fight of the Cape,
«de Verde-and-t-hofe iflands called after its name. Bufc
the great diftance I was from it,, and fearing contrary,
"winds would prevent my reaching them,. I began to-.
grow melancholy and dejected, when, upon a fudden,.
Xury crie! óut,¿ Maßerl, Maßen! a jhip with, a fail I:
and looked as affrighted, as if it was his mailer's fhrp
fe n t in fear  h of us.  u t  fo.on dife o ve red íhe wa s. a
Portuguese ih.ip,3 ;as I thought bound for the coaft of?
Guinea for negroes. Upon which X-{trove for life ta,
come up to them. But vain had it. been, if through
their perfpeñive glaffes they had not perceived me,.;
and ihortened their fail to let me come-up." Encou-.
raged at this, I,fet up my. patron's ancient¿, and fired
a gun., both as fignals of diftrefs; upon which they,
very kindly toy to* fo that in thrjee,hours time I came
up with them. They fpoke ta me in Portuguefe,,
Spawifh,. and French,^ but neither of thefe did I un-
der ftand; till at length a Scots failor called, and then>
3 told him I was an Engliihman, who had efcaped
from the Moors at Salee upon whicbthey took me-
kindly on boardj with all my effects..
Surely none can exprels the inconceivable joy I felt,
at this h^ppy deliverance! who from being a late mi-
serable and forlorn-creature, was not only relieved,,
but in favour with the roafter of the fhip, to, whom,
in return for my deliverance I offered all X,had. God,
forbid, faid he, that, Lßould ta-ke any thing from. you...
Every thing fiall be delivered; to you Men you come to
Brazil. Jf> I have faved your life, it is no more than k
fiould expeft, to receive myfelf frçni any other, when, in
©F ROBINSON eïTOSOE^ f&
fame circum(lance$ 1 jkouli happen to meet the \%kt
deliverance., And ßould I take from you what you-have
and leave you at Brazil^ why this would be taiing away-
a lik I nave given* My, charity teaelics- me better.?
Tho fe effetU you have will fupport you there and provide-
ym a paffage home'a^ain*- And indeed,-he a&ed with/
the ilndteit juftice in what he did,.-taking my things'
into his poffeiïion*. and giving me an exa<& inventory*;
eren to my earthen jars*. He bought my boat, of me-
ter the fhips ufe, giving me a note- of eighty pieces'
oí eight, payable at Brazil \ and if any-body offered'1
more, he would make it up*- He alfo gave  fixty'
pieces for my boy Xury. It was with g re ait- reluc-
tance 1'was prevailed upon to fell the child's liberty^
Avho had fer ved - me fo faithfully \, but the boy was
willing bimfelfS an<^: *** was~ agreed, that - after ten*
years he ihould be made freer upon his-rèîiouncihg
Mahometamfm, and embracing Ohriftianit}v
Having^apleafant voyage to the Brazils we arrived"
in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or All-Saints Bay,-
in twenty-wo days after: And here I cannot forger
the generous treatment of the captains Her-would4'
take nothing for my paffage,,. gave me twenty ducats^
for the leopard's ikirt $- and thirty; for the* lion's*
Every thing he caufed to be delivered^ and what j£
would fell he bought-^ In (hort,made about 220"
pjeces of my cargo ;-and with this ftock- entered^
once moredas I may fay, into the feene of life.
Being recommended to an honeft planter, Fiived"
with hirai tili fuch time-as Lwas informed of the man-'
 of their planting.-and-making fugar ;,and feeing
how well they lived,-and how fuddenly they^grew-
rich, I was filled with a defire to fettle among thems,
aad refoVved to get my money remitted to me?.«and to-
pa r cha fe a. pi an t a t loi 1.
To be briefyrl bought a fettle    nexkdeorT&an7
honeít and kind neighbour, born atLifhón, oMEnglifl**.
r^arentSy-wbofe plantation Joining to minef- wo im- -
proved it very, amicably together,- Both ourfhrcb?
mse .. and for two years we pbtUed-only for--
i£ ElfË AND ADVENTÏÏRE^
food: but the thircl jear we planted forne tobacco^
and each of us drefled a large piece of ground the
enfui ng year for planting canes. But now I found'
how much I wanted affiftance,. and repented the lofs-
of my dear boy Xury.
Having none to aifift me, my father's words came -
into my mind:, and ï; ufed to aifc myfelf, if what h
fought' was only a middle flatten of'life*., why could its
riot as well be obtained in England as here?; when I'
pondered ononis with regret, the: thoughts of my late
deliverance forfook me. bhad none toconverfe with:'
but my neighbour; no work' to be done but by my
own hands; itoften made me fay, my condition was
like to that.of a man caft upon a defolate. ifland. Sa
unhappy are we in öur reflections,.fo forgetful of what
good things we receive ourfehres, and fo unthankful^
lor our deliverancei fronb thofe.calamities that others-
endure-,
I was in fome meafure fettíed before the captain-,
who took me up,, departed from the Brazils. One
<Jay I went to him,, and told hin*.what flock 1 had:;
in London,,defiring his alïiftance in getting it re-
knitted; to- which the good gentleman readily con--
fented, but would only have me lend for half my
money, left it ihould mifcarry; which, .if jt did, I>
might ftild have the remainder to fuppprt me;/and fo-
taking letters of procuration from me, bid me trou-
 myfelfrno farther about it,
And* indeed,., wonderful was his foindnefs towards-
me; for he not only procured .the money I had drawn*
for upon my captains: widow,,but fent me over a fer-* -
vant with a cargo proportionable to my condition.
 alio fent- me over tools of all forts, iron work,.,
and utenfils, necefiVry. for my plantation,, and which-<
piTpved of the greateft ufe tome in my bufínefs¿
Wealth now.accumulating on, me, anduncommon >
fuccefs crowning my profperous' labours, 4 might have'
/cited happy., in that middle.; fbate of life my father had-'
fo often recommended; yet nothing would content;
me^fuch. was my evil gcmus,.; but L'muft Jeava thûb
happy- fiation, for a foolifli ambition in rifing; arid
thus, once more, l ead myfelfr into the deepëïV
gulph of mifery that ever poor creature fell into*-
Having lived four years in Brazil,/1 had not only
learned the language,, but contracted acquaintance1
with the moft eminent planters^ and even the mer-
chants of Salvadore; to whom, once^hy way of
difcourfe, having given an account of my two voy-
ages to the ooail of Guinea, and the manner of tradr
ing there for mere trifles, by which we fnrniilr
eur plantations with negroes, they gave fuch atten-
tion t© what I faid, that three of them came one
rriorning to me, and told rrie they had a feet et pro*
pofal to make* \Arfter?enjoirling me; to Secrecy (ir
being an infringement on thepdwers of the kings'
of Portugal and Spain) they told me they had z
mind to fit out a fhip to go to Guinea, in order to*
ftock the pbntation with-n«gróe5y .which, as they*
could not be publicly fold,.rhey w>euld divide aifrong;
them; and if I would go their fnpercargo in the"
£hip, to manage the trading part, bihonld have an
equal ihare of the negroes,, without providing any:
. . T^he thing indeed was fair enough, had £
been in another^condition, . But, I, bow to be my
own deftroyer, could not refift the propofal, but
accepted'the offer* upon condition of their looking*
after my plantation.. St) making/a formal will, E.
bequeathed.my effects to my good friend the cap-
tain, as my uuiverfai heir.; but^obliged him toriif--
pofe of my effets as directed, one ftalf'of the pro-
duce to himfelf^and the other, to be {hipped >to«
England;
The fhip being fitted ©lit,, and all things readyr
we fet fail Sept. 1,1659, being.the fame day eight/
years I left my father and ' mother in Yorkihire«,-
We failed\ northward upon the coa,ft> in ordér to-
gain Africa^ ti we made Gape A'uguftine; from4
whence going farther into the ocean, out of fight
¿>f lánd, we- fleered as though we were bound for-"
the;.iflè.Fernand de; Nojrenba,ieavi%th¿4flands 
the ; and then it w.is that we met with a terri-
 tempeft,- which continued for twelve days lue-
ceffivelyvfb that the winds carried us whereioever-
they pdeafed- In this perplexity one of our men
died, and one man and;a boy were warned over-
board,. When the weather cleared up a little, we.
foun4 ourfeJves eleven degrees north latitude, upon.
the coafl of Guinea, Upon this the Captain gave
reafons for returning; which-I oppofed„counfelhng
t|im to ftand awa„y ior<Barbadoes, which, as ,-
fiofed, might-be attained in fifteen days. So aiter-
ng our courfe^we failed north-weft and by weft, in-
order to reach the leward iflands; but a fécond ftorm
fiacceedihg, .drove us to the well ward; fo that we
were juftly afraid of falling into the hand* of crueL
favages,.or the pa»ws of devouring beafts of prey.
In this d¿ftreís,¿>ne of our men early in the morn-
ing, cried Qutr.Landt land!' which he no fooner did,,
but our (hip ftruck upon a fandbank, and in a mo--
ment the fea broke over her in fucb a,manner that-
weexpefted wefhould all have periihed immediately*.
We knew, nothing, where we were,,or upon what,
land we were driven; whether an inland or the main,
inhabited ordnetp and;we could not fomuch as hope-,
that the (hip, would held oui many minutes, with-
out breakihgjn pieces,.except the wind by a mita-
cíe, .fhouid turn about immediately.. While we,*
flood looking at one another, expecting, death every
moment, the rnate.lay9 hold of- the boat,,and witíu.
the help of the reft got her iking, over/he fh'ip's.
fide, and'getting. alb-into-her, .being, eleven, com-
mitted ourfeTves to God's mercy, and the wild fea*~
Atod.Jiow we> faw that this 1 aft effort would not be a •
fúffieient prote&íon from death; fo high did the fea.
rife, ¿hat it was.impoffibie the boat ftiould live* As--
to making; fail, we had none:; .neither ifwehad,,
could we rmke ufe o&artyw So thai when we hacb
rowed, or rather were driven about-a:league and a.'
Half, a I3ging wave, like a lofty mountain, came-
yelling: aftern of us*, and took: us with.i:uch.fuiyp >-
fcbat at once it overfet the boat. Thus being'
fwallowed up in a moment, we had hardly time to
call upon tíie tremendous name of God much
lefs to implore, in dying ejaculations,, his infinite
mercy to receive our departing fouls^
Men are generally counted infenfible,. when
ñruggling in the pangs of death; but while I was
overwhelmed with water, I had the moft dreadful,
apprehenfions imaginable». For the joys of heavers
and the torments of hell, feemed to prefent them-
selves before rae in the fe dying agonies,, and evew
fmall fpace of time, as it were, between life and
death. I was going, I thought, I knew not whither,*
în a difma-l gulph unknown, and as-yet unperoeived^,
never to behold my friends,, nor the light of this-
world any more !: Could I even have thought of an-
nihilation, or a total difiolution of foul as well as-;
body, the gloomy thoughts of having no further
being, no knowledge of what we hoped for, but am
eternal quietus^ without life or fenfe even that, I>
fay, would have been enough to flrike me withr
horror and corifufion I I ftrove however to the laft
extremity, while all my companions were over-
powered and intombed in the deep: and it was with
great difficui-ty I-kept my breath till the ware fpent
It fei f, and retiring back, left me on the ihore half-
dead with the water I had taken in.; As foon as 
got on my feet,.I ran as fail a» 1 could, left another
wave fbould purfue me,„ and carry me back again*-
But, for all thejiaite I made,. 1 coula1 not. avoid ît ;;.
for the fea came after me like a high-mountain, or
furious enemy; fo that my bufinefs was to hold my'
breuth^and by raifing myfelf on the water, preferve-
it by fwimming. The next dreadful wave buried-
me at once twenty or thirty feet deep, but at the
fame time carried me with a mighty force and fwift-
nefs towards the fhore; when.raifing myfelf, I held¡
out as well as poffible* till at length.the water hav-^
ing fpent itfelf, began to return, at which I ftruck
forward, and feeling ground with my feet, I took"
to. my heels again». Thus being ferved twice-more^.
I was at lad daihed againft a piece of a rock, in fucE'
a manner as left me fenfelefs; but recovering a lit**
tie before the return of the wave,, which, no dottbt,-
would then have overwhelmed me,,  held fa ft by
the rock till thofe fucceeding waves abated ,* and
then fetching another run, was overtakenby a fmall
wave,, which was foon conquered. But before any
more could overtake me, I reached the main land,,
where clambering, up the clifts of the fhore, tired
and almo ft fpent I fat down or the grafs, free from
the dangers of the foaming ocean.
No tongue can exprefß the ecft*ifies and-tra-nfports-
that my foul felt at the happy deliverance, it was-
like a reprieve toa dying male factory wit h the baiter
about his neck,, an&ready to be turned off. 1 was>
Wrapt up in contemplation, and often lifted up my
bands, with the profoundeft'humility, to the divine*
powers, for faving my. life, when all my companions-.
we.v *. drowned. And' now Í began to call my eyes-
around, to behold what place 1 was in, and what £
had ne*t to do»- I could fee no hciufe nor people v
L.vvas wet, yet had no clot h es» to finit me; h ungí y'
and dry, yet had nothing to .eat or drink; no wea-
pon to dedroy any creature for my fuflenance nor
defend myfeif againd devouring-beads; in fliort, h
had nothing-but a knife ,..a tobacco-pipe, and  box
fealf filled with, tobacco. The davklome night
coming on upon mer increafed- my fears of being
devoured by wild creatures; my mind was plunged*
in defpair, and having no profpeft, as I thought, of
life before me, .L prepared, ior. another kind of death
than what  had lately efcaped.. I walked about a,
furlong to lee if I Gould find any freih water, which,
1 did, to my ^.reat joy :- and taking, a quid of to-
bacco to prevent hunger, 1 got up into a thick
huihy tree, and feating myfelf'fo that I could not
fill, a deep deep overtook me, and for thai ni^ht;
buried my ferrows in a quiet repofe.
, it was broad day next morning before  awaked ^
wheu I not only perceived the temped was  fed r,
but faw the.fhip driven,almoft a& far/as the rock.Uo*
Jfore mentioned* which I had been daihed upon, and
which was about a mile from the place where I was»
When I c^me Aom my appartient in the tree,
I perceived the fhip'a boat two miles diftant ort my
right hand, lying on flmre, as the waves had caft
.her. I thought to have got to her í but there be-
ing an inlet of water of about-half a,mile's breadth
between it md me I returned again towards the fhip,
as hoping to find fqmething for my .more immediate
fubfiftance. About noon, when the »fea was calm,
t .that I could cöme within,a{quarter of a mile of her,
* it was to my grief I .petceived, that, if we had kept
on board, all our lives had teen faved. Thefe
thoughts, and »my folitude, drew tears from my
«yes, though all in vain. So refolding to get to
ethe fhip, I (tripped and leaped into the water, when
; fwimming round her 1 was afraid 1 ihould not get
.any thing to lay hold of,; but it was my good for-
tune to efpy a fmail p^ece of  ^hang down by
*the fore-chains^ fo l,ow that, by* the help of k,
though with great difficulty, I got into ¿he fore-
c caftle of the.üiip.. Here I íound that the Chip was
bulged, and had a-great.deal of water in'her hold;;
Jier ftern was lifted up ägainft a ba<n.k,.andkber head
almoft to the waiter. Ail her .quarter, and what was
lh ere, where free and dry. The  vi fions I found
in good orderj with which I crammed my pockets;
3*id lofing:mnirae,ate while i was doing other things.;
I alio found lomé rum, of which 1 took a dram;
"and. now 1 wanted for nothing.except a .boat, which
indeed was all, to .carry away what-w,is needful.
Neceffity occafions. quickueis oí thought* We
*had lèverai fpare yard , a fparelop »iruft or twQ,
and .two or three large fpars' of wood. W'th thefe
î fell to work/ and flung, a s many of -thçm over-
board as I could; manage, tying-every one of them
Avith a rOpe-tbat they nri-gbt not strive a-way, ri bis
-done., I wierít down the chip's fuie., and tied four'.of
pt h em fail together at both, ends, .in form of a - ra ft.,
'j»nd'.laying two or three ih.ort pieces of plank vuom
 ^, I found it would .bear mb3 km á®¿
'anyiconfiderable weight. Upon which Invent ?to
: work again, cutting a fpare top-mail into thröe
lengths, adding them to my raft with a great deal
of labour and pains. I then considered what I
fhould load it with, it being not ahle to bear a pon-
*derous burden. And this I foon thought of, firft
next I lowered down three of the Teamen's cheih,
after I had filled them with bread, rice, three Dutch
¿cheefes, five pieces of dried goat's flelh, and forrie
.European com, what little the ratsvhad fpared; and
for liquors., Í found feveralxafes of bottles belonging
to our ikipper, in which were fonie cordial waters^
and four or five gallons of rack, which I flowed by
themfelves. By this time the tide beginning to flow.*
I perceived my coat, waiílcoat, and.íhirt, fwim away,
which 1 had left on ihore; as for my linen breeches,
and (lockings,, I fwam with them on to^the ihip:
*but I foon found clothes enough, though Í took no
more than I wanted for the prefenU My eyes were
,chiefly on tools to work with; and, after a long
fearch, 1 found, out the carpenter's  heft., which I
«got fafe dawn on my raft. I then looked for arms
and ammunition, and in the -cabin found two good
fowling-pieces,, two pifiáis, lèverai powder horns
iilled, a imall bag of (not, and two-old pjftyfwords,
J likewife found three barrels of powder, two of
which were good* but thetfhird had taken water,
 libtwo or three ^broken oars, two faw&, an axe, and
,a hammer. I then put to fea, and in getting to
ihore had three encouragements, i. A fmooth
calm fea.' ,2. The trde;rifing and letting in to fhore.
3. The little wind there was blew towards the hnd.
After I had failed about a mile, 1 found the raft to
.drive a little diflance from the place where J firft
landed and then 1 perceived a little opening of
*he land, with a ftrong current of the tide running
•into it.: upon which i kept the middle of the ftreanr.
But great was my concern when on a ludden the
^orepjit of my raft ran aground.; fo that had I not,
with great difficulty, for near half an hour, kept
 
rriyback draining againit the chefts to keep my ef-
fects in their places, all I had would have gone into
the fea. But after fome time, the rifing of the
water caufed the raft to float again, and coming up
a little river with land on both lides, Í landed in a
little cave, as near the mouth as poffible, the better
to difcover a fail, if any fuch fhould pais that way*
Not far off, 1 éfpied a hill of a ftupendous height,
furrounded with leiier hills about it, and thither I
was refoived to go and view the country, that I
might fee what part*was beft to fix my habitation.
Accordingly, arming myfelf with a piftol, a fowling*
piece, powder and ball, 1 afcended the mountain.
There 1 perceived 1 was in an illand, encompaifed
by the fea; no diftant lands to be leen but fcatteiing
rocks that lay to the weft: that it feemed to be a
barren place, and, as I thought, inhabited only by
wild bealb. I perceived abundance of fowls, but
ignorant of what kind, or whether good for nou-
riihment, 1 ihot one of them at my return, which
occalioned a confufed (creaming among the other
birds; arid I found it, by its colours and beak, to
be a kind of a hawk,but its fleih was perfect carrion*
When I came to my raft, I brought my effects on
fhore, which work fpent that day entirely; and fear-
ing that iome cruel beafts might devour me in the
night time, while I llept, I made a kind of hut er
barricade with the cheih and boards 1 had brought
on ihore. That night I ilept very comfortably;
and the next morning my thoughts were employed
to make a further attempt on the Chip, and bring
away what rieceiiaries 1 could hnd, before another
ftorm fhould break her to pieces* Accordingly I
got on board as before, and prepared a fécond" raftt
far more nice than the firlt; upon which I brought
away the carpenter's ftores, two or three bags full
of nails, a great jacfc-icrew, a dozen or two of
hatchets, and a grinding ftorie. I aifo took away
feveial things that belonged to the gunner, particu-
larly two or three iron crows, two barrels of inulket
D
bullets, another fowling piece, a fmali quantity of
powder, and a large bag full of fmall fhot* Beiides
thefe, I took all the men's clothes I could find, a
forétop-fail, a hammock, and fome bedding; and
thus completing my fécond cargo, I made all fhe
hafte to fhore I could, fearing fome wild beaft might
deftroy what I had there already. But I only found
a Tittle wild cat, fitting on one of the chefts, which
not feeming to fear me, 1 threw her a piece of bil-
cuit which ihe inftantly ate, and departed.
When I had gotten thefe effefts on fljore, I went
to work, in order to .make me a little tent with the
fail and fome poles which I had cut forthat purpofe;
and having finifhed it, what things might be da-
maged by the weather I brought in, piling all the
empty chefts and calks in a circle, the better to
fortify it againft any Hidden attempt of man or beaft.
After this, I blocked up the doors with fome boards,
and an empty cheft turned the long way out.1 I
then charged my gun and piftol, and laying my bed
on the ground, ilept as comfortably till next morn-
ing, as though 1 had been in a Chriftian country.
Now, though I had enough t® fubfift me a long
lime, yet defpairing of a fudden deliverance, or that
both ammunition and provifion might be fpent be-
fore fuch a thing happened, I coveted as much as I
could; and fo long as the fhip remained in that con-
dition, I daily brought away one neceflary or other;
particularly the rigging, fails, and cordage, lome
twine, a barrel of wet powder, fome fugar, a barrel
of meal, three caiks of rum, and, what indeed was
mod welcome to me., a whole hogihead of bread..
The next time Í went,.! cut the cables in pieces,
carried off a hawfer whole, with a great deal of iron
work, and made another raft with the mizen and
(prit fail-yaids; but this being fo unwieldy, by ihe
too heavy burden ! had upon it, and riot ¡being able
fo dexteroufly to guide it, as the former, both my
cargo and 1 were overturned. For my part, all the
áamage I fuliained, was a wet ikin; aAd at low wa-
1er, after much labour in diving, I got moft of the
cables, and fome pieces of iron.
Thirteen days.1 had now been on the ifland, and
eleven times on board, bringing away all that was
poffible; and, I believe, had the weather been calm,
I ihould have brought away the whole fliip, .piece
by pièce» As I was going the twelfth time, the
wind began to rife ,* however, I ventured at low
water, and rummaging the cabin, in a locker 1 found
lèverai razors, ícíífors, and fome dozens-of knives
and forks: and in another thirty-fix pounds in
pieces ©f eight, filver and gold. Ah ! Jmple vanity,
laid I/ whom this world Jo much doats on, where is now
thy virtue, thy excellency to me?  cannot procure me
one thing needful, nor remove me from this defilate ifland
to a place of plenty* One of thefe knives fo meanly efleemcd
is to me more preferable than all this heap. E'en there-
fore remain zvhere thou art, to Jink in the deep as unre-
garded, even as a creature whofe lije is not worth pre-
* jerving. Yet, after all this exclamation, I wrapt it.
.up in a piece of canvas, and began to think ©f mak-
ing another raft; but I foon perceived the wind be-
gan to arife, a frefh gale blowing from the ihore,
* and thé iky overead with clouds and darknefs ; ,fo
thinking a raft to be in vain, Í let myfelf into the
water with what things I had about me, anä it was
with much difficulty 1 got aihore,. when fopn after.
. it blew a feat fui'ftowrw
That night I flept very contentedly in my little
tent, furrounded with all my effects; but, when I
looked out in the morning, no more fhip was to be
feen. "J'his much furprifed me for the prefent: yet,
when I confidered 1 had loft no time, abated no
pains, and had got every thing uieful out of her, I
comforted myfelf in the-heft manner, and entirely
fubmitted to the wait of Providence,
. My next thoughts were, how Í (hould defend and
fecuce myfelf from lavages and wild beafts, if any
^ fuch were on the ifland. At one time I .thought, of
* digging a cave,' at another I was for ere&ing a tent;
D 2
and, at length, I refolved to do both: The man-
ner or form of which will not, 1 hope, be unpleafing
to defcribe.
When I confidercd the ground where I was, that
it was mooriih, and had no freih water near it, my
xefolutions were tofcarch tor a foil healthy and well
watered, where I might not  be fheltered from
the fun's Icorching heat, but be more conveniently
fituated, as well as to be fecured from wild men*
and beafts of prey, as more eafily to difcover any
diftant fail, ihould it ever fo happen.
And, indeed, it was not long before I had my
¿efire. J found a little plain near a rifing hill, the
front towards which being as (Veep as a houfe fide,
nothing could defcend on,me from the top. On the
fide of this rock was a little hollow place, refem-
biing the entrance or door of a cave, jufl before
thia place, on the circle of the green I refolved my
tent ihould fiand. This rdain did not much exceed
a hundred yards broad, and about twice as Jong,
like a delightful green before my door, with a ple,a-
iing, though irregular, delcent every way to the low
grounds_by the fea-fide, lying on the N. W. fide ,of
the hill, fo that it was fheltered from the exceffive
heat of the fun. After this I drew a fcmicircle, con-
taining ten yards in its femi-diameter, and twenty
yards in the whole, driving two rows offtrong (lakes
not fix inches from each other. Then with the
pieces of cable which I hari cut on board, I regu-
larly bid them in the circle between the piles up to
their tops which were move than five feet out of
the earth, and after drove another row of piles
looking within fide againft them, between two ov
three feet high, which made me conclude it a little
impregnable caftie for men and beafts. And for my
better lecurity I would have no door, but entered
in and came out hy the help of a ladder which I
alfo made.
Here was my fence and fortrefs, into whiçh I
carried all my riches, ammunition, and llore*., Af-
ter which, working on the rock, what with dirt and
ftoncs.I dug out, -net oply raifcd my ground two
feet, but made a little cellar to my maniion-houfe;
> and.this coft me many days labour and pains. One
day in particular a fbower of rain falling, thunder
and lightning enfued, which put me in terror left
my powder fhould takc'fire, and not only hinder
my neceffary fubfiftence, by killing me food, but
even blow up me and my habitation» To prevent
 which, I fell to making boxes and bags, in order to
feparate' it, having by me near 150 weight* And
thus being eftabliihed as king of the ifland, every
day I went out with my gun to fee what I could kill
that was fit t'Q eat. 1 foon perceived numbers of
goats, but very fhy, yet having watched them nar-
rowly, and feeing I could better fhoot off the rocks
than when in the low,grounds, I happened to fhoot
a Ihe-goat fuckling a young kid; which not think-
ing its dam ilain, ftood by her unconcerned; and
when 1 took the dead creature up, the young one
followed me even to the inclofure. I lifted the kid
over the pales, and would willingly have kept it
alive; but finding it could not be brought, to eat, I
was forced to Hay )t alio for my own fubfiftence.
Thus entered into as Í1 range a ftate of live as ever
any man was in, I had moft melancholy apprehen«
fions concerning my deplorable condition: and
many times the tears would plentifully run down
any face, when I.oonfidered how I was debarred
• from all communication with human kind/ Ye*t
while thefe defponding cogitations would feem to
make me accufe Providence, other good thoughts
would interpole and reprove me after this manner:
Well, fuppofing you are defolate, is it not better to
be fa than totally periih?. Why were you fmgled
out to be fived, and the reft, deftroyed? Why
ihould you complain, when not oniy your life is
prefer ved, but the fhip driven even into your reach;
 order to take what was neceííary gut of her for
yo-ur.fubfiftence? But to proceed, ft was, by the
15 3
account I kept, the 30th of, September, when firfl
1 landed on this .iflancL About twelve daySvafter,
fearing left 1 ihould lofe my reckoning of time, nay,
even forget4 the Sabbath-days, for want of pen,
ink, and paper, I carved with 3 knife upon a large
port, in great betters, and fet it up, in the fimüi-
tucle of a crofs,, on the fea-fliorp where I landed, /
, came qn jhore^ Sept. 30, 1659. Every day I cut?a
notch with nyy knife, on; thc^ fides of this fquare poft,
and that  Sabbath.wjs as^i^ng. again as the reft;
and every firft day of the rrfonth as. long agajn as
that long one, in this manner 1 kept my calender,
weekly* monthly, or yearly reckoning of time.
But h#d \ made ^ inore ftríéí fearch (as 1 did after-
, wards)! need not have fet up this . For
among .the parcels belonging to the gunner, car-
pewter, and captain's rmte, I found thofe. very
things I wanted ; ¡particularíy pens, ink, and paper;
1 al/o found  or three compartes, forne mathe-
matical inftruments, dials, pcîfpe&ive glatfcs books
of navigation, threr Eng Hh bibiçs, and lèverai other
good bpob, which I carefully put up. Here I
ca-tniot but call to^mmd.pur having a dog and two
cats on board, whom 1 ma Je inhabitants with me
in my cafile. "Though one might think I had all
the necetïaiics that were defirabie, yet -ftill 1 found
lèverai things wanting* My ink was daily wafting;
I wanted needles, pins, and thread to mend or kc?p
my clothes together; and particularly a fpade,
pick-axe, or fhov I, to remove the eárttu It was
a y^yjr before I finiihed my little bulwark; and
Jravîng fomv intervals of relaxation, afttr my dgily
wandering abroad fpr provifiop, I drew up this
pi sn.. alternately as creditor and debtor, to remind
irne of the «mi feries and bleflings of my life, under
fo rp.my prions circ.umltances.
Jam cAß ufon>a folate-  But yet 1 am. prefervf4>
. ißüiiid,  *kap*f, nn prçff vit while  companions ptrjßi*
<L mkom/ddimmt* «d in waging ocean*
How miferdbly. am. I Jingled Yet fet apart to be /fared
cut frpm the enjoyment, or from death. And he, wh&
company.of . mankind* . has fo frefervcdme, can de- .
liver me from this cqnditionr
Like cm fiermit (rather However f I have food to
ßorfd I fay,a lonely anchp- eat* and even ta happy prof-
rite), am I forced jrorjx hpt- feil of fubfßence whiljl hfr
}[^ .endures*
,. clothes after fdme. At frefent lenjoy xyhat is
timemil .be pornout ancf xfifalutetyneedful: and the
then I jh$\l .bpue .?, Jo xlimate is fo hot, that had
cover me* * * I never Jo many, I ßould
. hßndlyjveQr them.
When my ammunition is Yet* if  does,. I fee nb
.wfletf, then ßqll I remain danger .vf any fo hurt mer
without qvy defence. againjl .as tn Africa:. And what}/
Wild nienmd h&jk» J had been cpß away upon
that çoaf*
1 f\ave no creaturet no h there not.God to. con-
fluí to [peak to,: wnep, beg verfejo, and is he not <s$/e
aßfiance from* Some com- to relieve thee ?. Already Jutf
fort would it be to refound he ajfevded thee fujlenancer
my xvoes where 1 am under- and put it in thy power to*
ßoodtand beg aßjlance where provide for thyfelf till he
J might hope for relief * fends thee a deliverance.
And now eafmg my mind a little by thefe reflet
iiom, I began to render my life as eafy aspoflible.
1 mufl here add, to the defcnption 1 have giver*
of my habitation, that having raffed a? turf-wall a-
grrinft the out fide of h, I tbjtchcd it fo.clofef as
might keep it frôm the-'incleroepcy of the weither; /
1 alio improved it within, enlarged my cave, apd
made a paffage and door in the rock,*wbich came
out beyond the pale of my fortification. I next
pïO:et'ded to make a cluur and table, and (q begänne»
fludy fue h mechanical, arts as feémed to me prac-
ticable. When I waited a plank or board, 1 hewed
down a tree with my hatcha, making it as .thin-
with my.axe as potiible, avid then fmooth enough ,
with my adze to anfwer my dcTigris: yet, though I
could make no more this way than one board out
of a tree, in length of time I'g'ot boards enough to
fhelter all, thy flores* every thing, being regularly
placed, arid my gtms fecurely hanging againft the
Tide of the rock. This made it a very plea Tant fight
'to me, 3S being the relült of vaft labour and diligence:
•which leaving for a while, and me to the enjoy-
ment of, I (hall give the reader an account of my
"Journal from* the day of my landing, till the'fixing
and fettling of my habitation, as heretofore fhewn.
JOUR NAL.
SEPTEMBER 30, 1659,1 unhappy Robinfon
Crufoe, having fuffefed ihipwreck, was driven
on" this'defolate ifland, which I named the Defolate
Ifland of Defpa'ir, the reft being fwallowed up in the
tempeftuous ocean. The next day I fpenTin con-
fideration of my'unhappy cireumftances, having no
profpect but of death, either to be ftarved with hun-
ger, or devoured with beafts or mercilefs fa vages.
Oft. i. That morning, with great comfort, 1 be-
held the Ihip drove afhore; Some, hopes I had,
that when the ftorm was abated, I might be able to
get fome food and necelfarics out of her; which I
conceived were not damaged, becaùfe the ihip did
ft and upright. At this time I lamented the lofs of
my companions, and our misfortune in leaving the
veilçl. When I perceived the,fhip as it were lie
dry,  waded through the fands, then fwam aboard,
the weather being very rainy, and with fcarce any
wind, - •
To the 14th of this month, my time was employed
in making voyages, every tide getting what I could
•out of the ihip. The weather very wet and uncer-
tain. .
Oft. 20.. My raft, and all the gowds thereori were
overlet; yet 1 recovered rftoft again at low water.*
* Oft. 2§-. ."It blew hard, and rained night and day,
when the ihip went in pieces, io that nothing was
feen of her but the wreck at low waten This day
1 fecured my goods from the inclemency of the
weather.
0£t. 26. 1 wandered to fee where I could find a
place convenient for my abode. 1 fixed upon a rock
in the evening, marked out a half-moon, intending
to erefta wall, fortified with piles, lined within
with pieces of cables, and covered with turf.
Nov. I. I ere&ed my tent under a rock,arad took
up my lodgings very con tented ly in a hammock
that night.
Nov. 2. This day I fenced myfelf in with tim-
ber, cheftsf and boards.
Nov. 3. I ihot two wild fowl, refembling ducks,
which were good to eat, and in the afternoon made
me a table.
Nov. 4. I began to live regularly. In the morn-
ing I allowed sny le If two e« three hours to walk out
with my gun; I then worked till near eleven-
o'clock, and afterwards refreihed myfelf with what
I had to eat* From twelve to two I would lie
down to üeep. Extremely fultry weather. Jn the
evening go to work again.
Nov. 5. Went out with my gun and dog, fhot a
-wild cat with a foft ikin, but her fleih was good for
nothing. The fkins,of thofc I killed, I preserved..
In my return> I perceived many wild birds, and
was terrified by fome fcals which made oft to fea.
Nov* i. Completed my table."
Nov. 7* Fair weather. I worked till the 12th*
but emitted the nth,, which, according to my cal-
culation, I fuppofed to be Sunday.
Nov. .13* Rain in abundance,, which, however*
much cooled the earth ; with thunder and lightning,,
caufed in* me a terrible furprize. The weather
clearing, I fecured my powder in feparate parcels.
Nov. 14.—16. I made little boxes for my powder*
lodging them in feveral places. 1 alfo (hot a large
fowl,, which proved excellent meat*
Nov; 17, I began to dig in the rock, yet was
obliged to defift fr»r want of a pick-axe, íbóvcl, and
wheel-barrow, hon crows- ï canfed to fupply the
place or the fí/Tt. but with all my art Î could, not
m a k'e ,1 vy h e e ! - tu ï   w 4
Nov. 18.. It: w\*ui my for Ci; ne îo find a tree, re~
fembUng whar ihc Unizdiam; cal) an iron tree, I had
like to have/ :j)ui^c^ t.uy axe with cutting itv being
very hard <! e-xve-dmg heavy'5 yet, with much la-
bour 'and kuiullry., ' l irsïade a fort of a fpade out of it.
•Nov\. ^3, Thefl cools being made., I daily -carried
on my biuiíK'is \ 'eiVineea olayà i allowed for enlarg-
ing a\y cxvï, ihn  QÚíiht ferve-me, not only'for a
''w^rehouft\ iuK 'if eben, parlour, and cellar, .1 com-
m only !aj m the 'tent, uulefs the weather was rainy
that I coul'.d not lie dry. Su wet would it be at cer-
tain.- feafonSj that Í was obliged to cover all within the
jpáJ&'$rrh long'poles^'in the form of rafters, leaning
 againft the rock, and load them with, flags and largb
leaves of trces^ reiembling a thatch'„ ' '"
Dec, ao< No'footkr did 1 think my-'habitation.-
.fin*ifhedv, but fuddcrtly a great deal'of the top broke In,
fo that it was a mercy I was not buried in the ruins.
This occafioned a great deal of pains • and trouble to
ttïè, before 1 could make it firm and durable. '_,.».
Dee. 17: bnai'led up fome (helves and drove nails
and ftaplesin the wall and ports'to hang things out
 of the-way.' •
'Dec. 20. Everything! got-I-rtto its place, theama'de
a fort of'diefll*rv.and'another'table.
c» Dec. 24, 25* Rainin abundance.
Dec. 26. Very fair weather. :': -.•
,Dec. '* I chanced to light on, fome goats, ihot
*one, and wounded another, lied it home in a firing
bound up its leg, and .cured it  a' little timé: at
length , it became fo tame and familiar as to. feed be~<
fore the door, and follow me where Í plëafed. • This
put me in -mini tobriiig up tamq. creatures, in r&jer;
to fupply me with food after my aiminition was fpent?
Dec. 2b\> 29, 30. ;Thc weather being exceffive hot,
with little air, obliged me, for the moft part, to keep
within doors.
jan. i. Still fultry, However, obliged by necefiity,
I went out with my gun, and fou'idagreat ftore of
goats in the vallies: they where exceeding fhy, nor
could any dog hunt them down.
Jan. 3, to 14. My employment this time was to
fitiifh the wall before defcribed, and fearch the ifland*
I difcovered a kind of pigeons like our houfe pigeons ..
in a neif among the rocks. 1 brought them home,-
nurfed them till they could fly, and then they left
me. Afcerthis, l.ihot fome, which proved .excel-
lent food. Some time I fpent vainly in contriving to
majce acaikj I may well fay it was vain, becaufe I
could neither joint the ftavcs, nor fix the heads, fo as
to make it tight: So leaving that, I took fome goat's
tallow I had by me, and a little oakhum for the wick,
and provided myfelf with a lamp, which fervcd me
inftcad of candles,
But now a very ftrange event happened. For being
in flie height of my fearch, what ihould come into
my hand, but a bag, which was ufed to hold corn (as
1 fuppofed) for the fowls; fo immediatly refolving to
ut gunpowder in it, I fliook all the huiks and dirt
upon one fide of the rock, little expeding what the
confequence would be. The rain had fallen plentiful-
ly a few days before and about a month .after, to
my great amazement, fqmething began to look out
very green and flourifhing; and when I came to view
jt more nicely, every day as it grew, I found about
ten or twelve, ears of green barley appeared in the
very Tame fhape and make as that in England.
i can fcare exprefs the agitation of my mind at
this fight. Hitherto i had looked upon the anions
of this Jife no otherwife than only as' the events of
blind chance and fortune. But now, the,appearance
of this barley,' flourifhiog in a barren foil, and my
ignorance in not conceiving how * it fhould come
there, made me conclude, that miracles were not yet
¿eafed: nay, I «¡ven thought that God had appointed
»
it to grow there without any feed, purely for my fuf-
tenance in this, miferable and defoiate ifland. And
indeed fuch great efFeii this had upon me, that it often
made me melt into tears, through a grateful fence
of' God's mercies; and the greater ftill was my
thankfulnefs, wheB 1 perceived about this little field
of barley, fome rice italics, alfo wonderfully flouriíhing.
'While thus pleafed in mind^ I concluded there
muft be more cotn in the ifland; and therefore made
a diligent feafch narrowly-among the rocks j but not
b^ing able to find any, on a fudden, it came into my
mind, how I had fhaken the huiks of corn out of the
bag, and then rny admiration ccafed, with' my grati-
tude to the divine Being, as thinking  wjas but natural,
and not tobe conceived a miracle; tho'even the man-
ner of its prefervation might have made me own it as
a wonderful event of Goo's kind providence.
It was about the latter end of June when the ears
of this córn ripened, which 1 laid up very carefully,
together with .20 or 30 ftalks of rice, expecting one
day I flrould reap the fruit of my labour; yet four
years were expired before I could allow myfelf to eat
amy barley bread, and much longer time before 1 had
any rice. After this, with indefatigable pains and in-
sduftry for three or four months, at laft I finifhèd my
houfe on the 14th of April," having no way to go into
it, but by a ladder againft the wall.
April 16. I finiihed my ladder, and afeénded it;
afterwards pulled it up, then let it down on the other
fide, and defeended into my new habitation, where I
Jhad (pace enough^ and fo fortified, that nothing could
attack me, without fcaling the walls.
But what does all human pains and induftry avail,
if the bleffing of God does not crown our labours?
Or who can ftand before the Almighty, when he
ftretcheth forth his arm? For one time as I was at
the entrance of my cave, there happened fuch a dread-
ful earthquake, that not only, the roof of the cave
.came tumbling aüout my earsj but the pofts fee med
to crack terribly at the fame time* This put me in
great atnaze ment; and running to the ladder, and
getting over the wall, I then plainly knew it was an
earthquake, the place Í flood 6n fuftaining three ter-
rible fliocks in lefs than three minutes, but Judge of
.'my ¿error'when I faw the top of a great rock roll into
.the fea J I then expected the ifland would be fwallowed
up every moment: And what made the fcene flill
jnore dreadful, was to fee the fea thrown into the moifc
violent agitations and diforders by this tremenduous
accident.
For my part I flood like a criminal at the place of
Execution ready to expire* At the moving of the
earth, 1 was, as it were, fea-fick;and very much
afraid lead the rock„ under which was my habitation,
íhouldoverwhelm me and it in a lafting tomb.
When the third dreadful ihock had fpen<t itfelf* my
fpirits began to revive; yet ftill I would not venture
to afcend the ladder, but continued fitting, not know-
ing what I íhould do. So little grace had i then, as
only to fay Lord have mercy ufon me! and no foaner
was the earthquake over, but that pathetic prater kit
me.
. It was not long after, when a horrible tempeft arofe,
at the fame time attended with a hurricane of wind.
The fea fcemerd mountains high, and the waves rolled
fo impetuoufly, that nothing could be perceived but
froth and foam. Three hours did this fbrrn continue,
and in fo violent a manner, as to tear the very trees
up by the roots, which was fucceeded by abundance of
rain. When the tempeft was over I went, to my tent $,
but the rain coming on in a furious manner, I waa
obliged to take flicker in the cave, where I was forced
to cut a channel through my fortification to let th&
water out. It continued raining all that night, and
fometime the next day, Thefe accidents made me
refolve, as foon as the weather cleared up, to build me
a little hut inTome open place* walled round to defend
me from wild creatures and favages; not doubting*
but, at the next earthquake, the mountain would fall
on my habitation and me, and fvrallow up aH i¿ k$
bowels. 
* April 16,—20. Thefe days I fpent in contriving
how and in what manner 1 fbould fix my place of
abode. Ail' this while, I was under the rnoft dread-
ful apprehenfions. When I looked round my habita-
tion, every thing 1 found in its proper place. 1 had
'fcveral refolutions whether I ihould move or not; but
at length refolded to ftay where I was, till I found out
a convenient place where I might pitch my tent,
April 22. When 1 began to put my refolutions in
practice, J was ftopt for want of tools and inftruments
to work with. Moft of my axes and hatchets were
ufelefs, occafioned by cutting the hard timber that
grew on the ifland. It took me up a full week to
make my grindftone of ufe to me • and at laft 1 found
out a way to turn it about with my foot, by help of a
wheel and a'firing*
April 28, 29. Thefe days were fpent in ^grinding
my tools.
April 30. My bread falling íhort, I allowed myfelf
but one bifcuit a-day.
May i. As 1 walked along the fea-íhore, I found
» a barrel of gunpowder, and feveral pieces of the wreck,
which the fea had flung up. Having fecured thole,
I made to the ihip, whofe ftern was torn off, and
waihed a great diftance afhore; but the reft lay in the
fands. This I fuppofe was occafioned by the earth-
quake I now refolved to keep my old place of abode:
and alio to go to the fliip that day, but then found it
impoffibie.
May 3. This day I went on board, and with my
fàw fawed oft one óf trié beams, which kept her quar-
ter-deck. 1 then cleared the fand till flood.
May 4. I caught fome fvfh, but they where not
wholeiome. The fame day I alfe catched  young
dolphin.
May 5. This day I alfo repaired to the wreck, and
fawed another piece of timber \ and when the flood
Came, I made a float of three great planks, which
- «riven àflhore by the tide. *
May 6, 7, S, 9« Thefe days I brouçhfoff the iron
bolts, opened the deck with the iron crow, and car-
ried two planks to land, having made a way in the
very middle of the wreck.
May 10, il, 12, 13, 14. All this time I /pent in
bringing off great quantities of iron and timber.
May ¡5. Took with me two hatchets on purpofe
to cut of fome lead from the roll, but all in vain, for
it lay too low under water.
May j6. I omitted going to the wreck this day;
for employing myfelf in looking for pigeons, 1 out-
ftaid my time
May 17. I perceived feveral pieces of the wreck
blown aibore, which I found belonged to the head of
the iliîp.
May 24. To this day I worked on the wreck, and
with great difficulty loofened fome things fo much
with the crow, that at the firft blowing tide, feveral
cafks floated out, and many of the feamen's cherts;
yet that day nothing came to land but pieces of tim-
ber, and a hogihead which had fome Brazil pork in
it, I continued working to the 15th of June; (except
neceíTary times for food and reft) and had I known
how to have built a boat, I had timber and planks e-
nough ; I had alfo near iod weight of iheet lead.
June 16. As I was wandering towards the fea-fide,
I found à large tortoife or turtle, being the firft I had
fcen on the ifland, though, as I afterwards found, there
were many on the other fide of it.
June 17, This day 1 fpent in cooking it, found hi
her threefcore eggs, and her fleih the rnoft favory and
pleafant I ever tailed in my life*
June 18. I ftaid within this dav, there bei rj£ a-con-
tinual rain: and it was fomewhat more 'chilly and
cold than ufual.
June i<£. Exceeding bad, taken with a trembling
and ihivering#
June 20« Awake all night, my head racked with
pain, and feveriih.
June at i. Sick unto death, and terriSed with the
E 2
difmal appréhendons of my condition. Prayed to God
more frequently, but very confufedly.
June 2%, Something better, but flill urieafy in my
mind.
June üj. Again relapfed much as before.
June 24. Mended a fécond time.
June 23, A violent ague for (even hours, cold and
hot fit?, luccecded With faint fweats.
June 26. Better» but very weak -f yet I fcrambled
out, (bot a (he-goat, brought it home, and broiled
fome of it: I would willingly have ftewed it, and
made fome broth, but had no pot.
Junfe 2.7,, All this day Í was afflicted with an ague;
thirfty, yevt could not help myfelf to water: Prayed to
God in thefe words: Lord in pity, loci upon me: Lord
have, mercy upon me: have mercy upon  I After this
Ï fell afleep, which I found had much* refrèihed me
when I áwaked". I fell afleep a.fécond tirne^ and fell
into this, ftráííge and terrible fort ,of dream.
Methought 1 was fitting on the fame (pot of ground
at the outfidë of the wall where Í fat when the ftorm
.felfcw after, the eárthquake; and that I faw a man de-
scending from à great. black , cloud, a^d light upon
the ground. He Was ^11 ver as bright as a fláíh of
fire that a little befóre fui rounded hini; his counte-
rtancç inconceivably terrible; the earth as it were
trembled "when he ftept upon the ground and flaïhes
of fire feemed" to fill all the air. No fooner I thought
him landed upon the earth, but with a long fpear, or
pther weapon, he made towards me; but firft afcend-
ing a fifing ground, his voice added to my amaze-
ment, when I thought I heard him pronounce thefe
dreadful Words, Unhappy wretch! feeing ail thefe things
have not brought thee to repentance, thoujhalt immediately
die» In pronouncing this dreadful fentence, I thought
he went to kill me with the fpear that was in his
hand.
Any body may think it impoffible for me to exprefs
the horrors of my mind at this vifion: and even when
I awaked, this very dreâm made a deep jmpreffion
upon my mind. The little divine knowledge I had,
1 received from my father's in(rru£tions, and that
was worn out by an uninterrupted feries of fea-farmg
impiety for eight years fpace. Except what ficknefe
forced from me, I do not remember 1 had one fe~
rious thought of lifting up my heart towards God;
but rather had a certain ftupidity of foul, not having
thelea.il fenfe of fear of the omnipotent Being when
in diftrefs, nor of gratitude to him for his deliver-
ances. Nay, when I was on the defperate expe-
dition on the defert African (bore, I cannot remem-
ber I had one thought of what would become of me,
or to beg his confolation and affiítancc ¡ü my buffer-
ings and diftrefs. When the Portugal captain took
me up, aud honourably ufed me: nay, farther, when
I was even delivered from drowning by efcaping to
this ifland, I never looked upon it as à judgment, but
only fa-id I was an unfortunate dog, and that's al).
Indeed, fome fecret tranfports of foul I had, whi<|h
was not through' grace, but only a cornmon flight of *
joy, that Í was yet alive, when my companions were
all drowned, and ho other joy could I conceive'but
what is common with the failors over a bowl of *
punch, after they have efcaped the great eft dangers,- 4
The likelihood of wanting for neither food nor'
conveniences, might have sailed upon me for à
thankful acknowledgement to Providence, Indeed,'
the growth of rríy corn touched me with ibme fenfe;
but that foon wore off again. The terrible earth-
quake pointed ro me, as it were, the finger of God/
but my dreadful amazement continued no lotiger
than its duration. But now, when my fpiiits began
to fliik under the burthen of a ttrbug diftemper,
and I could leifurely view the miferies of deafh
trefent themfelves'before my eyes, then my awn-
enéd confcierice began to rcproàeh me with my piii •'
life, in which'I had fo wickedly provoked the jui-;
tice of God to pour down his vengeance upon me;'
. Such reflections as- thefeoppreiied mç even in the
violence of mydiftemder. Some prayers t iit'ervd;
tvbich only proceeded from my fear of death. But
when I confidered my father's advice and prophecy,
1 could not forbear weeping; for, be told me, *Thatf
if 1 did perfi)l in,my folly I Jkould not only be deprived
of^oi'S^bUßn^t.buth:<we. Urne,, enough to refleft upon,
-  defpijing his inßructioüs,, and this m a wrtbched time,.
when none could help * I nöw concluded it to bé
fulfilled,; having no ibid in the ifland. to adminifter
any com/ort to me, I prayed earneftjy to the Lord^
that he would help me,in,  rny great calamity.
Ánd>. tbis,? I thipk was the firft time I prayed in fm-
cerity;, for; many-years/ But now I muft ^return to
my journal.
Junéis.. Something refrefhed with fleep, and the
fit quite qff, 1 got up. My dream fiill.oceafioned in
$ a great confirmation * and, fearing that the
ague m,îght return the Succeeding day, I concluded it
time to get famething to comfort me., I filled 
cafe bottle with: water, and fet it wi,thin reach of
»riy bed; and, to make it more nourifiling and lefs
chill i put fome rum in it. The next thing I did
"was to boil rne a piece oí goat fleib, of which 1 ate
feutí |idlé. I, was, very, weak; however, walked
aboutidïé^j:ng-thei.jîtyrii-pf my diftemper; and at
, night I jfupped on .tfyree turtle's eggs, which 1 roaf*
ted apdlate, begging God^s bleffing,therewith.
Afttr Ï had eaten* i attempted to walk again out
• ¿f doors with my gun j but was fo weak, that I fat
down, and looked at the fea.> which, was imooth and
calm* While 1 continued hex.e thefç thoughts came
into my^roind* 7 1 . V
! In what i^nneris the production of the earth and
fea.of which:! have, feen fo naiach.?, Frpm/wh^ce
canie myfelfy'^nd all  cveatui4?js 4ivingj, and of
what ave we made? •<:••• . * , :
Our beings were. affuredly created by fome
i^i^)ty.ínvffibje,powet>í; who framed the earth, fea,
and air, ; and.'aij tWeW:,; "Jtert.wtn* is;that power?"
• Ce^taiüly.iLi^u?^ follo^i rthat,, God has created it
àl'U,' >1"etfyt(4 - iia^wiiad-e tfa'is, fee muft
be the ruler of them alt, and what is relating there-
to; for certainly the power that makes, muft indif-
putably have a power to guide and direct them.
And if this be fo (as certainly it muft) nothing can
happen without his knowledge and apointment.
Then* furely, ií nothing happens without God's
appointment,..certainly God has appointed thefe my
fufferings to befai me. And here I fixed my firm
belief, that it was mVwill that it ihould be fo; and
tiien proceeded to enquire, why ihould God deal
with me in this manner? Or what have I done thus
tp deferve his indignation?
Here confidence new in my face, reprehending me
as a blafphemer; crying with a loud aud piercing
voice, unworthy wretch! dare you qß what you have
done? Look upon your paß life, and fee what you have
left undone? Afk thyteff, why thou wert not long
3go in the mercilefs hand of death? Why not
drowned in Yarmouth, roads, or killed in the fight,
when the fhip was taken by the Salee man of war?
Why not entombed in the towels of wild beaftson
the African coaft, or drowned hère when all thy
companions fuffcred fhipwreck in the ocean?
Struck dumb with thefe refiecUons, J r\ofè up in
a pen five manner, being fo thoughtful that 1 could
not go to deep; and fearing the dreadful return of
my diftemper, it caufed rae to remember, that the
Brazilians ufe tobacco for almoft ail difeafes. I
then went to my cheft, in order to find fome, where
heaven no doubt/ directed me to; find a cure both
for foul and body; for there ! found one of th«
bibles, which, till this time, !had neither lèifurc
; nor inclination to look into; Ï took both-the to-
bacco and that out of. the cheft, and laid them on
the táble. Several experiments did 1 try with the
tobacco: Fïrft; [ took a piece of leaf, and chewed
it; but it being very green and ftrong almoft ftu-
pified me» Next I (beeped it in fome rum an bout
or two, refolving when Ï went to bed to take a
4ofe of it; and, in the third place, I burnt fome
over a pan of fire, holding my riofe over it fo long
as I could endure it without foffocation.
In the intervals of this operation, though my
head was giddy, and diftúrded by the tobacco, 1 töüK
up the bible to read. No fpóner did I open it, but
there appeared to me thefe words, Call orí me in the day
of troublef and I will deliver thee and. thou ßalt glorify
me* V *
At firft this fentence made á very deep impreffion
on my heart; but it fóon wore of again, when I
confidèred the word deliver was foreign to me. . And
as the children of Hrael faid,' when they were pro-1
mifed flefh to eat, Can God fpread à table  the wilder-
nefs? in like manner I began to. fay, Can God him-'
{elf deliver me from this defolaté íflánd? However,
the words would ftiil return to my mind, and after-
wards made a greater impreffion upon me. As it
now was very late, and the tobacco had dozed my
head, I was inclined to be fleep; but before I would
lie down, I fell on my knees, and implored the pro-
mife that God had made to me in the holyScriptures,
that if I called on him 4 in the day of trouble, he would
deliver me* With much difficulty I after drank the'
rum where irr I häd fteeped the tobacco, which flying
into my head, threw me into fuch a profound fléep,
that it was three o'clock next day before ! awaked^
or, rather, 1 believe, I flept two days, having cer-
tainly loft a day in my account, and I could never
tell any other way. When,I got up, my fpU
rits were lively and chearful \ my ftomach much
better* being very hungry; and in ihort no fit retur-
ned the next day, which was the 39th, but I found
my felf m uth altered for the better.
The 30th I went abroad with my gun, but not fary
and killed a fea-fowl or two, rtfembiing a brand
goofe which however, I cared not to^eat when 1
brought theiti home, but dined on two more of the
turtle's egg's. In the evening I renewed my medU
cine, excepting that  did not take fo large a quanti-*
ty, neither did Í chew the leaf, or hold my head over
the frnoke: but the next day, which was the 1 ft of
July* having a little return of* the could fit I again
took my medicine as I did the firft time.
July 3. The fit quite left me, but very weak. In
this condition, I often thought of thefe words, I will
deliver thee; and while at fome times I would think
of the impoflibility of it, other thoughts would repre-
hend me* for disregarding the deliverances } had re-
ceived, even from the moft forlorn and diftrefled con-
dition. I aiked myfelf, what regard have I had to Göd
for his abundant mercies? Haye I done my part? He
has delivered me, but I have not glorified him; as if I
had faid, I had not owned and been .thankful for thefe
as deliverances, and how could I expect greater? So
much did this fenfibly touch my heart, that I gave
God thanks for my recovery from ficknéfs in the
moft humble proftration.
July 4. This morning I began ferioufly to ponder
on what is written in ihe New Teftament, revolving
to reaçl a chapter every morning and night as long as
my thoughts would engage me. As Toon as I fet
about this work ferioufly, I found my heart deeply
alFe&ed with the impiety of ray paft life ¿ thefe
words that I thought were fpoken to me in my
dream revived, all thefe things have not brought thee tç
repentance. After this, I begged of God to affift roe
with his Holy Spirit in returning to my duty. One
day, in perilling the fcriptures, T came to thefe words
He is exalted a Prince and a Saviour, to give
repentance, and* to give remifion: Immediately I
laid down the book, and, with uplifted hands to
heaven, loudly cried,  blefjed Jefus, thou fin of Da-
vid, Jefusj thou exalted Prince and Saviour, give me
repentance! And now indeed I prayed with a true
fcnfe of my condition, and a more certain hope,
founded on the word of God„ Now I had a different
fenfe of thefe words, Call on me, and I will deliver
thee  that is, from the dreadful load of guilt, which
opprefled my fin ful foul, ajhcl not from a folitary life,
which might rather be called a bleffing, feeing I want-
cd neither food nor raiment, when compared with
living among the human race, furrounded with fo
much oppreifian, mifery, and affliction: In a word,
I camé to this conch^on, that a deliverance from
fin'was a much greater bleffing than a deliverance
from affliction. But again Í proceed to my journal.
To the 14th of July, I walked about with my
gun, little and little at a time, having been reduced
to the greateit extremity of weaknefs. The appli-
cations and experiments I ufed were perfectly new:
neither could I recommend them to any ones prac-
tice. For though it carried off the fit, it very rauch
weakened me; ánd I had frequently convulsions in
my nerves and limbs for fome time. From hence
I learned, that going abroad in rainy weather, ef-
pecially when it was attended, with itorms and hur-
ricanes of wind, was moil pernicious to health. I
bad now been above ten months in the ifland; and
as I never had ieen any of the human kind, I there-
fore accounted myfelf as fole monarch; and as I
grew better, having fecured my habitation . to my
mind, I refolved to make a tour round my king-
dom, in order to make new difcoveries. ...<.,
The 15th 'of July I began my journey, I firft
went to the creek, where 1 had brought my rafts
on ihore; and travelling farther, found the tide
went no higher than two miles up, where there wa"s
a little brook of running water, on the bank of
which were many pleafant favannabs or mendows,
plain, fmoolh, and covered with grafs. On the
rifing parts, where I fupppfed the watçr did not
reach, 1 perceived a great deal of tobacco growing
t® a very ftrong (talk. Several other plants I like-
wife found, the virtues of which 1 did not ünder-
íhnd. I fearched a long time for the Gaifava root
which 1 knew the Indians in that climate madeJheir
bread of; but all in vain. There were feverai
plants of aloes, though at that time I knew not what
they were; likewife I law fcveral fugar canes, but
imperfect for want of cultivation. With thele few
difcoveries I came back that night and 11 ept con-
tentedly in my little caille..
The next day, being the i6tb, going the fame
way, but farther than the day before, 1 found the
country more adorned with woods and trees. Here
1 perceived different fruits in great abundance.
Melons in plenty lay on the ground, and clufiers of
grape?, ripe and very rich, ipread over the trees.
You may'imagine  was glad of this difcovery, yet
ate very fparingly, left I ihoujd throw myieif into
a flux or lever. The grape^ 1 found of excellent
ufe; for when 1 had dried them in the fun, which
preserved them as dried r/ifins are kept, they proved
very wholesome and nourríhiñg, and ferved me in
thofe feafons when no grapes were to be had.
The niçht drawing on apa^c, i afcended up a
tree, and (lept very comfortably, though it was the
fiift time I had flept out of my habitation. And
when the morning came 'I proceeded with great
pleafure on my way, travelling about four miles, as
I imagined, by the length of the valley., dne&ing
my courfe northward, ynd there being a ridge of
hills on the fouth and north fide of me. At the
end of this valley ! came to an opening, where ihe
country fee med to defcend to the weft; thçre I
found a fpring of frefh water, proceeding out of
the fide of thé hill, with its chryftal ftreams running
directly eatt. And indeed here my'fen fes were
charmed with the moil beautiful landicape nature
could afford; for the country appeared io flourifh-
ing, green and delightful, that to me it feemed like
a planted garden. I then defcended on the fide of
that delicious vale, when I found abundance of
cocoa, orange, lemon, and citron trees, but very
wild and barren at that time. As for the limes,
they were delightful and wholefome, the juice of
which 1 after ufed to mix in water, which made it
very cool and refreshing. And now Iwas re fol ved
to carry home and lay up a (lore of grapes, limes,
arad lemons, againft the approaching wet feafon.
So laying them up in feparate parcels, and then
taking a few of each with me, I returned to my cafile,
after having fpent three days in this journey* Be-
fore I got home, the grapes were fo bruifed that
they were utterly fpoiled: the limes indeed were
good, but of thofe I could bring only a few,
July 19. Having prepared two bags, I returned
thither again, but to my great furprize, found all
the grapes fpread.about, trod to pieces, and abun-
dance eaten, which made me conclude there were
wild beafts thereabouts. To prevent this happen*
ing again, I gathered a large quantity of the grapes,
and hung them upon the out branchés of the tree,
beth to keep them unhurt, and that they might
cure and dry in the fun: and having well loaded
myfelf with limes and lemons, I returned once
more to my old place of refidence.
And now contemplating on the fruitfulnefs of this
yalley, the plcafantnefs of its fituation, its fecurity
from ftormsy and the delightfulnefs tof the adjacent
woods, I concluded I was fettled in the worit part
of the country, and therefore was thinking to re-
move my habitation.
But when I confidered again, that though it was
plcafant, it was oft from the fea-fide, where there
was a poffibility, iome time or other, a ihip might
;either be driven or fail by; and that to indole my-
felf among hills and woods rnuft certainly put an
end to my hopes aï deliverance; I refolved to let
my caft le remain wnere Providence had fir ft a Aligned
it. Yet fo raviihed was 1 with this place, that [
made me a little kind of bower, furroundmg it with
a double hedge, as high as- I could reach, well
flaked, and tilled with bullruihes: and having fpent
a great part of July, 1 think it was the firft day of
Auguft before 1 began to enjoy my labour.
Aug. 3» Perceiving my grapes to be dry, I took
them from the trees, and they proved excellent good
raifins of the fun; the moil of which I carried to
 cave; and happy for me I bid fo, by which I
faved the beft part of my winter: food.
Aug. 14. Thisyjday.it began to rain; and though
t had made me a tent like the other, yet having no
flicker of á hillXo keep me.from ftorms, nor a cavç
behind me to retreat to, I was obliged to return to
myoid caftle, the rain continued more or lefs every
day, till the middle of October; and fometimes fo
violently* that I could *not ftir out of my ca,ve for fe-
veral days. This ieafon I found my family to en-
oreafe; for one of my cats that ran away from me,
and which Í thought had been dead, returned about
Auguft, with three kittens at her heels, like herfelf;
which 1 thought ftrange, becaufe both my cats were
females, and the wild cats of the ifland feemed to be
pf a different kind from our European cats ; but from
tUefe cats proceeded fuch numbers, that I wasforced
to kill and deííroythem as I would do wild beafts
or vermin»
To the 26th of this month,  could notjlir out,
it raining inceffantly; when beginning to want
food, I was compelled to venture twicet the 8rft of
which 1 ihot a,goat, and afterwards found a very
largetortoife* The manner of my regulating my
food was thus: a bunch of raifins ierved me for my
breakfaft; a piece, of goat's  or turtle boiled
for my dinner, and two or thi turtle eggs for
my fupper; While the rain Jafted, I daily worked
two or three hours at enlarging my cave, and by de^
grees worked it on towards one fide of the hill, and
made a door or way out, which came beyond my
fence or wail, and fo I came in and out this way. But
after Ibkd done this, I was doubled to fee myfelf
thusexpofed; though I could not perceive anything
to fear., a goat being the biggeft creature I had feen
upon this iftand.
Sept* 30. Carting up my knptches on my poft,
amounted to 365, I concluded this to be the aniver-
 of my landing;; and, therefore, humbly prof-
trating myfelf on the gjround, confeffing my fins,
acknowledging God's ri^Vteous judgements upon me
smd praykig to Jefàs Chrift to have mercy upo» mè
F
I failed for twelve hours till the going down of the
fun; and then eating a bifcuit and a bunch of grapes^
laid me on bed, and with great comfort took my
night's repofe. Till this , time 1 never had diftin*
guiihed the Sabbath day; but now I made a longer
notch than ordinary for the days of reft, and divided
the weeks as well as I could, though i found 1 had
loft a day or two in my account. My ink failing
ioon aftçr, I ommited in my daily memorandum
things of an indifferent nature, and contented my-
ielf to write down only the rnoft remarkable events
of my life. The rainy arid dry ieafons appeared
now regular to me, and experience taught me how
to provide for them yet in one thing 1 am going
to relate, my experience very much failed me. Yo«
may call to mind, what 1 h3ve mentioned of (owe
barley and rice which I had fa ved; about thiity
flalks of the former, and twenty of the litter; and,
at that time,|the fun being in its foutheni poiilion,
going from Trie, together with the rait)*, made me
conclude it a-very proper feo fon to faw it. Accor-
dingly I dug up afrpiece of ground, with my w¿oden
fpade and dividing it in two part?, fowed about two
twirds of'.my feed, prelerving by me about a hand-
ful of each. And happy it .-was I did f  for no
rains falling, it was choked up, and never appeared
above the earth till t,he wet fcafon came again, and
then part of if grew, as if H had been, ne'wly fown.
I was refolved (liU tomake another trial; and
feeking for á raoifter piece oí ground near my bQwer,
I theTe fowed (he reft of my fee;d in February, a little
before the vernalequinox; which haying the rainy
months of Mjrch'and April to water it, yielded a
noble crop, and fprang up very pleafantly. I had
ftill faved part of the feed, not during to venture all;
and by the time 1 found out the proper feafons to
fow it in, and that I might expeét every year two
feed-timçs and two harve^> my dock amounted to,
above hjlf a peck of each fott of grain»
Mo fooner were the rains over, but the ftakes which
Ï had cut from the trees, (hot out like willows the
firñ year after lopping their heads. 1 was ignorant
of the tree J cut them from; but they grew ib re-
gularly7 beautiful, that they made a moil lively ap-
pearance, and,fo flourifhed in three years time, that
J refolded to cut more of them; and thefe foon
growing made a glorious fence, as afterwards I ilia 11
obfetve, .v..---'':
t: And now I perceived that the feafons of the year
might generally be divided, not into fummer and
winter, as in Europe, but in wet and dry feafons,
as in this manner:
Half
tlalf<
Half
Half.
 February,
! March,
[ April, /.
* Aprilr
^Auguß,
Ausruf «
September,{
! Oélober,!
.Oiïôbér,
, November, i
December,
'January,
'February*
Rainy, fun coming near the Equinox*
> Dry, fun getting north of the: Une»
Wet) the fun being then come back.
>Dry, fun running fouth of the line*
The wet feafons would continue longer or fhorter,
as_the-wiad continued to blow* But having found
the ill confequences of being abroad in the rain, I
took care beforehand to furniih my fell" with provi-
sions; and, during the wet months, fat withiadoors
as mu.çh as poffibíe* At this time 1 contrived to
make many handy things that 1 wanted, though it
çoft me much labour and pains, before I could ac-
complit!} them. The firft I tried was to/make a
baiket ; but all the twigs I could get, proved fo brit-
tie, that I could not thcniperfortn it. It now proved
of great ufe tö me, thai when a boy* I took great de-
light in (landing at a baiket-maker's in the faitre
town were my father lived, tottfiew them at Work:
and, like other boys, curious to fee the manner of
their working thefe thing*, and o&cjoue to affift*
I perfefily learried the method öfi& and wanted no*
thing but tools. And it coming into my mind that
the twigs of that tree of Which I made my flakes,
rhigilt be as tough as fallow willow, orofiers grow*
ing in England* I refolved to try an experiment,
and went the next day to my country feat, and found
feme fit for my turn; and after cutting down a
quantity with my hatchet, I dried them in my pale^
k'ftdf whcñ fit to wofk with, câjfried them to íúf
cave, where I employed myfelf m mating feveral
forts of bafkets, infomuch that I pould^put jn>what«
foever 1 pleafed. It is true, they were not cleaverly
made, yet thpy ferVed my turn uf>on all occafio#
But ftill I wanted two necelfary things. I had no
caik to hold my liquor, except ttoo rundlet* almoft
full of rum, a few bottles of an ordinary fizo, and
fomè fquare cafe bottle* ,; neither had I a pot to
boil any thing in, only a large kettle, unfit to
make'broth, or (lew a bit of meat: I wanted like-
wife at the beginning,of this dry fea fou a tobacco-
pipe; but for this I aftcr-wardstfound an expedient*
I kept myfelf employed in planting my fécond
row of flakes. But remembering that. when I tra-
velled up to the brook i had a miud to fee the whole
iflahd, I r>6w reíümed rríy intention, and taking
ttîy dog, gun, hatchet, two bifcuit-cafces, agréât,
bunch of raififís, with a larger quantity of powder
und (hot than ufqal, I began my journey. Having
paffed the vale where my bower ftood, I came
within view of the fea lying to* the weft; when, it
being a cícaí day, I fairly dêfcried land, extending
from the VV. tothe S. W* about  or 15 leagues,
as I concluded; but could not fay* whether it was
an ifland or a continent., Neither could I tell what
this place might be; ,on4y-tt>qught 5it was part of
America, and where I might .have bees in a mjfe-
rable condition had I landed. Again 1 considered,
that if/this, was the Spanifh coaR, certainly, pne
time, or other, I íhoutd fee iome (Kip pafs by; and
if it was.not,- then it mull be the favage coaft, be-
tween theSpanim country andBrazil) which abounds
with cannibals or mm eaters. - ,
As I proceeded forward, I found this fide of the
iñduá rnuch more, pleafant than rnme; the fields
fragrant,, adorned, with iweet flowers and verdant
grafs, together with feveral very fine woods. .There
weçe parrots in plenty whkh made me long for or>e
tq hp my compwon v but it was with great difficuly
I qoujd knock  down with my ftick; and I kept
 at home fome yearsr before I could get him to
_| by my name- ,
f , Jn, the íow giounds Í found various forts of hares
and foxes as L took them to be,, but much different
from thofe in England* Several of thefe I killed,
but never ate them; neither indeed; had Í any occa-
sion; for abounding with goats, pigeons, turtle,
and grapesr I eould defy Leadenhall market to
furnjih: ime a better tablev In this journey I did
not travel, above two miles a day, becaufe I took
ieyeral- turns and windings,, to fee what difcoyerietf -
I could make, returning weary enough to the place
where I defvgned to reft ail night, which was either
Jri $ tree,, or to a pbee which I furrounded with
flakes, that no wild créature might fuddHvly. fur-
prize mew When I came to the ka íhore, I was-
amazed to. fee i,he fpiendor of ir. its il rand.: was
covered v<ith iheils of the moil beautiful fifh, and
confhntly abounding with innumerable turtle",
and fowls of many kinds', which 1- was ignorant of,
expept thofe, called penguins. I might h:rve;ihot
as rnany as Lpleafed^but was fpanng of my arrimu-
«ilion, rather chufmg to kill a ihe-goar, which I
«Jid| w|,th much difficulty, on account of the flat-
the country.
Now, though this journey produced the 
* 3 '4
pleafingîatHaaiori,ye< my, hábil àtion was foinüdi
fo myliking, that I did not repine:; át my being
fèated on the worft part of the îfrând* I continued
iny jourftey, travelling about twelve milefc finthéí
towards trie ea(l, where 1 fet a great pile on <the
fhore for si mark, Concluding that my nefct journéy
íhould bring rne to.the other fide of the ífhnd, eaíl
frdm rhy catfle, and fo totfnd till t came tb rny ^oft
tgain. As I had a confiant View ofríhé country, Í
thought t ¿ould riot mifs  Way; bút ftrarcé häd I
travelled three mileé, when I defcendedinto a very
forge Valley, fo funounded with hills covered with
Wood, that Í having no guide but the ftrn> nor evert
then, unlèfs I knew Well the pofition of the fur* at
that time of the day; and to add to niy rftisforttrne,
the leather proving very hazy, I Was obliged fo rec-
tum to my poft by the fea-fide, iand fo backwards
the fame way I carne. In this journey toy dog fur*
prifed a kid, and would have killed it, hád I not
.prevented him. As I had often been thinking of
. getting a kid or two, and io railing a breed of tame
goats to fupply me after my ammunition Was fpent,
\ took this opportunity 6f beginning: aind, having
made a collar for this little créature, with a ftrinjg
4m,ade of tope-yarn,  brought it to my bower, and
there inclofed him; and having fpent a month in
this journey, returned to my old habitation.
Nobody can doubt of my fatisfa&ion, when I re-
turned to my little caftle, mnd repóféd • ntyfélf in my
hantrriock. After my journey I reftcd myfèlf a
Week, which time 1 employed ¡n miakitàg a cage
for rriy pretty poll, I now began to confider of the
popr kid I had left in the bower, and immediately
Went to fetch it/home* When I came there, I found
the young Creature almoft ftafved;  gave it forne
food; ana tiédit as before: but there was no occa*
 for it followed me like  dog¿ and ás î côn-
ftanriy fed , it  fo loving, gently and fbrití,
ihat it commenced «ne of mydorneftitk*, and would
fcever lfcfrve me¿
• rainy fea fon of the auturtinal equinox being
íiow come, I kept the 30th of September in the moS
fbtenitt manner, as ufualy it being the third year of
my ábode m the i  and. I fpént the "whole day in ac+
knowledging God's mercies, in giving thanks for
ifrt^krng this folitary life as agreabley and lefs fin-
ita*, than that of human föci^ty 5 and fpr the com*
murncations of his graceto my foul, in fupportmg^
comforting and encouraging me to depend upon 
J>tóvíáttei and hope for bis eternal preience in the
Vitorld to come.
Indeed* I often did confider how much more hap*
py 1 was* if* this ftate of life, than in that accurfed
manner of living I formerly ufed, and foraetimefr
when hunting, or viewing the rduntry, the anguiih
of my fq>ul would break out upon me, and my very
-heart would fink within me, to think of the woods*
the mountains, the deferts I was in; and bow 1 was
•a prifoner locked up within the eternal bars and
bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilderneft,
without hopes, and Without redemption. In this
condition I would often wring my Hands, and weeg,
like ä child: And even fometimes in the middle of
my work this fit would often take me; *and then I
would fit down and figh, looking en the ground for
an hour or two together, till fuch time as my grief
got vent in a flood of tears. , '<
One morning, as I was fadîy employed in this man-
<ner I operied my Bible, when immediately I fixed
my eyes uport thefé words^ I will never kaue fhee* mr
fbtfake thèe! Surely, thought Ï, thefe words are dirked
to me, or elfe wby?íneüíd they appear juft at a mo-
ment when I am bemoaning my forlorn condition? and
if God does not forfake me, what matters it, fincehe
Cart make me more happy in this ftate of life, than if
1 enjoyed the greatéít fplendor in the world? But
while I was going to return God thanks for my pre-
fent ftate, fornethiri¿ feemèd to íhock my mind, as if
* it had thus faid: Unworthy wretch; can you pretend
to bè thtmkfül for a condition, from which you would
pray ta be delivered! Here I ftapt?—-and though* t
could not fay, I thanked the Divine Majefty for being,
there, yet  gave God thanks for placing to my view?
my former wicked courfe of life, and granting me a
true knowledge of repentance. A nd whenever I open *
éd or fhut the Bible, I blefled kind Providence, that
direcTied my good friend in England to fen,d it among
my goods without my order, and for aififting me to
fave it from the power of the raging ocean. , v.->
tu And now beginning my third year,: my feveral daily
employments were theie; Firßy My duty to Heaven,
and diligently reading the holy Scriptures, which
I did twice or thrice everyday, Secondly, Seeking prq
vifion with my gun, which commonly took me up,
.when it did not rain* three hours every morning,.
\fThirdlyi The ordering,  uring,, prefer vi ngy and cook i ng
tWhat í had killed, or catcbed for my fupplyy whicfo
.took meoip a grea¡t part of the day: farr in the middle
lof the day, the4fun being in its height, it was fo hot,
fthat 1 could .not> ftir out fo that J had only but four
hours in the evening to work in; and then the want
pf cools j of fiance r>nd ikill, wafted a great deal of
i time to1 little pufpofe, I wa« no ltfs than two and forty
idays making a board fií for a long ihelf, which two
fawyers, with their tools and faw-pitr would have cut
.out of the fame tree in half a day. - it was of a large
tree, as my board was to be broad, 1 was three days
in cutting it down, and two more in lopping off* the
boughs, and reducing it to a piece of timber. Thus f
'hacke&aud hewed,off"each fide,/till it became light to
. move; then I turned it,, made one fide of it fmooth
and flat as a {'board ftom- end , to end, then turned
it downward, cutting the, other fide, till I brought
the plank U) be about three inches thick, and fmooth
on both fides. Any body may jud^e my great labour
and fatigue in fuch a piece of work; but this i went
through with patience, as alio many other th.jng$4hat
my circumifances made neceflary for me to do.
The harveft month?, November ana' .December,
> were now at band,, in which ] had the pleafjng, prp-
ipcct of a very good ca p, But here 1 met with a new
itrisfbrtunt; for the goats and hares, having tafte*
N of the iweetneft of the blade, kept it fo fhort that it
had rio ßrength: toifhoot up into a italic. To prevent
this, I enclofed it with a hedge* and by day (hot feme
<©f its devourersj and my dig which I had tied ta
the field gate keeping barking all night, fo frightened
thefe creatures that I got entirely rid of them*
But, no fooher did I get rid of thefe, than other
enemies appeared, to wk, whole flocks of fevcrai
forte of birds, who only waited till my back Uras turn-
ned, to ruin me. So much did this provoke rne, that
j let fly, and killed three of the malefaélors; ahè
afterwards ferved thüm as they do notorious thieves
in England, hung them up in chains as a terror to
others. And* indeed* fo good art effect had this,,
that they not only foifook the corn, but all that part
of the ifland, fo long as ttofe criminals huiig there.
My corn having ripened apace, the Fatter end of
December, which was my fécond harVeft, I fèajpéd
¡t with a fcythe, made of one of my broad fwords. I
had no fatigue in cutting down my firft crop, it vvas
fo (lender. The ears I carried home in abafkef, rub-
bing tt out witb my hands, inftead of threfhing it t
and When ray harveit was over^ found my half peck
, bf feed produced near two bufhels of rice* and tw6
bufliels and a half of barley* And now 1 plainly foreT->
faw> that, by God's goodnefs, I íhotíld bè furniíhéd
with bread j but yet I was concerned, becaufe 1 kneMr
hot how to grind or make meal of my corn, nor
bread, neither knew how to bake it. 1 would riót9
however, taile any of the crop, but rcfolved to preferve
it againft next feafon, and, in the mean while, ufe 
htû endeavours to provide rayfetf with other food.
But where were my labours to end? the want of à
plough to turn up. the earth, or ihovel to dig it, I con-
quered by making me a wooden ipade. The want of
a harrow 1-f upplied myfelf, with dragging over the
corn a great bou^h of a tree* When it was growings
I was forced 4o fence it • when ripe, to move it, carry
it home, t h reih it¿ part it from the chaffy and fave it*
And, after all, 1 wanted a mill to grind it* iieve to*
drefsit, yefl and fait to make it into bread, an ¿ven
to- bake it., This fçt my brains to vtoik to find
fome expedient for every one of the/e neceflaries
againft the next harveft. ,; !î 1 ,'
And now having more feed; myfirft care was to
prepare me more land* I pitched upon two large
flat pieces of ground near my caftle, for that pur*
pofe, in which I (owed my feed; and fenced it with
a good hedge, 'This took me up .three months: by
which tim^ the wetlfeafon comingon,cand the rAri
keeping 'rae, within döors, I found feveraj occafions
to employ myfelf; and, wh le at work,-tiled to di-
vert myfelf with talking to my parrot, learning him
po know and (peak his own name Po//, the firft wel*
come word I ever heard fppke in t he ifíañd. I had
been a long time contriving how to make cárt h eft
veflels, which I. wanted extremely; and whén I
confidcred the heat of the climate, I did not doubt
but if I could find any furh clay, I might botch up
a pot, ftrong enough, when dried in the itin, to
bear handling, and to hold any thing that was dry»
To be (hort, the C;lay I found; but? it woxild bc-
cafion the rnofl ferions perfon to fmile, to >fee what
awkward ways I took, and what ugly miihapen
^things 1 made; how many either felTout  cracked
by the violent heat of the,fun, and fell in pieces
when they were removed; io that  think it wa*
two months before I could peifeéVany'thing: and
even then but two clumfy things in imitation of
earthen jars, Thefe, however I very gently placed
in wicker baikets, made on purpofe for them, and
between the pot and the baikets, fluffed it full of
rice and barley ftraw: and 'thefe I prefumed would
Jiold my dried, corn, and perhaps tbe nieal, when
the corn was bruited. As for the fmalier .things, I
made them with better fuccefs; fuch as little round
pot*, fiat diihes., pitchers, and pipkins, the fun
baking thern very hard.
Yet ftill I wanted one thing abfobtely necefiary,
and that was an earthea pot, not only to hold my
íkc^ié.f butíai-fo tío beari-the üre,whi*cf) ßöiie of the le
tôuié cb» It once häppenfrdv 1 hateas IJ was putting
outiäy firent found therein a brokenpiece of one of
my veflels burnt hard a.v.a rock, and red as a tilei
This matde* me think of burning fome pots; and
havitJ^rio notioiï óf a kiln, or of glazing them with
lead, I fixed three large pipkins, a id i wo cr three
pots in a pile one lipon another. The fire I Spiled
roiirid the autfide, and drywoodon the top;-tili I
faw. the pots muhe infide red-hot; and found that
they.did hot cráck at all: and when I 'perceived
thera perfectly red, Ï let one of them ftand in the
fire about fix hours, till the clay melted by the ex-
tremity of the heat, and would "have run to;glafs
had i futíered »t; upon which  flacked my fire by
diegneesytiil the rednefs abated1; and watt hmgf them
till morning, found I had three very good pipkins;
•and two earthen'pots,  well burnt and fit for my
turn as I could defire.; <
íí No joy could be gteater than mine at this difco-
Xrery. Fot after this, I may.fay, I wanted for no
.fort of earthen ware. I filled one of my pipkins
with water to&pil-1 me fome meat, which it did ad-
mirably well, and with-jä piece of kid I made me
fome good* broth as well as my circumflances would
afford me at that time. -, > <;
- The neüt; concern I had was to get me a ftone-
movtar to beat fome'Corn in, inftead of a .mill tö
rçrùîd it;- Here indeed I was at a great lofsr, äs not
Seiag-fi* for/a Üone-cutter; and nnunyd \fi I fpent
to> find out a great  big. enough to Cut hpljow
iawd-Makb fit for ;i rnortar* and .ftrong enough tó
bear the weight of a peftil# that would break the
"corn without filling it with fand. But all the floneii
of thé ill .ind. being bf a mouldering nature, rendered
my febth frivrtlefe; and then I re fol ved to look out
: grtót lHock of hard wood;> which having foimd1,
I formfcd it with my axe and hammer, and then v^Hh
infinity-labour made '" hollow in it, jnfl as the Indi-*
ans ojf Btazil make-their: cánoes* When  had
tWv I .macLq a, , great; pefUl *>f iron woödi
^d^b^a h*W themiUip.agamft «iy fueled i ng hamifh
, ? nçst bjifi^fsíWaSítQ make me a $evs¿ to fift
¿qy nregl and pari it from fhe bran and Huík. Hav«*-
irçg;na fin,e thifl cnnva3 to icarçh the mealthrougb,
Í¡coul4^t Uli what toda» What linea l had wail
reduced, to rags; I had goat's hair enough, but nei-
$fôçr-ft$als to work, ity nor did I know how to ipia
j At length  remembered 1 had feme neckcloths
of iÇ'iUÎ!ÇQi or jmruflin;^foí the. fallow, which  had
brought out of thci ihip, and with thefe 1 made
. /fiey.es proper enough for the wqrk,
. I çome now to confider the baking. part. The
w^nt of fan ;Ovçns I fupplied by faking : lome earthen
/p&ns fv;e*y broad* but not deep. Wheâ ïîhad a xnibd
to bake, J made a great fire « my health* the
iiles qt which I had made rnyfelí;, 4 when the
w#pd was b.urpt into live cpajs, 1 fpread them over
it, till it became very hot then.- iweepiaag thera
away, .1 ict down ray loavesv and whelming down s
itfee .eavthen pots upon them., drew the aihes and
^p&ls all a¡roui>ci the' o,mfide.s of the povs to contin*c\
<tbe heat -9 and ipi this manner 1. baked ray Parley
loaves asiwéll as âf I bambeen a complete p¿ílry>
COöjc, andiallp nude oí the, iic«, feyecal.cakes and
puddings*' .
It is,no wonder that ali thefe things took me up
^e bçfl ¡parjt ©/  ,;, what intermediate time
Jihad, was b&ftowed, in, managing  newharveít
find hii^adry;; for m the proper íeafoti i reaped
#vy coin, carrU d it home, and laid it upin the ear
ill j^yJUrge baikets, till I had lime to, rub* inftead
^^thrçAing it. And now indeed my corn en-
leafed io;mucfe, tbat it produced me ao:bufhe)s of
parley, an4  much of rice; that 1 not only began
i |p ufe.it freely, btjt was thinking how to enlarge
• baip^ a^,d}T0Íolved;to low as much at a time as
{w;ould be Sufficient for a whole year. |
Ail jthis while, the proipe£t of land, which Ï iiael
#egn;frprr) the Mher dfide of, thejiland,. raujin my
mind. I ftilí meditated a deliverance from this place,
though the fear of greater misfortunes might have
deterred me from it. For allowing that 1 had at-
tained that place, I run the hazard of being killed
and eaten by the devouring cannibals; and if they
were not fo, yet I might be ilain, as other Europe-
ans had been, who*feli into their hands. Notwith*
{landing all this, my thoughts ran continually upon
«that ihore. 1 now wiihed for my boy Xury, and
the long-boat, with the íhoulder of mutton fail: I
went to the fliip's boat, that had been cail a great
way on the fhoré in the late ftorm. She was remov-
ed but a little; but her bottom being turned up by
the impetuofity and fury of the waves and wind, t
fell to work with all the ílrength Í had, and with
levers, nd rolers I had cut from the wooc, to tura
her, and repair the damages ihe hadfisftajned. Thi>
work took me up three or four weeks, when finding
my little ílrength all in vain, I fell to undermining
vit by digging away the fand, and fo to make it fall
down, fetting pieces of wood to thruft-and guide it
in the fall. But after this was done, I was ftill un-
able to ftir it up, or to get under it, much lefs to
move it forwards towards the water5 and fo Í was
forced to give it over.
This difappointment, however, did not frighten
me.' I began to think, whether it was not poffiblb
for me to make á canoe or Perigua, fuch as the In-
dians make of the trunk of a tree. But here 1 lay
under particular inconveniencies; want of tools to
*nake it, and want of hands to move it into the water
when it was made. However, to work I went upon
it, popping all the enquiries I could make with this
very fimple anfwer I made to myfelf, let's firft make
it, I'll warrant I'll find fome way or other to get it
along when it is done.
I firii cut »down a cedar tree, which was five feet
ten inches diameter at the lower part next the ftump,
and foiir feet eleven inches diameter at the end of
twenty-two feet, after which itlefiened for  ,
G
and then parted into branches. Twenty dáys was I
a hacking and hewing it at the bottom, fourteen
more in cutting ofF the branches and limb?, and a
whole month in ihaping it like the bottom of a boat*
As for the inílde, I was three weeks with a mallex and
chifle), clearing it in fuch a manner, as that it was
big enough to carry 26 men, much bigger than any
canoe I ever faw in my life, and confequently fuffici-
ent to tranfport me and all my effects to that wiihed
for more I fo ardently defired.
Nothing remained now, but, indeed, the greateft
difficulty, to get it into the water, it lying about roo
yards from it. To remedy the firfl: inconvenience,,
which, was a rifing hill between this boat and the
creek, with wonderful pains and labour I dug into
the furface of the earth, and made a declivity. But
when this was dotie, all the ftrength I had was as in-
fufficient xo move it, as it was when I attempted to
move the boat. I then proceeded to meafure the
diftance of ground, refolving to make a canal, in
order to bring the water to the canpe, fince I could
not bring the canoe to the water. But as this leem-
cd to be impracticable to myfelf alone, under the
fpace of eleven or twelve years, it brought me into
fome fort of confidcration: fo, that I concluded this
alfo to be impoffible, and the attempt vain. I now
faw, and not before, what ftupidity it is to begin
<irorK before we reckon its cofts, or judge rightly our
own abilities to go through with its performance.
In the height of this work my fourth year expired
from the time I was caft on this ifland. At this timte
I did not forget my anniverfary; but kept it with
rather greater devotion than before. For now my
hopes being fruftrated, I looked upon this world as a
thing I had nothing to do with ¿ and very well might
Î fay, as father Abraham faid unto D^ves, 
me, and thee there is a gulf fixed. And indeed I was
Separated from its wickednefs too,, having neither
th« lu ft of the,fleih the luftof the eye nor the prid e
#f life J I had nothing to covet, being lórd^ king
arnd emperor over the whole country i had in pof-
ieffion, without difpute and without controul: I had
loadings of corn, plenty of turtles, timber in abun-
dance, and grapes above meafure. What was all
the reit to mc? the money I had, lay by me as def~
picable drofs, which I would freely have given for a
grofs of tobacco pipes or a hand-mill to grind my
corn: in a word, the nature and Experience of
thefe things dictated to me this juft reflection, That
the good things of this world are no further good to
us, than they are for our ufc; and that whatever
we may heap up to give other?, we can but enjoy as
much as we ufe, and no more.
Thefe thoughts rendered my mind more eafy thaji
ufual. Eevcry time I fat down to meat, I did it with
thankfulnefs, admiring the providential hand of God,
who in this wildernefs had fpread a table to mc. And
how I confidered what I enjoyed, rather than what I
wanted, compared my prefent condition with what
I at firft expeâed it ihould be; how I ihould have
done, if I had got nothing out of the ihip-; that I
muft have perifhed before I had caught fiih or turtles ¿
or lived, had I found them like a mere favage, by
eating them raw, and pulling them to pieces with
my claws, like a beaft. I next compared my fía-
tion to that which Í deferved: how undntiful I had
been to my parents y how deftitute of the^ fear of
God; how void of evtry thing that was good; and
how ungrateful for thofe abundant mercies I had
received from heaven, being fed, as it were, by a
miracle, even as great as Elijah's being fed by ravens;
aritl caft on a place where there is no venemous crea-
tures to poifon or devour me; in &ort, making God*&
tender mercies matter of great confolation, I relin-
quiihed all fadnefs^ and gave way to contentment.
As long, as my ink continued, which with w«Uer I
made laft as long as I could, 1 ufed to minute down
the days of the month on which any remarkable thing
happened. And
Firft, I obferved, that the fame day I forfook my
 2
"parents and friends, and ran away to Hull, in order
to.go to fea, the fame day afterwards, in the next year,
I was taken and made a (lave by the Sallee rovers:
That the very day ] efcaped out of the wreck of the
fhip in Yarmouth roads, a year after, on the fame
day, I made my efbape from Sallee in my patron's
fifhing-boat:
And, on the 30th of September, being the day of
the year I was born on, on that day twenty*fix years
after, was I miraculoufly faved, and caft aihore on
this i (land.
The next thing that wafted after my ink, was the
bifcuit which I had brought out of the; fhip $ and
though I allowed myfclf but one cake a day for above
a twelvemonth, yet [ was quite out of bread for near
a year, before I got any com of my own.
In the next place, my clothes began to decay, and
my linen had been gone long before however, I had
preserved about three dozen of the failors chequered
fhirts which proved a great refrefliment to me, when
the violent beams'of the fun would not fuffer me to
bear any of the feamen's heavy watch-coats; which
made me turn tailor, and, after a mi fe rabie botch i hg
manner, convert them to jackets. To preferve my
•head, 1 made a cap of goatfkins, with the hair out«-
wards to keep out the rain; which indeed ferved
me fo we!], that afterwards J made me a waiftcoat
and open-aeod breeches of the fame: And then I
t 'jitrived a fort of  umbrella, covering it with ikins,
which not only kept out the heat of the fun, but the
rain-jflio. Thus being eafy and fettled in my mind,
my chief happinefs was to con ver fe with God, in
moil heavenly and comfortable ejaculations.
For five years after this, I cannot fay any extraor-
dinary thing occurred to me. My chief employment
was to cure my raifms, and plant my barley and rice,
of both which I had a year's provifion befoFe-hand, But
though I was difappointed in my firft canoe, t made
it, at intermediate times, my bufinefs to make a fé-
cond, of much inferior iize; and it was two years
before 1 had filmed it. But as I perceived it woul^
no wife anfwer' my defign of failing to the other
ihore, my thoughts were confined to take a tour
rouftd the ifland, to iee what further difcoveries *
could make. To this intent, after having moved
her to the water, and tried how (he would fail, I
•fitted up a little maft to my boat, and made a fail of
the Chip's fails that lay by me. I then made lockers or
boxes at the end of it to put in neceffaries, provifion
and ammunition, which would preferve them dry from
either, rain, or the fpray of the fea; and in - the
infide of the boat, I cut me a long hollow place to
lay my gun, and to keep it dry made a flag to hang
over it, My umbrella 1 fixed in a ftep in the ftern,
like a maft,, to keep the heat of the fun off me. And
now refolving to fee the circumference of my little
kingdom, 1 victualled my fhip for the voyage, putting
in two dozen of my barley bread loaves, an earthen
pot full of parched rice, a little bottle of rum, half
a goat, powder and ibot, and two watch coats. It was
the 6th of November, in the 6th year of my reign, or
captivity, that 1 fet out in this voyage- which was
much longer than I expected, being obliged to put
farther out, by reafon of the rocks that lay a great
way in thè fea. And indeed fo much did thefe
r rocks fur prize me, that 1 was for putting back5 fear-
ing that if I ventured farther, ic would be out of my
power to return: in this uncertainty I came to an-
chor juft off ihore, to- which'-] waded with my gun
on my moulder, and'then climbing up a hill, which
over-looked that point, I faw the full extent of it
and fo lefolved to run all hazards.
In this profpeel: from the hill I perceived a violent
current running to the eaft, coming very dofe to the
point; which I the more carefully obferved, thinking
it dangerous, and that when 1 came to it, I might be
drove into the fea by its force, and not able to return
to the ifland: and certainly it muft have been fo, had
I not made this obfei.vation; for on the other fide
was the like current, whh this difference, that it fct
G 
off at a greater diflance ;^and I perceived there was
a ftrong eddy under the land; fo that my chief buil-
nefs was to work out of the firft current, and con-
veniently get into the eddy* Two days 1 ftaid here,
the wind blowing very briikly E. S. E. which being
eontrary to the current, leaves a great breach of the
fea upon the point; fo it was neither fit for me to
keep too near the ihore, on account of the breach;
nor ftand at too great a diftance for fear of the ftreams.
That night the wind abating, it grew fo calm, that I
ventured out; and here I may be a monument to all
raih and ignorant pilots: For I was no fooner come
to the point, and not above the boat'* length from
fnore, but I was got into a deep-water, with a cur-
rent like a mill, which drove my boat along fo vio-
lently, that it was impofiible for me to keep near the
edge of it, but-forced me more and more out from the
eddy to the left of me, and all I could do with my
pàdlers was ufelefs, there being no wind to help me.
Now I began to look upon myfelf as quite loft, fmce,
as the current ran on both fides of the ifla.nd, I was
very certain they muft join again, and then I had no
hopes but perifliing for want in the fea, after what
provifion 1 had was fpent, or before, if a ftorm ihould
happen to arifc.
Who can conceive the prefent anguiih of ray mind
at this calamity? with ^ging eyes did 1 look upon
my little kingdom, and thought the ifland the plea-
fanteft place in the univerfe. Happy, thrice happy
defert, faid I, {hall I never fee thee more? Wretched
creature! whither am I gojng? Why did I murmur
at my lonefome condition, when now I would give
the whole world to be thither again? While I was
-thus complaining, I found myfelf to be driven about
two leagues into the fea; However, I laboured till my
strength was far fpent, to keep my boat as far north
as poiftbly I could, to that fide of the current where
the eddy lay on. About noon I perceived a little
breeze of wind fpring up frojn the S, S. E. which o-
verjoyed my heurt j and J was iliii more elated, when,
in about half an hour,, it blew a gentle fine gale. Had
any thick weather iprung up, 1 had been loft another
way: for having no compaís on board, I ihould ne •
ver have found the way to fteér towards the ifland,
if once it had disappeared; but it proving the con-
trary, I fet up ray m aft again, fpread my fail, and
. ftood away northward, as much as 1 could, to get rid
of the current. And no fooner did the boat begin
to ftretch away, bût I perceived, by the clearnefs of
the water, a change pf the current was near; for,
where it was ftróng,the water was foul; and where
it-was clear, the current abated. To the eaft, I foon
faw, about half a mile, a breach of the fea upon fome
rocks, which caufed it again to feperate; and as the
main force of it dróve away more fouthwardly; leav-
ing the rocks to the norfth-eaft, fo the other came back
by the repul.fe <pf the rocks, making a fharp eddy,
which returned back again to the north-weft" with a
very fwift ftream.
They who have experienced what it is to be re-
prived upon the ladder, or to be faved from thieves,
juft going to take away their lives, or fuch as have
been in the like calamities with my own, may gue.fs
my prefent excefs of joy, how heartily 1 ran my boat
into the ft ream of this eddj>, and how joyfully 1 fpread
my fail to the refrefliing wind, {landing cheerfully be-
fore it, with a ("mart tide under foot. By the affiftançe
oí this eddy, I was carried above a league home again,
when, being in the wake of the ifland, betwixt the
two currents, i found the water to be in a fort of a
itand. About four o'clock in the afternoon, I reached
.within a league of the ifland, and- perceived the
points of the rocks, which caufed this difafter, ftretcb-
ing out, a> I obierved before, to the fouthward, which
throwing.off the current more fouth'.vardly, had occa-
fioned another eddy to the north. But having a fair
briik gale, I ftretched acrofsthis eddy, and in an hour
came within a mileof the inore, where Í foon landed
to my unfpeakable comfort; and after an humble
proftration, thanking God for my deliverance, with a
,66
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
'resolution to lay all thoughts of efcaping afide, 1
brought my boat fate to a little eove, arid laid uve
was confideringhow I mig|Vt get my boat home ; and
cóafting along the ihore 1 came to a good bay, which
ran up to a rivulet or brook, where, finding a fafe
harbour, 1 ftowed her as iafe as if (he had been in
a dry dock made on purpoie for her.
I now perceived myfelf not far from the place
 where before I had travelled on foot; fo taking no-
thing with me, except my gun and umbrella, I be-
gan my journey, and in the evening came-to my
bower, where 1 again iaid me down to Feft I had
Tiot flept long before I wakened in great furprize,
by arrange voice that called me feveral times,
: Robin, Robin, Robinfon Cru foe, poor Robin! Where are
>:you, Robinfon Crufoe? Where are you? Where have
-you been?
So fair was I afleep, at firft that I did not awake,
"thoroughly; but half äileepand half awake, I thought
1 dreamed that fomebody fpoke to me. But, as the
,voife repeated Robinfon Crufoe feveral times, being
terribly affrightened, l itarted up in the utinoil coii-
fufion; and, no foonèr were my eyes fully open, but
I beheld my pretty poil fitting on the top of the
hedge, and fooft knew that it was he fhat called me,;
for jail; in fuch bewailing language I ufed to talk
'and teach him; which he fo exactly learned, that
he would fit upon my finger, and lay his bill clofe
 to my face, and cry, Poor Robinfon Crufoe, where are
'y oil? xvhre'have you been? how came you here? and
iuch like prattle 1 had confiantly taught him. Bat
even tho* I knew it to be the parrot, it was a great
time before Í could adjuft myfelf; being amazed
how the creature got. thither, and that he ihould fix
about that place, and no where elfe. But now,
being affured it could be no other than my honeft
Poll, my wonder ceafed, and reaching out my hand,,
and calling familiarly Poll, the creature came 'o me,
and perched uL on my thumb, as he was wont, con-
 
itantly prating to me with, Poor Rubin/on Grufoe, and
how did I come here, and where had J been? as if the
bird was ..overjoyed - to fee me; and fo 1 took him
Home along with me. I was now pretty well cured
©f my rambling to fea; yet I could wiih my boat,
which had coft me fo much trouble and pains, on
this fide the ifland once more, but which indeed was
impra & kable. I therefore began to lead a very re-
tired life, living near a twelvemonth in a very con-
tented manner, wanting for nothing except con-
verfation. As to mechanic labours, which my ne-
cefFities obliged me to, I fancied I could, upon oc-
cafion, make a tolerable carpenter, were the poor
tools I had to work withal but good* Befides as I
improved in my earthen ware, 1 contrived to make
them with a wheel, which I found much eafier and
better, making my work ihapely, which before
was rude and ugly. But, I think I was never fo ele-^
vated with "my own performance or project, than
for being able to make a tobacco pipe, which,
though it proved an awkward clumfy thing:, yet it
was very found, and carried the fmoke perfectly well,
to my great .fatisfa£tion.
I alfo improved my wicker ware, making me abun^
dance of -neceffary bafkets, which, though not very
handfome, were very handy and convenient to fetch
things home in, as alfo for holding my flores, barley*
rice, and-oiher provifions. .
My powder beginning to fail,, made me examine
after what manner 1 fhould kill the goats or birds to
live on after it was all gone. Upon which Í contrived
.many ways to enlnare the goats, and fee if I could
catch them alive, particularly a fhe-goat with young.
At lad I had my defire -, for, making pit-falls and
traps baited with barley and riee, I found, one morn-
An g i in one of them, an old he-goat, and in the
other three kids, one male the other two females.
So boifteious was the old one, that I could not
bring him away* But I forgot the old proverb, That
hunger will tame a lion: For, had I kept him three of
four days without provifions, and then given him
íome water, with a little corn, he would have been
as tame as a young kid. The other creatures I
bound with firings together; but I hud great diffi-^
culty before I could bring them to my habitation,
it was iorrie time before they would feed; but;
throwing them fweet corn, it fo much tempted them
that they began to be tamer. From hence I con-
eluded, that if I defigned to furniih myielf with
goat/s fleih, when my ammunition was fpent, the
tamely breeding them up, like a flock of fheep,
about my fetilement, was the ©nly method I could
take. Tconcluded alfo I muft feparate the wild,
from the tame, or elie they would always run wild
as they grew up; and the bed way for this, was to
have tome ineiofed piece of ground, well fenced,
either with a hedge or pale, to keep them fo ef-
fectually, that thofe within might not brake out,
or thofe without brake in. Such an undertaking
was very great for one pair of hands ,* but as therë
was ah abfolute neceffity for doing it, my full care
was to find a convenient piece of gtound where there
was likely to be herbage for them to eat, water to
drink, and cover to keep them from the fun.
Here again I gave another inftance of my igno-
rance and inexperience,, pitching upon a piece of
rryeadow land fo large, that had I encioied it, the
hedge or paie muft have been at leaíl two miles about*
Indeed-h'ád¿ it been-ten miles 1 had time enough to
do it iri; but then 1 did not confider that my goats
would be as wild in io much com pais, as if they
bad had the whole iflattd, and confequently as
diflicult for me.to catch them.. This thought came
into my head, after 1 had carricdit on, 1 believe,
-about fifty yards: 1 therefore altered my íchemé
'and refolved to inclofe a piece of giound about 150
yards in length, and. 100 in breadth, fuiTi'cient
enough for as 'many as would maintain me, till fuch
time as my flock increafed, and then [ could add
more ground. 1 now vigorouííy profecuted. my
work, and it took me about three months iß hedg-
ing the fir ft piece; in which time I tethered the
three kids in the beft part of it; feeding them as
near me as poffible, to make them .familiar: and
iudeed I very often would carry fome ears of barley
or a handful of rice, and feed them out of my hand;
by which they grew fo tame, that when my in-
cloiure was fmiihed, and I had let them lofe, they
would run after me for a handful of corn. This
indeed anfwcred my end; and in a year and a half's
time I;had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and
all j .and in two years after, they amounted to 43,
befides -what I had taken and killed for m y fuftenance.
After which 1 inclofed five feveral pieces of ground
to feed them in, with pens to drive them into,, that Í
'might take them as 1 had occa.fion.
In this; project I iikewife found additional blef-
fings for I not only hid plenty of goats flefh, but
•milk too, which in my beginning, I did not fo
much as think of. And, indeed, though I had
never milked a cow, much lefs a goat, or feen butter
or cheefe made, yet, alter fome eiTays and mifcar-
nages, I made me both, and never afterwards wanted.
 How mercifully can the omnipotent power com-
fort his creatures, even in the mid ft of their greateft
calamities? How can he fweeten the bittereft provi-
dences, and give us reafon to magnify him in dun-
geons and priions; what a bounteous table was here
fpread in a wildernefs for me, where I expected do*
thing at ftrft but to perifli with hunger?
-"- CertainlyStoic would have fmiled to fee meat
-dinner.; There Jat my royal majefty, an1 abfolutc
iprrnce and ruler of my kingdom, attended by my
dutiful fübjeéls, whom if 1 pleafed, I could either
hatig, draw, Quarter, give them liberty, or take it
• away. (When Í dined, I feemed a king, eating alone,
none'daring to prefume todo.fo till I had done. Poll,
as if1 he had been rny principal -court favourite, was
the only perfon permitted to talk with ffle.- My old
but faithful* dogn now grown exceeding- crazy,: and
who had found no ipe£ie$ to m ultiply his kind upon.
continually fat on my right hand; while my two
cat? iat on each fide of the table, expecting a bit
frotrf my hand, as a principal mark ot my' royal fa-
vour; Thefe were trot the cats J had brought from
the fhip; they had been dead long before, and in-
terred near my habitation by mine own hand. But
one of them, as I fuppofe, generating with a wild
cat, a couple of their young Lhad made tame-; the
reit run wild into the woods,' and in time <grew fo
impudent as to return and.plunder rae of my .Reres,
ítill fuch time as I fhot a great many, andithe reft
.left me without troubling me any more. 'In this
plentiful manner did L live, wanting for nothing
but converfation. One thing indted concerned
.me, the want of my boat; I knew not which way
to get her round the ifland. One time Ï refolved
.to go along the ihore by land to her; but had any
.one in England met fuch a figure, it would;either
have affrighted them, or made them bur.ft into
laughter; nay, I could not but fmile my fell at my
habit, which I think ia this place will be very
proper to defcribe.
The cap I wore upon my head, was . greaty.high
and ihapelefs, made of a goat's {kin, with, a flap
or penthoufe hanging down behindy not only to
keep the fun from me, but to moot the rain off from
.running into rhy neck, nothing being  per-
nicious than the rain falling upon the íleíh in  rufe
.^limâtes. . 1 had a fhort jacket of goat's {kin, whole
hair hung down fuch a length on each fide, that it
reached down to the calves of my legs.; As for
ihoes ançl iftpckings, 1 had none, but made a refem-
glance of fomethiug, 1 knew not what to call them;
they were made like bufkins, and laced on the lides
like fpatterdaihes, barbaroufly fhaped like the reft pf
my habit. I had a broad belt of goat's {kin dried,
tgirt round .me with, a couple of thongs, inftead of
buckles ; on each of iwhieh., t;o fupply the deficiency
of fword and dagger,, hung my hatchet and faw. < i
had another belt, not fo. broad,; yet fjftened.in the
lame manner, which hung over ..my ihoulder;, and
at the end of it, under rny left arm, hung two
pouches, made of goat's fkin, to hold my powder
and fhöt. My baíket I carried on my back, and
my gun on my fhoulder ; and over my head a great
clumfy ugly goat's ikin umbrell/i, which, however
next to my gun, was the m oft neceííary thing about
me, As for my face, the colour was not ío iwarthy
as the Mulattoes, or as might have been expected
from one who took fo little care of it, in a climate
wi thin nine or ten degrees of the Equinox. At one
time my beard grew io long that it hung down a-
bove a quarter of a yard; but as I had both razors
and fciffars  flore, I cut it all off, and fufFered none
to grow, except a large pair of Mahometan whifkers,
the like of which I had feen worn by lome Turks at
Salee, not long enough indeed to hang a hat upon,
but of fuch a monftrous fize, as woujd have amazed
any in England to have feen.
But all this was of no confequence here, there be-
ing none to obierve my behaviour or habit. And fo,
without fear and without control, I proceeded on my
journey the profecution of which took me up five or
"fixdays. I firft travelled along the fea fbore, directly
to the place were 1 firft brought my boat to an an-
chor, to get upon the rocks; but now having no
boat to take care of, I went overland a nearer way
to the fame height that I was before upon; when
looking forward to the point of therock, which lay
out, and which I was forced to double with my boat,
J was amazed to fee the fea fo imooth and quiet,
there beingnoripling motion, nor current, any mor$
than in other places. This made me ponder fome
time to gufcfs the reafoa of it, when at hü I was
convinced that the ebb fetting from the/weft and
joining with the current of water from forae great
rivet on fhore, mud be the occafion of thefe rapid
ftreams ;.and that, confequently, as the winds-blew
more wefterly, or m©refbulhwardly, fo the current
came the nearer, or went the farther from the more.
To fatisfy my curiofity, I waited there till evening,

when, the time of ebb being ..rriadç, 1 plainly per*
ceived from tlje rock the current again as before,
with this difference, that it ran farther off* near half
a league from the ihore >* whereat in my eyp.editiori,
it fet clofe. upon it, furioufly hurrying me and my
,canoe along with it, which at another time.it would
riot have dorie. And now 1 was convinced, that by
pbferving the ebbing and flowing of the tide,!
might eafily bring my boat round the ifland again^>
$ut when I began to think of putting it in practice,
the remembrance of the late danger it ruck me with
inch horror, that 1 changed my refolution, and formr
fid another, which was more fafe, though more labor
- rious; and this was to make another canoe, and fp
have one for one fide of the ifland* and one for th$
other..
I ha,d now two plantations in the ifland ; the firft
my little fortification, fort, or-.caille., with many large
and fpacious improvements: for by this time 1 had
enlarged the cave behind me with feveral little caves,
,one within another, to hold my bafkets, corn, and
ftraw, * The piles with which I made'my*vall were
grown folbfty and great a$ obfeured my habitation.
And near this commodious and pleafant fettlement*
Jay my well cultivated and improved com fields,
which kindly yielded me their h uit in the proper
ieafon. My fécond plantation was that near my
.country feat, pr little bower, where my grapes flou-
riíhed, and where haying planted my (1, 1 made
inclofures for my goats, ío iUongly fortified by la-
bour and time, that it was much Wronger than a wall,
¿md cQ (equently impoflible for them to break
through. As for my bower jtfdf, I kept it con-
stantly in repair* and cut the trees in fuch a manner,
as made them grow thick and wild, and form a moil
idelightful iha.de,. In the centre of this/ flood my
jtent, thus erefted, I had driven four piles in the.
ground, fpre<iding over it a piece of the (hip's fail:
beneath which I made me a fort of a couch with the;
fklm p£ thp creatures I had flain, and other things $
¿'nd having laid thereon one of the Tailor's blankets,-
which I had laved' from the wreck of the fhip, and
covering myfelf with a great watch coat, I took up
this place for  country retreat.
Veiy frequently from this feitlement did I ufe to
v*ifit  boat, and keep her in very good order. And
fametimes Í would venture in her a cart or two from
fhore, but no farther, left either a rtrông current, a
fudd'en ftonny wind, or fome unlucky accident,
fhould huiry me from the iflandas before. But no^
I entreat your attention, whiift Í proceed to inform
you of a new, hut mofi furpriiing fcene of life which?
here befel me. ):
You may eafily fuppofe, that, afîef *naving been:
hereíb long, nothing could be more amazing than
to fee a human creature. One day it happened, that"
going to my 'boat, i few the print of a man's naked
foot on the Chore, very evident on the land, as the
foes> heels, and every part of it. Had 1 fecn an
apparition, in the moil frightful íha'pe, 1 could not
Rave been more confounded. My willing ears gave
the A1 rifted: attention, i caít my eyesaiound, but
ebuld fatisfy neither the one or the other. 1 pro-
ceeded alternately to every part of the fhore, but
vhth equal effect; neither could 1 'fee any other
mark, though the fand about it was as fufceptible
to take im'preiHön y as/that which was fo plainly fiamp-
ed. Thus, (truck with confufionand horror. Ire-
turned to my habitation, frightened at every bufli
and, tree, taking every thing for men; and polie fled
.with the wildert ideas  That night my eyes never
doted. 1 formed nothing but the' moft- dii'nial
imaginations,, concluding it mull be the mark of
the devil's foot which 1 had feerf. For oth'erwife
how could any mortal come to this ifkmd? where
was the fhip that transported them ?; and what figns
of any other footileps? though theie feemed very
rtrong réáfpns forfueh a fuppoiition, yet, (thought
I) why fhould the devil make the piint of his foot
to no purpofe,. as I can fee, when he might have
, H: 2
taken other ways to have tenified me? why ihould
he leave his mark on the other fide of the ifland, and
that too on the fand, where the furging waves of the
ocçan'might foon have era fed the impreflíon. Sure-
ly this aótion was not confident with the fubtilty
k of Satan, (aid 1 to myfelf; but rather muft bè fome .
dangerous creature, fome wild favage of the main
laud over againft me, that, venturing too far in the
ocean, has been driven here, either by.the violent
current or contrary winds; and hot caring to flay
on this defolate iiland, has gone hack to fea again.
Happy indeed, thought I to myfelf, that none of
the lavages had feen me in that place : yet I was not
altogether without fear, left, having found my boat,
they mould return in numbers and devour me, or at
lead carry away all my corn, and deftroy my flock
of tame goats. In a word, ail my religious hopes
vaniihed, as though I thought God would now pro-
teél me by his power, who had fo wonderfully pre-
fer ved me fo long.
What various chains of providence.are there in
the life of man? How changeable are our afFeóii-
, cus, according to different circumftances? We love
to-day, what we hate to-morrow; wefhun one hour,
what we feek the next. This was evident in me 
the moil cenfpicuous manner: For I, who before
had lb much lamented my condition, in being ba-
nilhed from all humau kind, was now even ready to
expire, when beoniidered that a man had fet his foot
on this defolate ifland. But, when I confidered my
itatlon of life, decreed by the infinitely wife and
good providence of God, that I ought not to dif-
pute my Creator's fovereignty, who had an un-
doubted right to govern and difpofe of his creatures
as he thinks convenient; and that his juftice and
mercy could either punifh or deliver me: I fay,
when I coniidered all this, I comfortably found it
 duty to truft fincerely in him, pray ardently to
Jiim, and humbly reiign myfelf to his divine will.
One morning, lying on my bed, thefe words of
th'e faered' writings came into my mind, Call upon'
itie in" the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou
ßalt glorify me. Upon this fentence, rifing more
cheat-foil y from my bed, I offered up my prayers in
the m oft heavenly manner: and when 1 had doney<
taking up my Bible to read, t liefe words appeared'
iff ft in my; fight: Wait on the Lord:y and be of good
cheer, and he ßall J?f eng then thy heart; Wait, lfay7-
oil the Lord. Such divine comfort did this give me,
as to remove all caufe of fadnefs upon that1 occafien.-
Thus, after a world of apprehenfions and fearv
for three days and1 nights, I at laft ventured out of
my caftle, and milked' my goats, one of which was *
almoft {polled for want of it. I next, (though irr
great fear)' vifited my bówer, and milked my flocks
there alio when,- growing bolder, 1 went down to
the fh'ore again, and meaiu-rmg the print of'the foot1
t-b mine, to fee perhaps whether 1 myfelf had not
occafioned that mark, I found it much fuperior iiv
largenefs; and fo returned home,- now abfolutely
convinced, that either fome men had been orvihorc,'
. or that the iiland mud be inhabited; and therefore
that I might be furprized before Í was aware-
1 now began to think of providing for my fecurity;'
and reí oí ved in my mind many different ich em es
for that purpoíe. Í ßrß propoled to cut down my.
inclofures, and turn my tame cattle wild into the
woods, that the enemy might not find them, and'
frequent the iiland in hopes of killing the fame;,-
Secondly, I was for digging upmy corn fields for the
very famé reafon, And, laß(y, I concluded to demo-
lish my bower, left, feeing a-place of human con-
trivance, they might come farther, and find- out'
ái id a! tac  mein my Ii ft i e  a ft 1 .
Such notions did the fear of danger fuggefï 1 *
rhe y and (looked I thought like the unfortunate,
king Saul, when not¡ only oppreiied bv the PhiliP*
tines, but alio forsaken by God'himfelf.. And, itr
 fti ange, that a little be/ore, having entirely re--
fígnedmyíclf to the will of-God, I'íHouldvnów-Ha've-'
, '1,3
little confidence, in him, fearing thofe more wh©
could kill this fading body, than him who Could
deftroy my mortal fou h
Sleep was an latter ft ranger to my  that night;
yet nature, fpent and tired, fubmitted toa filentre-
pofe the next morning, and then joining reafon with
fear, I confidered, that this delightful and pleáfant
iíland might not be fo entirely forfaken as I might
think ; but that the inhabitants from the other fhore
might fail, either with defigo, or from neceffity, by,,
crofs winds; and, if the latter circumftance, 1 had
xeafon to believe they would depart the firil oppor-
tunity. However, my fear made me think of a
place of retreat upon an attack. I now repented
that I had made my door to come out beyond my
fortification; to remedy which, I refolved to make
me .a fécond one: 1 felt to work, therefore, and
drove betwixt that double row of trees, which I
planted above twelve years before, feveral firong.
piles, thickening it with pieces of timber and old
cables, and ilrengthening the foot of it with
earth which I dug out of my cave; I alfo made
me Te ven holes, wherein I 'planted my muikets
like cannon, fining-them into frames refembling
carriages. This being fmifhed with indefatigable
induilry, for a great way every where, I planted
flicks of ofier like a wood, about twenty thou fand
of them, leaving a large fpace between them and
..my wall, that I might have room to fee an enemy,
and that they might not be Sheltered among the
young trees, if they offered to approach the outer
wall. And indeed, fcarce two years had paffed
over my h'ez.d, when there appeared a lovely fhady
grove, and in fix.years it became a thick wood,
perfectly impaffible. For my fafety, I left no ave-
nue to go in or out; inftead of which I fet two
ladders, one to a part of the rock which was low,
and then broke in, leaving room to place another
ladder upon that; fo that when I took thole down,
it was* impoffible for any man to delcend without
hurting himfelf; and if they had, they would ftili
be at the outfide of my outer wall.- But whiie I
took all thefe meafures of human prudence for my
own preservation, I was not altogether unmindful of
other affairs. To preferve my fíock of tame goats*,
that the enemy fhould not take all at once, I looked
©ut for the moil retired part of the ifland, .which
was the place where I had.loft myfelf beforementi~
oned, and there finding a clear piece of land, con.
taining three acres,, Surrounded with thick woods, I
wrought fo hard,, that in lefs than a month's time, Í
fenced it fo well round, that my flocks were veiy
well fecured in itr and I put therein two he goats,
and ten fhe ones.
All this labour was occafioned purely by fearful
apprehenfions, on account of feeing the print of a-
man's foot. And not contented yet with what i had
done, I Searched for another place towards the weft,
point of the ifiand, where  might alfo retain another
flock. Then wandering on this errand more to the-
weff. of the ifland than ever I had yet done, and cart-
ing my eyes towards thejea, methought I perceived
a boat at a great diftance; but could not poflibly
tell what it was for want-of. my perfpecïive glafs* I
confidered then it */vas no iirange thing to fee the
print of a man's foot; aad, concluding them can-
nibals, ..bleflèd God for being caft on the other fide
of the iiland, where none of the favages, as I thought*,
ever came. But when 1 came down the hill to the
fl'iore, which was the S. W. point of the ifland, I was
foon confirmed in my opinion; nor can any one
defcribe my horror and amazement, when I faw the
ground fpread with fculls, hands, feet, and bones of
human bodies; and particularly, I perceived a fpace
like a circle, in the midft of which had, been a fire*
about which I conjectured thefe wretches fat, and
unnaturally Sacrificed and devoured their fellow-
creatures.
The horror.and Ioathfomenefs of this dreadful Spec-
tacle, both confounded my fentes^ and made me dtjfc
/ * '•
charge from my ftomach îri an exceffiyr m'anher. f
then returned towards my habitation: and, in my way;
thither fhedding floods of tears,-and falling down on my
bended kneesrgaVe Gad thanks for making my nature
contrary to thefe'wretches, and deft vexing me fö long,
crût of their hands.
Though reafonand my lofig residence here had
aflüred tíiev that rhëfe' fa'vagës ñkvér catóte ûp to thé
thick' woody pa'rtöf thö country, ánd that  had no'-
i^afon1 to'be apprehtfnftVe öf a- difcQvéry j yet1 Wch'nk*
abhorrence1 did I i¥iH retain, that, for two' years afterK
I confined my'feif only to rily three plantation's; I
meant my caÉ'e, country! featV and ihclofurë in thé
woods; And tho* in procefs of thhe, my dreadful*
a^prehenfkms4 began to wéár away, yet my eyes were
tfibre vigikrit for fear of being fur pH fed, .and ï wasr
Very cautious of fi'rrhg my gun1, 1*, being beard: by
,. éhofè creatures,, they fhould: proceed to atack me». 
refolved however, nianfuily tö lofe  life If they did¿
únú went^artried with three piftbls ftiick in my girclle
which* added^o'tbe defcrijption I'haVe given of myfelF
feefore; made: rrie look; with- a very formidable ap-
Ijfeatfcrice.-.
• Thus* ray cifeumfences' fbr fórile time remained"
very :calnVand undiiturhied': and when1.1 compared my1
éoiiáiüon t o efther ^1 fou nd it fair* fro m,.  e ¡ n g m'i fer ~¿
able*.- And;;, mdlëedJ,.- would:ali!perfo'n* compare their'
ri rcù m fl anee^ not wiA thofe above* them,; but with'
tfhofe i n numerable unhappy obje^vüs beneath them, I am'
ftre we ïhouW no-t'hekir thofe daily murmurings and'
-complainings that arëcin the world. For my party 
#anted but few: t-hings-. Indeed^ the teiror- the fa-,
f àgés-had^ pât^me'in, fpoUechfome inventions for my
own conveniencies; One of my project was to brew
me fame-beer j.'arvery4yhimfical one indeed, when it
isdonfidered,.-that 1 had neither claiks'füfficienty nôr;
Could l; make .any to preferveit in-^ neither bad I hops;
to make it keep j ye'ft to make it work, nor a copped
&r kettle' to-'make itboih* Perhaps, indeed, a.fteir fome
ffiktSpk might bring, this-to bear, as I had dtonç otfoet*
things. But now my inventions were placed another
way,; and day and night I could think of nothing but
howl might deftroy fome of thefe cannibals, when pro-
ceeding to their bloody entertainments ; and fo faving
a viâim from being facrificed, that he might after be-
come my fervant. Many were my contrivances for
this purpofe, and as many more objections occurred,
after I hatched them, i once contrived to dig a hole
under the place where they made their fire, and put
therein five or fix pounds of gun-powder, which
would confequently blow up all tfoofe that were near
it; but then I was loth to ipend fo much upon them*
leit it fhould not do that certain execution 1 could de-
fire, and but only affright and not kill them. Having
laid this defign afide, I again propofed to lie privately
in ambuih in fome convenient place, with my three
guns double loaded, and let fly at them in the midft of
their dreadful ceremony and having killed two or
three of them at every fhot, fall upon the reft fud-
denly with my three piftols, and let not one mother's
fon efcape. This imagination pleafed my fancy fo
much that I ufed to dream of it in the night time.
To put my defign in execution, I was not long feek-
in g for a place convenient for my purpofe, where, un-
fe en I might behold every adlioai of the favages. Here
1 placed my two muikets, each of which was loaded
with a brace of flugs, and four or five bullets about
the fize of piftol bullets; the fowling piece was
charged with near a handful of the large ft fwan ihot,
and in every piftol were about four bullets. And
thus all things being prepared, no fooner would the
welcome light fpread over the element, but, like a
giant rejrejhed with wine, as the fcripture has it, would
í i Hue forth from my caftle, and from a lofty hill,
three miles diftant, view if I could fee any invaders,
approach unlawfully to my kingdom. But having,
waited in vain two or three'nionths, it net only grew
very tirefome to me, but brought me to fome confi-
deration* and made me examine myfclf what ri^ht I
hud to kill thefe creatures in this maimer*
If (argued I to myfelf) this unnatural Ctiftom of
heirs be a Cm offensive to heaven, it belongs to the
Divine Being, who alone has the vindictive power in
his hands, to ibower down his vengeance up;©nthem.
And perhaps he does for m making them become one
another's executioners. Ür? if^God thinks thefe
éomgs juft, according to the knowledge they conceive,-
<frhat authority have I to pretend to t-hwart the decrees
of providence, which has permitted thefe aftions for
£o many ag.es, perhaps from alrnofí the beginning of
the creation? They never offended me, what right
have I then to concern myfelf in their íhedding one
another's blood? And,- indeed, I have force known*
they value no more to kill and devour a captive taken
in war, than we do to kill an ox, or eat mutton. I
then concluded, it neeeflWily fallowed, that thefe
people were no more murderers than chriftians, whe*
many times put whole troops to the fword, afrer throw-*
i*ng down their arms. Agtih 1 confidered,. that if I
fell upon them, I thould be as much in the wrong as
the Spaniards, who had committed the greàteft barba-
rities upon thefe  who had never offended them
in. their whole lives -r as if the kingdom of Spain was>
evident for a race of men without common compafíion'
to the miferable, a principal fign of a moil ungenerous
temper: thefe co*iiideratioris made me pfcufe, and made
me think I had taken wrong meafures in my reioluti-
ens; ,1 now argued with myfelf,, it was better for me
never to attack, but to remain undifcovered as long
as I poffibly could; that an oppofite conducl would
certainly prove deftrüétive; for as it was fcareely to
be fuppofed I co.uld kill them all,- I might either be
overpowered by the remaining, or that feme efcaping,
might bring thoufand's to-my certain *eft ruction. And
.kideed, religion took their part fo much as to con^
vince me how contrary it ^ras to my duty to be guilty
©f {bedding human blood, innocent bloedv innocent as
to my particular,, whatever they are to one another y
that I had nothing to do with it, but leave it to the-
God of all power and dominion* as I-faid before, ta
$o th&feià what feerned convenient to his heavenly
wifdom, And,, therefore, on my knêes I thanked the
Almighty from delivering me from blood-guiltinefs*
and begged his.protection* that I might never fall into
their hands*
Tnus giving over an attempt which I had ra&ly be-*
gun, I never afcended the hili on that occafioa after-
wards; I only removed my boat, which >ay on the
other fide of the iiland, and every thing that belonged
to her, towards the eaft, into a little cove, that there
might not be the leáít. ihadow of any boat near, or
habitation upon the ifland My caftle then became
my cell, keeping always retired in it, except when I
went out to milk my ihe goats, and order my little
flock in the wpod, which was quite out of danger:
for fure  was, that theie favages never came here with
expectations to find any thing, and confequerjtly ne-
ver wandered from the coail -, however, as they might
have feveral times been on £hore, as well before as af-
ter my dreadful apprehenfions, I looled back with hor-
ror to think in what fíate I might have been, had Ï
firddenly met them Ylenderly armed, with one gun on-
ly loaded with fmall fiiot; and how great would have
been my amazement, if, in flea d of feeing the print
of one man's foot, I had perceived fifteen or twenty .
favages, who, having once fet their eyes upon me,
by the fwiftnefs of their feet, would have left me no
poßibiiity of eicaping? Tliefe thoughts would fink
my very foul, fo that 1 would fali into a deep melan*
choly, till fuch time as the ccnfideration of my gra-
titude to the Divine Being moved it from my heart*
I then fell into a contemplation of the facred fprings
of providence; and how wonderfully we are deliver-
ed, when infenfible of it; and when intricatedin un*
certain mazes or. labyrinths of doubt or hefitation,
what fecret hint directs us in-the right way when ^
we intended to go out of it; nay, perhaps, contrary
to our bufmefs, fenfe, or inclination. U^oi> wnichV
I fixed within me this as a certain rule, nev,cr to dik .
©bey thofe .fecret impreffions of mind, to the acting
<or not a&ing any thing that offered, for which
I could yet aiiign no reaion. But Jet it be how it
will, the advantage of this conduct very eminently
appeared in the latter part of my abode on this idland;
I am a ftranger in determining whence thefe fecret
intimations of Providence derive; yet methinks they
are not only fome proof of the converfe of fpirits,
but alio of the fecret communications thèy are fup-
pofed to have with thofe that have not paffed through
the gloomy vale of death.
Thefe anxieties of mind, and the Care of my pre-
fervation, pût a period to all future inventions and
contrivances, either for accommodation, or conveni-
ence. I now cared no* to drive a nail, chop a ftick,
fire a gun, or make a fire, left either the noife
ihould be heard, or the fmoke diícover me. And on
this account 1 ufed to burn my earthen ware privately
in a cave which I, found in the wood, and which I
made convenient for thatpurpofe; the principal caufe
that brought rae here was to make charcoal, fo that I
might bake and drefs my bread and meat without any
danger.
• At that time a curious accident happened me,
which I (ball now relate.
While I was cutting down.fome wo*d for making
my charcoal, I perceived a cavity behind a thick
branch of underwood." Curious to look into it, I
attained its mouth, and perceived it fufficient for me
to ftand upright in. But when I had entered, and
took a further view, two rolling ihining eyes,, like
flaming ftars, feemed to dart themfelves at me ; fo that
I made all the hafte out that 1 could, not knowing
whether it was the devil or a monfter that had taken
his refidence in that place. When I recovered a lit-
tle from my furprife, I called myfelf athoufand fools,
for being afraid to fee the devil one moment, who had
now lived twenty years in the moft retired folitude,^
And therefore renaming all the courage X had, I took
up a flaming firebrand, and in I milled again. 1 had
not proceeded above three fteps, when I was more
affrighted-than -; for then I heard a very
loud figh* like that of a human creature in the
gfeateft agony, fucceeded with.a broken noife, re-
fembling words halt expreifed, and then a broken
(igh again. \ Stepping/ back, Lord! (thought I to
myfelf) where am I got?, in to what enchanted place
have. I plunged myfelf,: fuch.as are reported to
contain miferable captives, till death puts an end to
their farrow? And, indeed, in fach great amazement
was I, that it flruck me into a coid iweat ,* and had
my.hat been on my head, I believe my hair would
have moved.it.off. But again encouraging myfelf
with the hopes of God's proteórion* I proceeded for-
ward, and, by the light, of my firebrand, perceived it
to be a monßrous he-goat, lying on the ground,
gafping for life, and dying of mere old age. At firft Í
ilirred him, thinking to drive him out, and the poor
antient creature  rove to get upon his feet, but was
not able; fo Î e'en, let him lie ilili, to affright the
lavages mould they venture into.this cave., i now-
looked round me, and found the place but frnall and
fl-japel.efs. At, the farther fide of it i perceived a fort
of an entrance* yet fo-Jow, as muft-oblige me to
creep upon my bands,and knees to it; fo, having no
candle, Í fu (pended my enterprise till the next day,
and then Í came provided with two large ones of my
own making.
Having crept upon my hands and feet through
.this ferait,. found the root higher up, I think about,
twenty feet.. But furely'never  (aw fuch a
glorious fight before,! the roof and walls oí ihïs cave
refle&ed a hundred thoufancl lights to me from my
two candies, as though they were indented with
ihining gold, precious (iones, or fparklin«; dia-
monds. And indeed it was the moft delightful ca*
vity or grotto-&f its kind ,that could be defired*'
though entirely dark. The floor was dry and level,
and had a kind of gravel upon it; no naufeous
. venemous creatures -to be feen there, neither any'
tíaípp or wet about it. 1 could find no fault but m
T
the eritránce, and F^ga^ to" think/that-'even »
might be very necefiary for my defence^ and therefore
refoivetl to make it my moft principal magazine.' I
• brought hither two fowling pieces and three mufkets,
leaving only five pieces at my caftte, planted in the
nature of cannon. In a barrel of gu, which
I took out of the 'fea, I brought away about 
pounds of good powder, which was;not damaged;
and this, with a great quantity of lead for bullets, I
removed from my caille to this retreat, now fortified
both by art and aature*
I fancied myfelf now like one of the giants of old,
1frho were ftid to live in caves and holes among the
frocks, iriacceffible to any but thcmfelves, or, at leaft,
rooit dangerous to attempt. And now 1 defpifed both
the cunning and Arength ©f the fa vages, either to find
¿neoutor to hurt me.
Bût I muft not fotgettbe eld goat, which caufed my
îatc dreadful amazement. The f*oor creature gavé up
• the ghoft the day after my difcovery; and it being
difficult to drag him out, I dug his grave, and honour-
ably iotombed him in the fame place where he de-
parted,, with as much ceremony as any wéjch-goat
that ha? been interred about the high mountain Pen-
fnenmoure*
I think I was now in thè twenty-third year of my
reign,, and my thoughts much entier than formerly,
having contrived féveràl pretty amufements, and diverr
fions to* pafs away rhc time in a pleafant manner. By
this time my pretty Poll had learned tafpeak Engliih,
tnd prononce his word* very articulately and'plain $
fo 'that "for many hours we u ied to chat together after a
very familiar manner, and he lived with mo no iefs
(hm twenty-fix years. My dog which was nineteen
ywrs'old, fix teen of which he lived with me, died fome
time ago, of mere old age. As for my cats;, they nmlti-.
plied fofaft,' thât I' was forced to kill or drive them
into the \yoods, except two or three which became
n»y particular favourites. Hefides tkefe, I continually
kept two or three feetifi old kids about me, which I
learned to feed, out pi my hand, and two more parrots .
which ;Could talk: indifferently, and call Robinfow Cru-
foè, but not fo excellently as the fir ft, as Kot taking
th'at pains with them. I bad alio feverd fea fowls
w^içh' {"had wounded and cut their wings 5 and grow-
ing tame, they ufed to breed among the low trees about
my caftje-walls, all of which made my abode very
agreeable. , -
'But what unfor^feen events fuddenly deftroy the en-
joyments of .thi^ uncertain fífiíe of life when we leaii:
expeft them! It was; now the month of December, in
the foutherji fojfticç,. and particular time of my har-
veft, which required my attendance in the field j
when "going out pretty earlj inJthe mornings before
it was daylight, there appeared to me from the fea
(Iiore, a flaming light, about two-miles from me at.
the eaft end of the i flan d," wbçre,! Bad obferved fome
favagçs, liad been before, not on the other fide, but t¿,
my great amicííon it was, on my' fi^e. ¿lie.ifland'.,
Struck with, a .ter. Yurprifç, and\m^ ûïual *
prehe.nfions,( that thé favage^ would perceire myim-
provements, I ¡ returned, dire1 ,to ,my 1^ pulled^
the ladder after mp £§ all'things lookas wilcj<
natural as J, pQ^bJyrcp¿íd.- I a. the. riext place I -pu|
myfeíf.in ,ar.  ;o£^ loadjiig my ~mufke|s
,11^:^^ to.'Güi}^ jflrpteç^
ti9',. í refplyeu .to defend myfelf\ tilf,my 1 aft breath*
Tiv.o hours after, irppatieflt for intelligence, 1 fet *ny
ladder up to the fid.e o.f {he hill, where there was a fiatx
place,, and .'}^ .theJaäjler, after /jpae, afceriding
to'the top, where lay i rig myfelf on my belly,, with my
pe.rfpeétive glaff 1 perceived no lefs than nine mkçd
fa y a ge s, fitting round a fmall fire, ea;u\g af 1 (uppçfW
ed, human flefh, with, their twocanoes hallecLpn flvore^.
waiting fot the flood to cany thé'm off} again,; You
can no  eafiiy ex pre is the eonfternation "I Avas in at this'
fight, efpeqialiy' feeing them" near mc •> but whea £•
perceived their coming miiil be, always, with thç cur~
ren t of the eÍ3h, I bçcam^ ray thoughts*
beiri^.fjiliy canm need ,;mat Jvtógbt go abroad .with fei-
curity all the time of fldoil, if they were not befcw
landed. And J indeed, this provedjuft as 1 imagined ^
for no fooner did they dîl take boat and paddlelaway,
hut the tide-made N. W. Before they went off, they
danced, making ridiculous poftures, and geftuires fob
above an hour, M ftark naked -, but whether men ör
women, or both, I could not perceive. When I faw
them gerne, I took my two guns upon my íh'oulclers»
and placed a couple of piftols in my belt,, with my
great Avord hanging by my fide, I went to the hill*
where at firft I ziiade'.idifcovery of thefe cannibalst
and then faw there had been three canoes more of th&
lavages onshore a,t that place, which with the left,,
were making over the main lancL
Bat iöothing «öuM be more horrid to me, when go-
ing to the place of the fácrifice, the blood, the bones*
.and other rriangied patrts of human bodies appealed in
4ny light: and Jo fired was 1 with indignation, that!
was fully refolved to be revenged orí the firft that came
there, though1 1 Ibit my life in the execution. It
then app^red to me, that the vifits which they make
to this i (land are not very frequent* it being fifteen
months before they came again: but ftiil I was very
u neafy, by of the difrnal apprehenfions of their
iurprifmgf  unawares; nör dared J offer to fire #
gun on that fide 4f/the ifland where (hey üfed to ap-
pear, left* taking the aîarriî, they might return witb
many hundred canoes,* and then God only knows in
what manner i ftiouId have made my end. Thus war
1 a year or more ;before 1 faw any of thefe devouring
cannibals'again* '5
But tö wave this, the following accident, which
«iemamtè attention,0 for a* while,,4luded the:force of
4hy thoughts in revénging myfélf On^thofe heathens*
On the r&lh tíf May (according ço my wooden ca-
lendar)'"'thè wind blew exceeding hard, accompanied
with- abundance of lightning and thunder all day, and
fucceeded by a very  m y night* Theíeeming au-'
ger, of the Heavens made me have reeourfe to my Bi-
Whitft iwas icïioufly. noûdering upon it, I was,
fu.dde.nlyalarmed with the, nojie of a gun, which. I,
.conjc(5l,ure|d -was fir coupon the ocean* Such an un-'
u'fuaj fu rp ri fe. rivage me¿i art up ip a minute; when,
vVírh m^ ladder aícendingtne mountain asWefore, that"
Xery naotnent à' äffi df ftre prefaced thc^ report of
jjiOt'her oùn, wpicli 1 presently beard, and. found J t
\ from that part of the Tea' where the current drove;
me away, I couM not but then think, that this muft
tje' a' ftiip in ¿iftrpfe, an^that thefe were the hielan-'
!. fvgAals for a fpeed^. deliverance. Great, in-
deed,' wias .my forro w, uppn this occafipn; but my la-
bours* to' aflihY themmuft, have proved altogether vain
and'fifiíítlejís. However, I brought together all the
dry wo'pd that wasat hand, and making a pretty large
pile, fet it on fife on the hill. I was certain they!
plainly, peccevved it, by their firing another gun as1
Soon as it began to blazè, and.after that frveral more
from the fame quarter. AU night long 1 kept up my,
fjre: and when the ait cleaned'up, 1 perceived fom-e^
thin* a great way at fea, direâjy E,. but, could not
di.ft.ingui what it*was, even with my glafe, by rca-
fon tHe weather was fo very foggy out at fea. ' Howe-
ver, keeping my eyes d'ireftly fi^ed uporç it, $nd per-
ceiving it did not ftir, I, prefently concluded it muít
be a. ftiip at anchor, and fo very hafty was i tobe fa-
tísfied, that, taking my gun, 1 went to the S. E. part
of tfíe ifland, to the Tame rocks where I had been' for-
merly drove away by the current ¿ in which time the
weather being perfectly cleared up, tó my great for-
row. I perceived the wreck of a (hip caft away-u-port
thoie hidden rocks 1 found when t was but with my
boat,;. and- which, by making, a kind oF an eddy, vyerc
t,he occafiop.of my prelervatjion. . ,
Thus, wí)at is one man's fafety, is another's ruin^
for undoubtedly the fhip has been driven on them in
tlie niglxt/the vyind blowing flrongat E. N. Ê, Hai
they, perceived çbe iiiand, m Ï now gueiled they bad
not, certainly iniVead ôf firing their guns for help,
they would ;rather haye ventured in their boat, and
f¿ye4} thçmjTelves that way,  then thought,  per-
haps they had done To, upon feeing my fire, and were
 away in the attempt ¿ for 1 perceived no boat in
the (hip. But then I a^ein imaginedVthatr perhaps^
they had another veffel' m company, which upon figV
nal, faved fcheir lives, and took the boat up: or that
the boat might be driven into she main ocean, where
thefe poor creatures "might be in the moil iriiferable
condition- But as all-theíe conjecturés were very un-
certain, I could d^> no more than commiferate their
diftrefs, and thank God for delivering ¿pe;in particu-
lar, when fo^-many perifhed in the raging oceari.
When, f confidered ferioufly every thing concerning:
this wreck, and could perceive no roern* to fuppofé*
any' of them faved,; I cannot explain* by any poffible
force of words, what' longings my foul felt on this1
©ccafion, often breaking out in this manner:  tfoaû
there had been two or tbrse,. say even one perforó
fa ved,, that we might- have-lived together,, con ver fed-
vAthy. and comforted- one anotfter! and,. Co much were
my, delires rncved^ that when I repeated thefe words*
u Oh t that thore had been but one my hands
wotitó fo -cknch together., and my fingers preis¡ the
pamis of my hands fovcîqfer that* had any fóft thing
bèeni between, they would have cruihèd it involunta-
rily while my teeth would ftrifce together, and (et
a^airiíf; e.ácb other fô ftróng,. that  required feme
time for me to part them..
Till the.hit year of my being on this ifland,  ne*
ver - knPvV whether or not any had been faved out of
this Ihip; I had the affi&ion, fqme timé after-, to fee
thé eorpfc oí a drowned; boy conie on fhore, at the
«end of the ifï a rid which was next the fliip wreck; there-
was nothing on him but a fea mart's waift.coàt, a pair
«f open-knee'd linen drawers, and a blue linen {birr,,
but no particular mark to guefs whafc nation he was.
of* In his pocket wc- e two pieces of eight, arid a:
tobacco-pipe^ the ..foil of wbi.ch-ï.p.refeîred much more
than I did the fir lb And now the calmnefs of the
fea tempted* m^to-venture out in- ray boat to this
w.redc*, J^ot «mi y tOvg.et: femj&thihg; necejfary out of t£$
fhip, but perhaps, fome living creature might be on\
board, 'wbofé life I could preferve. This had fu'ck
a!n influence upon toy mind,, that immediately I went
home, and prepared every thing n'eceiFary for the voy-'
age, carrying on boyard my'boat provifions of all forts,!
with a good quantity of rum, freih water, and a com-
país: fo putting off, I paddled the canoe along the'
íhore*' tU\ 1 came at lait to the north- eaft part of the
iílánd,, fröm whence I was to latin eh into the ocean;
but here the current ran fo violently, and appeared fo
terrible, that my heart Began to fail me forefeeingr
that if I was driveri into $ny of thefe currents, I
might be carried not only out of the reach or fight of
the ifland, but even- inevitably loft in the boiling
lurges of thfcx ocean.
So oppreîïêd was I at thefe troubles, that I gave
éver my eruerp'fize;, failî'ng to a. little creek on the
more; wberer ftepping out,-1 fat me döwn on a rifing
hill, very penfivc and thoughtful. I then perceived'
that the tide*was turned, and the ñoodcame on, which
made it impracticable for me to go out for fo many
hours, To be moré certain how the fets of the tides
or currents lay when the flood came on, 1 afcended a
higher piece of ground, which overlooked the fea
both ways-':- and here T found, that as the current of
the ebb fet but clofe by the fouth point of thé iflandy
fo the current of the flood fet in clofe-by'the fhore öf
the north fide; and all that 1 had to do, was to keep
to the north of the iílánd in my return*
That night I repofed myfelf in-my canoe, covered'
with my watch coat inft'ead of à blanket, the heavens
being my tefter*. I fet out with tke firft of the tider,
full norths 1 1 felt the benefit of the current, which'
carried me at a great rate caftward, yet not with fuch-
impetuofity as before, as to take fromme all the go-
vernment of my canoe; fo that, in two hours time E
fame np to the wreck,, which appeared to me a moit
melancholy fights It fee med. to be a Spaniffi veífeÉ
by its building, ftuck faft between two rocks ; heV'
Äerrt and quarter beaten, to«g-içoes by the. fea], km
r^ajiirm^v. and fore-maft were brought off. by ther.
Upa,rfl  that ist broken off. As I approached nearer,'
1; perpeiveda dog on, board, whor feeing,me cording,,
y.e) pçd;and cried; an d. n    ner did I  ÍLhim, bu t¡.¡
theppor creature jumpedinto  1 out pf wjiich
X to ole him   m oft farnjihed iwifh hunger and thirft;.
fp thaj:r when i gavehîrn a, cake of breád, no ravenous
wpjfj could devour it more greedily j and he drank to,
that degree of frefh water, that he would, have burft:
rjimfeif had I fuffered him.
The firft fight I raet with m the ftip, were two men,
4rowned. in the cock-room or forecaftle, inclofed iaf
one. another's arms: hence I ve.ry probably fu.ppofed7'
that whien the. veiîêl ftruçk in the ftorm, fo high and,
inceffimtly did the waters break in and over her, that,
t}ie meiy not, feeing able,to bear.it were ftrangled by
the copítant, ruihing in of the waves. There were
feveral- çaiîcs of liquor, whether wine or brandy I
could not be pofitive, which lay in the lower hold,
as were plainly   q>tible -by the ebbing out of the
water, yet.were too large for me to pretend to meddle;
with: Ijkewife 1 perceived ieveral chèfts, which I'
iupppfe.d to belong to the fea men, two of which I
got into; my, boat, without examining what was in
them. Had the fiern of the ihip- been fixed, and the
fo-re part brojcei) of.F, 1 fl>ou,ld have made a very Çroi%
parous; voyage,; fince by. what 1 after foursd, in .thefe
twjo,  hefts, I could; not other.w i fe-conclude, but that
the fhip muí have abundance of. wealth on board;
nay, if l mußt guefs by the courfe ihe fleered, me
muft have been bound from the Buenos Ayres, or
the Rio de Ja Plata, ia the fout hern parts of America,
beyond Jhe Brazils, to the Ha va  nah, Jn the, gulpb
of Mtexico, and fp perhaps to Spain. What became
pf the reft of the failors, I could, not, certainly, teji;
and all her richçs fignified nothing at that time; to any
body.
Searching farther I found a c iik, containing about
twenty gallons, full,of liquor, which, \yith Torne la-
bour, I got  mj bpat; in. a caj}in \vere feveraj
«lufkets, which 1 let remain there •> - but'tóok away .
with me a great powder horn, with about four pounds
of-powder in it. *" I took alio a fire (hovel and' tongs,,
two brafs kettles, a copper pot to make chöcolate,.
and a grid-iron; all which were extremely neceffary
to me, efpecialiy the fire ihovel and tongs. And
fo with this cargo accompanied by my dog> I came
away, the tide ferving for that purpofe; and the
fame evening, about an hour within nighty I attairr-
ed the iOand, after the greateir. toil and fatigue ima-
ginable.
That night I repofed my weaned limbs in the boatr
refolving\ next morning to harbour what I had
gotten, in rny new-found fub'ter raneo us grotto ; and
not cany my cargo home to my ant'ient caftle. Hav-
ing refreshed myfelf, and got alt my efFe£b on fhore,
J next proceeded to examine the particulars ; and
fo tapping the cafk I found the liquor to be a kind
of rurnr but not like what we have at the Brazils,
nor indeed near fo good. !At the opening of the
cheft, feveraî things appeared very aiefuf to me 1
for ..inibnee, I found in one a very fine cafe of bot-
tles containing the fineft and beft forts of cordial
waters  each bottle held about three pints, enri*
ouüy tipt with iilver. I found alio two pots of the:
choiceft fweetmeabr and two more which the water
had utterly fpoiled. There were 'like.wife- fcvèraî
good íhirts, exceeding welcome to me» and about
one dozen and a half of white linen handkerchiefs*
and coloured neckclothe, the former.of which was*
abfokitely neceflary far wiping  fete in a hot
day ;;and, in the till,, I found three bags of eighty
about eleven hundred in all, in one of which, de-
cently wnpt up in a piece of paper, were fix doub-
loons ofvgoidr and forne. fmall bars and wedges of
the fame metal, which ! belkve might wei-gh near
a pound. In the other che ft, which l gueífed ta
belong to the gunner^ mate, by the mean cireum-
fiances that attended it, I only found fome clothes-
út very little value,, except- about two pounds o£
fine glazed powder, in-three flafks, kept, as I be-
lieve, for.charging their f©wling pieces on any oo
cafioiiy9 fo that, on the whole,' I made? very little
of .this..voyage. 1 he money was indeed as mere
dijet to me, ufelefs* and unprofitable,, all which I
would have freely parted with for two or three
 of Englifh flioes or iiockipgs, ,things that .for
mgfiy years I had not worn, : except thofe^ which I
had lately taken-, off the feet of thofe unfortunate
men I found drownedan the wreck,; yet not fo.good
as Üngliíh (hoes either for cafe or fervice. I ^alfo
found r in the feam^n's cheft about fifty pieces of
eigJbt;in -rials, but no gold ; fo.concluded üiat what;
1 topi from the, tirft belonged to an officer the lat-
ter appearing jto have a much interior per fon for its
owner* However, as, deipicable as the1 money .
feçmed, i lugged it to my, cave, laying it. up, .fe*
cur^iy,,\as-.1 did the reß; of my cargo.: and after 
ha4 donnai! ;this,J retnrnejd back  my boat,, row-
ing, or, paddling heii a)png till I came to .my old i
harbour i where* 1 ^carefally^aid her up, and.fo made
tUe benVof my, Way to, my caftle. When I arrived
there:r eye>ry thing leerfted. fafe and quiet: fo. that ¿
nojw\ my ¡oply brfinefs. ^as. to repofe myiejf: after
'&-9. #nd take care of my domeftic'
aiíaifs?, But thpugb. 1 -might have lived very eat>v
asj.wa^tog^ for upty^g^abiolutely needful y yet ft ill
I -wasimöre-vigilant thá& ufual upon account of the
lavages, never, going much abroad ,* or, if I did* it
was tothe eaft part of the, iüand, where, I was weih
affuredr, that the fayages never came, and wher-e-l
mjgbtíno^ be troubled to  that heavy load of
weapons for defence,.asi wa,s:.obliged to do ii I
went the other*
Two; years did I live in thisamxious condition, in
all rwhich time, conti  to ;my form.er resolutions,
) head was fil/ed.with nothing..  projects and
defigris,. ho\7:l.might efçap.e, from the jíi ;, and lb
nuj;Çh'. were, my,wandering thoughts bent- upon a
1% difpQÍuioiií thajt: badt 1. the.farae^boat
that I went from. Salee in, I fhould have ventured
once more to the uncertainty of the raging ocean.
I cannot however but confider myfelf as one of
the unhappy perfons, who made themfelves wretch-
ed by theirdiffatisfa&ion with the ftations which
God hssplacedthem in; for, not to take a review
/.of my primitive condition, and my father's excel-
, lent advice, the going contrary to which was^ as 1
.may fay, my original Jin, the following miftakes'of
the fame nature certainly had been the means of my
prefent unhappy fiation. What bufineis had I to
leave a fettted fortune, andAvellüocked plantation,
improving and increasing, where, by this time, I
might have been worth a hundred thoufànd moi-
doires, to turn fupercargo to Guinea, to fetch negroes,
when time and patience would have fo much en*
: larged my ftock at home, as to be able to employ
thofe, whofe more immediate bufinefs it-was to
fetch them home, even to my own door?
But as this is commonly the fate of young heads,
fo a ferious reflection npon the folly of it, ordina-
rily attends theexercife, when the dear bought ex-
perience of time teaches us repentance. Thus Was
it with me; but notwithftaiiding the thoughts çt
my deliverance ran fo ftrongly in my mind, that
it fee med to check all the diclates of rea fon and
piuiô-ibph.y. And now to ufher in my kind reader
with great pleafureto the remaining part of'my re-
lation, I. fla-tter.:rhyfelf it wilt not be taken-arnifs,
; to give him an account of my firiV conceptions of
the manner of e'feaping, asid upon what foiindati-
; on I laid my foolifh ich ernes.
Having retir cd't'o my caille, after my late voyage
to the (hip, my frigate laid up and fecufed, as ufual,
. and .my condition the fame as before, except being
richer* .though I had, as little occafioh for riches as
the Indians of Peru had for-gokl, before the cruel
Spin.iards came among thern: one night in M.irçh,
being[ythe rainy lea-ton, in the four and twentieth
year óf my folitude, Uay down to deep, very well
in health without diftemper,, pain,: or uncommöÄ
uneafinefs either of body or mind; yet not with-
ftandmg I could hot compoie myfcif to ileep all the
night long. Ail this tedious while it U impcffible
to exprefs what innumerable thoughts came into my
head* I traced quite over'the whole hiftory of my
life in. miniature from my utmoft remembrance of
t hings, till I came to this ifland ; and then proceeded
to examine every action apd paffage that had occur-
red fmce I had taken pbiTeffion of my kißgdom* In
my. reflections upon the latter, 1 was; comparing the
/happy pofture of.my affairs in the beginning of my
reign i tp this.^ife of anxiety, fear, and concern, fmce
I had, dife ove red the 'print, of- a foot in the land;
that while ! continued without apprehenilon, I was
ii7capable of feeling thfe dread and terror I now íüf-
ferèciV flow thankful rather.ought I to have'been
for the- knowledge of my danger fince the greateft
happinefs one can be poileffed of is to have fufficient
time to provide againft it? How flupendons is the
.goo d he Is- of providence, which fets fuch narrow
. hounds to the fight and knowledge of human na-
ture, 'that while men walk in the midft of fo many
dangers they aie kept ferene and calm, by having
the events of things hide from the^r eyes, and know-
ing nothing of thofe many dangers th.it furround
. them., tiil perhapSvthey are diffipated and vanjihed
away.- ; ', i ,;.f '. •. . = .•.••• ' •
A^hen I came more particularly tö conftder'bf the
, real danger I had lo .many <years eicaped; how I
had walked about in the great eft i ecu r-ït y and tran-
quillity, at a time, perhaps, when even nothing but
the brow of a. hill, a great tree,.»or the common ap-
proach of night, had interpofed between me and
the defl ruftive .har^d- of the, cannibals* who would
devour rnet with as good an appetite, as 1 would ' a e
pigeon or.curlew; i u rely allI this, 1 (ay .could not
bi t malfe me fkjcereiy thankful to my great pre-
le;yer,. ;Who.fc fingular protection 1 acknowledged
with the greateft humility, and without which I
muft inevitably have fallen into the cruel hands of
thofe deyourers.
Having thus difcufíed my thoughts in the cleareft
manner, according to my weak underftanding, I next
proceeded to cod fi der the wretched nature of thefe
deftroying lavages, by feeming, though with great
reverencej to.enquire, why God fhould give up any
of his creatures to iuch inhumanity, even to biutaiity
itfeif, to devour its own kind? but as this was rather
matter of obftrufe fpeculation, and as my milerable
fituation made me think this of mine the moil uncom-
fortable fituation in the world, 1 then began rather to
enquire what part of the world thefe wretches lived
in; how far of the coaft was from whence they
came; why they ventured over fo far from home;
what kind of boats conveyed them hither; and why
I could not order myfelf and my bufinefs fo, that I
might be as able to attain their country, as. they were
to come to my kingdom?
But then, thought I, how (hall I manage myfelf
when 1 come thither? what will become of me if I
fall into the hands of the fa vages? or how fhall Í ef-
cape them, if they make an attempt upon me? and
fuppofing.I fhould not fall into their power, what
will I do for provifiou, or which way lhall I bend
my courfe? Thefe counter thoughts threw me into
the greateft horror and confufion imaginable but
then i ftill looked upon my prefent condition to be
the me>,ft miferable that poftibly could be, and that
nothing could be worie, except death. For (ihGU&bf
I) could i but attain the (bore of the main, 1 might \
perhaps.meet with fome relief, or coaft it along, us I .
did with my. boy Xury, on the AfricanIhore, .till I
came to fome inhabited country ,-whet$i might meet:
with fome relief, or fall in with fome Chriftian (hip
that might take me in ; and if 1 failed, why then Ï
could but meet with death, which would put an end
to all my miferies. ."J liefe thoughts, I muft confefs,
wçre the fruit of a diftempered mind, an impatient

temper made defperate, as it were, by long conti-
nuance of the troubles and difappointments I had
met with in the wreck, where I hoped to have found
fome living perfon to fpeak to, by whom I might
have known in what place I was, and of the pro-
bable means of my deliverance. Thus, while my
thoughts were agitated, my refignatio« to the will of
beaven was entirely fufpended! fo that i had no
power to fix my mind to any thing, but to the project
of a voyage to the main land. And indeed to much
-was Í inflamed upon thisî account, that it fet my
blood into a ferment, and my pulfe beat high, as
though 1 had been in a fever j till nature being, as
it were, fatigued and exhaufted with the very
thoughts of it, made me fubmit myfelf to a filent
tepoíe.
in fuch a fituation, it is very ft range, that I did
not dream of what I was fo intent upon ; but, inftead
of it, my mind roved on a quite different thing, alto-
- gether foreign. 1 dreamed, that as I was iffuing from
my caftle, one morning, as cnftomary; I perceived
Upon the fhore, two canoes, and eleven lavages,
coming to land, who had brought with them another
Indian, whom they defigned to make a facrifice of,
in order to devour; but juft as they were going to
give the fatal blow, methought the poor defigned
vi¿Hm jumped away, and ran dire£tly into my little .
thick grove before my fortification, to abfcon-d from
hie enemies; when perceiving that the others did
not follow him that way, I appeared to him; that
he humbly kneeled down to me, feeming to pray for
my afliftance-; upon which I fhewrd him my ladder,
made him afcend, carried him to my cave, and he
became my fervant; and when I had gotten -this
man/I fáid to myfelf, now fureiy 1 may haie fome
hopes to attain the main land; for this fellow will
ierve me as a pilot, tell me what to do, and where
I rwft go for provifions, what places to ilum, what
to venture to, and what to efcape. But when I
tmktdf aad found all thefe iac^preffible impre{iions
of joy entirely vaniibed, I fell into the gveateft de-
jection-of fpirit imaginable.
Yet this dream brought me to reflet, that one iure
way of efcaping was to get a favage ,* that after I had
ventured myiife to deliver him from the bloody jaws
of his devourers, the natural fenfe he might have of
fuch a prefervation, might infpirc him with a lafb'ng.
gratitude and mod fincere affeftionr. Bot then this-
objection .reafonably interpofed: how  I effect
this, thought I, without I attack a whole company
of them, and kill them all ? why íhpuld I proceed ow
fuch a defperate attempt, which my fcrupJes before
had fuggefted to be unlawful ? and indeed my heart
trembled at the thoughts of fo much blood, though*
it were a means to procure my deliverance. 'Tis
true, I might reasonably enough fuppofe thefe men'
to be real enemies to my life, men who would devour
me, was it in their power : fo that it was felf-prefer-
vation in the higheft degree to free myfelf,by at-
tacking them in my own defence, as lawfully as if
they were actually aflaulting me: though all thefe
things, I fay, feemed to me to be of the greateffc
weight, yet, as 1 juft faid before, the dreadful-
thoughts of (bedding human blood, flrucfc fuch
terror to my foul, that it was a long time before E
could reconcile myfelf to it.
But how far will the ardency oïdefire prompt us?
on? For notwithstanding the many difputes and per-
plexities I had with myfelf, I at length refolved, vighr
•or wrong, to get one of thefe fa vages into my handsf>
coil what it would, or even though I ihould lofe my
life in the attempt, Infpired with this firm refolution,,
1 fet all my wits to work, to find out what methods^
* ihould take to aniwer my defign ; this, indeed was*
fo difficult a taik, that I could not pitch upon any
probable means to execute it; I, therefore, refol--
ved continually to be in a vigilant pofture, to per-
ceive when the favages came on fhore, and to leave:
the reft to the event, let the opportunities offer as-
they would.
 
Such were my fixed retaliations; and accordingly
J fet myfelf upon the fcout, as often as I could, till
fuch time as I was heartily tired of it. Ï waited for
abovè a year and a half, the greáteft part of which
time'I went out to the weir, and fouth-weft cornet
of the ifland, almoft every day, to look for canoes,
but none appeared.. This was a very great difcou-
ragement ; yet, though I was very much concerned,
the edge of my deiirc was as keen as ever, and the
longer it feemed to be delayed, the more eager was I
for it: in a word, Í never before was fo careful to
fhun the loathing fight of t h efe favages, as I was
now eager to be with them: and I thought myfelf
iufficiently able to manage one, two, or three fa-
vages, if 1 had them, fo as to make them my en-
tire (laves, to do whatsoever I fhould direct them,
and prevent their being able at  time to do me
a mifchief. Many times did I pleafe myfelf with
thefe thoughts, with long and ardent expectations;
but nothing preferring, all ray deep projected
fchemes., and numerous fancies, vanifhed away, as
though, while I retained fuch thoughts, the decree
of Providence was fuch,' that no favages were to
come near me,
About a year and a half after, when I was feri-
oufly mufing on fundiy other ways how I fhould
attain my end, one morning early Í was very much
furprized by feeing no lefs than five canoes all on
fliore together, on my fide the líland, arad the fa-
nages that belonged to them all landed,, and out of
my ñght. Such a number of them difconcerted all
my meafures; for, feeing fo many boats, each of
which would contain fix, and fometimes more, 1
could not tell what to think of it, or how to order
my meafures to attack twenty or thiity men fingle
^banded: upon7 which, much difpirited and per-
plexed, I lay ftill in my ca-ftle; which, however,
I put in a proper pollute for an attack. ; and having
formerly provided all. t  a t was neceifary, was
fbon ready to enter upon an engagements ihould
they attempt it. Having waited for fome time, my
impatient temper would let me bear it no longer ,v
I fet my guns at the foot of my ladder, and as ufual,.
afcended up to the top of the hill at two ft ages,,
/landing, however, in fach a manner, that my head
did not appear above the hill, fo that they couldi
not eaiily pèfceive me; and here, by the affiftance
of ray perfpe&ive glafs, I obferved no lefs .tharaj
thirty in number round a fire, feaftingupon what
meat they had drefled : how they cooked it, or
what it was, I could not then perfectly tell;, but
tfrey were all dancing and capering about the ñzmes?T
uftng many frightful and barbarous geitures0
But while, with a curious eye, I was beholding:
t^efe wretches, my fpirits funk within me, when h
perceived them drag two miferable creatures from*
the boats, to aét afrefh the dreadful tragedy, as Í-
íúppoíed they had done before. It was not long;
before one of them fell upon the ground, knocked
down, as I fuppofe, with a club or wooden fword,,
for that was their manner; while two or three others ^
went immediately to work, cutting him open for
their cookery, and then feil to devour him as theyr
had done the former; while the laft unhappy cap-
tive was left by himfelf, till fuch time as they were:-
ready for him. The poor creature locked rounds
him with a wifhful eye, trembling at the thoughts^
of death: yetr feeing himfelf a little at liberty^
ijature^ .that very moment, as it were, infpired 
with hopes of life r Hé ftarted away from them, and -
ran-, with incredible iwiftoefs, along the fands^di--
rectly to that fart of the coaft where my antient and¿
venerable, caftie ftood».
You may well imagine, J was -dreadfully affright—
ed, upon tfeis ©C€ailonf when,,  I thought they^
purfued him in-a whole body, aril inning toward3->
my palace» And, now, indeed, Ï expected, thaíí
p.irt of my dream was going to be.fulfilieu, and that:
he would certainly fly to my grove for proreelion $,
but, .for the reft of my dreanv 1  depend *-
thing on it, that the favages would purfue him thi-
ther, and find him there. However, my fpirits
beginning to recover, 1 üill kept upon my guard;
and 1 now plainly perceived, there were but three
men out of the number that purfued him. I was
-infinitely pleafed with what fwiftnefö.the po©r crea-
ture ran from his purfuers, gaining fo much ground
upon them, that i plainly perceived, could he thus
hold it out for half an hour, theie was not the leaft
doubt but he would fave his life from the power of
his enemies.
Between them and my caffle there was a creek,
that very fame which I failed into with all my ef-
fects from the wreck of the (hip, on the fteep banks
of which I very much feared the poor victim would
be taken, if he-could not fwim for his efcape: Éut
loon was I out of pain for him, whea I perceived
he made nothing of it, though at full tide, >bu't,
with an intrepid courage fpurred on by the fenie of
danger, he plunged into the flood, fwimming over
in about thirty ihokes, and then landing, ran with
the fame incredible fhength and fwiftnefs^as before.
When the three purfuers  to the creek, one
of them, who I perceived could not fwim, happily
, for his part, returned to his company, while the
others, with as equal courage, but much lets fwift-
,nef$, attained the other fide, as though they were
lefolved never to give over the purfuiU And now
or never [ thought was the time for me to procure
me a fervant, companion, or affiftant : .and that I
was decreed by Providence to be the infiniment to
fave thie, poor .creature's life. I immediately de*
( e n d e d m y t w  1 a d-d ers w \ t h t h e g ve a t eft expedition;
I took up my two guns, which, I. fa id before were
at the bottom of.thrm: and, getting up again with
the fame ha He towards the hiij, i made, nearer the
fea< In a w<*rd, taking a ihort cut down the hill,
I intcrpofed between the purfuers and puriued, hal-
looing aloud to the latter, who, venturing to look
buck, was, no doubt, as much terrified at me as at
them/ I beckoned to him, with my hand, tore-
turn back, in the mean time ad%anoing towards the
purfuers, and milling on the foremoft Ï knocked him
down with the flock of my piece, and laid him fiat
on the ground, I was very unwilling to fire left
the reft (hould hear, though at that diilance, I ques-
tioned whether they could or no; and, being out
of fight oí the fmoke, they could not eafily have
known what to make of it. The other lavage
feeing hi? fellow fall, flopped as if he had been
amazed: when, advancing towards him, 1 could
•perceive him take his bow from his back, and, fix-
ing an arrow to it, was preparing to fhoot at me,
and, without difpute might have lodged the arrow
in my bieaft; but in this absolutely neceífary cafe
of felf-prefervation, Í immediately fired at him,
and iliot him dead, juft as Ins hand was going to
draw the fatal firing. AU this while, the favage
who had fled before flood füll, and had the fatis-
fjclion to fqe his enemies killed, as he thought,
who defigned to uke away his' life:  affrighted
was he with the fire and nolle of my piece, that he
ilood as it were like Lot's wife, fixed and immo-
veable, without other ienle or motion. This ob-
liged me to \n\\oo to him again, making the plain-
eft figns 1 could to him to draw nearer. I peiccived
he underftood thole tokens by his approaching to
mea little way, when, as if afraid I wiould kill him
toe., he flopped again. Several times did he advance,
and as often flop in this manner, till, coming more
to my view, 1 pe)ceiv\-d him trembling, as 'if he
was to undergo I he Line Cate. Upon which I look-
ed upon hi in .wit h a fndhng countenance, and ftiil
beckoning to him; at length he  clofe to me,
and kneeled down,  hied the ground, laid his head
upon it, and taking me by the4 foot, fet it upon his
head;.and this, äs í midevfiood afterwards, was a
token of (we iring to be my Have for ever. 1 took
him up and m,iking much of him, encourageu him
in the bell manner I could, but my work was not
yet finfflied; for I perceived the favagè whom I
knocked down, was not killed,-, but ftunned with
the blow, and began to come to himfelf. Upon
which I pointed to-'my new fèrvant and) fhfewed
him .that his enemy was not yet expired, he fpoke
fome words to me, but which I could not under-
fiand; yet being the firft found of ä man's voice I
had heard' for above twenty-five years they were,
very pleafihg to me. But there was no time for re-
flexion now ^. the wounded fávage recovering him-
felf io far as.to fit upon the ground, which, made
ray poor prifoner as much afraid as before: t& put*
him out of fear, I preiented my other gun at the
man,, with ati intent to (hoot him; but my favagey
for4 fo I rauft now call hitxi, prevented my firing,
by making a motion to me, to lend him my fwprd,
which hung.naked in a belt by my fide,. No fooner.
did I grant his requeft, but away he runs to his
enemy, and, atone blow, cut off his head as dex--
terott.ñy as the moftaccompliihed executioner in'
Germany'could have done: for,,., it feems,' thefe,
creatures make ufe of wooden {wards made of hard-
wood, whichwillbear edge enough to cut ofFheads
and arms at. one blow. When this valorous ex*
pipit was done, he comes to me laughing, as a to-
ken of tiiumph, delivered  my. fwofd again,
with abundance of furprifing gefiures,. laying it
along with the bleeding and ghailly heàd ©f th«
Indian at my feet*
The greatefi: aftoni lb ment that pny new fervant
conceived, was the maimer of killing the fa vage at
•fuoh a difbnee, without a bow and, arrow ;-and,iuch
was his Jonging delire io know it,, that he firft--
pointe.d to the dead carca fe, and then made.fignsto
me to grant him leave to  to .him, Upoii which.
Ibid hiofl go» and as well as 1 could made him-fen-
fib le 1 granted his requeft* But when he came
there, bow wonderfully hë was flruch with araaze-
mçnt! Fnü he turned him on one fide,, then on
aixather,, wondering, he could perceive no quamity
ef blood, he bleeding inwardly: and after fuiR-
ciently admiring the wound the bullet had made
in his bread, he took up his bow and arrows, and
came back; again; upon which 1 turned to go
away, making iigns to him to follow, left the reft
miffing their companions, might come in puifuit
of them, and this 1 ioimd he undcrftood very well,
by his making me underftand that his defign was
to bury (hem, that they might not be feen if it
happened; and which by figns again.I made him
fenfible 1 very much approved of. immediately
he fell to work, and never was grave-digger more
dexterous in the world than he was; for in an inftant
as I might fay, he fcraped a large hole in the fands
with his hands, fufiicient to bury the fir ft in; there
he dragged him, and without any ceremony he co-
vered him over; in like manner he ferved the other:
ïo that I am fure no undertaker could be more ex-
pert in his bufinefs; for all this was done in lefs
than a quarter of an hour. I then called him away,
and inftead of carrying him directly to my caftle at
firlî, I conveyed him to my cave on the farther part
of the iihnd; and fo my dream was now fulfilled
in that particular, that my grove fhould prove an
afyiurn or fanftuary to him.
Weary and faint, hungry and thirfty, undoubt-
edly muft this poor creature be, fupported chiefly
by the vivacity of fpirit, and uncommon tranfports
of joy that his deliverance occafioned. Here I gave
him bread and a bunch of raifins to eat, and water
to. drink, on which he fed very cheerfully, to his
exceeding refreshment. I then made him a conve-
nient bed, with a parcel of rice ftraw, and a blan-
ket upon it, (a bed which I ufed myfelf lometimes)
and then pointing to it, made figns for him to lie
down to fleep, upon which the poor cieature went
to take a welcome repofc.
Indeed he was a very comely, handfomc, young
fellow, extremely well-made, with ftraight long
limbs, »ot too large, tall and. well ihaped and as
 as I could reckon about twenty-fix years of ags*
His countenance had. nothing in it fierce or furly,
kut rather a fort of majefty in his face: and yet efpe-
cialiy when, he fmiled, he had all the fweetnefs of an
European, His hair was not^curled like wool, as
many of the blacks are, but long and black, with
the moft beautiful, yet carelefs, treffes fpreading over
his ihoulders. He had a very high and large fore-
head, with a great vivacity and fparkling iharpnefs irr
his" eyes. His fkin was_not fo tawny as the Virgini-
ans, Brazilians, or other Americans; but rather of
it bright dun, olive colour, that had fomething agree-
able in ft, though not very eafy to give a description
of. His face was round and plump, with a fmall
, very different from the flatnefs of the negroes,
a pretty fmall mouth, thin lips, fine teeth, very well1
fet, arid white as the driven fnow. In a word, fuch
handfome features, and exact fymmetry in every parr.r
made me oonfider, that I had faved the life of an In~
c)ian prince, ao lefs graceful and accompliihed than
the great Oroonoko, whofe memorable behaviour and
unhappy contingencies of life have charmed the world,,
both to admiration of his per fon, and compaiEon to
his fufferings.
But let him be either prince or peafant, all my
happinefs centered in this, that I had now got a good
fervant or companion, to whom as he deferved, I
was refolved to prove a kind mailer and laftirig
friend.
He had not, 1 think, ftept above an hour, when he
awakened again, and while I was-milking my goats
bard by, out he runs from the cave towards me in<
my inclofure, and laying binrvfelf down on the ground
fh the lowed proftration, made.all the antic gelkires
imaginable, to exprefs his thankfulnefs to me for be-
ing his deliverer. Í confefs^ though the manner of his
behaviour feemed to be ludicrous enough to occafion
îaughter -> yet I v,as very much moved at his affection,
fo that my heart melted within me, fearing he might
die away inexcefs of joy, like reprieved malefactor»;
efpecially as I was incapable cither to let him blood,
or admimikr phyfic. My man, for the laft ceremony
of obedience, laid down his head again upon the
ground, clofe to my foot, and kt my other foot upon
his head, ás he had done before, making all the figns
of fubjeétion, fervitude, and fubmiffion imaginable,,
to let me underitand he would ferve me as long as his
life endured. As i underftood him in many things,
I made him fenfible J was very wtll plea/ed witk him;
and, in a little time, I began to fpeak to him, and
learn him how to talk to me again.
In the firft place, I made him underftand his name
was to be Friday, becaufe it was upon that day I
faved hr* life: I then taught him to fay Mafter,
which I made him fenfible was to be my  ; I
likewife taught him to fey Yes and Ne, and to knew
what they meant. I gave him fome milk in an earthen
pot, making him view me .while I drank it before
him, and foaked my bread in it; I gave him a cake
of bread, and caufcd him to foak it likewife, to
which , he readily confented. making figns of the
greateft fatisfaèYion imaginable. .
All that night did I keep him there; but no fooner
did the morning light appear, when I ordered him to
arife and come along with me, with certain tokens
that 1 would give him fome clothes like mine, at
which he feemed very glad, being itark eaked, with-
out the leaft coyermg whatever. As we pafled by the
place where the two men had been interred, my man
pointed dire<SHy to their graves, fhewing me the marks
'ihat he bai made to find them again, giving me to
wnderiland, by figns, that we ibould dig them up,
smd devour them. At this I appeared extremely dif-
pleafed, exprefled my utmoft abhorrence, as if I
would vomit at the apprehensions of it, beckoning
with my hand to come away, which he djd witk the
greateft reverence and. fubmiffion. After this I con-
duced him to the top of rhe hill, to riew if the reft
of the favages were yet remaining there ; but when!
looked tluotïgk my jaerfpeâive glafs, 1 could fee n*
appearance of them, nor of their canoes; fo that it
was very evident they never minded their deceafed
companions whom we had flaia; which if they had,
they weuld furely have fearçhed for, or left one boat
behind for them to follow, after they returned from
their purfuit.
Curiofity^ and a defire of fatisfaclion, animating
me with courage to fee this icene of barbarity, I took
my man Friday with me, putting a fword into his
hand, with the bow and arrows at his back, which I
perceived he could ufe very dexteroufly, caufing him
to carry one guivfor me, and I\two for'myfelf; and
thus equipped, againft all attacks, away we marched
directly to the place of their bloody entertainment.
But when I came there, I was ftruck with the utmofl
horror at fo dreadful a fpe£hcle, whilft Friday was
no way concerned about it, being no doubt in his
turn, one of thofe deveurers* Here lay feveral hu-
man bones, there feveral pieces of humair flefh, half
eaten, mangled and feorched, whilft fíreams of blood
ran promifcuouily as water« from a fountain. As I
was mufing on this dreadful fight, Friday took all the
pains he could by particular figns, t*>, make me un-
derftand, that they had brought over four prifoners to
feaft upon,-three of whom they had eaten up, and
that he was the fourth, pointing to himfeli: that
there having been a bloody battle between them and
his great king, in the juÛ defence of whom he was
taken prifoner, with many others; all of thefe were
carried oft* to different places to be devoured by their
conquerors; and that it was his misfortune to be
brought hither by thefe wretches for the very fame
purpofe,
A iter I was made fcnfible of thefe things, I caufed
Friday to gather thofe horrid remains, and lay them
together upon a heap, which I ordered to be fet on
, and burnt thern to afhes: my man, however,
retained the nature of a cannibal, havrng a han-
kermg ftomach after fome of the flefh,: but fuch an
extreme abhorrence did I exprefs at the leaft -
ance of.it, that bedurft not but conceal it: for £
made him very fenfmJe^ that if he offered any fuck
thing, 1 would certainly (hoot him*
This feeing done, J carried my man with meto mf
caille, and gave him a pair of linen drawers, which Ï
had taken out of the poor gunner's cheÄ before men*
ticmed; and which, with a link? alteration* fitted him
very well: in the next place I made hjrn a jerkin o£
goat íkin, fuch asvmy ifciH was able to »manage, -end
indeed I thought myfelf then a tolerable good tailor*
I gave him alio a,cap, which I made out ci a harer$
fkin, very convenient and faflaionable* Thus hcmg
clothed tolerably well, my man was no lefs proud of
his habit* than I was in feeing him in it. Indeed he
went very au&wardJy at firft, the drawers being
heavy on his thighs, not ufed to bear any weight, tt&â
the fleeves of the waiftcoat galled his fhoulders, and
the infide of his arms \ but by a little eaimg whet®
he complained they hurt him, and by uii-r?g himfelf t»
ithem, at length he took to them very well.
My next concern was, where 1 ihould lodge him;
&nd thai I might do well.by him, and yet be perfectly
eafy myfelf, 1 erected a tent for him in the vacant
place between my two fortifications, in the infide oí
the lan% and the outfide of the firfl:; and as there was
an entrance or door into my cave, J made a formal
iff raed door-cafe, and a dooc to open on the iniidej
I barred it up in the night time, taking in  ladders
too, fo that, was my man to prove treacherous, ther*
could be no way to come at me in tfoein-fide of my
innormoft wall* without making fo much noife in get*
ting over that it mull needs waken me; for my firH
wall had now a complete roof over it of long rjotes^
Spreading over my tent, and leaning, up to the iide of
the mountain, which was again laid crofs with fmalier
fticks inftead of laths, and thatched over a great thick-
fiefs with the rice flraw, which was as itrorag as recd^
*nd át the hole of the place,, left on  fco go.in
or out by the ladder, I had placed a kind of a trap door*
which, if it haibcea attempted  the-©utfide^ weuü
&
ffívt have opened at all, but have fallen down/antî made
 great noife; and as to my weapons, every aight I
.took them all to my bed fide,
But there was no oçcafion for this precaution \ for
Purely never mafier had a more fincare, faithful and
vloving fervant than Friday proved-to «me. Without
paffion, fullenncfs, or defign, perfectly obliging and
.engaging, his affections were as much tied to me, as
,thofe of a child to.his parçRts; and 1 might venture to
Jay, he would have Sacrificed his life for the having
mine, upon aay occafion whatfoever. And indeed the
.many tcftimonieshê gave me of this, fufficiently eon-
vvinced roe that I had no occafton to ufe thefe precau-
„ lions. And here I could not but reflect- with great
wonder, that however it hath pleafed the Almighty in
;his providence, and in the government of the creation,
. <to ta«ke from fo great a part of the world of his crea- ~
rtures, fche nobleír ufes to which their_ faculties, and
(the powers of their fouls are adapted; yet that he
has beftowed upon thera the fame reafon, affections.,
¿fentiments of kindnefs, and obligation, paflions of re-
sentment, fmcerity, fidelity, and all the capacities of
vdoing and receiving good that he has given us; and
that when he is gracioufly pleafed to offer them occaíl-
,ons of exerting thefe, they are as ready \ nay, .more
•ready to apply them to the proper ufes for which
¿they were bellowed., than we often are. Thefe thoughts
would aiake me roehnchol.y, especially when I confide*-
;red how-mean a ufe we make of all thefe, çwen though
yrc have thefe powers enlightened by the Holy Spirit of
?God, and by the knowledge of the world,, ns an addition
to our un der (landing;; and why it has pleafed the hea-
venly .wifdom-to conceal the like faving knowledge
•from fo ma»y millions of fouls, who would certainly
malee a much better ufe of it than generally iTwnkiftd
do at this time* Thefe reflections would fometimes
Jead me fo far,-as-to invade the fovereignity of Provi-r
^dence, and, as it were, arraign the juftice of fuch an,
arbitrary difpofition of thing*, that fliculd obA ure
$fcät ügbt ítom feme, and  ¡t to others, and yet
expeél a lib duty from alb But I clofed it up, checks
ing my thoughts with this contlufion ; firß, That
Were ignorant of that right and law by which theie
fhou^d be condemaed -, but as the Almighty- was ne-
ceíTarily, and by ttee nature of his offence,-infinitely
juir and holy; fo it could not be otherwiTe, but that if
theie creatures were all deftineá to abfense from him--
felf, it viras on account of finning againft that light y
which, as the fcripturer fays^ was a law to them/elves,-
and bjfrfuch rules as their confeieaces would acknow-
ledge to be juft, though the fi'rfl: foundation was not
difctfvered to.us. h$\àyfecondly, That ftill as we werev
the clay in the hand of the potter, no veilsl could thus4
fay to him, Why hafi: thou faihiooed me after this^
manner í"
I bad not been above two or tkree days rèturrfed to*
my caftle, but my chief defign was, how Ï fliould bring
Friday off from his horrid way of feeding-; and, to-
tolee Prom him that inhuman relifh he 'by nature had1"
been acsuftomed to, I thought it my daty to let him-
tafte other fiefli, which might the rather tempt him to*
the fame abhorrence I* fo often exprefled agftirift their
accurfed way of living. Upon which,1 one morning"
I'took him out"with me, with an intention to kill a*
kid out of the flock, arid bring it home, and drefs it.
As I was going, I perceived a ihe goat lying down in1
the fhade, and two young kids fitting by her, Imme- -
diately I catched hold of my man Friday, and bid-
ding him ft and ftill, and not ftir, 1 prefented my piece%
and fliot one of the kids. My poor fervant, who had!
at a diftance perceived me kill his adverfary, and yet
did not know by what means, or how it was done,-
flroo'd trembJing and furprifed, and looked fo amazed,,
that: I thought he would have funk into the earth.-
He did not fee the kid 1 aimed at, or behold I bad1
killed it, but rippéd up his waiftcoat to fee if he was
not wounded, thinking my refolution was to kill him; •
for coming to me, he fell oh his knees, earneftly pro-
nouncing many things which I did not uaderftandr
v
fie meaning of; which at length I perceived wa9*
tfeat I would-not take %way his life.
Indeed 1 was much concerned to  him in that
condition ¿ where nature is upon the fevereft trial>
when the immediate hand of death is ready to put for
«•ver a period to tkh mortal life: and indeed fo much*
companion Had 1 to this creature, that it was with
#íñculty I refrained from tears. But, however, as
another -fort of countenance was neceflary, and ta
convince hira that J would do him no harm, 1 took
&,-Trailing, by the hand^ then laughed at him, and
pointing to the kid which I had (lain, made figns to
bjrn to fetch it, which accordingly he did. No lefs
£t»rious was he in'viewing how the cFeature was kib»
led, than lie was before in beholding the Indian %
wh.kb¿ whilje he was admiring, I charged my gun
again* and piefently perceived a great fowl like a hawk>
perching upon a.tre-e within (hot \ and therefore, ta
íet Friday undfcrüand what I was going to do, called
 to me agma* pointing at the fowl,, which I
Jfound to be a; parrot, I made bim underftarid that I
wauid (boot and  that bird ; accordingly I fired,,
9-nd bade hira look, when'/ immediately he faw the
parrot fall down* A^ain he flood like one amazed,,
ç.otwith.ftanding all I had faid to him : and the moré
confounded he was, beçaufe he did not perceive me
put any thing into my gun. Had I allowed it he
would have worfhipped me, but as for the gun, he
would not fo much as touch it for feveral days but
would come and communicate his thoughts toit,,
and tali to it,, as if the fenfeleis piece had under-
ftood and anfwered him all this I could perceive
him do* when he thought my back was turned, the
chief intent of which was^ to de fire it not to kill
bjm, as I.afterwards carne to underftando
X never flrove ta prevent his admiration, nor hin-.,
der  fronvthei'e cómkal geftlires he uíed on fuçh
weafions; but when his. aftomfoment was a little
©ever, I n^de.tokens tp him to run and fetch the par^
$SA tJw£ ífeot 4 Vaich accordingly he did^ flaying.
fome time longer than ufual, by reafon the bird, nol:
being quite dead, had fluttered fome way farther from *
the place where fhe fell. In the mean time, as he^'
was looking for her, I took the advantage of charging
my gun again, trm fo I might be ready for any othes"
mark that offered ; but nothing more occurred at that'
time. So I brought home the kié, and the fame e-
vening took oft' the ikin, arid divided the carcafe as -
well as I could. Part of the fleih ] dewed and boiled, *
in a pot Î had for this purpofe* And then fpreading
my table, 1 fat down,' giving my man fome of  to
eat, who was wonderfully pleafed, and feeœed to like
it very well : but what was the moft fufprifing to birr*
was to fee me eat fait with it: upon which-be made
me underftand, that the fait was very bad for me ¿
when patting a little into his mouth, he feemed to
naufeate.it in fuch a manner, as to fpit and fputter at
it, an4 then warned his mouth with frefh water: but
to lhew him how contrary his opinion: was to mine3
1 put fome meat in my mouth without fait, and feigned
to fpit and fputter as much for want of it* as he had
done at it; yet all this proved of no fignification to
Friday; and it was a long while before he could endure
any kit in his meat or broth, and ever* then >& fmalî
quantity. < .
Thus, having fed him fufficien^y with, boiled meat
ami broth at that time, the next day I was refolved
to fea ft him with a roafted piece of the kia\ - And
having no fpit to fallen it, nor jack to turn it, I made
ufe of that common artifice which many of the peo-
ple of England have,, that is, to fet two poles upon
each fide of the fire, and one acrofs on the top3 hang**
ing the meat thereon with a firing, and fo turning'it
round continually* roaft it in the lame manner as we
read blo>dy tyrants of old, cruelly roafted the holy
martyrs.. Ibis practice caufed great admiration m
my man Friday, being, quite .another way than that
to ."wnich the favages were accuftoraed. But when -he
cam¿ to taftc the fwee-toefs and tendernefe of the fleft^
fee expreffed his-entire fatisfa<Stioa above a thouf«¿
*3'
different ways. And as f could not but under-
ñand his meaning, you may be fure I was as won-
derfully pleafed* elpecklly when he made it alio
very piain to me* that he would neveiv while he
ti'ved, eat man's fl'efh more.
It is now high time I fhould' fet my new fervanfr
to work 5 fo Wext day I put him to beat out {owe?
corn, and fift it in the feme manner as I had done:
before.. And really 'the fellow was very quick and
handy m thé ex£cutÍGft of any thing I ordered him,
to go, a bout ^ ¡1 madb h}m umlerftand that it was to
îïiak<^ bread for us to eat* and afterwards let him fee
fne bake it.  mort, he did every thing as I or-
dered him in  little time as well as I could perform,
it my fei f.
• Bu-t now confideriftg that I had two mouths to
feed, inftead of one,, it was neceffary that I mufti
provide more ground for my h&rveft,. and plant as
Jàrget quant ify of com; upon Which I marked out?
a larger ptecfc'of land, fencing it in tiró fame man-
tier as- I had do-ríe before; in, thö execution of whi 
I muft give Friday this good v\ord., th&t no man
Gould' wm% harder, or with 'better will tha^h.e'-did:-
and when¡  made- him fenfible that it was for brea efe
to ferve him as well a$ me^he then very paffionately
itiade me underñand,. that he thought 1 had mucfe
inore labour on his account, than 1. had for myfelf;;
and that no «pains or diligence ihould be wanting in
Äim> if I would but! direct him, in thofe works*
wherein he might proceed.,
1 muft certainly own,, that this was the moil plea-
font year. I ever hud in the iiland; for after tome
tïm@ Friday began to talk pretty well; and under-
ftüodvthe naines of thofe things which I was wont
to call for,, and, the places where I ufed to fend
Kim* So that my long filent tongue, which had?
Been ufeiefa fo many years,, except in an exclama-
tory  either for deliverance or, b te flings,,
* \ began* to; be occupied,, in. teaching,, and talk—\
ä*g to  mm, Friday l-'£qi mdeeá; I, inä fu-ch ;
fingubr fatisfa&ron in the fellow h-imfelf, fo inno-
cent d M his' fimple and unfeigned honefty appear
rnote and more to me every day> that I really be-
gan entirely to love Mm ;, and for his part 1 believe
there was no love loft, and that his nature had
been more charmed by my exceeding kind nef?,, and
bis affeftions more placed upon me, than any other
object whatfoever among his.own countrymen. I
©nee bad a great inclination to try^f he had any
hankering inclination to his own country again r
and by this time having learned English fowell**
that he could give me tolerable anivvers to-'*£frjr
quefiion which 1.demanded^ I aiked him whether
that nation to which he belonged ever conquered
in battle ?• Ttós" queftion made Friday to frrrile, and
to which he smfwered yes*, yes, we always fight the.
better; as much as to fay, they always got the bet*-
ter in fight. Upon which we proceeded on the
following difcoiufe: You: fay, fard J, that you al-*
ways fight the better; why then, Friday, bow
came you to be taken prifoner?
Friday. But for ail that,, my nation beat much..
^ Mq/ier. How, fay you, beat!: if your nation
beat them„ bow came you to be-fa-ten?:
Friday. They more many mans than my nation
in the place where me was,, they take one two,, three,.,
and me: my natio% much overheat them in the
yonder place where me no was,, there my nation>
inans beat one, two, three great toufands*.
Maßer. Then why did not yow men recover 
from the hands of your enemies?
Friday* They run one, two, or three,, and me;:
they make all go into the ca r>oo my nation have
no canoo that time. ,
Maßer, 'Tis very well, Friday; but what does-
your nation do with the prifoners they take? Do*
they cany thèra away and eat them as- ifaefe havé;
done?
Friday* Yes, yes,  nation, eat mam tpo^ esA
; Maßer. To what place do they carry them to be
devoured? .. , • • ,-
, Friday. Go to otbet nations-where they think.
Màjlfts Do they bring them hither?;
Fridqy* Yes, come over hither, come over othet
place,', . , ; - •
Maßer*, And have you been with them here,.
Friday? T';' J,
Friday *.Yç$9 me,been here,, (pointing to the- north«
 of thejßand, keing the fide where they ufed to .land,)
,^p4;us. having gotten iwlpf account i c;ouW; from
'•^¡pjin,fl plainly .underftood, that he had 
as bad as any of the reft of the cannibab, having,
been formerly among the, fa vagès who ufed to come
on ftore On the tartheft part of the ifland, upon the
fame bloody occafjon as be was brought hither for tr
and fomç time  Lçaraed him to> that placé
where he,pointed r and'1; no fooner did he eomc
there, but he prefently knew the ground, fignifying
to -me that he was once there when <they eat up
twenty men, two women and a young child; but
as he could hot explain the number in Englifh, he
did it hy lb many ftones in a row, making a fign ta
me to count them* • ;<•.•
"ii\i\s paffage I have thé rather mentioned, be-
laufe it led to things more important and ufe fui
for me t>o know : for..after 1 h&d this fatisfaclory
difcourfe with him, my next queftion was, how far
it was from,the,,ifland to the Chore, and whether the
çanoea were, not often ioft in the ocean? to which
he aniw< red, there was no danger; that no 
wçre wer toft; but tbaÇ after a little way out to fea
there!was a ítrong/cyireñt, and, a wind always one
way in the afternoon, This -Í thought at firft t.cM
be no nun?e than the fers of the tide, of going ou&;
or coming inj" but: 1 afterwards Uïîtlcr.ftoqd it wa^:
QQCnüonxid by the gr<Nt, draught and r^ftux of thé
míglny river Oi oonôk, in the mouth or gulph ojF
^hjciv. I ,<<[ my'kingdom lay y '.mà that the
land which!pecceived to the W. ^nd:N.-W.^iuiÄ
be the great jfland Trinidad, on the north of the
river. À thoufand queftions (if that would fatisfy
me) did I aik Friday, about the nature of the coun*
try, the fea, the courts  inhabitants, and what
nations were neareft them; to which queftions the
poor fellow declared ail he knew, with the greateft
opennefs, aod utmoft fmcerity. When 1 demanded
of him the particular^ a m es of the various nßtions,
of his fort of people,  could only anfwer me in
general that they were called Carabe, Hence it was
I coniidered that thefe mart be the Canbbees, fa
much taken notice of by our maps, to be on that
part of America, which reaches from the mouth &f
the river Oroonoko, to Guiana, and fo an to St.
Martha.. Then Friday proceeded to tell me, that,
up a great way beyond the moon, as much as ta
fay, beyond the fetting of the moon, which muft
he Weft from their country, there dwelt white
bearded men, fuch as Í was, pointing to'my whif-
teersp and that they kill much mans. 1 was not igno->
rant with what barbarity the Spaniards treated
thefe creatures; that I prefently concluded it
muft be them, whofe cruelties haâ fpread through*
out America, to be remembered even to iucceeiU
ing generations.
Well, you may be fure, this knowledge, which
the imperfect information of my man had led m©
to, was very comfortable to me, and made me fa
curious as to a(k him, how 1 might depart from this
¡iland, and get among ft: thofe white men? He told
me, Yesr yesp, I might go in two canoeu In two ca-
noes, thought I, what does my man mean? furely
he means one for himfelf,and another for me: and
if not, how muft two canoes hold me without being
joined, or one part of my body being put in one*
and another in the other? And, indeed it was a
Iqng time before I undctftood his meaning, which
was, that it muft be a large boat, as big as two ca*
noes, able to bear with the waves, and not fa liable
,be ovçrwhehwed as oac uauft Uç* >
I believe there is rió tf ate of life'but what may
-be happy, if people would but endeavour-lor their
part to make it fo. He is not the happieft man
that has the- moft ricb^, but he that is  tear-'
with what he hath* Before I had my fervant, I
thought myfelf milerabJe till-1 had him; and now
that I had enjoyed the happy benefits of him, I
flill complained, and beggecjp deliverance from a*
place of retirement, eafe, and plenty, wkere pro-
vidence had fufficiently blefféd me/ In a word,,
from this time I entertained (orne hopes, that one
time or other 1 might find an opportunity to make:
iny cfcape from this ifland,- and that this poor fa*
vage might be a great furtherance .thereto.
AH the time fince my man became fo intelligent^
as to underftand and ipeak to me, I fpjred no pains-
nor diligence to inftrucl him according tomy poor
fliarc of knowledge in the principles of religion,-
and the adoration that he-ought to pay to the True
&ed. One time, a s 1 very well remember, 1 aiked<
him who made him? At firft the innocent creature^
did not underftand what I meant,but rather thought'
I afked him who was his fathei? upon which I took
another way to make him fen lib le, by demanding-
from him an anfwer to this queftion. Friday, laid-
I, who is it that made the fea, ttôsground whereon
we walk, and all thefe hills and"'woods which we*
* behold? And here, indeed, I did not mifs my in-
tention: for he told me it was old ßenamuckee-
(the God whom I fuppofed thefe lavages adored)
who lived a-gre-at way beyond all. But as for his
attributes, poor Friday was an utter ftranger. He
could' defcribe nothing of this, gjjeat perlón and
all that he could'fay. was, that he was very old,,
much older than Uae fea and land, the moon, or
the ftars. Friday, laid I again, if this great and
old perfon has made all things in the world, how
comes it to pais, that all things, and you in-parti-
cular do not adore and worihip him?" upon this,
looking, veiy gra-ve^ with a perfecl look of inno-
«, he replied, Maßer, of all things fay  to him*
by which it may be reaionably fuppofed he meant
adoration. And where, bid I, dp the people of
your country go when they die? He aniweied to
Senarnuckee. What, and thole people that are eaten
-up, do they go there? Benamuckee? iaid he, love 'em
dearly.; me pray to  in de cdnoe, and Bena-
muck&e would love me  dey.eat me all up.
Such diicouries as theie had 1 with my man, and
fuch made rae fenfibîe, that the true God is wor-
shipped, though under imperfecl fimilitudes; and
that the falle adoration which the heathens give to
•their imaginary deity, is as great an argument of
thé divme eíTence, as the mod learned atheifts
^falfely rfo called) can bring igainft it: for God
will be glorified in his works, let the denomination
be what it will; and. I cannot be of that opinion
which fome conceive., that God fhould decree men
to be damned for want of a right notion of faith,
in a place where the wiido.m of the Almighty has
not permitted it to be preached: therefore cannot
.but conclude, that fin ce obedience is the beít facri-
fice, thefe poor creatures, aótirig by thai light and
knowledge which they are poffeííed of may un-
doubtedly 1 obtain a happy faivation, though not
that enjoyment with Chriil, as his faints, confe flora,
and martyrs ra.ufi enjoy.
But leaving thefe determinations afide, more fit
for divines than me to diícufs, i began to i nil ruft
iny fervrint in the knowledge of the true Deity, in
which the directions of God's Holy Spiiit aflifted
me.  lifted up my hands to heaven, and pointing
thereto, told him, that the great Maker of heaven
and earth "lived there: that as his iofinite power
fafhioned this world out of a eonfufed chaos, and
made it in that beautiful frame which we behold,
fo he governs and preferves it by his unbounded
knowledge, fovevcigo gveatnefs, and peculiar pro*
vidence: that he was omnipotent, coukhvdo every
thing for us, and take every thing away : 'that he was
a rewarder and pimiihçr of good and evil a&ions*
that there was nothing but what he knew, no fh oughts
fo fceret but what he could bring to light; and thu«t
by degrees, I opened his eyes, and dfefcribed to him the
manner of the creation of the world, the fit u at ion of
paradife, the trahfgreffion of our firft parents, the
wickednefs of God's peculiajyjeople, and the univer-
fal fins and abominations  whole earth, When
thefe things were implanted in his mind, I told him,
that as God's juftice was equal to his mercy, he
fefolved to deftroy this world, till his fon Jefus Chrift
interpofed in our behalf $ and, to procure our redemp-
tion obtained leave of his heavenly father to come
down from Heaven into the world, where he took
"human nature upon him, mftrucbd us in our way töf
eternal life, and died as a facri fice for our fins > that
he wai now afee tided into heaven, mediating for our
f>ardon, delivering our petitions, and obtaining all
thofe good benèfits which we alk in his name, by
humble and hearty prayers, all which were heard at
the throne of Heaven. As very frequently I ufed to
inculcate things into his mind, Friday one day told me,
that if our great God could hear us beyond the fun,
he muft furely be a greater God than their Benamuckee^
who lived but.a little way off, and yet Could not hear
them till they afcended the great mountains where he
dwelt, to fpeak to him. What, (aid 1, Friday, did you
go thither to (peak to him too? He anfwered, No,
they never went that were young men, none but old
men, called their Oowakakee> meaning the Indian
Vrieirs, who went to fay 0, (fo he called faying their
prayers) and they returned back, and told them what
Benamuckee faid, from hence, I could not but ob-
ferve how hâppy we chrifHans , who have God's
immediate revelation for our certain guide; and that
our faith is neither miiled, nor our rcafon impofed
upon,,by any fet of men, fuch as thefe Indian im-
poftors.
But, ta clear up this palpable cheat to my man
Friday, i-told him that the pretence of their ancient
men going up to the mountain to fay  to their God
Denumuckee was an impofture, and that their bringing
back an anfwer was all a íham, if not worfe, for that if
there was any fuch thing fpoken to them, iure] it mult
proceed from an infernal fpirit. And here I thought it
neceflary to enter into a long difcourie with him, which
1 did after this mannerw
Friday, (aid 1,/you muft know, that before this
world was made, there was an Almighty Power ex-
ifiing, by wbofe power all things were' made, and
whofe Majefty fhal 1 have no end. To be glorified
and adored by beings of a heavenly nature, he créai ed
angels and arch-angels, that is, glorified fpirits re-
fembling himfelf, to encompafs his throne, eternally
Tinging forth his praife in the moil heavenly founds
and divine harmony. And, among this heavenly
choir, Lucifer bore a great fway, as being then one
of the peculiar favourites of thefe ccleftial abodes; but
he, contrary to that duty which he owed his heavenly
Sovereign, with unbounded ingratitude to his divine
Creator, not only envied him that adoration which
was his due, but thought to ufurp that throne which
he had neither power to keep, nor title to pretend
to. He raifed a difienfion and civil war in Heaven,
and had a number of angels to take his part. Un-
bounded folly! ftupendous pride ! thus to hope foii
viélory, and afpire above his powerful Creator ! The
Deity, ngt fearful of fuch an enemy, yet juftly pro-
voked at this rebellion, commiffioned his arch-angcl
Michael to lea<d forth the heavenly hoff, and give
him battle; the advantage of which was quickly
perceived, by Satan's being overthrown, and the prince
of the air (for  the devil was called) with all his
fallen angéls, driven headlong into a difmal place,
which is called Hell.
The recital of this truth made my man give the
greateft attention, and he expreííed a great fatisfaftioa
by his geftures, that God had fent the devil into the
deep hole* And then 1 defired him to give great heed
to what 1 bad further to fay.
M
No fooner, proceeded I, was God freed from, and
the Heavens clear of this arcivtraitor, but the father
fpeaks to the Son and Holy Spirit, who belonged to
bis effence, and were eQual to him in power and glory,
Come let us make man, laid he> in our own image, after
mrorpnlikenefs. Gen,, i. 26, to have dominion over the
creatures of the world which we have created. And,
thefe be intended fhould gloriffhim in Heaven, accor-
ding to their obedience in. this ftate of probation on
tfartb, which was, as it were, to be the fchool to train
Jtjjem up for thefe heavenly man fions.
bjow, Satan feeing him foiled; yet that God had
jaot taken the power from him as a prince of the air,
which power Heaven defigned he mould retain, where-
by his creatures might be tried; in revenge for the dif*.
grace he had received, he tempts Adam's wife, Eve,
fo tafte of the tree of knowledge of good and evil,
which God had forbidden. He appears to her in the
(hapeof a ferpent, then a moil beautiful creature, and
tells her, that it was no better than an impofition which
God had put upon her dnd her hufband, not to eat of
fchajt fair fruit which he had created; that the tafte
thereof would make them jmmortal like God himfelf;
$nd confequently as great and powerful as he, Upon
which fhe not only eat thereof herfelf, but made her
hufband eat alfo, which brought them both under the
heavenly difpleafufe,
Here Friday expreilèd a great concern; Ah, poor
rnans! cried he, naughty womans! nctugkty devil I make
God not love, de mans> make mans like devil himfelf.
. Friday, faid I, God ftill loved mankind, and tho' the
devil tempted human nature fo far, he would not faffcr
feim to have an ebfolutt power over them.
I have told you before of his tender love to his people,
till they, like Lucifer, difobeyed his commands and
rebelled againft him; and even then, how Jefus Chrifl,
his only for?, came to fave finnere. But il ill every
 that lives in the world is under temptation and
£rial. The devil has yet a power, as prince of the «ir,
fp fvggeft evil cogitations in our à>mds, and prompt u*
:úñ to wicked aftions, that he might glory in our ¿ef^
trusión* Wbátévdr evil thoughts We have, proceed'
from hirrtj 'fo that God? in this óüy &iftr-efs>exp'é£b vre*
jihöuld'apply óiir'feiVes ta him by fervent prayer for
fpè'edy rèdrefs. He is not like Bcnarhudce/io let herd
come near him but Ooxualakee, lut fuffers fhé"people?
as well as prieffsto offej them fe Ives at his fee't,- thereby
to be delivered from the'power and temptation of thor
• devil.. '• . ' ,
Bût though at firit my man Friday èxpfefled fomé*
concernât the'w'kkedneís ot Lucifer, Tfodnd-it riot
fo eafy to imprint the ri'ght notions of him in his-
mind, as it was about the divine efferie'e of God: fo*
there naturejdffifted me in all-my arguiüerits fo ßiew
to him plainly the necéffity of a great c^uie, and*
over-ruling governing po#er, of a fecret directing;
providence, and. of the equity and reafonableneis*
'of paying adoration to our-Creator; #her€as-therei
appeared nothing of all this in the notibn of an evil
fpirit, of his firfr beginning, his nature, and above'
allr of his inclination to evil a&ions,- and his-
ftower to tempi us to the like.. And indeed this1
únléarned Indian, by the mere; torce of nature^
/puzzled me with one particular q;ueftióñ¿- more than*
çver I could have expefted*'
I had, one'day,/ beeri talking to him of the om.^
nipotent power of God, and his infinite abhorrence'
of fin, infomueh that the fcriptures ftyfed him 0
Çônfuming fire to all the workers of iniquity; and
that it was in his powerr whenever he pleaied, to51
deftroy aM the world in a moment, thie greater part
éf which are' continually offending '-
Whenr with a ferious attention, he: had lifteried-
a great while to what 1 laid, after I been telling:
In to h o w the devil was God's enemy in the hearts^
of men, and ufed all his malice and flcillfo defe3«f-
„ the good defrgns of Providence; arid deftroy the-
kingdom of Chriit mthe world, and fo forth > Veryr
well, mailer, laid Friday, you lay God is fo ftrohg^
fb gyeat^ is he- not much firöngj muih rni|btito
mir'
than the naughty devil? To be fine, Friday, faid
I, God is more-wife, and much ftronger than the
Jerpent: he is above the devil, which makes us,,
pray to him, that he would tread down Satan under
kis feet, enable us to. refift the violent; temptations,
ani quench his.fiery darts. Why then, anfwered"
Friday quickly, if God, as you fay, has much ßrong,
much might as the devil, why God no kill devil, make no
more tempt, no more do wicked.
You may be certain, J was ftrange.ly furprized at
this queftion of my man's \ and though an'old man,
I was but a young doclor, and confequently 'very
ill qualified for a cafuift, or a refolver of intricate
, doubts in religion., and, as it required fome.time
for me to ftudy for an aniwer, 1 pretended not to
bear him, nov-to afk him what he laid: but fo ear-
ned was he for ananiwer, as not to forget his quef-
tion, which he repeated'in the very fame broken
words as above. When I had recovfrcd myfelf a^
little, Friday, faid I, God will ot laß punt/h him feverely,
.being referved for .judgment, and is to be cajl into the
bottomlefs pit, to remain infre everlafling* But.all this.;
did not Satisfy Friday; for, returning upon me, he'
.repeated my words, reserve at last, me no un-
derßand;. hut, xvhy not kill devil now, not fill devil,
grèàt, great while ago? Friday, faid 1, you may as
aík me, why Gód does not kill you and me, .
when by our wicked 'actions,.we fo much offend
his divine rnajefty? He gives us time to re-
pent bf our fins, that thereby we may obtain par-
don. At thefe words obtain pardon^ Friday muled a'
great wh'ilfr; apd, at Jaft, looking me ftedfaflly in
t he f.ice, Well, well, faid he, that's very x,vell; fo you,
1, devil, all wicked mans, all preferve^, repent, God par- ~
don.all. .'
Indeed here I was run down to the Jaft extremity,
when it became very evident to me, how mere'na-
turai notions will guide reafottabje creatures to the
knowledge of a Deity, and to the hdmage due.to
the iuprème being of Gpd; but, however, nothing
But' divine revelation can form the knowledge of
Jefas Cbtift, and of a redemption purchaied for
us, of i he mediator of the new covenant,-and' of
an intercesor at the footftool of God's throne ;'andP-
therefore,- the gofpel of our Lord and Saviour Je~
fusChrilï ; that is, the Word and Sphit ®f God^
prom/fed for the guide and íanótifier of his peoples-
are the moft neceffary iaftructors of the íouls oí1
men, in the faving' knowledge of the Almightjv
and the means to attain eternal happinefs*
And now I found it neceffary to put an end/ to*
this difcq.urfe between my man and me; for which"
purpoíe 1 rofe up haftily, and made as if I had fome*
occafion to go out,.fendingFnVayfor fomethingthaff-
was a good way off» 1 then'fell-on my knees- and1
befeeched God that he would infpire me fo ßr'as t&*
ûwde this poor lavage in the knowledge of Chriflv
When he returned again f I entered into a long dif-^
courfe with him, upon the fubjeéb of the world V
redemption by the Saviour of \\T and the doñime'
of repentance preached'from heaven, together with'1
an holy fn'th of our bleffed Redeemer Jefus Chrift
and then I procecded4o explain to him,-according;
to my weak capacity, the reafon why our: Saviour'
took not on him the nature of angels, bur rather'
the feed ' of- Abraham y- and how the fallen-angeh^
had no benefit by that ademption ;* and, laitly<>>
that he came only to the loft iheep of the houle of1
Ifrael, and the like. God knows 1 had more &h+-
cerity than knowledge, what  believe every body
irhat jaéts upon the fame principle will-find, • that  iu<
laying heavenly truths open before him 1 inföTihecif
and inihufted rnylelf In- many things thai either 
dixl :not know,, or had not perfectly- considered be-**
fore; fo that, however* this- poor1 creature ' might4
fee improved by my; inftru^ons, certain it is;-that ff
myielf had4 great reafon to be* tnankfivl to Provi-
dence for fending him to me». His company altóyed^
my grief, ançl made my habitation commniabfe
anïdp. when-I refined"thatthe folitary;life té whida{l1
I had been fo long confined, had made me look fur-
ther towards heaven, by making me the inftrumenf,
under Providence, to iave the life, and, for ought i
lnow> the foul of this poor fa vage, by bringing him
to the knowledge of Jefus Chrift% it caufed a fecrct
joy to fpread through every part'of my foul; and I
frequently rejoiced, that ever Í was brought to this
place, which I once thought the moil miferable part
of the world.
In this thankful frame of mind did I afterwards
continue, while I. abode on the iiland, and for three
years did my man and I live in the greateft enjoyment
of happinefs. Indeed, I believe the favage was as
good a Chrifl-ian as i; and 1 hope we were equally
penitent; and fuch penitents as were comforted and
reftored by God's Holy Spirit; for now we had the
word of the Lord to i rift ruft us in the right way, as
much a$ if we had been on the Englifti fbore.
By the confiant application 1 made of the Scrip-
tures, as I read them to my man Friday, 1 earneflly
endeavoured to*"make him underiland every part of it,
as much as lay in my power. Hè alio on the other
band, by his very ferious queftions and enquiries,
made sne a much better proficient in fcripture know-
ledge, than I íhouid have been by my own private
reading and ftudy. 1 niuft not omit another thing,
proceeding from the experience I had in my retire-
ment; it was that infinite and inexprefFib^e bleflïng,
the knowledge of God, through Jeíus Chrift, which
was fo plain and eafy to be underftood, as immedi-
ately to direel me to carry on the groat work of fin-
cere repentance for my fins, and laying hold of a Sa-
viour for eternal life., to a pradUcal ftated reformation,,
and obedience to all God's inftitutions, without the
¡afíiftance of any divine \ and efpecially by this fame
inftruâion, fo to enlighten this favage creature, as
to make him fo good a Chriftian, as few could ex-
ceed. And there was only this great thing wanting
that I had no authority .to adminifter the holy facra-
ment, that heavenly participation of Chrift V body and
blood, yet^ however, we retted ourfelves content,
that God would accept our defires, and according to
our faith, have mercy on us.
But what we wanted one way, was made yp in
another, and thatwas univerfal peace in our little
church. We had no difputes and wranglings about
the nature and equality of the holy, bjeffed, and un-
divided Trinity; no niceties in doclrine, or ichemes
of church government; no four or rnorofe diflenters
to impofe more fublimated notions upon us ; no pen-
dant ibphifters to confound us with unintelligible
myfteries: but, inflead of all this, we enjoyed the
moft certain guide to heaven ; that is, the word of
God: .be.fides which, we had the comfortable views
of his fpiric leading us to the truth, and making- us
both willing and obedient to the infhuclion of his
word.
.You may well fuppofe, that, by the frequent dif-
.courfe we had together, my man and 1 became moft
intimately acquainted, and that there was but very
little that I could fay, but what Friday underftood;
and indeed, he fpoke very fluently, though it was but
broken Englifb. 1 now took a particular pleafure in
relating all my adventures, especially thofe that oc-
curred fince my being caí} on this ifland. Î made
bim underfland that wonderful myflery, as he con-
ceived, of gunpowder and bullef, and taught him how
to (hoot. J alfp pre fen ted to him a knife, which-
pleafed him exceedingly, making him a belt, with a
frog hanging thereto, like thofe in which we wear
hangers in England ; and, inftead of a hanger to put
in the frog, 1 gave him a hatchet, which was not on-
ly as gpod, but even a better weapon upon many oc-
caiions. , in a word, my man thus accoutred, looked
upon himfclf as great as Don Quixote, when that ce-
lebrated champion went to combat the. windmill.
1 next gave him a particular description of the ter-
ritories of Europe, and in a particular manner of
Old England, the place of my nativity. 1 laid be-
fore bim the manner of our worihipping God3 our
behaviour one to another, and how we trade in (
totívery part of the univeife. I then told hiin my
misfortune in being Shipwrecked, mowing him as
 as I could the place where the (lup lay, which
had been gone long before ;. but Í brought, him to the1
ruins of my boat,, which before my whole ftrength
could not move, but now was almoft rotten and fallen-
to pieces. I obferved my man Friday, to view- this
boat with an uncommon curiofity; which, when he
had done, he ftood pondering a great while, and fatd-
nothing. At laft, fa id Jr Friday, what makes yów
ponder fo much? He replied, Ùmaßer,-me fee U--
boat come to place at my nation*
It was fome time, indeed, before I- underftood whafc
my man meant but examining itri&ly into it,, fr
"plainly found, that fuch another boat,-, refembling
mine, had1 come upon the country* where he dwelt:"
that is to (ay,-by his farther explanation,, that the.
boat was driven there through flrefs of' weather. It7
then came into my mind that fome European fhip*
having been caft away,' the poor diftreffed creatures
were forced to have recouffe to the boat to favc their
lives;  being all, as I thought,- drowned, I never
concerned myfelf to aik anything concerning th'emr
But my only enquiry was-about the boat, and what-
dfefcription my- man cotild give of. it^
Indeed Friday anfwertd my demands very weíl¿-
making every ihing very plain  my understanding
but beyond meafure wa* I fatisfied when he told me
with great warmth and ardour,, 0maßen, we fav&
white mans from' drown-; upon, which 1 immediately
"afke.d him,- if there were any white man*, as he called
them, in the boat;: esryes,A'aid he, the boat:full ^
veiy. full of white mansé How ra&ny> Friday laid I,,
Hereupon he numbered his fingers, and counted iyr
And when laiked him what became of them all* and«
whether they lived" or not ?.. hé replied, Tesr ma¡lerr:
they all live,, they, be-live among my nation*- This inform
matioiv put freflv thoughts into my hëad,.- that thefe'
muff be thofe ver^ meii who before I' colluded had'
been {wallowed up in thé ocean, after they had left
their (hip, that had (truck upon the rocks of my
kingdort), and after efcaping the fury of the deep,
landed upon the wild fhore, and committed them-
{elves to the fury of the devouring Indians.
The manner of their cruelties to one another,
which confequently, as I thought, mud be afted
with greater barbarity to {hangers, excited in me a
great anxiety, and made me ftiil more curious to aik
Friday concerning them. He he told me was iure
they flill lived there, having refided among them
above four years, and that the lavages gave them
victuals to live upon; but pray, Friday, laid /,
whence proceeded all this good nature and genero-
fuy? How came it to pais that they did not kill
and eat them, to pleafe their devouring 2ppetites;
and occafion fo plendid an entertainment among
them? No, no, (aid. Friday, they not fall 'an, they
make brother with 'em; by which 1 undei flood there
was a truce bel ween them. And then 1 had a more
favourable opinion of the Indians, upon Friday's
uttering theie words: My nation t'other nation no eat -
mans, but zvhen mans ma:e imr fight: as though he
had faid, that neither thole- of his kingdom, nor
any other nations that, he knew of, ever ate their
fellow-creatures, but-inch as their law of arms al-
lowed to be devoured :, that U, tbofe miíerable
captives, whole misfortune it fhould be to'be made
prisoners of war.
Some confiderable time after, upon  very plea-
fant day, in moil 1er en e weather, my man and I
flood upon the top of an hill, on the call fide of
the iflaud, whence I had once before beheld the
continent xob America. 1 could not tell imme-
diately what was the matter; for fuddenly Friday
fell a jumping and dancing as if he had been mud;
and upon my demanding the reafcti oí his behaviour,
0 joy, faid he, 0 glad! there fee my-country, there my
nation, there live white mans gether. And indeed fuch
a rapturous fenfe of pleafure appeared in his coun-
tenante, that his eyes had an uncommon fparfclin^
and' brightnefs, and fuch a ftrange eagernefs, as it*
he had a longing deftre to he in his own country
again*. This made me not fo' welUfamfied with
my man Friday as before; forby this-, appearance,.
I made no difpufe, but that if he could get back
thither-again,'he would not only be unmindful of
what religion I had taught him but likewife of .the
great obligation he owed me for his wonderful de-
liverance: nay, that he would not only inform bis
countrymen of me, but accompany hundicds of
them to my kingdom® and make me a miserable
facrifice like . thoie unhappy wretches taken in
battle.
Indeed I was very much to blame to have thefe
cruel and unjuft fufpicions, and muft freely own 1
wronged the poor creature very much, who was of
a quite contrary temper. And had he had that dis-
cerning acútenefs which - Europeans have, he
would certainly have perceived ray col-dnefs and in-
difference, and alio have been very much concerned
upon that account; as 1 was now more cireuinfpecl,.
I had mucri leflened my kind  eis and' familiarity
with him, and while this jeal oui  continued, i uietf
that artful way of pumping him daily, thereby to
difcover whether he was deceitful in his thoughts
and inclinations ¿ but certainly he had nothing in
hira but what was confident with the beft princi-
ples, both as a religious Chiiû;aco and a grateful
friend; and', indeed,. I found everything he (aid
was fo ingenuous and innocent, that .1 had no
room for fufpicioiv and, in fpite ol' all uneafinefs,..
he not only made me entirely his own again, but
alio caufed me much, to lament that I ever con-
ceived one ill thought of ..him*
As we were walking up the feme bill another day,,
when the weather was fo hazy at fea,.' that 1 could
wot perceive the continent, Friday,, fa id Ï, don't
you wifh yourfelf to be in your own country, your
own nation,, among your okl friends and acq-uain-
stances? ~¥es0 ùïd he, me much  glad to be at my own
nation. And what would you do there Friday?
Would you turn wild again, eat man's flefh, and be
a fa vage as you were foimevly? No, no, (anfwered
he, full of concern, and (baking his head) Friday
now tell them to live good] tell them pray God, tell them
to eat corn bread,- cattle, flefh, milk^ no eat man again*
But furely, replied 1, if you fhould offer to do all
this, they will kill you; and to manifeft their con-
tempt of fueh inftru&ion, eat. you up when they
have done. He then put on a- grave, yet innocent
and fmooth countenance, faying, No, they no kill
me, they willing love learn: that is, that they would
be very willing to learn: adding withall, that they
had learned very much of the bearded mans that cams in
the boat. Will you, faid I, go back ¿gain, Friday?
He imiled at that, and told me, that he could not
fwim fo far. But faid I, Ï will make a canoe for
you; Tes, maßer faid he, me go if you go, me no go
if you ßay. Ï go, Friday! why, would you,have
them eat me up, and devour your kind mailer? No,
no, faid he, me make them no eat maß er, and me make
them much love you; that, is, he would tell them bow
I had ilain his enemies, and thereby faved his life,
for which reafon he would make them love me:
and then he related to me, as well as he was able,
how exceeding kind thofe of his nation were to the
white, or bearded men.
It was from this time, indeed, I had ftrong incli-
nations to venture over, and ufe my utmoft efforts,
if poffible, to join with thefe white bearded men,
who undoubtedly were Spaniards or Portuguefe;
for, thought i, it mud be certainly a better and fafer
way to elcape when there is a good company, than
for me alonen from an ifland^o miles off the fhore,
and without any afliihnce, Some days after, Fri-
day and I being at work, as ufual, at the fame time
divert ing oüifelves with various difcourfes, I told
him I had a boat which I would befiow upon himf
whenever he pleafed to return to his nation: and to
Convince him of the truth of what 1 laid, I took
him with me to the other fide of the ifbnd, where
my frigate lay, and then taking her from under
water (for I always kept her funk for fear of a dii-
covery) we both went into it to fee how it would
manage *uch an expedition.
And really never could any be more dexterous in
rowing than my faithful fervant, making the boat
go as fail again as I could. Well, now, Friday,
laid I (hall we now go to your much defired nation?
But inftead of meeting with that chearfulnefs I ex-
pected,-he. looked ven y'dull and melancholy at my
faying fo j which indeed at firít furprifed me, till
he made me fenfible, that his concern was about the
boat's being too fmall to go fo far a voyage. Upon
which I let him underftand I had a much bigger;
and, accordingly the next day went to the place
where the fir ft boat lay, which I had made, when
all the ftrength I had, or ait I could ufe, failed me
in jmy attempt to get it into the water: but now it
having lain in the fun two and twenty years, and
no care being taken of it all that while, it became
in â manner rotten. My man told me, that fucli
a boat would do very well for the purpofç, iufficient
to carry enough vittle, drink, bread, for that was his
manner of talking. In ihort, my mind being
ftrongly fixed upon my defign of going over with
him to the continent, I plainly told him, that we
would both go and make a boat full as big, and more
proportionable than that, wherein he might fafely
return to his own nation.
Thefe words made Friday look fo very penfive,
that I thought he would have fallen at my ieet. It
was fome time before he could fpeak a word, which
made me aik him, what was the matter with him?
île replied, in a very (oft and moving tone, What,
has poor Friday done? why are you angry mad with-poor
fervant? wh at me done,  zuhat me done? Friday, fa id
J, you never yet have offended me: what makes
you think I am angry with you, when I am not
iuvgry at 'all, You no angry, no angry, faid he feveral
tiroes; if you be no dngry, uhy den fend Friday over
great water to my own nation? Why, furely, Friday,
anfwered f, did not you wiih to be there, when, from
a mountain, you beheld the place where you was born?
and Is it not to fatisfy your defires that I am willing:
to give you leave to return thithe.r? Yes, yes, faid Fri-
day\ me wifk be there Jure enough, but me deb wißt maßer
there too: no wifk. Friday there 9 no maßer there. In
ihort, he could not encfure the thoughts of going
there without me. I go there, Friday faid Í, what
(ball I do there?—He anfwered very quickly,, 0 maf-
ter, you do great deal much good, you teach all de wild
mans to be gooa1 tame mans z...you learn dem to be [ober,
Uve good life to how God, and pray God. Alas ! poor
Friday, faid I, what can I do againfl: their priefts of:
Benantuclcee, or indeed W^iat good can 1 make your
nation fenfibleof, when I myfelf am but a poor igno-
rant man? No, no maßer, faid he, you be no ignorant,
you teachee me good, you teachee dem good. You ihall
go without me, Friday, faid I, for I don't care to ac-
company you thither; I would rather live in this fo-
litude than venture among fuch inhuman favages.
Go your way, finee you defire it, and leave me
alone by myfelf, as I was before I faved your life.
Never was any creature more thunder ilruck than
Friday was at thefe words. Go me away, leave maßer
away, faid he, after a long filence, no, no, Friday V*V,
Friday live not maßer gone; as though he had faid, Í
neither can nor will live, if my mafter fends me from
him.
After I had told Friday, in a very carelefs manner,
that he mould be at his Ube-rty as foon as the boat was
made, the language of his eyes exprefled all imagina-
ble confufion i when, immediately running to one of
his hatchets, which he ufed to wear hs a defenftve
weap m, he gives it into my hand, witfya heart fo full,
that he could fcarcely fpeak. Friday faid f, what is
it you mean? what muft I do witty this? Only 1
Frid.iyy laid he, Friday care not Uve l¡pn¿\ But what
¿buíH kill you foi-? replied I again. Ah, dear mfr
,tcr, what wacle*you Friday fave from, eat  me, \ fo
keep long Friday, ma'ce Friday, love God, and not love
Benamuckee, ai\d now Friday fend „ayvay, never fee' fri-
d,ay more*
After Friday's grief was fomething abated, more
fully to convince me of his affection, he faid> 0 maßer,
.rae not core to he in my nation, leave you here,  defire
pation learn- good, that's all; meaning, that his d/ííre
W3s for the converfion of that barbarous people. But
as I had noapoftolic miilion, nor any concern about
the\r falvaticn > fo I had not the leaft intention or de*
fire of undertaking it; and the ftjrengfh of my incli-
nation, in order to efcape, proceeded chiefly from my
late difcourfe with Fnday, out triefe íeverueen white
beared men, tbat had been, driven upon .the barbarian
coait; whom I defigned to join, as the only means
to further our efcape. To which.intent my man and
I went to fearch for a prqper treerto fell, vyhereof we
jmightmafoc a periagua or canoe, to undertake .the
voyage 5 and, indeed, we were.ixot long in finding one
fit for our purpofe, there being enough of wood 'in
the ifland tôflià,ve ,bujlt a fleet of large yeflels, but the
thing we principally wanted, was, to get one fo near
the water, that w,e ;might Rurich it after it was finifh-
pd, and not commit fo bor,rip a mi (take as I had done
.Once before*
Well, after a great feavcb for what was beft and
m oft convenient," Friday a,t laft, whofe judgment in
£ affairs was. much i'up{erio,r to mine, pitches up-
on a kind of wood the moil fitting for it. To this
day. J cannot tell the nan^e of the tree, nor defcribe
it any other way, tjiapi only by faying, that it is
very like that we call fvßic, or between that and
the Nicaragua wood, .being .much of the fame co-
lour ana* fmqjl. But though my man exceeded me
in the knowledge of the ,(1 proper tree, yet I
ihewed him ajmuch better and cleaner way to make
a capoe than ever he knew before: for he was for
burning the h'pllow or çavity of the tree, in prder
to make triis boat; but I then told him how We
might do. it with the tool?, learning h'jm'at the fame,
time How.to ufe them, which mdéé'd he did very
dexteroufly; fothat in a month's time we fmiihed
it,, making it very handfome, by cutting the out-
fide in the true ihape oFa boat. After this it took
us a full fortnight before we could get her into the
water, which we did, as it were, inch by inch upon
great rollers: but when in, (he would have carried
twenty men,, with all eafe imaginable.
As Í was very well pleafed, you may be fure, at
the launching of this' man of war of mine, I was no
léfs amazed to behold wit h what dexterity my man
would manage her, turn her, and paddle her along*
Weil, Friday, laid I, what do you think of it now
Do you think' this will carry us over? Tes, maßer^
fa id he, me venture over well, though great blow wind 4
B\.U rnv deiign was yet farther, which he was iqien-
fible of; and that was to make a mail: and iaij , and'
to provide her with an anchor and cable. As to a
iriaR, tBat was no difficult thing at all to procured
•io fixing upon a fttaight young,cedar-tree, great
plenty of it abounding in the ifland; and felting'
Friday to cut it down, Í gave him particular direc-
tions how to ihape and order it \ but as to the fail,*
that I managed myfélf. 1 very ..well tnew 1 had
foma old ones, or pieces of fails enough,- which
hid lain fix and twenty years by me ; but not being
careful to preferve them, thinking 1 ihould have
no occafion to ufe them; when 1 came to look over
them,  found them almoft allrotten, except two;;
and with thefe 1 went to work, and after a great
deal of pains'aud awkward tedious Hitching for want-
of needles, at length 1 finiihed a three-cornered
ugly thing like that we call in England a ihoulder
of mutton fail, to go with a boom at bottom, and
a little fmall fprit at the top-, like thefe which our
long-boats ule, and which 1 very well knew how to
manage; efpecially lince it was like that winch I
had in my patron's fiihing boat, when with my boy
N 2-
X.ury, I made my efcape from the barbarian fbore.
It was near two months, I think, before I com<-
pleted this work, that is, the rigging, and fitting
my mail and fails; and indeed they were nicely
done, having made a fmall flay, and a fail, or fore-
fail to it, toaffift, if we íhould turn to the weftward;
and, which was ftill more, I fixed a rudder to the
item of her, to fleer with; and though I was but
a very indifferent fhip«wright, yet, as I was ienfible
*>f the great ufefulnefs and absolute neceffity of a
thing like this, I applied myfelf to it with fuch
«oníram application, that at laft I accompbfhed my
iiefign ; but what with the many contrivances 1 had,
and the failure of many things, it cofl me as much
pains in ordering as in making the boat. Befides,
when all this was done, 1 had my man to teach
what belonged to its navigation; for though he
very well und er flood hew to paddle a canoe alone,
h; was an utter ftr¿nger to a fail and a rudder, and
was amazed when he law me work the boat to and
again in thé fea, by, them, and how the fail gibbed
and filled this way or that way, as the courfe we
iailed changed. After fome time, and a little uie,
Î made all thefe things very familiar to him, fo that
he became an expert failor, except in relation to
the compafs, and that I could make him underfland
but little of. But as it happened, there was feldom
occafion for it, there being but little cloudy weather, .
and fcarce any fog in thole parts; the ftars were al-
ways vHible in the night and the (bore perfpicuous
by day, except in the rainy feafon, which confined
every one to his habitation. Thus entered into
the 27th year of my reign or captivity, which you
pleafe, (the laft three of which, blefled with /the
company of my man Friday, ought not to be reckon-
ed) 1 kept the armiverfary of my landing here with
the fame thankfulnefs to God, for his tender mer-
cies, as I did before: and certainly, as I had great
caufe for thankful acknowledgement for my delive-
rance at firft; I had much greater now for fuch fin-.
of rdbínsoñ crüsoé^ 13$
gïiîar and additional tefti'tn'bnîca of the care of Pro-
vidence over rrie, in all' ray diftreifes^ of both body
ind'mirid, and'the great hopes Î had of'being ëf-
fe'ctuaîly and fpëed'ily delivered *, for 1 Had a firong,
impvèÉon upon my mind, that-I fliould not be
another year in'this ifl'and. .But,.however., I Hill1
continued'' on with my' hufbandry,- diggings plan-
ting, and fencing* as ufual; gathering and curing",
my^gtap.es, and doing, all" other, tilings' that were
óecefíary* -:> / 
And now the rainy feafon beginning to come on
/ pbliged me to keep the longer within doors; but
before this,. Î brought ffty new veflfel into the çreçky
where  had landcdf ràfts from the (hip, and ha-r
ITng hër up fo^Ke.m'ür'e, Í ordered ray man Friday,,
to dig a. dock fui&cient to hold her in, and deep/
èû o u g VÎ t o gi v e h èr wà t e r, vvh ere í n f h e m i g h t floa t {}
.and.then,;when thetjd.e was out, wé made a ftrung.
dam crois the ) of it,,to keep 01 the water; by'
which means fc. lay. dry, as to the tide, from the"
iba- ;, and to. keep :the rain from -her> we thatchecP
rjer over as .it weie^with beughs of trees,-like )
houfe/;, fo we waTted'Torthe months of November'
arid December, in which 1 defrgned to venture'over-
tW ocean,; , *
1 •.Ño foóner'did' the' feafonable weather begin4 tö7
draw near, Uut fo much was , elevated  with, this"'
heyír defighed adventure, that Ijdaily prepared {of*
the voyage. • The fifíí- thing! I thqught en-was,to'
lày by a" certaih.quantity .of provisions,-as a fuffici*,-
ebritore for >'fec.h an, expedition) intending in a;
tyeek ' or a fortnights time to open the' adocb, -and:4
Ihmch out the boat for that> purpofe* , But one-
rhoirnitíg as 1 W3s yery bufy uporçfouietbing neeef-;
. fîry for this occafion, I called Fiiday to me, and/
Bid him go to. the fea Chore, and fee if :h;é .cotildH
, find'a. tuftie^V tortoife, 3 thing whicri -we £&rrra\ori- -
ly had once a week? as much upon1 account of the*
eggs, ás fat trie fake; of the fteih. •  e had -not; 
Ibng gone, BaVh^ iarrW riiuniog- backs ,a¿ VhougH'i
he was puri'ued for life, and as it were flew over
my outer wall, or fence, like one that felt not the
ground, or fteps he fet his feet on; before  had
time to enquire thetreafon of his precipitation, he
cries out, U dear maßer, 0 forrow! forrow! Bad! 0
bad! Why, what's ~the matter Friday, laid I. 0,
yonder, yonder  laid he, there be one, two, or three
canoes! two, three.
Surely (thought I) there muir be fix, by my
min's way of reckoning,* but on a itn'Qer enquiry,
I found there were but three. Well, Friday, faid
I, don't be terrified, J warrant you we will not
only defend ourfelves againit them, but kill the
moil of thefe cruel favages. But though I comfor-
ted him in the bed manner I could, the poor crea-
ture trembled fo, that 1 fcarce knew what to do
with him: 0, maßer, fûd he, they comehok Friday,
cut pieces Friday, cut a me up. , „ .
Why, Friday, laid I, they will eat me up as well
as you, and my danger is as great as yours. But
lince it is fo, we mufl refolve to fight for our lives.
What fay you? can y«u fight, Friday? Yes, faid
he, very faintly, meßoot, me kill what I can, but there
come great many number* That's no matter, faid I
again, our guns will terrify thofe that we do not
kill; 1 am* very willing to itand by you to the laft
drop of my blood.
Now, tell me, if you will do the like by me, and
obey my orders in wha.Uoever I command? Friday
then anfwered,  maßer, me lofe life for you, me die
when you bid die. Thus concluding, all quefuons
concerning 1 fidelity, immediately 1 fetched him
a good dram oi rum, (of which í had been a very
good huiband) and gave it him to comfoit his heart.
After he had drank it, I ordered him to take the
two fowling pieces, which we always carried, and
load them with large fwan ihot, as big as fmall pif-
toi bullets; then 1 took four rnufkets and loaded
them with two Huge, and five fmall bullets each;
«harging my two piftols each with a brace, I hung'
my great fword, as cufromaiy, naked to my fidç, and
gave Friday his hatchet, as a moft excellent weapon
for defence.
Thus prepared, 1 thought as well of myfelf as any
kntght-errant that ever handled a fword and fpear. Í
took my perfpe£t.ive glafs, and went up to the fide of
the hill, to fee what I could difcover ,* and I perceiv-
ed very foon, by my glafs, that there were one and
twenty favages, three prifoners, and three canoe?,
and their cinef concern feemed to be the triumphant
banquet upon the three poor human bodies, a thing
which by this time I had obferved was very common
with them. I alfo remarked, that they <\ià not land
at that place from whence Friday made his efcape,.
but nearer to the creek where the fhore was low, and
where a thick wood came very clofe to the fea. My
foul was then filled with indignation and abhorrence
at fuck inhuman wretches, which put a period to all
my former thoughts in their vindication, neither
would. I give myfeif time to coniider their right of
conqueft, as 1 had done before : But defending from
the mountain, I came down to Friday, and told him,
1 was refolvct* to go fpeedily to the.m, and kill them
all i afkmg him again in the fame bteath, if ht would
ftand by me : When by this time being recovered
from his fright, and his fpiritmuch cheered with the
dram 1 had given him. he was very pleafaut; yet ie-
riouily idling me, as tie did before, When Ibid die, he
would die*
And now it xvas, having fixed my refolution in fo
ftrong a manner, that nothing could divçir. my breaft
of its uncommon fury. I immediately divided (he
loaded arms betwixt us. To my man Friday 1 gave
a piftol to ftick in his girdle, with three guns upon his
fhoukier, a weight too great I confefs bear; but
whèit rnuft a poor king do, who had but one foldte^
in the world? But to íhew I made him bear no more
than whàt I would lay on myfelf, I ftuck the cher
piílol in my girdle, and the oilier ctoree guns upon my
ihoulders: nay fomething more, but that was like
yEíbp's burden, a fmall bottle of rum, which was
ibon lightened tó our exceeding re'fréíhment. Thus
we marched out, under a, ponderous load of armour,,
like tvtfo invincible champions, with a quantity of pow-
der and bullets to ftand. our battle and load again,,
when the pieces were difcharged. And now niy or-
ders being to be obeyed, 1 charged Friday to keep
clofe behind me, and not to ilir, or moot, or attempt
ány thing tili I commanded him',- and, in the inte-
rim, hot to   lo much as one word. It was in
this order I fetched a compafs to the right hand of
near a mile, as well to get over the creek,.as to at-
tain the Wood  and by this, I thought to come with-
ïh íhot of them before 1 could be difeerned, as I'
ftaund by my glafs, would not be difficult to accom-
Butho# fickle and waveiing is the mind of men,
¿ven in our greateii fury and ftrongefi inclinations Í*
for while I was^xt/iking this march, my refol'ution ber-
gan to abate, not through fear of their number, who
were a pareçi of naked unarmed wretches,, but thofe
reflections occurred to my thoughts: what power
was i commiiHoned with, or what occafioh or necef-
fity had I to go and imbrue my hands in human blood, ,
and-minder people that had neither done nor intend-,
ed to do mé any wrong  They were innocent in par-
ticular a's to me;, and their barb.iious cuRom was
riot' only their mi'sibrtune but a fígn that God had left":"
them in the moil immenfe ftupidity; but yet did not
war ,\nt me to be a judge of their aft ions, much lefs
an executioner of his righteous judgements: Thar
ön the contrary, whenever bethought fit., he would
take vengeance on them himfelf and puniih them in
a national way, according to their national crimes ¿
but this was nothing at all ro me, who had no con-
cern with them. Indeed my man Friday might juf-
fify himfelf, becaufe.they were his declared enemies,
óf that very nation that went to facrifice him before;
and, indeed, it was lawful for him to attack' them,
wblcfV Í could riot fay was ffrwitlV refpéñ'to' me; So
warmly did thefe things prefs upon my thoughts all
the way I went, that I only refolved to place myfelf 
as to behold their bloody entertainment, without fal-
ling upon them, except fomething more than ordi-
nary, by God's ipecial direction, Ihould oblige me
thereto.
Thus fixed in my refolution, I entered into the
thick wood, (my man Friday following me clofe be-
hind) when with all poffible warinefs and filence, Í
marched till I came to the ikirt of it, on that fide
which was the ne a re ft to them -, for only one end of
the wood interpofed between me and them.- Upon
which I called very foftly to Friday; and (hewing
him a great tree, that was juft at the corner of the
wood, I ordered him to repair thither, and bring rae
word, if he could plainly perceive their actions; ac-
cordly, he did as I commanded him, and came back
with this melancholy ftory, that they were all about
their fire, eating the flefh of one of their prifoners;
and that another lay bound upon the fand, a little dif-
tant from them, which they defigned for their next fa-
crifice; and this he told me was not one of their na-
tion, but one of thoie very bearded men, who was
driver! by a ftorm into theii^country,, and of whom
he had fo often fpoke to me about. You may be fure,
that upon hearing this, my foul was ready to fink
within me: when afcending up into a tree Ï faw
plainly, by my glafs, a white man, who lay upon the
beach of the fea, with his hands tied with flags or
things refembling rufhes, being covered with clothes,
and feemed to be an European. From the tree where
1 took this profpect 1 perceived another tree, and a
thicket beyond it, about fifty yard* nearer to them
than where I was, which, by taking a fmali circle
round, I might come at undifcovered and then I
ihould be within half a {hot of thefe devourers. And
this confideration alone, to be more perfectly revenged
upon them, made me withold my paffion, though' I
was enraged to the higheft degree; when going back
about twenty paces, 1 got behind íbme buihes, which
held all the way till I came to the other tree, and'then
I afcênded to a littJe r i fing ground, and "there 1 had a*
full view of thefe creatures, and I could perceive all
t&eir aclioñs.
Such a fight di;d then appear, as ôbliged mé not to'
lofe a moment's time. No lefs than nineteen of^
thefe wretches fat upon the ground, clofe together,
expreffing all the delight imaginable at fo bai'barous
an entertainment -, and they had iuft fent two to mur-
der this unria'ppy. Ckrißian, and bring him limb by
lïmb to their fire; for they were then júñ going to'
unite the bands from his feet, in order for death.
Hereupon, immediately' turning to my man. Now,
Friday y faid I, mind what 1 fay, fail in nothing, but
do exaclly as you fee me do. All which'he promif-'
ing he would, Í fet down one of my muikets, and the
fowling piece upon the ground, and Friday did thé
fáme by his; and with-the other muflcet 1 took my
aim at the/avages, bidding him to do thé like: Are
you ready, faid 1, Fes maßet, faid he, why then fire
at them faid 1; and that very moment \ gave fire
likewife.
I only killed one and wounded two; bat my man
Friday taking his'aim much better than Í, killed;two,
and wóúndéd three. You may be fure they we-ré
iri'a dreadful confirmation, at fuch an unexpected
difaftér; and thoie who had yet efcaped our pene-
trating (hot, 'immediately jumped upon their feet,
büt were i ri fuch a confuiion, - that they lenew net
^v/hich way to run or look \ not knowing from whence
^their dHtriiiSiion came. We tforevV down our pieces,
and took up others, giving a fécond dreadíal vol-
ley; but as they were loaded only wilh fwan ihot,or
fmall piilol bullets* wé perceived only two of them
fall ,• though many were wounded, vvhó run yelling
and. fcrc:uning about like mad creatures. Now,
Friday, did I, lay down your piece, and take up
the muiket and follow me. He did fo, with great
courage, when (hewing ourfelves to the favages, we
güve a great ihout, and made direiUy to the poo?
„vifti.m, who would have been facrificed, had not
pur firft fire obliged the butchers, with three others,
to jump into a canoe. By my order, Friday fir^rü at
them, at which ihot I thought he had killed them
all, by rea fori of their falling to the bottom of the
boat ; however, he killed two and mortally wound*
cd a third• In che mean time I cut the flags that
tied the hands and te^t of the poor crea ture» "and
lifting him up, aik.d^him in the Portuguese tongue,
"What he was? he anfweréd me in Latin, Chrißianus:
but (o very weak and faint that he could icarce ftand
or fpeak.
Í gave him immediately a dram and a piece of
bread to cheriih him, and allied him, What coun-
tryman he was? He laid Efpaniolay and then utte.r.e.^
all the -thankfulnefs.imaginable for his deliverance.
Signior, (faid Í with as much Spanißi as I was maftei*
of) let us talk afterwards but fight now -y here, take
this fword and piftol, and do what you can. Arid,
indeed, he did fo with fuch cpurage and intrepidity,
that he cut two oí them to pieces in an inftaht, the
jfava:ge,s not haying the f>ower to fly for their lives.
I ordered Friday to rnn for thofe pieces wc ^laü left
at the tree, which he brought me with great íwiCb»
nefs, and then I gave him my mufket, .while 1 loa-*
ded the reft. But now there happened a fierce en-
counter between the Spaniard and one of the .fa. va-
ges, who made at him with one of their wooden
iwords;' and though the former wjis as brave as
could be expected having twice wounded his enemy
in the head; yet being weak and faint, the Indian;
had thrown him  the ground, and was wrefting
my fword out of his hand, which the Spaniard veiy
wifely quitting drew out his pifto), and ihot him
through the body before I cou,ld come near him
though I was running to his afliftance. As to Fri~
day, he purfued the flying wretches with his hat-
chet, edifpatching three, but the reft were too nim-
ble for him. The Spaniard taking one of the fow-
ling pieces, wounded two, who running into tire
wood, Friday purfucd and killed; but the other
notwithstanding his wounds, plunged himfelf into
the fea, and fwam to thofe who were left in the ca-
noe, which with one wounded, were all that efca-
ped out of one and twenty,
The favages in the canoe worked very hard to
get out of our reach, and Friday was as eager in
purfuing them and, indeed, 1 was no lefs anxious
about their efcape, left, after the news had been
carried to their people, they fhould return in mul-
titudes, and dettroy us. So being refolved to pur-
fue them, 1 jumped into one of their canoes, and
bid Friday follow me $ but no fooner was I in, than
to my furprife, I found another poor creature,
bound hand and foot for the Slaughter, juft as the
Spaniard had been, with very little life in him.
Immediately I unbound him, and would have
helped him up; but he could neither (land nor
fpeak but groaned fo piteoufly, as thinking lie was
only unbound in order to be flain. Hereupon I bid
Friday fpeak to him, and tell him of his deliverance;
when pulling out my bottle I made the poor wretch
drink a dram, which, with the joyful news he jhad
received, fo revived his heart, that he fat up in the
boat. Ás foon as Friday began to hear him fpeak,
and look more fully in his face, it would have mov-
ed anyone to tears to perceive his uncommon trans-
ports of joy: for he kiffed, embraced him, hugged
"fiim, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about,
daoccd, fung, then cried again, wrung his hands,
beat his face and head, then fungand jumped about
á*gain, like a díftraóted creatvue: fo that it was a
great while before I could make him fpeak to me,
of tell me what was the mattet with him ; but
when he came to the liberty of his ipcech, at laft
he told me it was his father.
Here indeed I was infinitely moved to fee that
dutiful and tender afteftio.n this poor fa vage had to
his aged parent. He would fit down by him in the
boat, open his bread, and hold his father's head
clofe to his bofom, half an hour together, to che-
rilh him: then he took his amis aud ancles, which
Were it iff and numbed, with binding, and chafed
and rubbed them with his hands; by which means,
perceiving what the cafe was, I gave him feme
rum, which proved of great benefit to him*
While we were bufy in this action, the fiyages
had gotten aîmoil out of fight; and hippy it was
we did not pur lue them: For there aroie from the
north-weft, which continued all night long, iuch
a violent ilorrn, that I Could not fuppofe otheiwife
but that they were all drowned. After this Í called
Friday to me, and aifced him, if he had given his
father any bread? He i'hook his head, and Ya id*
None, not one bit, me eat a up all; io 1 gave" lïi m a
cake of bread out of a little pouch I carried for
this end. Í likewife gave a dram for himfeif and
two or three bLinches of raifins for his father. Both
thefe he carried to him, for he would ma-ke him
drink the dram to comfort him.
Away he then runs out of the boat as if he $
bewitched, with iuch extraordinary iwiftnefs, that,
he was oat of fight as it Were in an infiant; but, at
his return Ï perceived him fiacken his pace, becaufe
he had fomethingin his hand. And this I found to
be, as he approached nearer, an earthen jug with
fome water for his father, with two more cakes of
bread, which he delivered into my hands. Being
'very thirfty mifelf, I drank fome of the toter, of
which when his father had drank fuihciently, it
more revived his fpirits than all the rum i had given
him.
I then called Friday to me,, and ordered him t&
carry the Spaniard one of the cakes, and fome wai-
ter, who was repoíing himfeif upon a green place
Under the ihade of a tree, but (o weak, thaï though
he exerted himfeif, he could not ftandupori his'fctU
Upon which (ordered Friday to rub aodb/.the hi%
ancles with rüti'b as he did his father's. But every
taoment he was employed in this ire would caft *
» wUhful eye towards the boat, where he left his fa-
ther fitting; who fuddenly difappeaiing, he flew,
lile lightning to him, and finding be only laid him-
ielf down to eafe his limbs, he returned back to me
prefently, and then 1 fpoke to the Spaniard to let
Friday help him, and led""him to the boat, in or-
der to' be conveyed to my dwelling, where I woulct
take care of him. Upon which Friday took him
¿pon his back, and fo carried him to the canoe, fet-
ting him dole by his father; and prefently ftepping
-out again, launched the boat off, and 'paddled it
along the lhore fafter than I could walk, tnough the
wind blew very hard too; and having brought
thcm.-'idfe to the creek, away he runs to fetch the
¿th'er canoe, which he brought to the creek almdft
asfoonas I got to it by land, when waiting me over,'
he took our new guefts out of the boat; but fo
weak were they, that I was forced to make a kind
of a hand-barrow; and when I came to my caftle,
not being willing to make an entrance into-my wall,
we made them a handiome tent, covered with old
fails, and boughs of trees, making two good beds
of rice flraw, with blankets to lie upon and cover
them. Thus, like an abfolute king, over fubjects
-who owed their lives to me, I thought myfelf very
confiderable, efpecially as Ï had now three religions
in my kingdom, my man Friday being a proteftant,
his father a Pagan, and the Spaniard a Papift; but
I gave liberty of confcience to them all.
"To get provifions for my poor weak fubjefts, I
ordered Friday to kill me a yearling goat; which
when he had done, I cut off-the hinder quarters,
and chopping it into final! pieces, boiled and ftew-
cd it, putting barley and rice into the broth. This
Ï caWie4 into their tent, fet a table, dined vvith
them :myfelf, and.encouraged them. Friday was
tny interpreter to his father, and indeed to the Spa*
niard too; who fpoke the language of the fa vage?
prsUy well. After a1 inner I ordered Friday to
fetch home all our arms from the field of .battle,
and the n,e^t. day to bury the dead bodies*
And now J made Friday enquire of his father whe-
ther he thought thofe favages had efçaped the late
ftorrn in thetf canoe; and if fo, whether they would
not return with a force top great for us to reflft? ííü
anfwered, that he thought it impoffible  could
outlive'the ftorrn: or if they were driven fouthvvard-
]y, they, would corne to a land where they would as
certainly be devoured, as if they were drowned in,
the fea. And fuppofe they had attained their own;
country, the flrangenefs of their fatal and bloody at-^-
taçk,. wonld make them tell their people, that the
T.çft of them were killed by thunder and lightning,
not by the hand of man, bat by two heavenly fpirits^.
(meaning Friday and me) who were fent from above
to deftroy them. And this, he laid, he knew:i be*
ça ufe he hea*d them fay the fame to one another.
And indeed he was in the right  n't \ for 1 have*
heard finçe, that thcfe four men gave out, that who-
ever went to that enchanted iiland, would be deftroy-
ed .by fire frçm the gods.
No canoes appearing fome time after, as I expefl-*
ed my apprehenfio,ns ceafed: Inftead of which my
former thoughts of a voyage took place, efpeciaily
when Friday's father afiured me 1 ihould have good
ufage in his nation* As to the Spaniard, he told med
that iixteen more of his countrymen, and Ponuguefe,
who had baen ihi.pwrecked made their efcape thither %
that though they were in union with the favages,
yçt they were very mifera&le for want of pj;oyifións
and other nerefFaries* When 1 afked him about thé
particulars of his voyage, he anfyvercd, that îheii
(hip. was bound from Rio de to Plata to the Havannah $
that w'.*> n the (hip was loifr only five men perifhed in
the ocean j the reft shaving fayed thetnfeives in the
boat, were uow landed  the main continent* 
what dp they intend to'do there? He replied, they
have conceited measures to efcape by building a veffel,
but that they had neither tools nor provisions, that
0 2
Jill their defigns came to nothing. Suppofing î
íhoüld make a propofal, and invite them here, would
\hey not carry me pñfóner t© New. Spain ? he anlwer-
çd ; for he knew thern to he fuch honeft Tnen, as
would fcorn to a<ft iuch inhuman, bafcnéís to their
deliverer That if 1 pleafed he and the old favage
would go over to thern, talk to them about it, and
Vring, me  ajifwer: That they mould all bear fide-
lity to me as their leader,, upon the holy íacraraent -%
and, for his part, he would not only do the fame,
but Hand to the lafl drop of his blood fliould their be
«Dccafion*.
. Thefe .folemn afurances made me rcfolve to grant
them relief, and to fend theft two over for that pur-
pibfe j but when every thing was ready, the Spaniard
raifed an objeâion, which carried a great deal of"
weight in it:  know, Sir, fàid he, that having
been Jome time with you, Î cannot lut be fenjible of your
(lock of rice and corn, fufficient, perhaps, for us at pre-*
[faU, but not for them, Jkoidd^ they conle'over prefently;
much lefs to vi&ual a vejfel forhríintendedvoy age. Want
_ might be as great an occafion for them to ailagree and
rebel, ks the children of lirael did againjl God himfelf,
when they wanted bread in the wildernefs. And, there-*
jore my advice is, to wait anoiherrharvefi, and in the
'mean time cultivate and improve fome more land, zvhere-
iry XVe may have plenty of provifms, in order to exécuté:
mr deftgn.
This, advice of the Spaniards  approved extreme-*
ly ; and fo fatisfiedwas I of his fidelity, that 1 efteem-
ed him ever after., And thus we all four went to work
tjpon feme more land, and agahifl feed-time we bad-
gotten fo much cured and trimmed up, fuflicient to-
fow twenty-two bufheh of barley on, and fixteen.
jars of rke, Vrhi'ch was in ihort all the ieeu' we had
icVfpare, As we were four in number, and by this,
time arl in good health, we feared not an hundred of,
Jbdians, fliould they venture to attack us; and while
;the corn was growing, I pitched upon forne trees, fit
\o build us a. large  in cafe the Spaniards came
*>#pr i w>hich being çaaxked, I ordered Friday, and his
father tó cut clpAvri, appointing the $paniàrd9 who
V$s now my prYvçy counfeHp-r, to overiee and dire^
tf>e >vprk* I iifcpwife encreafed my flocks of goäts*
bv ^looting  wild darps, and bringing home their
jpdstp  ïnclofure: fordid I neglect the gràfë
fè%Çpf\f but veja red therp as ufual, though I had fucb
& qyantjty ?) as would have filled eighty barrels
yv\p\i raifms,
/ ^rçd tbus/all ôf us/ being4 employed, they in worker
|r}g, ímd I jjn providing for themf till harveft cameV
<tq4 1>*1§, blclted the encreafe of it fo mpchr
lb[at frorn£wenty-two barrek of barley, we thrafhed
'out two hundred and t  jnty, and the like quantity oí
riçer jfufi^cie^ t»o victual a ihip fit to carry nie mi*
#i\ < Spaniards to any part of America,
Tbsus the principal objection being anfwered, by k
'jtaffioient  oí provilións, 1 fent my'two ^
<ipr>s(over to the^nain land, with a legal authority' t&>
jadpiaifter the oaths of allegiance aad fidelity, and"
 ^ Iní^curaent ftgned under their hand£„ though
[I nçver í|[fced Whether they had pen? in»k or paper
•when ,givjimg # of the'm a nvufket with eight charges
j$f jpjpytdçr and5 bail, á^d prpvifions enough for eight
v rfîfcysV  fjûled^way with, a fair gale^ on a day *fhexp
ifoe raoou was at full
, ScaRce' a £ort;n-ight h^d'.paffed o^er my heaefj buf
inpatient for their return^ I laid* me down to fleep Que
dupming, when p firange accident'lpppened> Whicfo
was irfhered in by my man's coming rtinning to me#
calling aioud* Maflerr mßßer, they areepme^th^f^
Jßre . Upon jwhichjBOt d re anting of any dai-jger^
^ kput í jumped from my.bed, put on-  clothes,- 'an'd
Jmrried- throng^ my jitrte g.Tcive^ wftca looking 4o-
garete-Arc - I perceived aboat'abouta kaj^üe &nd,&
$aj# sfithfu* íhsdi^g^ior the^^
JfeïiV ,1 did »pt^o- frotxpth« fidevvjbei^
iflandt So theft* beiYrg none of the people ^ä"W»£~-
octta*** F?7Í5ijffíS^r»ftiiIr^iU fuch titty? V
came- down, hon\ the mountain, which, with mf-
ladder I now a íc ended, in ordér to difcover more-
fully what they were; and now, wilh the help of my
'perfpeftite glajs, Ï plainly perceived an Engliíh íhip,:
which Í concluded it to be, by the faihion of" its long.
boatt; and, which filled me with iuch uncommon
trajiiports of joy, that I cannot tell how to defcribe;
and yet fome fecret doubts hung about roe, proceed",
ing from-1 know not what caufc, as though I had rea-,
ion to be upon, my guard. And* indeed, I would
kavç no man contemn the fecret hints and intimations
et"danger ;s for had not I been warned by this filent
ad motion,. I had been i.n a worfe fituation than be^-
forc,. and perhaps inevjrably rained..
Not. long it wa<?„before Í perceived the boat to ap-
proach, the ,/& though th.ey. looked for a place
where they might conveniently hind; and at fail they,
ran their boat on ^  the beach,, about half a
mile's dißance • which proved lb much the happier
for me^fince, had they come into the creek, they ha&
landed, j^ft.at my door, and might not only, haveforc-.
cd me out of my , but plundered me of all 1 had
in the worJd. Now 1 was fully convinced they were.^
all Engliftmea, three of .whom were unarmed and
Hound ¿ vshen immediateJy the firft four or five leaped
fhore, and book thofe three out of the boat as prî*^
ípner.s  one of. whom I could perceive ufed the moll*
paíRpnate geilures o£ entreaty, affliction and defpaiiy
while the others.? in a.lefler degree, ihewed abundance
jplf CQjnxènb
'Not Teno wing the meaning *>f this, I beckoned to>
fridayj who was be low,, to afcehd- the -mountain, and
like wife y law this'fight-. 0 mafler, faid he to me,^oa.
fee.Kngl'ifíi mafts carfmfoRérs as well as Savage mans*
And do you, think they will eat them, Friday? faid:
i. . Yïsuh\à Friday, they eat a.all up,. No, no,.faid
}>. Friday4. Faiu much, more concerned left they mur-
der i hem, >, but as for eating them up, that I am fure.
they will; never do.
Áiid \ I. uoi only lamented my misfortune in not
having the Spaniard and Savage with me, but alfo
that 1 could not come within ihotof them unperceiv-
ed, they having no fire arms among them) and fave
thefe three men* whom I thought they were going ta
"kill with their fwords. But fome comfort-it was t^
me, that I perceived they were fet at liberty to gd
where they pleafedrtheraícally feamcn Scattering about
as' though they had a mind to fee the place :. and fo
long did they negligeRtly ramble, that the tide had
'ebbed fo lov^ as- t<* leave the boat aground. Nor
were the two men that were in her more circurnfpect::
for having drunk a little too much liquor,, the}' fell,
fail fiileep but one of then) waking before the cther^
and perceiving the boat too fair aground for his
irfength to mov-e \ty he hallooed out to the reír, wh©
made all poßible expedition to come too him-; but as
Providence ordered it,, alb their force was meflecluaj
to1 lau nth her, when 1 coalà hear thcmipealc to one
.another, Why,, let her alone, Jack, can't ye^ße'U float
next tide: by which, words 1 was fully convinced
they were ray own countrymen,. Ithisv while lay very
.quiet, as being fully ienfible ii could, be no le-fs thea
ten hours before the boat would be afloat, and then it
would be fo dark,.that they coidd not eaüíy perceive
me, by which mearas 1 fhould be at more liberty to
hear their talk, and obfer.ve all their motions; £
but that I prepared for my defence: yet as 1 had ano-
ther fort of. enemy to combat with,J acled with more:
caution* I took, two fufees . flioulder,.and gave
Friday three muífcets bcíide?, my formidable goat.-
ikin coat, and monftrous cap^ made me look, as fierce
and terrible-«s Hercules-of old, tfpecially when two>
piftols were ft  in my belt, and my nuked fworcb
hanging by my ijce.
It was ray defign at fir ft not to make any attempt
till it was dark; but.it being now two o'clock, im
the very heat of the day,, the failors were a4 drag-
gling in. the wood's., and undoubtedly were lain dowrfc
to íltaip..
The three ppop difhelied creatures,, too- anxious,
ia ge.t- ¿ujy repule* wext*x hawever^ feat cd uuá&i-
the bade of ar great tree, about a quarter of a miîe
ir oía me.
Upon which, without any more ado, I approach-
ed towards them,, with my man following behind'
arce, <md, before I was perceived, Í.called aloud ta
4hem in Spanifh, what are ye .gentlemen?
At theíe words they ftarted up in -.great.confufion?
when they beheld the ftrang.e figure I made; they
/returned no a.rafwer, but feem¡ed as if they would:
•fiy ifrom me; Gentleimn, fíúá I in EnglifliJ don't he
vfraid, perhaps you have a friend nearer than you expefä.
He muft he. from heaver*, [aid. one of them, gravely;
fulling off his hat, for we are paît all help in tis
world* All help is from Heaven r .did í, but'.Sir, a* I
éaxre perceived every aötion between you andúefe brutes'
ifmoe ytxur landing, only inform me how to ajjijl youT and
J will do it to the utnwfi of my power.
Am-1 talking with God or man, fa id he, in tears*
,Are you of'human kind,, or an angel? Sir,,, (aid
my'poor habit mil tell you L,am a-man, andan Engiifb-
^an, willing to afßji you, having but this fervant only*
there are arms and ammanithn: tell freely your condition?,
wan we fave you? The ilory, fa-id he, h too long 
delate, ilnc«? our batch ers. are  .near :- bat, Sir, I
'3wa«'mailer of; that (hip,  having «-ut i rtecT*
-and it is a favour th^e-y have put my mate* thii> paf-
^fenger, and me, on (bore without murdering us^
though we expe6l nothing but perifhirvg here,.
Are your enemies gone? £<\\á L .Ño, replied 'he*
• (pointing to a thicket,)' there .they lie.,, while wuy
'h-estt trembles, teil, having; feen and heard , they
Should rrmrd-er us all, Hlwe they fire- arms-? fa-id L
« They h-ave-bufr two- preces, faid he7 one of which,,
fe left in the boat. He Mo .told me, rhese were*
: two- -eeïOtiwou-s vi H a m s amongfl- then),- tba-i were
j*tbe authors- of thrs mutinyf who,, if they were
A Î PI cd  feizedy  Induce the red to return- to*
'•their óbedietícev Welly well (aid \r let m re ti pe-
farther under the covering of the woods -, and there
ífe^aír-1 mad*- thefe'c^ndifciouswifch hira*
L That while they ftaidin the ifland, they mould
not pretend,to any'authority; but ihouid entirely
conform to my orders, and return me the arms
which I mould put in their hands.
IL That if the ihip was recovered, they ihouid
afford Friday and myielf our ptdiage gratis to Eng-
land»
When he had given me all the fatisfa&ion I could
defire, I gave him and his two companions each of
them a gun,, with powder and ball fufficient, ad-
vifing them to  upon them while they were
ileeping.. The CaptSin modefily fa id that he was
forry to kill them j though, ©n the other hand, to
Jet thefe villains efcape, who were the authors of
his mifery, might be the ruin of us all.—Wei],,
iaid he* do as you think fit: and £0 I fired, killed
one of the Captain's chief enemies, and wounded
the other, who eagerly called for affilia nee; but
the Captain; (who had referved his piece) coming
up to him,, Si? rah, fa id he,  is too late to call for
üjfi[flznce, youßould rather cry to God to pardon your
vHiany :. and io knocked hi in down with the iïock
of his gun: three others were (lightly wounded^
who, at my approach, eried out for mercy. This,
the Captain granted, upon condition that they
would fwear to him to be true in recovering the
fhip, which they folcmnly did :. however I obliged
the Captain to keep them bound. After which I
lent Friday and the Captain's mate to fecure the
boat and bring away the oars and fail;- when, at
their return,, three men coming back, and feeing
their late diílreíTed Captain, now their conqueror,,
fubmitted to be bound alio. And then it was, tbat
having more libeity, 1 related the adventures oB
 whole life, which he heard with a ferions at-
tention. After this, Í cairied him and his two
companions into my little fortified caftle, ihewed
them all my cenveniencies,. and, when this wa-s
over, we begann to coniider about regaining the
fliip be f&id that there were twenty-fix haqds <m
board} who knowing their lires were forfeited by
the law, for cqnfpiracy and mutiny, were fo very
hardened, that it would be dangerous for our fmall
company to attack them. This was a reafonable
inference, indeed 5 but fomething we muft rcfo-lvc
on, and immediately put in execution: we there*
fore heaved the boat upon the beach fo high that
ftjcihould not {boot off at high water mark, and
broke a hole in her, not eafily to be flopped; for
that all the fignals they gave for the boat to comej
on board were in vain. This obliged them to fend
another boat aflbore, with ten men armed, whofç
faees the Captain plainly deferred, the boat/wain
being the chief officer;, but he faid there were
three honeft lads among them, who were forced
into the confpiracy. Hereupon 1 gave him freíh
courage,, (for I perceived he was in concern) iq
the mean time fecuring our prifoners, except two*
whom we took to our «(Manee, we thought óur-
felves able enough to adventure a battle* WJher*
the failors landed, and beheld their boat in that
condition, they not only hallooed, but fired, forç
their companions to hear, yet they received no am*
twer. This firuek them' with horror and amaze*
ment,, thinking their companions were 'murderedf
they made as if they would return to the. {hip. I
could perceive the Captain's countenance change ae
this, till, of a fadd en* three men weie ordered to
look after the boat, while the other [even leapt or*
jfhore, in order to fe,arch.' for their companions;
3nd, indeed, they catee to the brow oí the hill,
jjear my antient caftle, from- whence they cou Lei
fee to a great diftance in the woods, and there ihouN
'jmg and hallooing till tired and weary, they feated
_themfelves uudet a fpreading tree. My opinion
was, that nothing could be done till night, when I
jraight ufe fome artifice to get them all out of the;
.boat; but of a fudden they fbrted up and made to*-
wards the fea fide; hereupon I ordered Faiday and
$ho .Captain's mate to go over the creek, and halloa
as loud as they could, and fo decoying them into
the; woods, come round to me again. And, this
indeed had a good effeft; for they followed the
noife, till coming weft ward to the creek, they call-
ed for their boat to carry them over, and taking
one of the raen out of her, left two to look after
her, having faftened her to the flump of a little
tree on (bore. Hereupon immediately the Captain
and our party paffing the creek out of their fight,
we furpïized them both, by the Captain's knocking
'down one, and ordering the other to furrender up-
on pain of death, arid who, being the honejleft of
them all, fincerely joined with us. By this time
it was pretty late; when the reft- returning to
their boat, ^hich they found aground in the creek,
the tide out, and the men gone, they ran about
Wringing their hand-, crying it was an enchanted
iiland, and that they ihould.be all murdered by fpi-
rits or devils. My men would willingly have falleri
upon them, but Î would not agree to hazard any of
our party. But to be more certain, Friday and the
Captain crawled upon their hands and feet, as near
as poffible; and, when the boatfwain approached
in light, fo eager was the Captain, that he fired, and
killed him on thé fpot; Friday wounded the next
man, and à third ran away. Hereupon I advanced
with my whole army; and, it being dark, I order-
ed the man we had iurprifed in the boat, to call
them by their names, and to parley with them.
Accordingly he calltd out aloud Tom Smith, Tom
Smith! He anfwered, Who's that; Robinfon! an-
swered the other, For Gods fake, Tom, furrender
immediately, or you*re all dead rnen, Who muft we
furrender to? fays Smith* To our Captain and ffty
men here, who have ta.en me prifoner, wounded Will
Frye, and killed the boatfwain. Shall we have quarr
ters then? fa id he. Hereupon tke Captain calls
out,  Smith, you know my voice, furrender immedi-
ately^ and you fhall all have your lives granted, except
Will Atkins. Hereupon Atkins calls out. What
have I done, Captain^ more than the. reß, xviwhaye been
as bad\ as me; but that -was a lie,, for he was tne per-
fon that laid hold of him, and bound him. However,
he was ordered to fubrhit to the governor's mercy,
for fuch was 1 called. And fo laying, down their
arms, we bound them all and feLzed their boat.
-, After this, the Captain expoftulated with them,
telling them that the governor was an Englimman,
who might execute them there; but hé thought they
Would be fent to England, except Will Atkins, who
was ordered to prepare for death next morning.
Hereupon Atkins implored the Captain to intercede
for his life, and the reft begged they might not be
Jfent to England. This aniwered our project for feiz-
ang the ihip. For after fending Atkins, and two of
the worft, fail bound to the cave, and the rtft being
Committed to my bower, I fent the Captain to treat
with them in the governor's name, offering them par-
don if they would a/Txft in recovering the ihip. Up-
on which they all promifed to fiand by him till the
Jail drop of their blood ; and whoever acted treacher-
ouily, iihould be hanged in chains upon the beach.
They were all releaied on thefe afiurances: and then
the Captain repaired te the othsr boat, making his
pailenger Captain of her, and gave him four men well
armed; while himfelf, his mate, and five more, went
in the other boat. By midnight they came within
call of the ihip, when the Captain ordered Robinfon
to hail her, and tell them that with great difficulty
they had found the men at lafh But while they weie
difcourfing, the Captain, his mate, and the reft erfrer-
•ed, and knocked down the iecond mate, and carpenter*
fecured thofe that were upon thé deck, by putting
them under hatches, while the other boat's crew en-
tered and fecured the forecaftle; they then broke into
the round houfe, where the mate, 4Íter fome rcfni>
ance, fliot the pirate Ciptain through the head, upon
rwhich all the reft yielded themfelves prifoners. And
thus the ibip being recovered, the joyful fignal was
fired, which I heald with the greateft joy imaginable;
nor was it long before he brought the (hip to an an-
chor at the creeks mouth, where coming to me una-
wares, There, fays he, my deareß friend and deliverer,
there is your jhip,* and we are your fervants; a comfort
fo unfpealcable, as made me fwoon in his arms, while
with gratitude to heaven, we were tenderly embracing
each other.
. Nothing now remaining, but to confult what wç
íhould do with the prifoners, whom he thought it
was not fafe to take on board. Hereupon concert^
xng with the Captain, I dreffed myfelf in one of
his fuits, and fending for them, toid them, that as
I was going to leave the ifland with all my people,
if they would tarry there, their lives íhould be (pa-
red ; if not, they íhould be hanged at the firft port.
They agreed to flay. Hereupon I told them my
wholç ftory, charging them to be kind to the Spa-
niards that were expected, gave them all my arms*
and informing them of every thing neceflàry for
their fubfiftence, I and my man Friday went oil
board. JJu.t the next morning two of the men camé
fwimming to the ihip's fide, defiring the Captain to
;take them on board, though he hanged them, com-
plaining mightily how barbarouöy the others ufed
them. Up#n which I prevailed with the Captain t<*'
take them in; and being fevereiy whipt and pickled,
they proved honeft for the future. And fo I bid
Farewell to this ifland, carrying along with me my
money, my parrot, imibrelia, and goat fldn cap ¿
fetting fail December 12, |68, after twenty-eight
years, two months, and riineteeh days residence*
that fame day and month that I efcaped from Sajee,
landing in England, June 11» 1687, after five and
thirty years abfence from my own country.
Here I found my firft Captain'? widow alive, who
had buried a feconil hiiiband, but in very mean cir-
cumftance's, and' whom Í made eafy upoti this àc^
count. . Soon after 'V Went down to' Yorküijre,
jvhere ilt my family were expired,1 except two fiîrérs»
and as many of my brother's children* I found ©
frovifibn had been made for me, they concb;din^
had been long fince dead, fo that I w.as but in á
very (lender dation. Indeed the Captain did me a
great kindncfs, by his report to the owners, how Ï
had delivered their (bip on a defolate Jflandi 
which they made me a prefent of 200L fier)i-ng^;/'t
äiext went to Lifbon, taking my man Fríd^ with
me, and there arriving in Apûl, I met the Pörtu»
•guefe Captain, who had taken me on boW on the
African coaft; but being ancient he had leit off the
fea9 and reiigned all his bufmefs to his fon, who fol-
io-wed the Brazil trade. So altered,both of us were,
that we did not know each other at firft, till I dif-
covered myfèlf more fully to birm After a few em-
braces, I began to enquire of my concerns' ;: ánd
thçn the'old gentlema« told me, that it Was, hine
years fi'nce he had been at Brazil, wberé my partner
was then livings but my trufiees were böth dead;
£hat he believed I, ffipuld have a good, account of
the producl: of my plantation; that the" imagination
of my being lqít, jbad obliged'xny trustees to give an
eftimate of ipy (hare jto theprocurator-fiícái,,1 who?
jn cafe of my not returning,, had givenÎ one thirdto
the king, and the 1 eft to the monkery of, St. Au-
gufHne: but if I put in my olairn^ or any one for
'me, it would be returned,, .except the yearly product
^vjhiçh was given to the, .poor. I then dtfi'r'èd him
îo,tell me what improvement he thought had been
¿Qrade of my plantation, ana* whet her he, thought if
*§ror«h rn.y while  look after it ?.he anfvverecí,' rie
did not know How much it was improved; "but this
be was certain of,'that my partner was grown vaiîïy
rich upon his half of it; and that he lud been in-
jfoortned, that the king-had 200 moidores per annum
/or his third part.' He addede that the furvivois of
ï>iy tju$e£¿ were person s ,o£ an .ingenuous '&;
tJ>at  pdrtnet ¿01»I'd y^ñeís njy title, my name
being regiftered' in the .country, 'by which means Í
ïhouîd iudífpenfibly r eje oyer,  on fid ¿rabie fu m $ of
money/ ßut, .anfwcr^d / bow could my truíteér
áifpofe of my effe&s, when 1 made you my only
heir r" This, he laid, was (rue 5 but, their being no
affidayit made of my death, he could not aét as my
executor,: However,- he had ordered his fon (then?
at Brazil) to a£t. by procuration upon my account^
and he ted taken poffeiiion of my ingar-houfe, ha-
ving accounted himfelf for eight years with my part-
ner and tr+ifteesfor the protiv of which he would give'
me a very good account.
And indeed this he performed very faithfully, in
ft few da.ysr making himfelf indebted to me 470*
inoidorcs of gold, o\ er and above what hi  ci be 
k)ft at fea, after I had left the place. And then he
recounted to me what misfortunes he had gone thro*
which forced my money out of his hands to buy
part of a new ihip: but,' fa id he, you flail not waitr'
take 'this; and when my fon returns, every farthing flail
be paid you. Upon which he put into my h.^nd a<
p'urfe of 150 moidores in gold, as likewifesan in-
Arument containing the title to the fbip which-his-
fbirwas in, and. which he offered as fecurity for the
remainder. . But really when 1 law fo much good-
nefs, generofity, tendernefs, and real honeüy, I
l>ad not the heart to accept it, for fear he ihould
ftraiten himfelf upon my account. It is true, fa id
he, it may, be fa;: but.then the money isyoursr not mine,
änd'you- may have the greateß occafion for it. . However
1 returned-fifty of them back again, promifing that
X would freely forgive him the other hundred whew
1 got ray effects into my hands, and that 1 defigned
to go myfeif -for that purpofe. But he told me he^
could fave me that trouble, and lb can fed me 'tor
«ínter my name with a public notary, as likewife
my affidavit,, with a procuration affixed to i^; and
this he ordered me to fend in a letter to one of his^
acquaintance, a merchant in Brazil! and, indeed,-
nothing could be more faithfully and honourably
obfervéd; for, in feven months time, i had a very
faithful accourut of all ray eífeéis, what funis of
mouey were raifed, what expended, and what rc-
p 2
trained for my ufe: In a word, 1 found myfclf
to be worth ,5000b ilerling, and 1000I per annunu
Nor was this nil; for my partner congratulated me
upon my being alive, telling me how much my
plantation was improved, what negroes were at
work, and how many Ave Marias he had laid to the
Virgin Mary for my pvefervation, defiring meto
accept kindly lome prcfents he had fent me, which
I found fhetvedthe g reu teil generoíity.
No fooner did the ihipairive, but I rewarded my
faithful Captain, by returning him the hundred
moidorc\s, and not only forgiving him all he owed
me, I allowed him ycatly a hundred more, and
fifty to his fon, dining their lives. And now being
relolved to go to England, 1 returned letters of
thanks to the Prior of St. Auguftine, and in parti*
en hu* to my old partner, with very fuitaWe pre-
sents. By the Capuin's advice, 1 was perfuaded
 go by land to Cahis, and there take paflage for
England j when as it happened, I got a young Eng-
liih gentleman, a merchants fon at LUbon, to ac-
company me, together with two Engliih, and two
Fui tugúele gentlemen; fo that with a Portuguefc
fer vara, an Engliih failor, and my man Friday,
there were nine of us in number.
Thus armed and equipped, we fet out, and came
to Madrid, when the fummcr decaying, we haftçd
to Navarre, where we were informed, that there
was Scarcely any palling, by rea l'on of the prodi-
gious quantity of fnow; fo that we were .obliged
to abide near twenty days at Pampeluna, and at bail
to take a guide to conduct us fate towards Thou-
lowfe. And now twelve other gentlemen joined
with us, together with,their feivants, we had a ve-
ry jolly company. Away ourguide ltd us by the
fiightful mountains, and through io many intricate
mazes and windings, that we inleniibly palled them*
which, as we travelled along, uthercd us into the
profpert of the fruitful and charming provinces of
Languedoc and.Gafcoigue,
Èu^t no w came ón t wo adventures? both tragical
and cornier 1. Firft, our guide was encountered by
titrée wolves arid à beart who let upon him and his
noriïv 'Wd funded  in three place:; upoh
^% -1': rnan riding up to his affiftarice, ihbt one"
etf tWem dead- öpon the ípot, which made the others
retire into the woods. But thé pleaíanteft adventure
$ Vo feefoold my mari attack the bear* r I is-fácb-
à créature7 that if you let him alone he will never
Hied die with you : and this my man very well knew, -
^ begging leave of me in* broken EngÍlíh^Ü^"
ibid m ' make good laugh. Why you filly fool#;
féíd íj he'll eat yóu up at a mouthful, Eatee  uf;
replied fefey by way of feorn, me not ortiy eat  '§?
mâ]èë m^àclè-gdoêlâugké Upon which,..- pulling off his,
KôofcsV-he ciaps on his pumps?. and running, after
the rn^hñróüs^ bea-fly k'ê called out that he waMeÄ*
ib dHco&r'fe %ïth him, arid then throwing ílones >
pt^í^feOtdTOé^ñle him'f the beaft turns about in íú:¿:
if94y$âè' wîiH''pfööi^löu's ftrides mufles, after tóm¿-
Mt'iftMi'gh%é'Wàs itöt fwlSft enough to keep up pace
tvith'FiMay^ whe^räüdeinp Idus as it were -for help >;
fèt' bèiri|:.;-ah§'ry,: JbtP-dog, ÛM: lf immediately takè''
Wtfèf-dmltl' mßtodt ûe creätürt. But he cried, -Beat'
Wxß^f ^ß^frHe:iü<ike you laugh-much, Änd, fo'hè*
turned about, making fighs to follow, while tfe 
fcear: ïàW* aTrëfÇ '1 eornmg • i' ' great öak> - be: a£* -
éétídéd.W tómA^-Xlea^Íng tí&gun at .the bottör% <
pf'ïfy .NoräM ^é:feëà.ï;iiiÉi-ke ányVdifficülty öf ..'
bût •afcehdêd-'îifee'à cat;,; though his weigMiw^ás ve^1
îy;grci|; You m u ft think Fwas not a little àmaz^*;
 at * the  of  manas not perc.eivin.g aáy v.
ïftirrgto bccaíion our laughter, till fuc'h §ne3â;ÂJ"
fbäe ùp nearer,; and heboid the beaft mounted #poà>
}: 1% on the beginnings öf' t hè fa me - bf ahch- vtè;
"^wtóc^h^Fridáy citing, at' the' farther end",^.wh^re?fî%: -
Meiti dürft bot'come. Hereupon Friday- Crietí.^otít',
Wbt&" ñ&ftvr; "rti'ë make mmkláugh,. jne makè^ '^*
Wponvwîiich he fell ŒaMng.the hou:gfe;,::w^
tSe:"creatureidofc ^behind him, to let böw he w8;
F St'
retreat. Then as if the bear had underftood his
Hammering Engliih; Why you no come farther, Mr.
Bear? faid he, fray Mr. Bear, come farther: and
then indeed we all bind into laughter, efpccially
when we perceived Friday drop like a fquirrel upon
the ground, leaving the beaft to make the beft of
his way down the tree.
And now thinking it the mod convenient time to
íhoot the creature, Friday cried out, 0 dear mq/ter^no
ßoot) me ßoot by and by; when taking up the gun%
Me no ßoot yet y laid he, me make once more much laugh*
And accordingly, he was as good as his word, for
the creature defcetiding from the tree very leifurely,
before he could lay one foot on the ground, Friday
fhot him through the ear, ilone dead: and looking
to fee whether we were pleafed, he burft out into
hearty laughter, faying, So we 1 de bear in my coun-
try, not with the gun, butivith much long arrows. Thus
ended our diverfion, to our great fati&faâion; efpe-
cially in a place where the terrible howlings (truck us
with a continual terror. But the mows now growing
Very deep, particularly on the mountain's, the rave-
nous creatures were obliged to feck for fuftenance in
the villages, where coming by furprize on the coun-
try people, they killed lèverai of them, befides a great
number of their iheep and horfes.
Our guide told us, we had yet one more dangerous
place to pafs by; and if there wer« any more wolves
in the country, there we fhould find them. This was
a fmall plain, encompaffed with woods, to get thro'
a long lane, to the village where we were te lodge.
When we entered the wood, the fun was witfiinhalf
an hour of íettmg 9 and a little after it was fet, we
came into the plain, which was not above two fur-
longs over, and then we perceived five great wolves
ctofs the road, without taking any notice of us, and
fo fwift as thodgh they were purfuing after their prey.
Hereupon our guide, believing there were more com-
ing, defired us to be upon our guard. Accordingly
0ÜX eyes were very circumfpefl, till about half >
league farther, we perceived a, dead horfe, and near a
dozen of wolves devouring its carcafe, My man Fri-
day would fain have fired at them,, but 1 would not
permit him ,* nor had we gone half oyer the plain,
but we heard dreadful bowlings in a wood on our leftT
when prefently we faw an hundred come up againft
us, as though they had been an experienced army.
This, obliged us to form ourfelves in the beft manner -r
and then 1 ordered that every other man iliould firer
that thofe who did not, might be ready to give a fé-
cond volley, ihould they advance upon us; and then
every man ihouJd make ule :of his piilols.
But there was no neceffity for this; for the enemy
being terrified, ¡flppped at the rioife of the fire; four
of them were fli.ot dead, and feveral others being
woupded, went bleeding away, as we could very
plainly difçover by the fnow. And now remembering
what had been often told , that fuch was the ma-
jetty of a man's voice, as to flrike terror eyçn in the
fierceft of creatures, 1 ordered all our companions to
ballop as loud as poffible; and iq this notion I was
not altogether miitaken; for they immediately turn-
ed about upon the fir ft halloo, and began to retire;
upon which, ordering.a fécond volby in their rear,
they gallopped into the Woods with great precipita-
tion.
Thus we had fome fmall time to load our pieces
again, and then made, all the ha.fie we could on our
way; but we bad tfotjo,de far. before we were obliged
to put ourfelves. jp a pofture of defence as before,
being alarmed with a very dreadful noifè in theiame
Wood, on our left hand through which wc were to
pals, only thatit; was at íonie diibuce from . By
this time the <lar^fpm,e clouds Legan to.ipread over
the elements, ] a'nd. fte night growing very duiky,
made it fa,inucV  mi>re. to our u*ifadvantage; but
ftili the noife*increafingf. y/c were>fully!affuved that it
was the howling and yelling of truae ravenous crea-
tures; when prefently three troops of wolves on our
front, appeared in fig|n>(.a:s thou^ a great number
t&z LIFE AÑ0 AÏ>yKîWÛkES
éf4hèm- had a defign to fürrotind us, and devour
tts in fptte ,of rale. But as-they did not fail upon
m im-rbediaieîy^ we1 proceeded on our * journey in as
itirlk % iriantfeiv as *the ¿"Dad* would permit our borfes,;
whichJw.AS ottly á îafÇé.'trÔtv' It was ifi this manner'
W;e tf^veU^dVtilî fuen'tîrne as wé discovered another;
vjtybóy a^'had'tihe profpeél of its entrance through
Which we Werfe to pais, at the fart heft fide-of thé
plain* But •'furely hone can  the terror we*
were in,  a ppt 03  h i- g the lane, we perceived &
éon-fufed 1 4»f the fere eft wolves, fianding, :às;
it were, guarding it* eritran<!:eV Nor were we long
ill this armazërnèhf^ before anöther occaiion of hör-
íor prefèhlétfjtfelf'; for füddeftly; we heard thtírejsotü-
 argurt at'another dpfehhig in ïhev woody áhd, Wok-
ing that wàyV out ran a horfé bridled and faddîéd^s
ßying-with the greà'tefl: fwiftnefsr and frb iéfs thai!
fi^ctèéîi-1 or fevërtte^n1-'wolves purfuin^ after1 him, irt
 dévour the ;ptíbr Créature: and" unqueítioh^
âfcfy' 4h;e^5thd fo', :af¿br! théy hsfcd rtin him ^'owti, ûùi
behi¿ ^Mfe;fo'-HiAd't)üf that fWiftáefs wtth: whi¿h 
* ^^/ >; ;•' r Y"' "';v<
When'we rodé iVjV-tó} fnat' eñtrahcé from wfre'ncé
t^e''ho^fe ;carHe4ptth/there iaythbeárcafés of ahó^-
therihoffô amd^Wb'rhen;" iéañ'gíeW áttd'toé by théf¿
devouring ,woJves :. and, undoubtedly one of theîér
irnéñ^ w'á^ thfe r^rToh'who;rW#:^ we:
bzbrêrfxJt thVpiece l'jty  ^tay!lBüt:'áláí;! nr¿ñ" df
the «ppef pärt1 c)f hi^Wdy.an'd* h.í$\fótd weré'eAtofrib-
éd in the4 bowels of tlieïe ra¿efioU.s cVë'atures. r:
"What '& ro tate, whether, to prtíceed or re*
treaty we could" not tdl; but 'ft was not long when,
tflfe wolve^^ÎlèïTiffelVes^rpà'de''^ refóVutidíit
for üreb niimoers-furrouiTtleti e9érf cfol¿ of '^hotó
^p^ftedriheír;!prfey, wbth 6bf btíiiW/tó be dit
vlitd '&'', ¿heVe w'Btifä jtöt \(*'rhouth-
 äpikceY ', Ver_jr'fiappîy''irvfàtë  1 uif>
That but V Ht tie w'ay  the  trancé ?1 there \àJy
foxrM yef'/Wge' timber tree's:r ''^hrctí t îlippofëd h'áfr
I drew my little troop, placing ourfelves in a line be-
hind one long tree, which ferved us fora breaft work,
when defining them to alight, we ftood in a triangle,
or three fronts, inclofing our horfes in the centre, the
only place where we could preferve them.
Never certainly was there a more furious charge
than what the wolves made upon us in this place;
and the fight of the horfes, which was the principal
prey they aimed at, provoked their hunger, and added
to their natura) fiercenefs. They came on us with a
moil dreadfui noife, that made the woods ring again;
and beginning to mount the pieces of timcer, J or-
dered every man to fire as before directed: and, in-
deed, fo well did they take their aim, that they kill-
ed feveral of the wolves at the firft volley s but fiili
we were obliged to keep a continual firing, by reafon
they came on like devil?, puihing one another with
the greateif. fury. But our fécond volley fomething
abated their courage, when, flopping a little, wc
hoped they would have made the beft of their way;
however, it did not pro.e fo, for others made a new
attempt upon us ; and though in four.filings we killed
feventeen or eighteen of them, laming twice as many,
yet they lèverai times fuccefîïveïy carne on, as though
they valued not their lives for the fake of their prey.
Unwilling was 1 to fpend ourlait fhot too fuddenly,
and therefore calling my other fervant, and giving
him a horn of powder, bid.him lay a large train quite
along the timber, which he did, while Friday was
charging my rufceand his own with the greateir dex-
terity. By this time the wolves coming up the tinw
ber, Í fet fire to the train, by fnapping a difcharged
piítol clofe to the powder. This fo fcorched and
terrified them, that fome fell down and others jump-:
ed in among us; but thefe we immediately difpatch-
ed, when all the reft, frighted with the light which
the darkforae night caufed to appear iHU more dread,
ful, began at length to retire; upon which, ordering
our iaft piftols to be fired at once, giving at the fame
time a great fliout, the wolves-, were obliged to have
recourfe to theirJwiftnefs, and turn,tail; and thei*
ye.íaüi^d put upon twenty lames ones, cutting them
¡n .pieces with -our fwords,'-.which obliged them to?
howVJatiiejat^biy, to the terror of their fellows, who,
ïeiîgned to tische field as viótorious Conquerors.
- Titus ended our Woody battle with the-bea-fts, hav~-
ing killed; three-fcore of ihem. and faved our Jives
from their Jury. We ftiîl had a league farther to go,
when, ;as we wenf, our ea?s was faluted with their
roofti-,  welcome howh'ngs, and we expected every,
mqment another attack. But, m an hour's time, we
arrived, ai the town, where we were to lodge j and*
here we found, the placé ûri&ly guarded, and all -in
terrible confufiori* as weLi they mighty for.fear,of the
bears and wolves breaking into the village, in order
to prey upon the.tr cattle and people. The noxt morn-
ing-'we . were-jobii&ed .to.taîfe. a nrw guide, by reaf®n<
the otherifeli very bad . of; his;wounds, which he 
ieceived,ias before pientiojied. After we had reach-
ed .'T'houloufe, we-..came into a warni* pleafant, and
fruitful country, not i'nfeAed with wolves, nor atvy
fort of ravenous creatures  and* when we toîd ouff
ßorys. there, they much blamed our guide, ' for con-
ducting  through.the forefl at the foot of the moun-
tains, ¡in fiich a feverefeafon, when the  now obliged
t^he :WO?lve&; toifeek 'foT ifheltcr in the woods. When
"we . informed them in what memner ive pl^osd- eus*
febes, and the horfes; i»n¡ the.centre, they exceedingly
iepreherided us, áncf told us, it had.been an hundred
to one, but we: bad beea all defboyed*; for that it
Was the very fight of the horfes, their fo much defired
jbnejV that made; the . wol'ves . more ragingly furious-
than they would, have; been,.which was evident,, by,
iheiri beir^ :at other times readily afraid of a gun; but
then.bpihg. exceeding hungry amd fupious upon that
account,: their eageruefs to come at the horfes made
them mfenfible of. their.danger; and thatr if we had
not, by a' contimiabiire,, and at'laft by the cunning
firatágemiof the train of powder,, got the better of
th#m,,.it had been odds if ifcheir mimber^had not over-
fowereâ us; befides, it wás a gréât merey we alight-
ed from our horfes, and fought them with that cod-
rage and £endu£r, which, had we failed to do, eVery
man of us, with our beads, Had been devoured ; awd
indeed, this was nothing but truth, for never, in my
Jifè, was 1 föfenfihleof danger'. 1 :; '. \
Tthinfe Ï have nothing üricbmm-on irr rriy/paffi^é
thro' France to tafte" notice of, fince other travelíer%
ef greater learning and ingenuity, have ^iVen a more
ampié' account than my pen ;is able:tofet forth.
írdm1 Thoulotife.I travelled to Päriß, from hence to
Calais, where I took ihippiag, #nd landed at Dover,
*the 14th of January, in a very cold feafon.
Thus cbrne to the eñd ®f rny travèlsj, I föon <*
'covered7 my new found eftatef, and a-111 the Mb of
'exctóngé 'í had, were currently • pakf. r , rT\ië goöä
ancieht widow,/ my only privy coünfeFíc^1, iboiígrrt
n© pains, nor care too great to procure1 m^idväni-
tage; npr had71 ever oCca'flon to blátne nér fi;defityi#
which drew frorh mt an ample reward, l was1 fot
Îeàvirtg'jiiy èfre&s 1'''&^% îtitehding^ fco fet
out for Ljfbon, and fo to the ßrazüs: bi¿t a¿ in thë
'Defolate lIßand I had :fôme;d¿tíbt^âboiit thé Rotóiíh
réligipn,' fo I knew there'wás'bíit Ht if i encourage-
ment to fettle there> ^nrefs^wbtt^^^^
îhe orthodox faith, /or live în contiiYùliFfedr of the
Inquifitibn/ Upon this account * rpfolved to fell
my plantation , and, for'that itii&tk^l ^öte io'rriy
oíd frierrd at 1 fb'bri> wVb!return e* d mé^b :ahf^ër(jttb
my.greUt failèfàc^io^ l wrîièTi!w'a[à, î:t^at^é cbuWfëfl
it td gboer áccó'un^; however,, if1 ^ it ?-
vénient to givéliirb liberty - t'Ö!otferit tri  my rYarh$
to the two merchants, the fUr'vivors pT my truftees,
refiding at the Bia^iîs, vdio'âohïe.c^iiyntlf^kn^witk
intrinfic value, having Mi véd jurft bpon\'the fpoÊ,
and :who, rstvas ienfible were :very! ridbV' a^^rfere-
ïore rnight be the move willing to1 Jpib'¿biá3rtV fre
¿didW in theieaft \dotib.r^ büt "that  fhaufcj: Vnkke
four or five thoxifaiid plb^ 'bf eight sAôxi of ,
than I could do, if I difpofcd of it in any other man-
ner wrjatfpever. /
Y®u may be iure I could not but agree with this
kind and ingenuous propofal; and immediately I
fent him an order to offer it to them, which he ac-
cordingly did; fo that, about eight months after,
the {hip being in that time returned, he gave me a
íajtisfaftóry account, that they not only willingly
accepted the offer, but that they had alfo remit-
ted 33,000.:pieces of eight to a correfpondent of
their own at Lifb^n, in order to pay for the pur-
chafe.
Hereupon, in return, I figned the inftrument of
fale according to form, which th,ey hafl fent from
jMibori, and returned it again to my old friend, he
having fent me, for my çftate, bills of three hundred
twenty-eight thou (and pieces of eight, referving the
.payment of one hundred moidores per annum, which
1 had allowed him during life, likewife fifty to his
ion during his life alio, according to my faithful pro-
\9 which the plantation was to make good as a
rent charge*
And thus having led my reader to the knowledge
of the firft parts qf my life, fo remarkable for the
many peculiar providences that attended it, floating
in an ocean of uncertainty and difappqjntment, of
adverfity and prpfperity, beginning fooliihly, and
yet .ending happily; methinks, now, that I am
come tp aiafe and plçafant haven,, it is time for me
tq caft put my,anchor, and laying up my veffel, bid,
for a while, adieu to, foreign adventures. I had no
©ther concerns to , look after, but the care of my
brother's two fons, which, with the good widow's
perfusions, obliged me. to continue at home (even
years* ¡Óne of thefe, children I bred up a gentle-
man.,? acid, the.oth^r an experienced failpr, reriiark-
able for'his. courage and bravery. Befides this, I
married a virtuous young gentlewoman, of a very
good family, by whpm I had two fons and á daugh-
ter. But my dear and tender wife, leaving this
earthly ftage (as iti the fécond part of my life you
will hear) which rent my foulas it were afunder, my
nativé country became weary and tirefome to me;
and my nephew happening to come from fea, tempt-
ed meto venture another voyage to the Eaft lnditst
which I did in the year 1694, at which time I viiited
ray iiland, and informed myfelf of every thing that
happened threefmce my departure.
, One might reafonably imagine, that what I had
fuftered, together with an advanced age, and the fear
of loiing not only what I had gotten, but my Jife alio,
might have choaked up all the feeds of youthful am-
bition and curiofity, and put a jailing period to my
. wandering inclinations* But as nothing but death
can fully allay the aclive parr of my life, no lefs re-
markable, for the many various contingencies of it;
you will next perceive how I viiited my little king-
dom., faw my iucceflbrs the Spaniards, had an ac-
count of the ufage they met with from the EnglHh-
men, agreeing and^ifagreeing, uniting and feparajy
ing,, till at laft.they were; fubje&ed to the Spaniard*,
who yet.ufed' therrv y ery honourably, tpgether with
the wp'nde.vful; and fagcefsful,battles gained over the
ladran?, who invaded, and thought to have conquer-
ed theiiland, but were repelled by their invincible
courage> and bravery, having taken.¿leven men aiid
five women prifoners, by which, on my. return, f
found about 20 young..children on- my little kingdom*
Here , Haid,, twenty days, hit .them fuppiies of ail
Dcccfl^rjf things, as alio a carr and ím'ith, and
fharc;d;thci illand iw,to parts, reserving ¿he whole pro-
perty to myfelf. Nor will you be1 i nieaüble, by the.
account of thefe things,, of feveral new .adventures Í
have been engaged in, the battles i have fought, the
deliverances 1, have met with: and while., in the fur-
pfifing relation of.fuch remarkable oçcurr.ences, I
ihall defcribe many of God*s Jqnd^ft providences to
me, no lefs confpiçuous in the (ame go od riefe, power,
and majefty of our Creator, (hewn, one way or otiier,
over the face of the eurth, if duly adverted £q+
fflie further Adventures of R^binfon Crufeet whemm
we 'contained feveral ßr.ange and furprizing & ,
of his travels, and ike moß mmrkübk tjmfyétians
.  by fea and ,land; mkk his wonderful vifian- of the •
ABgçlic World. • •.; ;•. -
 THEN we confiner the puiflant force of Ña-
 y ture, and-what mighty míiu-cnee  has ma^ -
« times over the temper of the rnin^, it wi'M beno
inch great wonder to think, that my powerful rea ion
,/bould be overcome by a much Wronger inclination. *
My late acquired kingdom ra(u centinwally in my
thoughts nil thé day, and I dreamed'of it in the
night; nay, Ï made it tJhe continual íubjeét of my
ralk, even,te> impertinence, whe-n I was- awake. 1
.bad ftfch vapours in my head, th'atl aólualíy' íuppoíed
myfelf at my çafUe that 1 had not only perceived
'Friday's.father, but the old Spaniard, arjd the wick-
ed fail or?, but that Î talked and difcourfed with them
about thcijr marme'f of living: that I heard thefë
things'rcia'ted1tb%e', which' Ifeund afterwards to bt
kóo tru^i1 and.thatl èxècWtcfd' táy judgments, wit h'
Oie grtratèft féverity üpbn the offenders.' And;,' iri*
deéd; Wis Üntteipating all the pleafifcg joys of my
,!ife, (cárcely afforded me oite plea fan t hoyr: my
dea,Vr and tcndéV'üife could not hut take'nQtkeof it,
Whteii drew' tbéfe «ffe&ionate fpeecbefc fvotn her:
Mydeariizjá fhe, Pàfà'falfy ferîjiià^'tiât fom fe~
cf/t inipulfe frobi keàvM occaJibns\iri yô^ al determination*
•îerfee 'üe'ißand'dtrmti^nor' am llcfs' fenßbic, but your
b^&èngageiïù ine{; ¡aiid the fe- dedr clhldrenf is- the only
iumrakte • of :ybur' 'departure;* !Il'knew, inf dear, if I
-was in 'the'grave,1 you would n-qt long continue at home;
prevent not your häppinefs upon my account^xvlwfe only
<:omforïCenters' in you. All that 1 can objeêl is, 4hat
fuck ^ no way conjjßcnt mth a
ferfon of pur years ^ biñf 'you are'rejUved to'g&9 ad-
ded ffi'ev'^çéjping', "brity permit me to bear you company*,
and'thañs alf tkt'ï d%é.<
Such 'endearing teÜÜcrncß, graced with the mofb
innocent,- and yet moft powerful , brought mc
infenfiUly . into my right uiiderilanding; and when I
confulered all fhe tranfaclions of irvy life,, and partí-
eularly my new engagement; that í had now one
child already bom, and my wife big of another ; and
that I had no oecafion to feck-for more riches, who'
already was ble'il with lufftciency, with much ftrug«
gling, Í altered nay refolutions at lafr., refoiving to
apply myfelf to fome bufinefs or other, which might
put a period to fuch wandering inclinations. Here-
upon I bought a little couutry farm in the county of
Bedford, with areft)luti«n to move thither vpoiv
this there was a pretty convenient houf'e, furrounded 4
with land, very capable of improvement, whicbiuit-
cd my temper as to planting, managing, and culti-
vating. Nor was I long before Ï entered upon my
new feulement, having bought ploughs, harrows,-
carts, waggons, horfes, cows and fhecp: jfo that !•
now led thelife-of a country gentleman,* and as hap-
py in my retirement as the greateft monarch in the'
world* And what made me think my happineis the'
greater was, that I was in the middle fate of /{/>,
which my fa Hi er had lb-often retom mm ended, much
refembiitig the felicity of a rural retirement, which'
is elegantly defcnbcd'by the poet in thefe lines;
Free from all vices, free from care,
Age has no fain, and youth fiofnare.
But,, in the midft of this my happinefs, I was.JW--
denly plunged iu thegreatcft forrow that I could pof-
Ably endure; for when I leaf} expeled it, my dear
and tender wife was forced to fubmit to thfe irrefifliblç
power of death., leaving this tranfirory life for abet-
ter, it is impoííible for me to exprtfs the beauties
of her mind, or the lovelintTs of her per (on-; neither"
can I too rmch lament her lofs, which my lateft'
breath fhsil record; her influence was greater oyer
me then the powers of my reafon, the importunities^
of friends, the inftryftions of a father, or the melt-
ing tears of a tender and difco-nfolate OíOíber in a'
word, fhe was the fpiritof all my affairs, and the cen-
ter of my enterprises. But new, fince the cruel
hand of death, hath clofedmy deaierVs eyes, J feem-
ed in my thoughts a ft ranger to the world; my privy
counfellor being gone, 1 was like a fhip without a
pilot, that could only run before the wind. And
when I looked around me in this bufy world, one
part labouring for bread, and the other fquandering
away their eilates; this put me in mind how I had
lived in my little kingdom, where rea fon and reli-
gion dictated to me, that there was fomething that
certainly was the reafon and end of life, which was
far fuperior to what could be hoped" for on this fide
the gravf. My country delights were now as iniîpïd
and dull, as muijc aud fcience to thofe who" have
neither tafte nor ingenuity. In fhort, refolving to
. íe-ave ofT houfe-keeping, 1 left my farm, and in a few
months, returned to London.
. ..But neither could that great city, fo famous for
"variety of entertainment, afford me any agree-
able delight; a fíate of idlenefs ! found to be the
very diegs oí life, and moil hurtful to body and
iouL It was now the beginning of the ye;;r 1694,
at which time my nephew (who, as 1 before oL-
ferved, had been brought up to the (, and ad-
vanced to be captain of a (hip) was returned from
a fhort voyage, to Bilboa, the fiift. he had made in
that dation. He comes to me one morning, telling
me, that fome merchants of his acquaintance had
propofed for him to go a voyage for them, to the
Eaft indies and China, in the manner of private
traders: and now, uncle (aid he, if you'll accompany
me thither,  II engage to lemd you upon your old ißand,
lo vîfit the ßate of your little kingdom.
Juft before he came in my? thoughts were fixed to
get a patent for its poiTeffion, and then to fill it with
inhabitants. After I had paufed a while, and look-
ed ftedfaftly on him, What devil, or fpirit, laid
Jentyou with this unlucky errand? He ftarted at ftift;
but recovering himfelf, when he perceived I was
s not offended; Sir, replied he, what I have" pro-
pofed, cannot, I hope,* be ftyled unlucky, fmce
certainly you muft be defirous to fee your little
territory, where you reigned with more ccntent
than any of your brother kings in the univerfe*-
Nephew, laid I, .if you will leave me^lhere, and
call for me as you come back, I care not if 1 give
my confent? but he anfwered, that the merchants
would not allow their, vefTel, loaden with infinite'
value, to return there again, which-was a month's-
fail out of the way; befides, Sir, iaid he, if I
fhould mifcarry, was your requeft granted,, why
then you would be locked up as before. This,-
indeed, carried a great deal of rea fon in it; but we 1
found out a remedy, and that was to carry a framed
Hoop on board, ready to be fet up in the ifland, by'
the affiibnee of fome carpenters,-which we fhould
cany with* us, that might be fitted in a few days to'
go to fea. 1 was not long in forming my retaliation*
which over-iwayed my good friend the widow's per-
fuafions, and the natural affeelion I bore to my
young children. I made my will, and fettled- my
eírate in fuch a manner, that I was perfectly fure
that my poor infants would have juilice done them.
The good widow not only undeitook to make pro-
vision for my voyage, but alio took-the charge of'
my domeitic affairs, and to provide for my chil-
dren's education ; and indeed no mother could take--*
more care, or underftood that office better; for
which Ï lived to reward, and return her my hearty
thanks..
The beginning of January 1694-5,- my nephew
being ready to fail, I and Friday went on board in v
the Downs on the 8th,. having,, befides that floop
already mentioned, a very confderable cargo for
my new colony., firfl, 1 had fome fervrrWs, whom-
i propofed to leave there, as they fhould appear
willing; there were two carpenters, a fmiih,'and:
a very ingenious fellow who was Jack of all trades ;;
for he was--not only a cooper by trade, but alio hg-
<l 3
was dexterous at making wheels and hand-mills £c*
grind com, iikewife a good turner, and a good pot-
maker. 1 alio carried a tailor, who con Tented ta
flay m my plantation, and proved a moil neceffary
fellow in the ifland. As to my cargo, it confided
of a fufficient quantity of linen, and Englifli fluffs,
for clothing the Spaniards that 1 expecled to find
there; as Iikewife gloves, hats, flioes, (lockings;
together with beds, bedding, and houfehold fluff,
efpeciaily kitchen utenfils; with pots, kettles,
pewter, brais, Sec. alfo nails, tools of all forts,
ifaples, hooks, hinges, and all other things neeef-
fa.y ,* all which, I think, cofl me aboutthree hun-
dred pounds. Nor was this all :, for I carried an
hundred fpare arms, mufkets, and fufees, befides
fome piftols, a confidcrable quantity of feveral
forts of (hot, two brais cannon, befides fwords, cut-
ía if es, and the iron part of fome pikes and halberts.
1 made my nephew take with us two (mall quarter-
deck guns, more than he had occafion for in his
íhi- t° leave behind, if there was a neceffity ; ib
we might built a fort there, and man it againft all
oppofers what foe ver.
Well, we put out to fea; and though I can't fay
this voyage was fo unprofperous as my others had
been, yet contrary winds drove us io far northward,
that we were obliged to put in at Garway ia Ireland,
where we lay wind bound two and twenty days.
Here indeed provisions were very  hears and we
added to our íhip's flores by taking feveral live
hogs, two cows and caives, which Í then refolved
to put on (bore on my iftand, if our neceiiities did
not call for them. On the 5th of February we tail-
ed from Ireland, with a very fair gale, which lafled
far forne^days; and Í think it wj< about the 20th
of the fame month, late in the evening, when the
mate informed us that he faw a flaih of fire, and
heard a gun fired r and when he was {peaking, a
boy came in, and told us, that the boat (wain had
ticuid another* Upon which we ail ran to the
quarter-deck, from whence in a few moments we
perceived a terrible fire at a difbnce. We had im*
mediately recourfe to our re«konings7 in which we
were all of opinion, th,;it there could be no land;
th.it way, it appearing to* be at.N. N. W. Mere-
upon we concluded that fome fhip had taken fire at
fea, :and that if could not be far off", by the report
of the guns which we had heard. We made up di-
rectly to it, and in half an hour's time, the wind
being fair, we could plainly perceive a great fhip
on fire.in the middle of the fea. Touched with
this unhappy difafier, and confidering my foimer
circumftances, when the iPortugue/e Captain took
me up, J immediately ordered five guns to be fired,
that the poor creatures, not feeing us, it being
dark, (though we could perceive their flame) might
be (eniible there was deliverance at hand, and con-
feqjently might endeavour, to fave themfelves in
their boat. Nor was it long before the fhip blew
up in the air* and the fire was extinguíIhed in the
ocem. But j'uppofing them all to be in their boats
we hung out ou.r lanterne, and kept up firing till
eight o'clock in the morning;; when, with our per-
fpeótives, we beheld two bo.its full of people, ma-
king towards us though the tide was againft them:
then fpreading out our antient, and hanging out a
wait, as a fign.d for them to come on board, in
half an hour's time, we came up to them, and took
them all in,,there being no lefs than fixty-four men,
women and children* It was a French merchant
fhip of }oo tons, homeward-bound from Quebec, in
the river of Canada. The matter informed me how,
by the negligence of the iteerfman, the fteerage was
fet on fire: that, at his out-qry for help, the fiie
wap, as they thought,, totally extinguiihed ; .but,
that iome fpuks getting between the timber, and
within the ceiling, it proceeded into the hold, whore,
there' was no refitting it: that then'they got inte*
then boats, as creatines in the lafi extremity, with
what provifion they had, together- with oars,, fails*
and a compafs, intending to go back to Newfound-
land, the wind blowing at S.E. and by E. though
there were feverai chances aga-init them, as irorms-
to overfet and founder them,, rains and colds to be-
numb and'perifh their lim o!, and contrary .winds to-
keep them back and ftarve them; but faid he, m-
this our great diftrefs, we heard the welcome report
of your guns, when, with unfpeakable joy, tak-
ing down our mails and fails, we were reiolved
to lie by till morning: but perceiving your lights
we fet our oars at work to keep our boat a-head, the
fooner to attain your fhip-, the happy inftrurnent o'i
our deliverance..
Indeed,, no one can exprefs the joy of thefc poor
creatures on this occafron; fear atad grief are eafiîy
let forth; fighs and tears, with a few motions of the
hands and-head, are all the demonfrmions of thefe-
paiïîons; but an excefs of joy,, carries in it a thou-
fand extravagancies; efpecially, I think,, among-ft
the French, whofe temper iß allowed to bè more
Volatile, paffionate, fprightly and gay, than that of
other nations.- Some were weeping, tearing them-
-felves in the greateft agonies of forrow, and running
flark mad about the (hip, while the reft were (lop-
ing with their feet,,, wringing their handsr fmgingr
laughing, fwooning away,- fainting, with a few re-
turning hearty thanks to the Almighty, and croffing
thetrvfeives. I think, if Í am not miftaken, our
furgeon was obliged to let thkty of them blood*
But among the paffengers,. tbere were two prieRs-,
the one an old, the other a-young man; but what
amazed me more was,, the old'efl was in the worft
plight; for no fooner did he perceive himfelf freerd
from danger, but he dropt down, as it were without
life,, and, to appearance, quite dead; but the iur-
geon, chañng and rubbing his,arm, opened a vein,
which át frrft dropped,,and then flowing more freely,
h-e began to open his eye%< and in a* quarter of an
hour was well again.. But foon remembering his
&3f?>-py change,-, the joy of which whirled his biooct
about fafter than the veifels could convey it, he be-
came fo feverifh, as made him more fit for bedlam
than any other place; but the furgeon giving him
a fleepy dofe, he was perfeétly compofed the next
morning. . ^
lleraarbble, indeed, was thé behaviour of the
young pried. On his entrance on board the (hip,
he feil on his face in the mod humble proftration to
the Almighty, I thought, indeed, he had fallen*
inte a fwoon, and fo ran to help him up; but he
modeftiy told me, he was rerurning thanks to the
Almighty, defiring me.to leave him a few moments,
and that, next to his creator, he would return me
thanks alio. And, indeed, he did fo in about three
minutes after, with great ferioufnefs and affection,
while the tears flood in' his eyes, which convinced
me of the gratitude of his foul. Nor did he lefs
fhew his piety and wifdom, in applying himfel'f to
his country people, and labouring to compofe them,
by the moil powerful reafons; argument?, and per-
iuafions-. And,- indeed, when thefe people had ta-
ken their mghi's repofe* in fuch lodgings a> our
ihip would allow, we found nothing but the heil of
manners,, and the moil civil acknowledgements, for
which the French are eminently remarkable. The
nert day the Captain and one of the priées defired
to. fpeaic to me'and my nephew the commander,.
They told us, th.-it they had faved fóme money arid
valuable things out of the ruined veiTel, uhicb was
at our fervice ; only that they defired to be fet on
fhore fome where in our way. At the fir ft, my ne-
phew was for accepting the money; but I (who
knew how hard my cafe would have been, had the
Fortug.uefe Captain ferved me fo) pe.rfuad,cd him to
the contrary: and therefore told them, that as we
had done nothing but what we were obliged to do
by nature and humanity, and what-we ourfelyes
might expect from others in fuch calamity; fo ws
took them up to fave them, not to plunder them.,
or leave them naked upon the land, to perifti foj?
wantöf fiabfifiencer asid therefore would.not accept'
their money: but a* to landing the ra,thai was
great difficulty; fer fyeing bound; Ko the Èafl indies,
it & iiaapofllbkj wHsM.Iy to change oiar voyage
upons their particular account,  could n?iy ne-
phew (who wis $( shartei-party tó purfue it by
way of Brazil)anfwer it titile freights; ÄJJ that
we could de-, was to put ourfeives in the way of
.meeting fame, (hips homeward bound fiorti the Wéft
Indies*, thflt, if poffible, they ..rîii^ht get a paflage t<y
.France ot flngla-nd. Jndtfeo, th'ey were.very thank*
fui  fox ,€>u r kindle is y butt wfere unde r great  n -
.ccrp#. efpecially t&e .paffepigeiB^ at their being cai^
>ned to ibe^Eaft Indks*,.-Tbey begged, , therefore £
/would keep on the banks of Newfoundland, where
.probablyy thçy might mseetWkb feme flnip or fbop
, ío c&rty thenvto Qanmia'i wbeoce they cärne'.. As-
.this1 Was.but ä reafonablp :reqti&fU> I was inclined. Uy
gram it, 1 it Was?;» breach' oí-foatfter~pavfyy
J(i that the kws of God', asid'-nature-, obliged 
.do what good we ecmld>te  felioyf-c^a-tureë^ and
 befides the danger we o^^Ves'fliould be in for
'•want-of  y fo cpntenM to carry them
to Newfoundland* if windami wearier would pei>-
mit; if ñotr t>a-t welhMd carry. %hvm to Martinico*
in the, Weô,-Jndles< But) as it happened in a week's
time,, we made the banks ©£(NewiWpdljm<Jr. where
thç'French..-people* hi'tíed a birk to parry them
F»at>ce# But the . ptîeft being defirous to go
'to the Eaft. JndMFvV I readily agreed to if* becaufe î
J iked bus eónverfaíjion, a?nd two o v three of the
..French íbilórS/a-1-fo entered ihemfieltyes on.board our
 jköW;.dirC(ing< pwr.cedrfq for. the¡ :Wefl Indies*-
üecf ixig:S. a lid by :E* ^bout'-ternty.days, wirb -lit*
,$k mr$t Mothw advent tire h^ppe4efd^;ttí jejierfciifc
©ur huntanky*.,  the, lv;iHude. of:,2f degrees 5 ml-
.  north, the 1'$ of March . j'6$'4-5vwe percei-
yed.a iaii (parjCourfe S., and by 8«.j. which bore
having loft her main top-mafr, and boHfprit; when
firing a guiij as a fignal oí diftrefs,, wind N. N. W.
we loon came to fpealc with her- She was a ihip
from Briilol, bound home, from Barbadoes, out of
Which roact the had been forced by a hunicatie to the
weit ward, in Which they loflibeir mafts,
They told us., iheir ¿xptñ-iñom avère to fee the
- ifhnds, bik wére driven away by a flrong
wind at N. N. W,. ai?d having .no íails to work the
(hip with, but the nUm cburfe, and a kind of fquare
fail upon jury, fore-mart, beca ufe they could not
come near the land, where endeavouring to irand far
the Canaries; iky., wliát was- wxjrfe, befides their
fatigue, were! afeofVftâiwcd for want o\ provifion,
having^ eatnoihingjfór-it days; all they had aboard
was fugar,  barrel of. freilr water, and (even calks
oiVum . l<i thie ihip were three pattengevs a y outh,
Iiis mother, and a maid fervent, who were in a moil
deploráble condition for want of food." If I had
not gone* on board their ihip, the knowledge of
their mifcry had been[cbnceáled from me, and they
would hâve inevitably jWriihed., though, indeed,
then* fécond'mate (who was Captain, by ve'aíon the
true Captain ivas not on board when the hurricane
happened) -'hatí 'before informed nie that there were
fitch perfoiûs ön board, whom he fuppolecl tobe
dead, being- afraid to enquire after them, becaufe he
had nothing to give them for reliefV Hereupon we
refolded to let "them have what we could fpare, 
(kling the mate to bring lome of his men on board
us,, which hedi'd accordingly ; as he ahd they looked
like ikeletons, when meat was fet before'them, I or-
dered tbem to eat'fperingly. "But, 'however, they
foon fell fick ;1 which obliged1 the1 furgeon to mix
Ibinethr.ng in tlVei'r broth,, which was to be to them
both food ahd phytic.. Whcri they were fed, we
ordered our mate tt> carry them, a tack of bread,
and four or live pieces of , hut the furgeon
charged them to fee it boiled, and to keep a guard
on the cook-room., to prevent the men from eating
it. ra vvv aiifJ con foquen tly killing them.felyes with
what was dztigned for their.relief.; But^particular-
]y, ideiired theniate^o fee what condition the poor
'paifengers wtyere in, and the furgeon gave hirn a pit-
cher of the fame broth which he, had prepared for
the men, And4 being v curious ; fee this-(bene of
mif^ry -myfelf, 1 took the captain' (as we, called? 
ifya'te of the ihip). in our jQ\yn boat,{ and, failed .after
them, . t -, , , t , .. ( •:;.,:;,'/
** Here was a fad fight indeed,!, fcarce were the vic-
tuals half boiled in,the pot, but. \hey were ready
to breai open the cook-room door. To ftay their
ftomuchs the .mate .gave .< biiçjuus, which were,
dipped, in, and fofteneo! with the ¡íjquor of the meat
\vhiqh they -call Biéuiie  teílingf them it was for 1
their ,qwn fafety, that. }ie was obliged to give them
little'.at, a time: and ^feeding them gradually,
their bellies were, comíorjablv filled, and the men
did very well again. But when they came to the
poor gentlewoman in_ the cabin, who, for feveral
days, had continued; without-food, giving, what ihe
bad to her fon, they found her as it were in the arms,
of death. She , was fitting upon the floor of the
deck, with hter back up a.gainft thelites., between,
two chairs,, which were lathed fail, and her head
fhrunJc between her ihoulders, like a corpie. .No-
thing was wanting in my maneto revive and encou-
rage her ; .ppenin^ her lips, and putting iomebroth
into her rnpufh with a, fpoon* JBut. Hot having
itrength'to fpeak, ihe lifted up her head wi,th much
difficulty, intimating it. was, now too late! at the
fjme time pointing to the youth bei fon, as though
ihe defired him to do what he could to.fave the lad;
and in a little time, after, ihe .expired*
The youth, indeed,,;was not io far gone,, yet lay
ilretched put. on a cabin bed, like <one that had,
fcarce any life* In hjs. mputh. ; was a piece of .an
old glov¿, the. reit of which ive had eaten up. At
firft'he Vomited what"the mate had given him; but
at length-he began fenfibly to revive, though in
the greateft concern for the death of his tender
mother.
As to the poor maid, fhe lay by her rniilrefs, like
one in the bñ pangs of death: her limbs were dis-
torted, one pf her hands was clafped round the frame
of a chair, which ihe griped fo hard, that it was with
fome difficulty we feperated her from it; her other
arm Jay over her head, and her feet lay both togethsr^
fet faft againft the frame of the cabin table; not
only being iiarved with hunger, but overcome with
grief for the lofs of her miftrets, whom ihe loved moil
tenderly. It was a long- time before the furgeom
could bring her life, and much longer time before
ihe came to her ienfes.
After we had failed with them fome days, we fenfc
them five barrels of beef, one ©f pork, two hogf-
heads of bifcuit, with peafe, flour, and other
(lungs, taking three calks of fugar, fome rum, and
fome pieces of eight for fatisfaciion, we left them
but rook the youth and maid with us, with all their
goods, Tne lad was about feventeen years old,
very handfome, modelt, fenf¿ble, and well-bred,
but mightily concerned for the lois of his honoured
mother, having loft his father at Barfc-adoes but #
few months before. He befeeched the furgeon to
intercede with me to take him out of the íhip; for
that the failovs, not fparing a fmall fubfiftence, haci
ftarved his mother. But hunger has no bounds, no
right, atad confequently is incapable of any com-
paffîon. When the furgeon told him, that our voy*
age might put him in bad circumflances, and far-
ther from his friends, he anlwered* he did not care#
fo he was delivered from that terrible crew : that as
the Captain (meaning me) had laved him from death
£0 he was fure he would do him no harm; and a$
for the. maid, when fhe was reiioved to her fenfes,
ihe woaid .be no lei's thankful, let us carr]; them
where we would* Acid, indeed, the furgeon fo ie~
pre fen ted their cafe fco me, that Í consented, andt
took them on board, with all their goods, except
- • &
eleven hogfheatU of fugar; but the youth having &
11 of Jading, i made the commander oblige hirn-
felf to deliver a letter and the deceaied widow's
goods to Mr. Rogers, a merchant in ßriftol; but f
believe the (hip was loft at lea, for we could never
hear what became of her aftet wards. We were now
in the latitude of 19 dcg. 32 min. having as yet a
tolerable good voyage. But pafiing by feveral little
incidents relating to wind and weather, I ihall relate
what is moil remarkable concerning my little king*
,dom, to which I was then drawing near. 1 had
great difficulty in finding it; for a* I came to, and
•went from it before, on the fouth and eaft fide of
{.he ifland, as coming from, the Brazils; fo now ap-
proaching bet ween the main and tbe iiland 5 not ha-
ving any chart for the coaft, norland mark, it ob-
liged us to go on fhorc lèverai iílands on the mouth
.oí the river Oroonoko, but to no purpofe. This 1
.perceived, that what 1 thought was a continent be-
fore, was no fuch thing, but a long ifland, or ra-
ther ridge of fands. On one.of thefe iílands I found
forne Spaniards, hut they belonged to the lile de
Trinidad, who came hither in a floop to make fait,
and to try to find fomc pearl mufcies. But, at length,
I came fair on the louth fiele of my iiland, and then
I {Hcfently knew the countenance of my little king-
dom, fo we brought the fhip fafe to an anchor,
broadfide within the little creek, where flood my
antient and venerable caflJe.
No fooncr did I fee the place, but calling for Fri-
day* 1 a iked him where he was? But when he looked
h little, he clapped his hands, crying, Ojoy, 0 there,
O yes, 0 there! pointing to our old abode, and then
tell a dancing and captjing as if he was mad, and I
had much ado to keep him from jumping inro the-
fea, IQ (wim afhorc. Friday, (aid I what do you
think, f h all y/e go fee your father? at the menti-
oning his father's name, the poor affectionate crea-
ture fell a weeping: No, no, lays he, me fee him no
mret never fie poor father more J he long ago die, dix
long ago;- he much old man* You don't know that,
Fnday, laid 1, but (hall we fee any body elfe? He
looked about, and pointing to the hill above my
houfe, cries out,. We fee, we fee, there much men, and
there! Which though.I could nut perceive them with
my perfpeciive glafs, was true, by what the men
tfaemfelves told me the next day.
When the Englifh ancient was fprcad, and three
guns fired us a lignai oí friendíhip, we perceived a
fmoke rife fromthe creek; upon which Í ordered the
boat out, taking Friday with me, and hanging out a
white flag of truce, I went on , accompanied al-
io by the young frter, to whom I had related the hif~
tory of the fir ft part of my life; beftdes we had iix-'
teen men well armed, in cafe we had met with any
oppofttion.
After we had rowed dircñly into the creek, the
firft mm I fixed my eye upon, was the Spaniard^
whofc Jife I had favedy and whofe face f perfectly
well knew* Í ordered them all to ftay in the boat
for a while; but Friday perceiving bis father at a dis-
tance, would have jumped into the fea, had they not
let the boat go. No fooner was he on Chore, but he
flew like an arrow out of a bow, to embrace his aged
father. Certainly it would melt a man of the firme it
resolution, into the foftcft tears, to fee with what un-
common tranfports- of joy he faluted him: be in fir
kíííed him, then ft role ed his face, took him in hisr
arms, laid him under a iliady tree, fat down by him.y
then looked as earned at htm, as one would do at a
picture, for a quarter of  hour together. After
this he would lie upon the ground, ftroke his leg$r
und kifs them, then get up and ftare at him, as though*
he was bewitched: but the next day one could not
forbear laughter to fee his behaviour, for he would;
walk feveral hours wich his father along the ihore^
leading him by the hand, as though he was a lady ;>
while every now and then he would-run to the boatv
to get fornething for him, as a lump of fugar, dram,*
bifcuit, or fornething or other that was good* His*
R 2
frolics ran in another channel in the afternoon; for
when he fet old Friday on the ground, he would
dance round him, making comical poftures and gef-
tures: and all this time would be telling him one
 or other of his travels and adventures*
ît wagon the loth of April, 1695, that I fet my
foot on the iiland a fécond time. When my faith-
ful Spaniard, accompanied by one more, approached
the boat, he little knew who I was, till I difcovered
xuyfelf to him: Seignor, faid i, in Portuguefe, don't
you know me ? he fpoke never a word, but giving his
mufket to his ttiendant, extended his arms, and fay-
ing fomething'in Spaniíh, that I did not then under-
'ftand, he c»ine forward, and embraced me, faying,
he was inexcuuble, not to know his deliverer; who-,
•like an 'ans»cl font from heaven, had fa ved his life,
líe then beckoned to the man to call out his compa-
nions, aflcing me, if Í would walk to my own habita-
tion, and'take p- íl< ilion, where I fhould find fome
mcan.improvenic!.;*.: hut indeed they were extraor-
dinary ones; ioribiy luvd planted fo many trees fo
clofe together, that the place was like a labyrinth*
which none could find out, except themfelves, who
knew its intricate windings. I afked him the mean--
ing of all thefe fortifications; he told me he wouíá
give me a large account of what had palled fince my
departure to this time, and how he had fubdued fome
Englifli, who thought to be their'murderers, hoping I
would not be difpleafed, fince neceffity compelled
them to it. As I knew they were wicked villains, fo t
I told him, that 1 was wot only far from finding fault
with it, but was rather heartily glad that they had
fubdued them. While we were thus talking, the man
whom he had fent returned, accompanied by eleven
more, but in fuch habits, that it was imponible to tell
what nations they were of. He firft turned to me,
and pointing to them: Thefe, Sir, faid he, are fome
of the gentlemen who owe their lives to your good-
üefs; then turning to them, and pointing to me, he-
made them ienfiWe who i was; and then indeed they
faluteá mo one by one; not as ordinary men, but as
though they Had been ambafladors or noblemen, and:
Í a triumphant conqueror ;• for their behaviour not
only agreed wich a manlike, majeftic gravity, but :><:
thé lame time was fo obliging and courteous, as mad::
them admirable to the laft degree.
Before 1 relate the hiilory of the tran factions <-;:'•
01 y kingdom, as Ï had it from the Spaniard's own.'
mouth, I mail here infert what I omitted in my for-
mer relation. The matter is thus: Juft before
weighed anchor to let fail, there happened a cpiarrd
on board theüiip, which had like to have occaiionecl
a fécond mutiny, till iuch time as the courageous*
Captain, taking two of the moil refractory prifoners^
laid them in irons, threatening, as they were concern-
ed in the. former'diforden, to have them hanged ir,
England, for running away with the fhip. Thr. •
frightened fomc of the red,- as thinking .the Captain:
would ferve them in the fame manner, though he
fee med to give them good words for the pi tient-. Bu?;
the mate having intelligence of this made me acquaint-
ed with their fears; fo that to make them more eafys •
and ourfelves more faf from their confpiracits, {>
was obliged to go down, and pafs my.word of ho-
nour for it,, that, upon their good behaviour, all ihm
was paft fliould be pardoned;, in tefhmony of which
I ordered the two men's irons to he taken off, and
themfelves forgiven. But as this had brought us to
an anchor that night, in which there was a calm, the
two men that had been in irons, ílole each of their* 
a muiket, and fomc orher weapons, and taking (he
ihip*s pinnace, not yet hauled up, ran away to their'
brother rogues. The next morning we lent the loiv^
boat, with two men to purfue them hut all in vain,? •
the mate, in revenge, would ha-ve domoiifh'-d my jic -
tie caftle, burnt iis furnitm e, and dv;firoyed their plan- -
tations: but having no-orders for it he did-noi put.i.;'
in execution. And thus there were five linghihmcn;
in the ifiand, which can fed great differences., as -aiy -
faithful Spaniard gave me a perfect account of it in
the following manner.
You cannot, Sir, but remember the embaffy you
fertt me about, and what a d i (appointment we met
with, by your abfence, at our return. There is but
little variety in the relation of our voyage, being blef-
fed with calm weather, and a fmooth fea. Great, in-
deed, was the joy of my countrymen, having a&ed as
the principal man on board, the Captain of the fhip-
wrecked veffel dying before; nor was their furprize
lefs, at knowing I was taken prifoner by the favages
of another nation, they thought me long fmce en-
tombed in their monñroue bowels. But when I (hew-
ed them the "arms, ammunition, and provifions I bed
brought for them, they looked upon me as a fécond
Jofeph advanced in Pharaoh's court, and immediately
prepared to come alonj* with me. indeed, they were
obliged to trefpafs upon their friendly favages, by bor-
rowing two of their oarioes, under a pretext for fiíh-
ing; and they came away the next morning, but
without any provifions of their own, except a few
roots, which fer ved them infiead of bread. After
three weeks abfence, we arrived at your habitation.
Here we met with three Englifh failors, who Ï con-
fefs, gave us provifions, and «hat letter of directions
you had left us, which informed us how to bring
up tame goats, pîam corn, cure grapes, make pots;
and, in fhort, every thing that was neceffary for our
ufe; as in particular, 1 knew your method beft, fo
taking Friday's father to affift me, we managed all
the affairs; nor were the reft of the Spaniards wan-
ting in their kind ornees, dreíling food for the Eng-
Jiihmen, who did nothing but ramble and divert
therafelves in the wood?, either (booting parrots, cr
catching-tortoifes. But we had not been long afliore
before we were informed of tivo mare Engliihmen,
unnaturally turned out of their common place of refi-
dence by the three others above mentioned : this made
my Spaniards and me (whom they now looked upon
as their governor in your abfcncej endeavour to per-
fuade tbem to take them in, that we might be as one
family; but all our intreaties were in vain, fo that
the poor fellows, finding nothing to be done without:
induftry, pitched their tents on the north fide of the
iiland, a little inclining to the weft> for fear of fa-
vages. Here they built two huts, one to lodge, the
other to lay their ft ores in; for my good natured Spa-
niards giving them fome feeds, they dug and planted
as I had done, and began to live prettily* But wifile
they were thus comfortably going on, the three unna-
tural brutes, their countrymen, in a mere bullying
humour, infulted there, by faying, the governor
(meaning you) had given them poffeffion of the iiland
and d—mn 'em, they ihall build no ho ufes upon their
ground,, without paying rent. The two honeft men
(for fo let me now diftinguiih them) thought their
three countrymen only jefted, and one of them invit-
ed them in, to fee their fine habitations; while the
other facetioufly told them, that iince they built tene-
ments with great improvements, they ihould, accord-
ing to the Guftom of the landlords, give them a longer
jeafe; at the fame time defiring them to fetch a fcri^
viner to draw the writings. One of the wretches
fwearing be ihould pay for the jeff, fnatches up a fire
brand, and clapping'it to the outride of the hut, very
fairly, fet it on fire, which would foon hflve consumed
it, had not the honefê man thruft him away, and trod
it out with his feet* Hereupon the fellow returns
with a pole, with which he would have ended his
days, had not the poor man avoided the blow; when
fetching the mufket, he knocked down the villain
that began the quarrel. The other two coming to
affiil their fellow, obliged the honeft man to take his
mufket aífo, and both of thern prefenting their pieces,
bid the .villains ftand off; and if they did not lay
down their arms, death ihould decide the difpute
one way or other. This brought them to a parley,
iri which they agreed to take their wounded man and
be gone; but they were in the wrong that they did
not difarm them when they had the power, and then
make thár complaint to me and my Spaniards ' for
juirice, which might have prevented their farther des-
igns againit them. And indeed fo many* trefpafles'-
did they afterwards commit,, by treading down their-
corn, (hooting, their young kids and goats, and plagu-
ing them night and day, that* they re folved tocóme
to my caille,, challenge all the threey-and décidé their
right by one plain battle, while the Spaniards flood
by to fee fair play. One day it happened, that two of
my Spaniards (one oí them under-ftood Englifh) be-
ing'in the woods, were met by one of the honeil men,
who complained how barbarous their countrymen
had been in deftroying.their corn, killing their milch-
goats; and three'kids,, which deprived them of their
fubfiftance; that if we did not grant them relief,
they muft be inevitably fiar ved; and fo they parted;
but when my Spaniard came home at night,--and fup-
per being on the table, one of them began to repre-
hend the - Englilhmen, but in a: very mannerly way; 
which they refenting, replied, What bufineis had.
their .countrymen there without leave, when it was
none of their ground? Why, (aid my Spaniaid,calm<-
ly, Inglefe, they; mud not llarve; but they replied* .
Let them ftarve and be d—rnn'd, they ihoulci neither
plant nor build, and d—mn them they ihould be their
fervants, and work for them, for the ifland was theirs-
and they would burn all the huts they could find in
the land. By this rule, faid my Spaniard, imiling,.
we fball be your fervants too. Aye, by G—d, ar.d
fo you (hall, replied the impudent rafcal. Upon
which, ftarting up, Will Atkins cries, come* Jack,
let's have t'other bruih with them ¿ who dare to
build in our dominions? Thus leaving us fomething,
heated with a juíl paííi/m, away they trooped, every
man having a gun, piiroi, and iword,.muttering fome;
threatening words, that we could then but imperfect-
ly underhand*. That night they defigned to murder
their two companions,' and ilept till midnight in the
bower, thinking to fall on them in their 11-ecp: nofc ,
weie the hoheii menieís thoughtful concerning them;.
for, at this junflure, they were coming to find them
out, but in a much fairer way. As foon as the vil-
lains carne to the huts, and found nobody there, they
concluded that Í and my Spaniards had given them
notice, and therefore fwore to be revenged ort us.Then
they demolifhed the poor men's habitation; not by
-ftre, as they attempted before, but pulled down their
houfes, limb by limb, not leaving ftick nor ftone on
the ground where they flood; broke their hooi'ehold
/luff in pieces, tore up their trees, fpoiled their jnclo-
fures, and, in ihort, quite ruined them of every
thing they had. Had thefe people mçt together, no
doubt but there would have been a bloody battle;
but providence ordered it for the better; for juft as
the three were got thither, the two were at our cattle;
and, when they left us, the three came back again*
but in a great rage* fcoffingly telling us what they
had done ; when one taking hold of a Spaniard's hat,
twirls it round, faying, And you, Signior, Jack Spa-
niard, ßull have the fame fauce, if you don't mend your
manners. My Spaniard, a grave, but courageous
man, knocked him down with one blow of his fift ; at
which another villain fired his piftol, and narrowly
miffed his body, but wounded him a little in the ear,
Hereat enraged, the Spaniard takes up the fellow's
muiket whom hé had knocked down, and woald have
ihot him, if 1 and the reft had not come out, and ta*
ken their arms from every one of them.
Thefe Engliihmen, perceiving they had made all
of us their enemies, began to cool ; but notwithlland-
ing their better words, -the Spaniards would not re-
turn them their arms again, telling them they would
do them no manner of harm, if they would live
peaceably: but, if they they offered any injury to the
plantation or caffie, they would (hoot them as they
would do ravenous beafts. This made them fo mad>
that they weut away raging like furies of hell. They
were no fooner gone, but hi came the two honed
menf fired with the juffeft rage,, if fach  be, hav-
ing been ruined as aforeíaid. And, indeed, it vrss
very hard that nineteen of us mould be Bullied by
three villains: continually offending with impunity.
It was-a great while, Sir, before we could per-
fuade the two EnglíÜimeo fiom purfuing, and tin-
doubted lyî'killing them with their fire arms: but"
we promised juftice fhould be done them,- and in
the mean time they fhould reftde with us in cur ha*-
bitation. In about five days after thefe three va-
grants almo ft ft   ved with hunger, drew near our
grove, and perceiving me, the governor, and two
others walking by, the tide of the creek they very
fubmiffively de fired to be received into the family'
ag'iin* We told them, of their incivility to ,
and of their unnatural barbauty to their country*
men; but yet we would fee to: what the reft agreed
to, and in half an hburV time .would bring, them
wordt After fome debate, " we-called them iny
where their two coi.mtiymen laid a heavy charge
againft them, for not only ruining hot defigning
to raurder them, which they could not deny. But
here I was forced to interpofe asa mediator, by ob-
liging the two Engíiíhmen not to hurt them being
unarmed 5 and that the other three fhould make
them reflit virion, by building their, two ..huts, and
fencing their ground in the lame manner as it was
before. Well, being .in a miferabte condition,-
they fubmitted' to this at prêtent,. and lived fome
time regularly enongh, except as to the working
part, which they did not care for, but the Spai?i-
ards would have difpenfed with that, had they con-
tinued eafy and quiet. Their arms being given
them again, theyjearce had them a week, when
they became as troubiefome as ever) but an accident
happened foon after, obliged us to lay aft de
private refentments* and look to our common pre-
servation.
One night, Sir, I went to bed, perfectly well in.
health and yet by no means could 1 compote myfelf
to fleep.. Upon which,, being very uneafy, 1 got
up, and looked out j, but it being dark,  could
perceive nothing but the tiees around our caille, L
went to bed again; but it was all one, I could not
fleep when one of my Spaniards, hearing me walk
about, diked'who was up? I aniwered, it is I.
When Í told him the occafion; Sir, Jaid he, fuch
things are not to be flighted : for certainly there is
fome miichief plotting near us. Where are the
Engliihmen? f'aid'l. He.aniwered, in their huts;
for they lay feparate from us, Sir, fmce the laft mu-
tiny. Well, faid Ï, fome kind ipirit gives this in*
formation, for our advantage* Come, let us go a-
broad, and fee if any thng offers to juftify our
fears.N Upon which I and fome of my Spaniards
went up the mountain, not by the ladder, but
through the grove; and then we were ftruck with a
panic fear, on ie.eing a light, as though it were a
fire, at a very little diftance, and hearing the
voice of feveral men. Hereupon we retreated im-
mediately, and raifing the reft of our forces, made
them feniible of the impending danger .; but, with
all my authority, I could not make them flay where
they were,-fo earned were they to fee how things
went.  Indeed, the darknefs of the night gave
them opportunity enough to view them (by the
light of the fire) undifcovered. As they were in
different parties., and ftraggling over the ihore, we
were much afraid that they ihould find out our ha«
Imitations anddeflroy our flocks of goats. To pre~
vent-which we fent an Englond and two Spaniards to
drive the goats into the valley where the cave lay : or
or, if there was occafion, into the cave itfelf. As
to ourfelves., reluming our native courage and pru-
dent conduct, had we been divided, we dürft ven-
ture to attacft u hundrec of them; but before it was
yet light, wc refolyed to fend Friday's father out as &
ipy, who, immediately, ftripping himfelf naked, gets
among them undifcovered, and, in two hour's time,
brings word, that they were two parties of two dif-
ferent nations, who lately having a bloody battle with-
one another, happened to land by mere chance, in the
lame ifland to devour their miserable priibners. That
they were utfirely ignorant of any pcrfon's inhabit-
* ing here but rather being filled with rage and fury
againft one another, and he believed that by daylight
there would be a terrible engagement. Old Friday
had fcarce ended his relation, when we heard a very
uncommon noifc, and perceived that there was a hor-
rid engagement between the two armies.
Such was the curiofity of our party, efpecially the
Engliíhtnen, that they would not lie clofe, though old
Friday told tbcm their fafety depended upon it: and
that if we had patience, we ihould behold the favage-s
kill one another* However they ufed feme caution,
by going further into the woods, and placing them-
felves in a convenient place t# behold the battle.
Never could there be a more bloody engagement,
nor men of more invincible fpirits, and prudent con-
ducir, according to their way and manner of fighting.
It lafted near two hours, till fhat party which was
neareft our caftle began to decline, and at la ft to fly
from their conquerors. We were undoubtedly put
into a great confternation on this account, left they
íbould ran into our grove and confequeutly bring us
into the like danger. Hereupon we refolved to kill
the firil that came, to prevent difcovery; and that
too with our fwoids and the but enc s of our muikets,
for fear the report of o«ir guns ihould be heard.
And io indeed, as we thought it happened: for
three öf the vanquished army eroding the creek,
ran directly to die place, as to a thick wood for
shelter; nor was it long before our fcout gave1 us
notice of it; as alfo, ihat the vicíors did not think
fit to purfue them* Upon this f would not íuífer
them to be (lain, but hud them furprifed and taken
by our party: and afterwards they proved very
good iervants, being ftout yeung creatures, and
able to do a great deal of work. The remainder of
the conquered lavages fled to their canoes, and put
out into the ocean, while the conquerors, joining
together, fhouted by-way of triumph: and about
three in the afternoon they alio embarked for their
own nation*.
Thus we we were freed at once from the favages
4 and our fears, not perceiving any of thefe creatures
for a confiderable time after* We found two and
thirty men dead on the field of battle; fome were
flain with long arrows, which we found (ticking in
their bodies; and the reft were killed with great
unwieldy wooden fwords which denoted their vail
ttrength, and of which we found feventeen, befides
bows and arrows: but we could not find one wound-
ed creatpre among them alive; for they either kill
their enemies quite, or elfe carry thole wounded
away with them*
This terrible fight tamed the Engliih for fbmc
time, confidering how unfortunate they might have
been, had they faJlen into, their hands, who would
not only kill them as enemies, but alfo for food, as
we do cattle; and, indeed.this did fo much naufeate
their ftomachs, that it not only made them veryfick,
but more tradtable to the common neceííary buimefs
of the whole fociety, planting, lowing, and reaping,
with the greateft iigns of amity and friendfhip: ib>
that now being all good friends, we began to conti«
der of circumftances in general: and the firft thing
wè thought of, was, whether, as we perceived the
lavages haunted that fide of theiûand, and there be-
ing more retired parts of it, and yet as well fuited to
our manner of living, and equally to our advamage
we ought not rather to move our place of re&Jence*
and plant it, in a much fafer place, bothVfor the fe-
curity of our corn and cattle?
After a long debate on this head, it was refolved
or rather voted nenùne contradlcente^ not to rqmove
our antient caftle, and that for this very good rea~
fon, that, fome time or other, we expected to hear
from our iupreme governor, .(meaning you Sir)
whófe meíTengers not finding us there, might think
the place demoliihed, and all his fubjecls deftroyci
;' by the lavages*
&
, As to the next concern, relating to our, corn and
cattle, we confented to have them removed to/the
valley where the cave was, that Being moft proper
for both. But yet, when we confidered further*
we altered one part of our refolution $ which was,: to
remove only part of our corn there; fo that in cafe
one part was deftroyed the other might be preferv-
ed. Another refolution we took, which really had
a great deal of prudence in it: and that wa*, in not
trufting the three favages whom we had.taken pri-
ioners, with any knowledge of the plantations which
we had made in the vaLley, of what number of cat-
tle we had there, much lefs of the cave, wherein we
kept féveral arms, and two barrels of powder you
left for us, at your departure from this ifla-nd. But
though we would not change our habitation, we
refolved to make^it more fortified, and more fecreU
To this end, Sir, as you had planted trees at fome
diftance before the entrance of your palace; fo we,
imitating your example, planted and filled up the
whole fpace of ground, even to the banks of the
creek, nay, into the very ooze, where the tide flow-
ed,.not leaving aplace for landing: and airwmg thofe
I had planted they had intermingled fo many ihort
ones, all of which growing wonderfully fail and thick,
a little dog could fcarce find a paffage through them*
Nor was this luffieient, as we thought, for we did the
fame to all the ground to the fight and left hand of
us, even to the top of the hill, without fp much as
leavinf a paffage for ourfelves, except by the ladder;
which being taken dowi*, nothing but what had
wings or witchcraft could pretend to come near us*
And, indeed, this was exceedingly well contrived,
efpecially to ferve that occafion, for which we after-
wards found it neceffary.
Thus we-lived two years in a happy retirement,
having, all this time, npt one vifit from the favages.
Indeed one morning", we had an alarm, which put
us into fome amazement: for a few of my Spaniards
being out very early, perceived no lefs than twenty
Canoes, as it were coming on fhore: upon which
returning home, with great percipitation, they gave
us the alarm, which obliged us to keep at home all
(hat day,and the netft, going out only in the night-
time to make our obiervattons; but, as good luck
would have it, they were-upon another defign, and
did not land that time upon the iiland.
But now there happened another quarrel between
the three Engliihrnen, and lome of my Spaniards*
The occafion was this: One of them being enraged
at one of the favages, whom we had t;iken prifoner,
for not being able to comprehend fomething which
he was (liewing him, inatched up a hatchet in a
great fury, not to correct but to kill him; yet mif-
fing his<he3d, he gave him fuch a barbarous cut on
the moulder, that he hau* like.to have ftruck off his.
arm: at which one of my good-natured Spaniards
witcrpofmg between the Englishman andthe favage,
befeeched the former not to murder the poor crea-
ture: but this kindnefs had like to have coft the
Spaniard his life, for the Engliihman ftruck at him
in the fame manner, which he nimbly and wifely
avoided, returned fuddenly upon him with his iiio-
vel, (being at' work about their corn-land) and very
fairly knocked the brute down. Hereupon, another
Englishman coming to his fellow's affiftance, laid
the good Spaniard on the earth ;4*'hen immediately
two others coming to his relief, were attacked by the
third Englifh-man, armed with an old cutíais, whcr
wounded them both. This uproar loon reached our
cars, when we, milling out upon them, took the
three Engliihmen pritoners !• and then our next
queftion was, what ihould be done to fuch mutinous
and impudent fellows, fo furious, defperate, and
idle, that they were miichievous to the higheft de-
gree^, and ccmfequently not fafe for the focietyi to
let them live among them*
Now, Sir, as 1 was governor in your abfence, fof
Ialfo took the authority of a judge; and, having;
them brought before me, told ther%. that if they
S 2
-had been of my country, I would hang every one
of them; but, lince it was an Engfiihman (meaning;
you, Sir): to whom we were indebted for qui pre-
servation and deliverance, 1 would, in gratitude,
ufe them with alhpoffible inildnefs ; but at the fame
time, leave them to the Judgment of the other two
Engliibmen, who, I hoped forgetting their refent-
'JHents, would deal.impartially by them.
Hereupon, one of his countrymen flood up: Sir,
faid.he, leave it not to us fur you may be-fenfible me have
reafon to^ fentence • them to the gallons: befides, Sirr this
fellow y Will Atkins, ànd the two others, prcpofed to us9
that we might murder you all in your Jleef, which we
would not confent to: but knozving their inability and
your vigilance, we did not think ft to difcover it before
now* . /
How, Seignior, faid I, do you hear what is afledg-
ed againft you? What can you fay. to juftify fo hor-
rid an ailion, as to murder us in cold blood? So
far, Sir, *yas the wretch from denying it> that he
iwore, d- n him but he would do it iiill. But
what have we done to you, Seignior Atkins, faid 1,
or what will you gain by killing us? What ill all we
do to prevent you? Muft we kill you, or you kifl
us: Why will you, Seignior;, Atkins, (faid 1, flai-
ling) put us to fuch an unhappy dilemma, fuch a
fatal : But ( great a rage did my fcoffing,
and yet fevere jeft, put him into, that he was going
to* fly at me, and undoubtedly bad attempted 
kill me jf he had beea pofiefled of weapenr, and
had nói been preventod by the Spaniards. This
/unparalelled and villainous, carriage, made us feri-
oufly confider what was to be done. 1 he two Eng-
liihmen and the Spaniard, who had fa ved the poor
Indian's life, mightily petitioned me to hang one
of them for an example to the others, which fhould
be him that had twice attempted to commit murder
'with his hatchet, it being at that time thought im-
.poffible the poor ilave could recover. But they
could nevejf gain my confent to put him to death,
for the reafons above mentioned, fince'it was an
EñgHíhman (yourfelf) who was ray deliverer: and
as merciful counfelsare moft prevailing, when eiir-
neftly prefled, fo I got them to be of my opinion as
to clemency. But, to prevent their doing us any
farther mifchief, we all agreed, that 4hey fhoul,e£
have no^weapons, as fword, gun, powder, or ihot>>
but be-expelled from the, fociety, to live has they
pleated-by themfelves; that neither the two Eng-
lifhmen, nor the reft of the.Spaniards,, ihould have
converfation with them upon any account: that
they fhould be kept from coming within a certain
diftance of our caille; and if they dared to offer us^
any violence, either by fpoiling, burning killings
or deflroying any corn,, plantation?, buildings^
fences, or cattle belonging to the fociety, we would
fhoot them as freely as wë would do beads of
prey*.
This féntence feemed very juft to all but fhetn--
felves; when, like a merciful judge, I called out
to the two honeft Englifhmen, faying, You mufi
confider they ought not to be ftarved neither; and
fince it-will be fome time before they can raife corn
and cattle of their own, let us give them fome corrí'
. to laft them eight months, and for feed to fow, by'
which time they'll raife fome for themfelves ;Jet :
alfo beítow upon them fix milch-goats, four he onesy*
and fix kids,' as well for their prefenHfupport, ^as •
for their further increafe; with tools neceiTary for
their work, as hatchets, an axe, faw, . and other
things convenient to build them huts: all which
were agreed to: but before they took them into--
poíTeffion? I obliged them folemnly to fvvear, - never*
to attempt any thing again ft us or their countrymen1
for the future., Thus difmiffing. thera' from* our fo-
ciety they weht awayy fulleo and refractory,as though'
neither willing t© go nor to flay ; .-however? feeing'.
no remedy they took what provifiön was given them> .
propofing to cimie a convenient place5 : where they:':
might live by themfelves.
About tive days after< they came to thoie limits
appointed, in older for more victuals, and fern me
worn* by one of the Spaniards, whom they called to
where they had pitched their tents, and marked
thernfeU/es an habitation and plantation, at the N¿
E. and moft remote part of the iiland. And indeed
there they built them (elves two very handiome cot-
Íages, refembling our little caftle, being under the
ide of a rnountain, with fome trees already growing
on three fides of it; fo that planting a few more,
it would be obfeured from the fight, unlefs parti-
cularly fought for» When thefe huts were fmifhed,
we gave them fome dry goat (kins for bedding and
covering; and upon their giving us fuller afluran-
ces of their good behaviour for the future, we gave
them fome peas, bailey, and rice for lowing, and
whatever tools we could fpaie.
Six months did they live in this feparate condi*
tien, in wlvcta they got their fhft harveft in, the
quantity of which was but final 1, becaufe they had
planted but little land: for indted, all their plan-
tation being to four), made it more difficult, efpe-
cially as it was a thing out of tbe'iT element; and
when they were obliged to make their boaids and
pots, &c» they could make little or nothing of it,
JBut the rainy fea fon coming, on, put them into a
•greater perplexity for war.t of ai cave to keep their
corn dry, and prevent it from fppiting; and io
much did this humble them, that they begged of
tny Spaniaids to help them, to which rhe good-na-
îured tuen readily confented, and in four days
fpace, worked a great hole in the fide ofiithe hill lor
them., large enough for .their purpofc, toTecur-e their
corn and other things from the vain, though not
comparable to ours, which had ieveral additional
apartments.
But a new whim polît fled thefe rognés about three
Quarters of a year after, which had like to have
mined us and themfelves too: for it feems being
tired and weary of this fort of living, which made
ihem work for themfelves, without hope of chang-
ing their condition, nothing would ferve them but ^
they would make a voyage to the continent, and
try if they could fei^e upon  of the favages,
and bring them over to do their drugeryr while they
lived at eafe and pieaiure.
Indeed the project was not fo prepoflerious, if
they had not gone farther; but, they neither did,
nor propofed anything but what had mifch'cf in the
defign, or the* event* One morning thefe three
fellows.came down to the limited fhtion, and hum-
bly defned to beadmited to talk with us, which we
readily grafted; they told us in fhort, that being
tired of their manner of living and the labour of
their hands, in fuch employments, riot being fuf-
ficient to procure the ncceííaries of life, they only
defired one of the canoes we came over in, with
Jome aims and ammuniton, for their defence, and
they would feck their fortunes abroad, and never
trouble us anymore. To be fine, we were glad
enough to get rid of fuch wretched plagues; but
yet honefly made us ingenuouily reprefent to them
by what we ourfelves had iuffered, the ceitain de-
ftruólion they were running into, either* of being
flarvrd to death or murdered by the favages. To
this they very audaciouily4eplied, that they nei-
ther could nor would woik; and confequently they
might as well be ftarved abroad as at home; and as
to their falling into the hands of the fa vages, why if
they were murdered, that was nothing to us, there
was an end of them; neither had they any wives or
children to cry after them; nay, fo intent Were they
U£>on their voyage, that if the Spaniards had not
given them arms, fo they had but the canoe the/
would have gone without them*
Though we could not well fpare our fire-arms^
rather than they ihouid go like naked men, we let
them have two mullets, a piftol, a cutlafs, and thiee
hatchets, v» hich wcie thought very JuÜicient-, we
gave them alio fome goat's flelh, a great balket full
of dried grapes, a pot of frefh butter, a young live
kid, and a large cahoe fufficient: to' carry twenty
men. And thus, with a mail, made of a: long pole,
and a fail of fix large goat ikins dried, having a fair
breeze, und a flood tide with them, they merrily
failed away, the Spaniards calling after'them, Bon
veyajpf no man ever expelling to fee them more.
When they were gone,1 theSpaniards and-English-
men would often fay to one artothej*, 0 how'peace-
ably do we now live fince thofe turbulent fellows have left
us? Nothing could be farther from" their thoughts
than to behold their faces any more; and yet fcarce
two and twenty days had paííed over their heads,
but one of the. Englishmen, being abroad, a plant-
ing, perceived, at a diftance, three men, well armed, 
approaching towards him. Away he 'flies with
fpeed to our caftle, and tells m:e and the reft, that
 were all undone, for that Orangers were landed
upon the ifland, and who ^hey were he could not
tell; but added, that they were not favages, but
men habited, bearing arms. Why then, laid I, we
have the lefs oecafion to be concerned, fmce, if they
are not Indian?, they rauft be friends; for 1 am furé
there  no Chriflian people upon earth, but what
Will do us good rather than harm. But while we
were confidering of the event, up came the three
Englishmen, whofe voices we quickly knew, and
fo all our admiration of that nature ceafed at once.
And our wonder was fucceeded by another fort of
enquiry, whick was, what could*be the occafion of
their returning fo quickly to the iftand, when we
little expe&ed, and much lefs defired their compa-
ny? But as this was better to be related by them-
ielves, I Ordered them to be brought in, when they
gave me the following relation of their voyage.
After two days fail, or fomething lefs, they reach-
ed land, where they found the people coming to
give them another fort of a reception than what
they expeiled or defired ;. for as the lavages were
armed with bows and arrows, they dürft not ven~
ture on íhore, but fleered northward, fix or feven
hours, till they gained an opening, by which they
plainly perceived, that the land that appeared fiom
this place, was not the mâin land, but an ifland.—
At their entrance into the opening of the lea, they
difcovered another ifland, on the right hand north-
ward, and feveral more lying to the weilward ; but
being reiolved to go on ihore fome where or other,
they put over to one of the weftern iflands. Here
they found the natives very courteous to them, giv-
ing them feveral roots and dried fiih: nay, even the
women too were as willing to fupply them with
what'they could procure them to eat, bringing it a
great way to them upon their heads. Among thefe
hofpitabje Indians they continued lome days, en-
quiring byfigns and tokens, what nations by around
them; and they were informed, that there were fe-
veral fierce and terrible people lived every way, ac-
cuftomed to eat mankind : but they never ufed fucb
diet, except thofe that were taken in battle, and of
them they made a folemn feaft.
The Englishmen enquired how long it was fince
they had a fea ft of that kind? they anfwered, about
two mooïis ago, pointing to the moon, and then to
two fingers; that, at this time, their king had two
hundred prifoners, which were fattening for the
•flaughter. The Englishmen were mighty defirous
of feeing the prifoners, which the others miftaking*
thought that t hey "wanted fome of them for their
own food: upon which they then ppjnted to the
riling, and then to the fetting of the fuw: meaning,
that by the time it appeared in the eaft next morn*
ing, they would bring them fome: and indeed they
were as good as their word; for by that time they
brought eleven men and five womew, juft as fo ma-
ny cows and oxen are brought t© fea-port towns to
viólual a fliip. But as brutifh as thefe Englilhmea
were, their ftomachs turned at the fight. What to
<lo in this cafe* they could not tell: to refufe the
prifoners, would have beert the higeft affront offered
to the favage gentry; and to diipofe of them, they
lenewnot in what manner: however, they tefolvëd to
accept then*, and fo gave them, in return^ one of
their hatchets, an old key, a knife, and-fix or fevert
of their bullets-; things which, though- tbey were
wholly ignorant of, yet teemed entirely contented
with; and dragging thé poor wretches into the boat,
with their hands bound behind'them, delivered then*
to the Englifhrnen* ßut ffris'obliged them to put ofF
a-s foon as they had thefe prefentsi, left the donors
fhould have expected tw¿ or three of them to have,
been killed, and to be invited to dinner the next day:
and fo taking leave with ail pofíibJe refpect and thanks
trbough neither of them underitood what the others*,
Má, they failed away back to the iiland, and there
feüeight of theí priibrters at libeHy;
In their voyage they endeavoured tooomfort, and
have fome converfation with the poor captives ; but
it was impoffible to make them fenfibie of any thing';
 nothing they could fay, or give; or do for them,
could make them otherwife perfuáded, but that they
were; unbound only to be devoured,; if they'gave
themu-any food, they thought it was ' ody to- fatten1
t<hem for the ffaughter; or looked at any one-mo^é
particularly, the poor creature fuppofed iifeif to-be
the firil facrifice; anoVeven when we brought, them
to our ifland,, and began to ufe them with the great-,
eft humanity and kindnefs, yet they expected every
day that their !new mafters would devour them;
And thus^3ir, did fehefe thteé ftrange wanderers'
conclude their unaccountable relation of their voy^
age(, which was both amazing and entertaining. Here-
upon, I a iked them where their new family was 1*
They told us in one of their huts, and they came to
beg fome victuals for them. 1 This, indeed, made us«
all long to fee them; and taking Friday's'father with
us, leaving only t\Moat our caftl'e, we ddwivt© be-
hold thefe poor creatures*.
When we ^arrived at the hut, (they being bound a-
gain by theiEngliíhmen, for fear of efcaping) we
found the*® ñark naked, expelling their fatal trage-
dy; there*weré three lufty men, well ihaped, with
ftraight and fair limbs, between thirty and five and
thirty years old; and five women, two of them
might be from thirty to forty, two more not above four
and t wenty; and the laft a comely tall maiden of about
fe venteen. Indeed, alb the women were very agree-
able, .both in proportion and features, except that
they were! tawny, which their modelt behaviour arid
other graces made amends for, when they afterwards
came to be clothed*
This naked appearance, togethér, with their refer-
able circumftances, was no very .comfortable fight to
my Spaniards, who, for their parts, I may venture
Sir, without flattery, to fay, are men of the beft be-
haviour, calmeir. ttmpers, and fweeteft nature, that
can poffibly be ; for they immediately ordered Friday's
father to fee if he knew any of them, or if he under-
ftood what they could fay. No fooner did the old In-
dian appear, but he looked at them with great fieri-
oufnefs \ but, as they were not of his nation, they
were utter Grangers to him, and none could under-
ftand Iiis fpeech, or iigns, but one woman. This
was enough to anfwer the defign, which was to af-
fure them they would not be killed, being fallen into
the hands of Chriftians, who abhorred fuch barbarity*
When they were fully fatisfied of this, they expref-
fed their joy by fuch ftrange geftures, and uncom-
mon tones, as it is not poffible for me to defcribe.—~
But the woman, their interpreter, was ordered next
• to inquire, whether they were content to be fervants,
and would work for the men, who had browght thera
hither to fave their lives? Hereupon, being at this
t i nus unbound, they fell a capering and dancing, one
taking this, thing.upon their fhouiders, and the other
that,, intimating, that they were willing to do any
thing for them.. But now, Sir, having women among
us, and dreading that it might occafion fome ftrife,
if not blood., I aiked the three men what they
would do, and how they intended to ule thefe crea-
tures, whether as fervants or women ? Otic o f them
very pertly and readily anfwered, that they would
safe them as both* Gentlemen, faid I, as you are
your own matters, I am not going to reftrain* you
from that; but, methinks, for avoiding ~di(fention&
among you, I would only defire you to engage,
that none of you will take more than one for a wo-
man or wife, and that having taken this one, none
cjPie ihould prefume to touch her; for though we
have not a prieftly authority to marry you, yet it is
but reasonable to maintain her: fince nobody has
any thing to do with her: and this, indeed, appeared
fo juft to all prefent, that it was \manimoui]y agreed
to# The Englishmen then aiked my Spaniards, whe-
ther they defigned to take any of them? but they all
anfwereci, No; fome declaring they had already
wives in Spain; and others that they cared not to
join with infidels* On the reverie, the Engliihmen
took each of them a temporary wife, and fo fet up a
new method of living. As to Friday's father and the
Spaniards, and the three favage fervants we had taken
in the late battle, they all lived with me in our anci-
ent caftle; and indeed we fupplied the main part of
the ifland with food, as neceffity required.
But the moil remarkable part of the  is, how
thele Engliihmen, who fcad been fo much at vari-
ance, fhould agree about the choice of thefe wo-
; yet they took a way good enough to prevent
quarrelling among themfelves. They fet five wo*
men in one of their huts, and going themfelves to
ihe other, drew lots which ihould have their fir il •
choice. Now, he that had the firft lot went to the
Jiut, and fetched out her he chofe, and it is remark-
ablet that he took her that was moft homely and
cldeft of the number, which made the reft of the
Engliihmen exceedingly meny >\ the Spaniards
themfelves could not but fmile at it: but as it hap-
pened, the fellow had the beft thought, in chuiing
one fit for application and bu finéis; and indeed fhe
proved the beft wife of all the parcel.
But when the poor creatures perceived themfeives
placed in a row, and feparated one by one, they
were again feized with an unkable terror, ag
now thinking they were going to be ilain in earneft;
and when the Englifhman came to take the ñríf, the
reft fet up a lamentable cry, clafped their arms
about her neck, and hanging about her, took their
laft farewte], as they thought in Tuch trembling ago-
nies, and aife&ionate embraces, as would have fof~
tened the hardeft heart in the world, and made the
drieft eyes melt into tears $ nor could they be perfua-
ded, but that they were going to die, till fuch time
as Friday's father made them fenfible that the Eng-
liíhmen had chofien them for their wives, which
ended all their terror and concern upon thrs oc-
cafion.
Well, after this, the Engliihmcn went to woríc,
and being affiiled by my good natured Spaniards, in «
a few hours they erected every one of them a new
hut or tent, for their feparate lodging, fince thofe
they had already were filled with tools, houfehold fluff,
and provifion. They all continued on the north
ihore of the ifland, but feparate as before; the
three wicked ones pitching farther off, and. the
two honeft: men near our caftle; fo that the iJîand
fee med to be peopled in three places, three towns
beginning to be built for that purpofe. And here I
cannot but remark, what is very corrfmon, that the
two honeft men had the worit wives (I mean as to
induftry, cleanlinefs, and ingenuity,) while the three
reprobates enjoyed the women of quite contrary
qualities.
But another obfêrvation I made was, in favour of
the two honeft men, to mew what di(parity there is
between a diligent application to bu finéis, on the one
hand, and a flothful, negligent, and Hie temper on
the other. Both of them had the fame parcel of
ground laid out, and corn to fow, fufficient for them;
r
faoXh diel hot make the fame improvements, either in
-their .cultivation 01 in their planting. The two ho-
.'ïi^ftJiad à multitude of youngs trees planted about
their habitations, io that when you,approached near
•them, nothing appeared bm a wood, very -pleafmg
0n'd delightful. Every thing they did prefpercd and
ftouriflied; their grapes planted in order, feemed as
though managed in a vineyard,; and were infinitely
preferable to any of the ethers. Nor were they
wanting to find out a place of retreat, but dug-a cave
jn the moil retired part of a thick: wood y to fecure
their wives and children* with their,provifio.n.. and
chiefeft goods, furrounded with innumerable itakes^
and having a moil- iubtle entrance, in cafe any m if*,
chief fh ou Id happen, either from their fellow conn*
. try men, or the devouring favages.:
As to the reprobates, (though I-muft own they
^vere much more civilized than before) inftead of a
.delightful wood furrounding their dwellings., we found
,* the words of king Solomon too. truly verified-; 1 wtnt'
by the vineyard of the Jlothful, and it was all overgrown
withi thorns* in many places their crop wasobicured
'by weeds; the hedges having feveraf gaps in them,
the wild goats had got in, and êaten up the com, and
bene and there was a dead *buih, to. flop: thofe gaps
for the pre fen t, which was no more than Abutting the
jftable door ^ the Meed was ilolen away. But as
to çheir wives, they, (as I obferved before) were more
¿iligent, and cleanly enough, efpecially in their ¿áo
tuais,, being iftilrucied by one of the hontft men, who
bad been cook's mate on,board a {hip: and very well
it was i*o; for as he cooked hirnfelf, his nions
&nd thcii families lived as well as the idle hufb^nds,
who did nothing but lqitei about, fetch turtle^ eggs,
ísafceh iiih and birds', and do any thing^but work, and
lived accordingly; while the diligent lived in a very
comfortable manner,, . ,-
And now, Sir, Î come to lay belore your"eyes, a
fcene quite different from any chmg tli.it ever hap-
pgned to us befores and perhaps ever befe! you m ail
the time of vour refidence on this ifland, I fliàll in^
form you of its original in the following manner:
, . One morning, Sir, very early, there came five or
fix canoes of Indians on fhore, indifputably upon?
their old cuftorn of devouring their prii oners. AU
that we had to do upon fuch an occafion was to lie'
concealed, that the fa vag es not having any notice of
inhabitants, might depart quietly/ after performing
their bloody execution ; whoever fir it discovered the
favages, was to give notice to all the three planta-*
.tions to keep, within doors, and then a proper fcout-
was to be placed to give intelligence of their depart
ture. But, notwichflandi thele ?wife meafures5 an>
unhappy difafter difcovered us.to the lavages, which"
was like to; b:ive cau fed the defolation of the whole-
ifland; for, after the favages were gone off in their
canoes,- fome of my Spaniards and 1 looking abroad^
and being inflamed with a curiofity to fee what they
had been doing, to our great amazement, beheld three-
favages fail afleep on the ground^ who, either being;
gorged, could not awake when the others went ofiv
or having wand ;red t.oo far into the woo^s, did not
come back in time. * 7
. • :What: to do jwith thern at firft. we could not teÍ1 f
as for flaves we had enough of them already; and a:s-
to killing them, neither Chriftianity nor humanity"
would fuffer us to ihed the blood of per ion s who ne-
ver did us wrong. We perceived they had no boaf
left them to tranfport them to their own nation; aní
that, by letting them, wander about, they might.dif-*
cover us, and inform the firft favages that ihou
happen to land upon the fame bloody occafion^
whicb information might entirely ruin us ; and/there^
fore I counfelled my Spaniard to fecure them,. «ndí
fet them about fome work or other, \ could bet-
ter diipofe of them. ;\\
He re  we ail went back, and making them*
awake, took them prifoners. It is impoflihje to ex •
•preis the horror they were in, efpecialiy wheni bounds
as thinking they were going to be aii^rdered^and 
ten, but we foon eafed them of their fear as to that
point. We firft took them to the bower, where the
chief of our country work lay, as keeping goats, plant-
ing corn, &c. and then carried them to the two En-
glifhmen's habitation, to help them in their bufinefs;
but happy it was for us all, we did not carry them to
our caille, as by the fequel will appear. The En-
giifhmen, indeed, found them work to do; but whe-
ther they did not guard them flriclly, or that they
thought they could better themfelves, I cannot tell;
but certainly one of them ran into the woods, and
they cpuld not hear of him for a long time after.
Undoubtedly, there \ •< s rcafon enough to fuppofe
he got home in  of the canoes, the lavages re-
turning in about four wreks time, and going off" m
the fpacc of two <la\*. You may be certain, Sir, this
thought couíá not but terrify us exceedingly, and
make us juftly conclude, that this fa vage would in-
form his countrymen of our abode in the ifjand, how-
few and weak we were in companion to their numbers;
and we expecled it would not be long before the Eng*
liíhmen would bè attacked in their habitations: but
the favages had not feen their places of fafety in the
woods, nox our caftle5 which it was a great happinefs
they, did not know.
Nor were we miflaken in our thoughts upon this
occafion; for, about eight months after this, fix canoes,
with about ten men in each canoe came failing by
the north fide of the ifland, which they were never
accjuftomed to do before, and landed about an hour
after funrife, near a mile from the dwelling of the
two Englishmen, who, it feemsi.had the good fortune
to difcover them about a league off: fo that it was an
hour before they could attain the fhore, and fome
time longer before they could come at them* And
now being confirmed in this opinion, that they were
certainly betrayed, they immediately bound the two,
flaves which were left, caufing two of the'three men
whom they brought with the wome«, and who proved
very faithful* to lead them with their wives, and otbe?
conveniences, into their retired cav-e in the wood,*
and there (o bind the two fellows hand and foot, till
they had further orders. They then opened their'
fences, where they kept their milch goats, and drove:
them all our, giving the goats liberty to ramble in1
the woods., to make the lavages believe they were1
w:U ones; but the Have had given a truer information,,'
which made them come to the very inclofures*- The'
two frighted men ient the other Have of the three,
who had been with them by accident, to alarm the*
Spaniards, and "dcfire their affiftance; in the mean5
time they took their arms and amunition,  and made'
to 4the cave where they had fent their wives,-and*
Securing their (laves, feated themfelves in a private-
place, from whence they might behold ail the aclions;
of the favages. Nor had they gone far, when afcend--
ing a rißng ground, they could fee a hule army of';
Indians approach to their beautiful dwelling, and in a-i
few moments more, perceive the fame, and their'fur*-"
niture, to their unfpeakable grief, burning in a con-"
fuming flame:-and when this was done, they fpread :>
here and there, fearching every buíh and place for"
the people, of whom it was very evident," they had -
information. Upon which the two Englishmen, not:
thinking, themfelves feeure-'where they Rood, retreat-"
ed about half a mile higher in the country, rightly-
concliiding, that the farther the favages ft roiled, there--
would be lefs numbers together; upon which they"-r
next took their ftand by the trunk of an eld tree£ v-ery
hollow and large, whence they refolved to lee what'-"
would offer ; but they had not flood long there before 4
two lavages came running direélly towards ' them^ >
as tho' having knowledge of their being there, who *
feemed refoived to attack them; a little farther were •
three more, and five mote behind them- again,* all *
running the fame way. It cannot be imagined what
perplexity the poor men were in at this fight , thinkings -
that if affiftance did not fpetrdily'conic, their rave hr*
the wood would be difcovered, and' confecjuemiy all ^
iksrein loft.; fo they refolvëë to refift tin m thsre, >

and when overpowered, to afcend to the top of the
trees, where they rpight defend themfelves as long
as their ammunition iailed, and fell their lives as
dear as poffible to thole devouring favages. Thus
tixed in their lefolution, they next confidered, whe-
ther they ihould fire at the firft two, or wait for the
three, and fo take the middle party, by which the
two firft and the five laft would be feparated. In
this regulation the two favages alfo confirmed them,
by turning a little to another part of the wood;
but the three, and the five after them, came direct-
ly towards the tree* Hereupon they rcfolved to
take them/in a direct line< as they approached near-
er, becaufe perhaps the firft (hot might hit them
all three; antl, upon this occafion, the man who was
to fire, charged his piece with three or four bullets*
And thus, while they were waiting, the favages earae
on, one of them wus the runaway, who had caufed
nil the mifchief; fo they refolved he ihould not ef-
cape, if they both fired at once. But however,
though they did not fire together, they were ready
charged; when the firft who let fly was too good a
xnarkfman tamifshis aim; for he killed the foremoft
outright, the fécond (who was the runaway Indian,}
fell on the ground being {hot through the body, but
not dead, and the' third was a little wounded on
the fhoulder, who, fitting down on the ground, fell
a fcreaming in a moil fearful manner. The noife
of the guns, which not only made the moft refound-
mg echoes from one fide to another, but railed the
birds of all forts, fluttering with the moft confufed
ñoifé, fo much tenified the favages behind, that
they flood ft ill at firft like fo many inanimate ima-
ge?. But when all things were in profound fil en ce,
they came to the place where their companions lay:
and there, not being ienfible that they were liable to.
the fame täte, flood over the wounded man, un-
doubtedly mcjuhmg the occafion of this fad calami-
that it - by thunder and lightening from the
 
gods, having never feen nor heard of a gun before,
in the whole courfe of their Jives. By this time, the
Englifhmen having loaded their pieces, fired both
together a fécond time, when feeing them all fall
immediately, upon the grounds, they thought they
had killed every creature of them. 1 his made them
come up boldly before they had charged their gun?,
which, was indeed a wrong ftep, for, when they
came to the place, they found four alive, two of
them very little wounded, and one not at all, which
obliged them to fall upon them with their mufkets.
They firft knocked the runaway lavage on the head,
and another that was but very little wounded in
the arm, and then put the other Lmguiihing wretches
out of their pain ; while he that was not hurt, with
bended knees and uplifted hands, made piteous
moans and figns to them to fparc his life: nor in-
deed were ihey unmerciful to the poor, wretch, but
pointed to him to fit down.at the root of a tree hard
bye; and then one of the Engliihmcm, with a piece
of rope twine he had in his pocket, by mere chance,
tying his two feet together, and his two hands be-
hind him, they left him there, making all the hafte
they could after the other two, fearing they íhould
.find out their cave: but though they could not over-
take them, they had the fatisfa&ion to perceive
them, at a diftance, crofs a valley towards the iea,
a quite contrary way to their retreat; upon which
they returned to the tree, to look after their priso-
ner; but when they came there he was gone, lea-
ving the piece of rope-yarn, wherewith he was
bound, '"behind him.
Well, now they were as much concerned as ever,
as not knowing how near their enemies might be,
or in what numbers; immediately they repaired to
their cave, to fee if all was well there, and found
every thing, fafe, except the women, who were
frighted upon their huiband's account, whom they
now loved entirely. They had not been long here,
before feven of my Spaniards came to affift them;
while the other ten, their fervants and Friday's fa"
ther, were gone to defendí their bower, corn, and
cattle, in cale the favages fhould have rambled fo
.far* There accompanied the feven Spaniards one
of the three lavages that had formerly been taken
prifoners; and with them alio, that very Indian-
.whom 'the Englishmen had a little before left under
the tree; for if feems they p?lTed by the way were
"the ilaughter was made, and lo carried along with'
them that poor wretch that was left bound.
But fo many prifoners now becoming a burden to
us, and fearing the dreadful confequences of their
efcaping, moil of the Spaniards and Englifh urged
the abfolute neceifity there was of killing them for
our common preservation: but, Sir, the authority Í
,bore, as governor over ruled that piece of cruelty;
-and then I ordered them to be. lent prifoners to the
;old cave in the valley, bound hands and feet, with
two Spaniards to guard them.
So much encouraged were the Englifhmen at the
approach of the Spaniards, and fo great was their
fury againfl the favages, for dehYroying their habita-
tion?, that they had not patience to flay any longer;
but,'taking five Spaniards along with them, armed
with four muikets, a piftcrP, and a quarter-ft, away
.they went in pnriuit of their enemies. As they paffed
by the ph.ee where the lavages were flain, it was very
eafy to be perceived that more of them had been
there, having attempted to carry off their dead bo-
dies, but found it impracticable.. From anfing
.ground, our party had the mortification to fee the
fmoke that proceeded from the ruins/, when com-
ing farther in fight of the (bore, they plainly per-
ceived that the lavages had embarked in their ca-
noes, and were putting out to fea. This they were
•very forry for, there .being no coming at them to
.give them a parting Salute; but, however, they
were glad enough to get clear of fuch unwelcome
guefts.  ' \ • , •:
, Thus the two honéft, but unfortunate Engíiíl^
men, being ruined a fécond time, and their improve-
ments quite deftroyed, m oft" of my good-natured
Spaniards helped them to rebuild, and we all aiTifted
them with needful fupplies; nay, what is more re*
mai kable, their three mifchievous coimtrymerf,
when they heard it, (which was after theie. diiask-
iers were over, they living remote eaftward) very
friendly fympathifed with them, and worked for
them feveral days; fo that in a little time, their ha-
bitation was rebuilt, their neceffities were fupplied,
and themfelves reftored to their former tranquility*
'J'hough the lavages had nothing to boaft of in
this adventure, (feveral canoes being driven afhore,
followed by two drowned creatures, having doubt-
lefs met with a ftorm at fea that very night they de-
parted) yet it was natural to be fuppofed, that thofe
whofe better fortune it was to attain their native
ihore, would inflame their nation to another ruin-
ous attempt, with a greater force, to carry all be-
fore them. And, indeed, fo it happened; for about
feven months after, our ifland was invaded with a
formidable navy, no lefs than twenty-eight canoes^
full of lavages, armed with wooden fwords, mon-
flrons clubs, bows and arrows, and fuch like in-
ftrurnents of war, landing at the eaft fide of the
ifland.
You may well, Sir7 imagine, what  on ft em at ion
our men were in upon this account, and how fpeedy
they were to execute their refolution, having only
that night's time allowed them. They knew, that
fince they could not withftand their enemies, con-
cealment was the only way to procure their fafety;
and, therefore, they took down the huts that were
built for the two Englishmen, and drove their fleck,
of goats, together with their own at the bower, to
the old cave at the valley, leaving as little a1 pea fr-
ailee of inhabitants as poffible; and then pofled
themfelves, with all their force, at the plantation of
the two men. As they expected fo it happened;
for, early the next morning the Indians, leaving
their^carioes at the eaft end of the iiland, came run-
ning along the Chore, about two hundred and fifty
in> number, as could be guefled. Our army was
-but little; indeed; and what was our greateñ mis-
fortune, w<g had not arms lufficient for them. * The
-account, as to the rmrn, Sir, is as follows:
• • Seventeen Spaniards, Five Englißimen, Old Friday,
the Three Savages,, taken with the women, who proved
faithful fervents, Three, other Slaves, living zvith the
Spaniards.—To arm thefe they had Eleven Mußets,
Five Piflols, Three Fówling-pieces, Two Swords,, 4 hree
Halberts, Five Mußtets, pr Fowling-pieces taken from the
Sailors zvhom you reduced*
As to the fiaves, we gave three of them halberts,
-and the other three long (Uves with great iron í pi  es
at the end,of them, with hatches by their.fides ; we
alio had hatches fticking in our girdles, befides the
fire-arms; nay, two of the women, infpired with
amazonian fortitude, couid not be diifuaded from
fighting along with their deareft hufbands, and if
they died, to die with theim Seeing their refolu-
tion, we gave them hatchets likewífe; but what
fdeafed thera heft, were the bows and arrows (which
•they dexterOiufiy knew how to ufe) (hat the Indians
had left behind them, after their memorable Rattle
one againir. another.
Over this army, which though (mall was of great
intrepidity I wis conftituted chief general and com-
mander; and knowing Will Atk'ms, though exceed-
ing wicked, yeta man oí invincible courage, 1 gave
hira the power of commanding under me; he and
fix men with their mufle ts loaded, with fix or (even
bullets a piece, were planted juft behind a fmalb
thicket of bufhes, as an advanced guau], having or-
ders to let the fir It pais by: and theh, when he fired
into the middle of them, make a nimble retreat round
a part of the wood, and lb come in the rear of I lie
.Spaniards, who were ihaded by a thicket of trees;
for though the favages came on with the fiercenefs of
lions, yet they wanted the fubtlety of foxes, being
/
©ut of all manner of order, and draggling in heaps;
every way; and, indeed when Will Atkins, after,
fifty of the lavages had palled by, had ordered his
 to gire fire, io great was their confternation, to
fee io many men killed and wounded, ánd hear fuch
a dreadful noife, and yet not know whence it came,
that they.-were frightened tö'the higheft degree; and
when the fécond volley was: given, they concluded
no lei's butitha-t their.companions were flain by thun-
der and lightning from heaven, in this notion they
would have continued, had Will Atkins and his men
retired as icon as1 th.ey.fired,  according to order: or
had the reft been near them, to pour in their fhot
continually, there might have been a com pleat vic-
tory obtained; but Raying to load their pieces again,
diicovered the whole matter. They were perceived
by fome Scattering iavages at a diftance, who let fly
their arrow s amongft them, wounded Atkins him-
felf, and killed -his fellow Engltihman, and one of
the.Indians taken with ttae women. Our party did
not fail to an(wer them, and in their retreat killed
about twenty lavages. Mere I cannot but take notice
of our poor dying,(lave, ; who, though ftopt from his
retreat by á fatal arrow, yet with his ft a ff and hatch-
er, defperately.and gallantly aflailedhis purfuers, and
killed live of the favages, before his life iubmitted to
a multiplicity lof -wounds. Nor is the cruelty or
malice of the Indians,toberlefs remarked, in break-
ing the arms, legs arid heads of the two dead bodies
with their clubs and w.ooden fwords, after a moil
wretched manner. As Atkins retreated, our party
advanced, to interpole between him and the favages;
but after three vollies, we. were obliged to retreat al-
io; tor they were fo numerous and defperatç, that
they came up to our very teeth, fhot their arrows
like a cloud, and their wounded men, enraged with
cruel pain, fought like madmen. They did not how-
ever, think fit to follow-us, but drawing themfelves
up in a circle, they gave two triumphant faouts in
token Qf vi&ory, though they had the grief to fee
feveral of their wounded men bleed to death.
After I had, Sir, drawn up bur little army toge-
ther upon a riling ground, Atkins, wounded as he
was, would have had us attack the whole body of
the favages at once. I was extremely well plea fed
with the gallantry of the man: but upon confede-
ration, I replied,*  perceive Seignior Atkins, how
their wounded men fight ;, let them alone till morning,
when they will be faint, fiiffand fore, and then we ßall
have fewer to combat withi To which Will Atkins
fmiling replied, 4'hat's very true andfoßall I too: and
that's the reafon J xvouldfight them now 1 am warm. We
all anfwered, Seignior Atkins, as for your part,
you have behaved very gallantly ; and, if you are
not able to approach the enemy we will fight for
you, till then we think it convenient to wait, and
fo we tarried.
By the brightnefs of the moon that night, we
perceived the favages in great diforder about their
dead and wounded men. This made us change our
rcfolution, and refolve to fall upon them in the
pight, if we could give them one volley undiscover-
ed. This we had a fair opportunity to do, by one
of the two Engliihmen leading us round, between
the woods and the fea-fide weftward, and turning
Ihort foutb, came privately to a place where the
thickeft of them were.- Unheard and unperceived,
eight of us fifed among them and did dreadful exe-
cution; and in half a minute eight more of us let
fly, killing and wounding abundance of them; and
then dividing ourfelves into three bodies, eight
pcrifonsin each body, we marched from behind the
trees, to the very teeth of the enemy, fending forth
the greateil acclamations. The favages hearing a
different noife from three quarters at Once, Rood iu
the utmoft confution; but coming in fight oí us let
fly a volley of arrows, which wounded poor old
Friday, yet, happily it did not'prove mortal. We
did not, however, give them a iecond opportunity;
but r tubing in among them, we fired three Several
ways, and then fell to work with'our Avoids, íla ves,
hatchets, and the butt ends of our muflkcts,' with
a futy nqt to be refifted; fo that, with the nioit
üifmal fcreaming and howling, they had recpurfe
to their feet, to lave their lives by a fpeedy flight*
Nor muft we forget the valour of the two Women;
for they expoied themfelves to the greateft dangers,,
killed many with their arrows, and valiantly deftroyT
ed feveral more with their hatchets.
In fighting thel'e two battles, we were fo much
tired, that we did not trouble our (el ves to purine
them to their canoes., in which we thought they
would prefently put out to the ocean; but there
happening a dreadful ftorm at lea, wl^ich continuing
all that night, it not only prevented then voyage,
but daihed feveral of their boats to pieces and dtovc
the reft fo high upon the fhore, that*'it required in-
finite pains to get them off. After our men had
taken fome refreihment and a little rcpofc, they re-
folved ca'rlv in the morning to go towaids the pbee
of their landing, and  whether they were gone
off, or in what poflure they remained, Xhis -
 (far i ly led them to the place of battle, where, fe-
veral of the fa'vages where expiring, a fight no. way
pleating to generous minds; but our own Indian
Haves put them out of their pain, by difpatching
them with their hatchets. At length,, coming in
view of the remainder of the army, we'found'them
leaning upon their knees, which were bended to-
wards their mouth, and the head between the two
hands. Hereupon, coming within mulket-lbot of
them, 1 ordered two pieces to be fired without ball
to alarm them, that we might know, whether they
had the courage to venture another battle, or were
utterly difpirited from inch an attempt, that fo we
might accordingly manage them. And, indeed,
the project took very well; for/no fooner did the
lavages hear the report of the firil gun and perceive
•he iiaih of the fécond, but they fuddeníy fiartedT
iuppn their feet, in the greateft confirmation; ani
when we approached towards them, they ran howl-
ing and {creaming away up the hill into the
country.
We could rather, at firft, have wiibed that the
weather had permitted them to have gone of?' to the
fea; but when we confidered., that their efcape
tmight occafion the approach of multitudes, to our
litter ruin and diifolution, we were very well plea-
fed the contrary happened; And Will Atkins (who.,,
jthough wounded,, would not part from us all this*
•while) advifed us not to let flip this .advantage, but
flapping between them and their boats5 deprive
them of the capacity of ever returning to plague
the ifland; I know, (faid he), there is but one ob-
jection yau can make, which is., that thefe, crea-
tures,, living like wild beaiis in the woods, may
imake exemfioris, rifle the plantations, and deftroy
*he tame goats; But confider, we had better have
itp do with an hundred men, whom we can kill or
$mke flaves,of3 at leifure, than with an hundred na~
íio¡ns^ whom it is impoffible we fhouid fav,e ourfelves
froju,. ¡muéh lefs fubdue. This advice, and thef'e
.arguments being approved of, we fet fire to their
(boats; „and though they were fo wet that they
would not burn .entirely, yet we made them inca-
pably for fwiinxtiing in the feas. As foon as the In-
4iabs perceived what we were doing, many of them
fan out of the wood*, in fight of us, and kneeling
rfpwti' pkeoufly cried, Oa, Qa, Waramakoa, inti-
mating, 1 f'uppofe, that if we would but fpare their
£a;noes, they would never trouble us again,
$u,t ail their complaints, fubmiffions and entrea-
ties, were in vain. For feif-prefervation obliged
¡as ,to the contrary, we deftroyed every one of them
íhathad efcaped the fury of the ocean. When the
Jñdians perceived this, they raifed a lamentable cry,
find ran into the woods, where they continued run-
ping about, making the woods ring with their la*-
flgentatiçm, JfcjLere- we (hould have confidered, that
Of KOBWSOÑ CRÜSOfc üt?
mating thefe creatures thus defperate, we ought,
at the lime time? to have fet a fufficient guard upon
the plantations: For the lavages, in the ranging:
about, found out the'bower,-deftroyed their fences^
trod the corn down under their feet, and tore up
the vines and grapes.- It is true, we were always-
able-to fight thefe creatures;- but as they were too
fwîft for us, and very numerous, we dürft not go'
out fingie,. fox fear of them; though that too was
néedtefsy they having no weapons, nor any materials to
make them; and indeed their extremiry appeared in a;
little time after.
Though the fa>vages, as already mentioned, had1'
deftroyed our bower, and all our corn, grapes, he*-
yet we had ftill left our flock of cattle in the valley
by the cave, with fdme little corn that grew there*'
and the plantation of Will Atkins and his compa-
nions, one of whom being killed by an arrow, they
were now reduced to two: It is remarkable, iha£
this was the fellow who cut the poor Indian with his
hatchet, and had a defign to murder me and my
counrfymen the Spaniards, As our condition was
fo low, we came to the refolution to drive the fava~v
ges up to the farther part1 of the ifland, where no
Indians landed ;* To kill as many of them as we"
could, till we had reduced their number :• And'
then to give, the remainder fome corn-to plant, and;
to teach them how to live by their daily labour*-
Accordingly we purfued them with our guns, at
the hearing of which they were fo terrified, that"
they would fall to the ground. Every day we killed
and wounded, fome of them, and many we found-
itarved to death, fo that our hears began to relent ar.
the fight of fuch miíerable objecls. At lair, witlr
great..difficulty, taking one of them alive, and ufing
him with k'indnefs and tendernefs, we brought him
to Old Friday,., who talked to him, how good we
would be to them all, giving them corn $nd land to
plant and live in, and prefent uouriihmfcnt, provi-
ded,tiny would keep-within- fuch bounds asfhouM-
be.allotted them.: and not to do prejudice to others
Go then,, faid he* and inform, your couutrymen of
this; whichj if they will not agree to,, every one
4)f,theni (hall be slain.
ri he poor creatures, being reduced to about thirty-
feven, joyfully accepted the offer* and earneftly
begged for food; hereupon we fent twelve Spani-
ards,, and two Englifbmen, well armed,, together
with old Friday, and three Indian flaves who march-
ed to. the place were they were. They were loaded
with a large quantity.of bread, and rice cakes, wit'h
three live goJits: and the poor Indians being order*
cd to-fit down on the fide of the hill, they ate their
^icluals very thankfully, and have proved faithfu-J
to the J aft, never trefpaffing beyond their bounds,,
where, at tins day, they quietly and happily remain^
and where we now and then vi fit them* They are
confined to a neck <sf land about a mile and a half
broad, and three or four in length, on the.iouth-
caft corner of the ifiand, the iea being before and,
lofty mountains behind them, free from the appear-
ance of canoes: and indeed their countrymen ne-
ver enquired after them., We gave them twelve
hatchets, and three or four knives; have taught'
ibera to build hut?, make wooden fpades, plant
com, make bread, breed tame goats, and milk
them; as liicewife to make wicker-work, in which
ï m m ft ingenuoufíy confefs^they infinitely outdo u?.%
having made 'thcinfelves fevera.l pretty necetTariea
and fanck»., as b'jíkets, fieve?, bird-cages, and cup-,
boards 5 as alio ftools, bedc, and couches,, no le is
ufe ful that) delightful; and now they live the moft
innocent and inoirenfive creatures that ever were*
iubdu.ed in the world, wanting nothing but wives
to make them a nation.
Thus, kind Sir, have I given you according to,
m y ability,, an impartial account of the various tranf-
3ctibria.-that have happened in the iíland lince your de-
parture, to this day; and we have great reafon to.
jiC'bro-wieil^e the kind provi.dence oí heaven in, oui;
îfterciful deliverance. Whert you infpeñyóiir little
feihgdom, you will find in it fomedittle improvement,
your flocks increafcd, and your fubjecb augmented:
.fö'fhat from adefolate ifland, as this was before your
woriderfuî deliverance upon it, here is a vifiblc prof-
peel: of its becoming a populous and well governed
fittle kingdom, to your immortal fame and glory, -
'End of the Spaniß Governor's r elation „
 confutation of the life of Robinforj Crufoe, -both of
the paffages that happened during the time of his conti*
nuance, on the iß ana 9 and after his departure, till fie ar*
, rived again 4n his native country*
Til ERE is no doubt to fuppofe, but that the'pre-
ceding relation of, my faithful Spaniard was
very agreeable, and no lefs furpnfmg to me, to the
yourvr prieft, and to all who heard it:  were th'efe
people lefs pleafed with thole/necrflary utenfils that Í
brought :them, fuch as the k«ivés? fciifar^, fpades*
ihoveiv and pickaxesi with which they now'adorn
their habitations.
So much had they addicted themfelvös to wicker-"
, work,-prompted by the ingenuity of the Indians, ivho
aflifted them, that when' 1 viewed the Engliíhmén/
colonies,/ they feerned at ,a? diftance as though they
had lived like bees in a hive': for Wii4 Atkins who
was now become a very indubious and fober man9
had made* himfelf a tent of bafket-work round the
outfrdej. the walls.,were worked in as^ a b'afket, in
pannels or ftrong, fquares of thirty-two in number^
ííanding. about feven- feet; high: in the nnddje was
another, not above twenty-two paces round, but
much; ftronger built,-being**cf an octogonal form,
and in the eight: corners ffcood eight íírong ípoRs*
round the top of uhich he kid íhong- ph-fces,. pin-
ï*ed' with • wooden' pins, from which 'he raifcd a pvr* 1
* 3 -
mid for the roof, mighty pretty, I a flu re yon, and;
joined1 very well-together with iron fpikes,. which he
made himfèîf; for he had made him a forge, with a-,
pair of wooden bellows,, and charcoal for his work,,
forming an anvil out of one of the iron crows, to
work upon, and in this manner would he, make him-
felf hooks, itaples,. fpikes, bolts and hinges. Af-
ter he had pitched the roof of his innermóft tent,.,
he made it fo. firm between the rafters with baiket-
?york,. thatching that over again with rice-ílraw». •
;-ind over that a large leaf of a tree, that his houfe
¿as as dry as if it had been tiled or flared* The
outer circuit was covered as a lean to, quite round'
bis-apartment, "laying long rafters from the thirty
two .angles to the top pofts of the inner houfe,.
about twenty feet diiHnt :* fo that there wassa fpace-
like a wail between the outer arid'inner'wall, near
twenty feet in breadth. 1 he inner place he parti-
tioned' off with the lame wicker-Work dividing it in-
to fix apartments, every one of which hád a door,,
hrit into the entry of the main tent, and another
Into the fpace a«d wa4k that was round it,5 not only
oonvenient for retreat, but for fâmily rieceffarres.—
Within the door of tne outer circle,' there - was a
paffige directly to thb'door oí the inner houfe ; ore-
cither fide was a wicker partition, and a door, by-
which " you go into a- room twenty-tw'cr feet wide,.,
and about thirty long, and-through that into ano-
ther of ä fin al 1er length,, fo that in the outer cir-
cle were ten hand Come. rooms*, fix of which were
«hly to-be corne át through the apartments of the
inner tent,, ferving as retiring rooms to the relpec-
tive chambers of the inner circle, and four lar^e
warehWies, 'which went in through one another,
two-on either hand of the paffage that led through
the outer door of the inner tcntv In mort,.nothing
€.ouId be built more ingeniouily, kept more neat,'or
have better cbiYveniencies and here lived the three
implies,.  Atkins,, his companion-, their wives-,
ajîû'chiioluen^ a,nd the widow of the deceafed..^ A#
to religion, the men feldom taught jbeir wives ^he-
knowledge of God, any  tbañ^the fallórs5',
cuftom of fwearing by his name. - The great. im-
provement their wives had, was, they' taught jth^nv
to fpeak Englifh, fp as to be underftpod. "'. ,
None of. their children were then above 'fix year's-,
old; they were all fruitful enough; and, I think,,
the cook's mate's wife was big of her fixih child.
"When 1 enquired pf the Spaniards about their
eircumítancés while among the fa vages, they tojd
me? that they abandoned themfelves to defpair, rec-
koning themfelves, a poor and mifërable peopïe,. that
had v\o means put into their hands, and cpnfequcht-r
iy mull; (bon be ftarved to death. ? They %wne#„
however, that they were in the wrong to think To,,-
and for refufing the aiïlftançè that reáíon offered;
for their, fuppprt,, as well as future deliverance^ con-^
feffing "that grief was a- m oft infignificant paijîon , as?
it looked! upon, things as without remedy.,, and hav-
ing no hope of good things to comè,, all which ve-
rified this noted proverb:
In trouble to be troubled, ;"
Is to have your trouble doubled. . t / ~ \
Nor did his ^?marks end here r A'or,.  în. g ob~
formations upon-m'y improvements, and on my con-
dition, at fir ft- infinitely work than theirs,' he' told,
nve, that Engliílmien had, in their diifrefsr gveatjer
preience of mind.than thofe ofany , other'"country,
that, he had met with; arid-that they and tlie Ppr-
tugueje w,ere the worß^ men,'to ftruggle üríder mis-
fortunes. When they lauá'ed among the faya'ges,,
they found but little provinon except tfiey would
turn cannibals, there being but Tew roöts'and herbs,4
with little fubftance'in them,, and of which the na-
tives gavé them very. fparingiy. Many were the
wa'ys they took to .civilize and teach the favages, &ut
in vain i for they would not allqw them to be their
mftruclors whofe lives-were ,©wing. to their bounty J
Their extremities were very great,, many days being:'
tntijcly without food:,, the ia.vages there' beirjg more;
i^doïént àndlèfs devouring than thofe who had belt
£$. v When they went out to battle, they Àverr"
obliged to affiïï.thefe peöple, in one of.whicfi my
fkitfrfui Spaniard being taken, had like to have been?
devoured. They had loftf their ammunition, which:
rendered their firë arms ufelefs; nor could they ufe
thé bows, and arrows that Were given-them, fo that
while the armies were at diRance, they had no
chance*, but when cl¿te, tiren they could be offer-
vice Wi'lli halbeits,.and (hafpened ftlcks-put into the-
muzzles of their mufkefs.. They made fliemfelves-
targets of wood, covered with the fkins of wild"
Eèafts> and. When one Happened to be knocked^
down, the reft of the company fought over him tili
He' recovered': and then flanding clofe in a iine,
tire/ would make their way through a thoufand fa-
vages. Á^t1 the return of tneir friend who they
thought had been entombed in the bowels of their
enemies, their joy was inconceivable. Nor were
theydefs iurprized at the fight of the loaves of bread
Ï hadfent them, thing's that they had not íeeñ for
feveral years, at the fa the time croffiwg and bleffing,
it,<as though it; was rmnna ferrt  heäven :4 hut
when the^' kn^w the errand, and perceived, the: boat
wh ich' was to-carry them to'the-per fön and place
fi'om whence fiich relief camé, this iïruck thenv
with íuch a íbrprize of joy,: as made lome of them
fáin-t' away,, iand others buril out into tears.
This was the fumïnary account that Î had from
t&nv I ihall how inform the reader wnatT £
did for them* and in what condit ion Í left them, As;
we were all oí opínion "that the favages would icarce
trouble them any more, fo we hád no apprehenitp.ns'
ën that ícore. I toid them I was. come purely to
¿ftablíüV and not to remove them ;; and uçon that'
occafion,. had not only brought them necefîaries- for
convenience. and- defence,.-but alio-artificers and*'
other perfor>s> both for their.neceiTaryAGm-ployments^
smd to add; to their number,,, they* were all together
w&end thus-talked tb't'hem> and before I delivered--
to them the flores I brought, I aiked them one by
one, it they had entirely forget their animofities,.
would engage in the ftricleft friendship-, and fhake
hands with ones another? On this, Will Atkins*
with abundance of good humour, faid, they had
affligions enough to make them all fobcr, and ene-
mies enough to make them all friends: as for him-
felf, he would live and die among them," owning
that what the Spaniards had done to him, his own,
mad humour had made neceffary for them to do.—
Nor had the Spaniards occafion to juftify their pro-
ceedings to me; but they told me, that, fince Will
Atkins, had behaved himfelf Co valiantly in fight,,
and at other times (hewed fuch a regard to the com-
mon intereft of them all, they had not only forgot-
ten all that was paît, but thought he ought as much
to' be trufted with arms and necefTaries as any of
them, which they teflified by making him next ifi
command to the governor: and they moil heartily
embraced the occafion of giving me, this folemn af-
furancc, that they would never feperate their inte-
reft again as long as they lived.
After thefe kind declarations of friend (hip, we,
appointed all of us to dine together the next day
upon'this Í caufed the fhip's cook and his mate ta
come afhorc for that purpqfe, to affift in dveffing our
dinner. We brought from the (hip fix. pieces oÇ
beef, and four of pork, together with our punch-
bowl, and materials to fill it;, and in particular I
gave them ten bottles of French claret, and ten ot
Engiiih beer, which was very acceptable to thern*
The Spaniards added to pur feaft hve whole kids*
which being roafted, three of them were fent as
frefh meat to the failors on board, and the other two
we ate ourfelves. After our merry and innocent
feaft: was over, I began to diftribute my cargo among.
Hiena. Firft, I gave' them linen fufficient to make
every one of them lour ihirts, and at the Spaniard's
requeft made them up fix. The EngiiHi fluffs I al-
lotted to make eve'r/y'ptie a light coat like a frock
agreeable to the climate,, and left them fuch a quan-
tity, as to make more upon their decay: as alio
pumps, fhoes, hats and (lockings-. It is not to be
expreffèd the pleaimg. fatisfaélipn which fat upon:
the countenances of thefe poor men,, when they
perceived what care l took of them,, as if I had beea
a common father of them all: and they all engag-
ed never to leave the ifland,. lili I gave my confent
to their departure. I then prefented to them the
people I brought, to wit, the tailor,, frnith, and two
carpenters; but my Jack of all trades was the moil
acceptable prefent I could make them. My tailor
fell immediately to woik, and made every one of
them a ihirt after which he learned the women1
how to few and ftich, thereby to become the more
ufeful to their hufbands. Neither were the carpen-
ters leis ufeful, taking in pieces their clumfy things^
inftead of whichr they made convenient and hand-
fome tables, ftools, bedfteadsy cupboards, lockers,,
and {helves.. But when 1 carried them to fee Will
Atkin's baiket houfe, they owned they never faw
fuch a piece of natural ingenuity before: 1 am Jure
faid one of the carpenters, the man that built (his has.
no need of us: you. need,. Sir, do nothing but give Him
tools.-
I divided the tools among them in this manner;
to every man T gave a digging fpade, a ihovel and a
rake, as having no harrows of ploughs; and to-
every fc-per¿to place a pick ax¡c, a crow, a broad
a*e, and a faw,. with a flore for a general fupplyy
ihould any be broken or worn out, Ï left them all'o^
nails,, flapies, hinges.,-hammers, chifléis, knives and
fciffars, and all forts of tools and iron work; and
for the ufe of the fmkh, gave them three tons of
un wrought' iron fr.r a fupply: and as to arms and
amrmmition, i ftore.d them even to-profufion: or at
kail, to equip a fufficient little army againft all op-
pofers whatfoéver.
The younjg man (wliofe mother was unfortunate-
ly ihrvedto death) together Witbthe maid, a pious
anà well educated young woman, feeing things fo
well ordered on (höre, for I made them accompany
me, and confidering they had no occafion to go fo
far a voyage as to the Eah>Indies, they both defired
of me, that I would leave them there, and enter
them among my fubjecb. This I readily agreed to,
ordering them a plat of ground, on which there were
three litde houfes ereâed, environed with baiket-
work, palli&doed like Atkins's, and adjoining to his
plantation. So contrived were their tents, that each
of them had a room apart to lodge in, while the
middle tent was not only their ftore-houfe, but their
place for eating and drinking. At this time the two
Englishmen removed their habitation to their former
.place; fo that now the if/arid was divided into three
colonies. Fi rit, Thofe I have juft now mentioned;;
Secondly, That of Will Atkins, where were four
families of EngHihmen with their wives and children,
the widow and her children: the young' man and the
maid, who, by the way, we made a wife of before
our departure; three lavages, who were flaves the
tailor, fmith, (who ferved alio as a gunfmith) and my
other celebrated perfon called Jack of all trades*
Thirdly, my chief colony, which confifted of the
Spaniards, with old Friday, who ftill remained at my
old habitation, which was my capital city: and fure-
ly never was there fuch a metropolis, it now being
hid in fo obfeure a grove, that a thoufand men might
have ranged the island a month,, and looked purpofe-
ly for it, without being able to find it, though the
Spaniards had enlarged its boundaries, both without
and within, in a raoft ftirprifing manner.
But now I think it high time to fpeak of the
young French prieft of the order of St* Benedict,
whole judicious and pious difcourfes, upon fundry
.occafions, merit,an extraordinary obiervation nor
can his being a French Papiil prieft, 1 prefume,
give offence to any of my readers, when they have
this a Hu ran.ee from me, that he was a perfon of t he
moil courteous difpoiitiotj, cxtenfive charity., and
exalted f>iety. . His arguments were always agreea-
ble to reafon, and his conversation the molt accept-
able of any perlón that I had ever yet met with in
my life.
Sir, iY\û he to me one ihy,jtnce under God (at the
fame time croílinghis bvcdíi} you have not only faved
my Ufe-; but, by per mi ting me to go this voyage, have
granted me the happinefs of free converfation, I think it
my duty,\ as my profefjion obliges me, to ¡ave. what fouls Ï
can, by bringing them to the knowledge of fome Catholic
dotlrine, necefjary to falvation , and, finee thefe people
are under vour immediate government, in gratitude, jus-
tice, and decency for 'what you have done for me, IJhall
offer no further points in religion, than  liât. Jhall merit
your approbation. Being pleafed with the modefly of
his carriage,  told him he fhould not be worfe ufed
fbr being of a different perfuafion, if, upon that very
account, we did r>ot differ in points of faith, not de-
cent in a part of thé country, where the poor Vi-
dians ought to be inftrucled in the |knowledge of
the true God,, and his fon Jefus Ch/rift. To this
he replied, that converfation might èafily be ieparated
from difputes, that he would difcourfe with me
rather as a genlteman than a religious; but that if
we did'enter lipon religious arguments, upon my
defiring the lame» 1 would give him liberty to de-
fend his own principals. He farther added, thar he
would do all that became him in his oñlcc, as a
prieft and a Chriilian, to procure the happinefs of ail-
thole in thefbip: that though he could iior. pray with,
he would pray for us, on all occafions; and then he
told me fcveral extraordinary events in his life, with-
in" a few years pail; but particularly in this lafr,
Which was the.moil remarkable: that in this voyage,
He had the misfortune to be five times (hipped and
iniibipped: his firft de'figh was to have gone to Mar-
tinico}: forwhich, taking iliip at St. Malo, he was
forced into Liiborf by bad weather, ihe veflel run-
ning aground in the mouth oí the TaguS: that from
thence he went on boad a PorttiguTe fhip bound to
the Madeiras» whofe mailer being but an indiffèrent
mariner, and out of hb icckoning, they were drove
to Fiai, where felling their commodity, which was
corn, they refolved to take in their joaJing at the iile
of May, and to fail to Newfoundland; at the banks
of which; meeting a French ihip bound to Quebec,
in the river of Canada, and (Vom thunce to Martinico,
in this ihip he embarked; the mailer of which dying
at Quebec, that voyage was fuipended; and Jaftly,
íhipping himfelf for France, this lall ihip was deflroycd
by fire, as before has been related.
At this time we talked no further: but another
morning he comes to me, juíl as I was going to v i ( i 
the língliíhmcn's colony, and tells 111c, that as he
knew the profperity of the ifland was my principal
delire, he had fbmething to communicate agreeable
io my defign, by which perhaps he might put it,
inore than he yet thought it was, in the way of the
^liened iclion of heaven. How, Sir? ía id I, in a id re-
prize, are we not yet in the way of God's bletfing,
after all theie fignal providences and deliverances, oí
which you have had fuch an ample relation? He re-
plied, I hope, Sir, you are in the way, and that your
igoocl defign will profper: but ft ill there ave lome
among you that are not equally right in their actions;
and remember, 1 befeech you, Sir, that Ac/am, by
his crime, removed God's bielfing from the camp of
the children of Hrael ; that though fix and thirty were
entirely innocent, yet they became the objedb of di~
v i ne vengeance, and bore the weight of the punifhmcnt
accordingly.
So fenlibly was I touched with this difcourfe, and
id fatisfied with that ardent piety that inflamed his
foul, that Í defired him to accompany me to the Eng-
lifhincn's plantations, which he was very glad of, by
realbu they were the fubjedt of what he defigned todif-
courfe with me about: and while we walked on toge~
rher, lie began in the following manner:
Sir, laid he, I muff confefs it is a great unhappi-
nefs that we difagree in lèverai doótiinal articles of
religion; but, f'urely both of us acknowledge thi^
that there is a God, who having given us fome ftated
rules for our fervice and obedience, we ought not
willingly and knowingly to offend him, either by
megleóting what he has commanded, or by doing
what he has forbidden. This truth every Chrifiian
owns, that when any one prefumptuouily fins again ft
God's command, the Almighty then withdraws his
kindnefs from him; every good man therefore ought
certainly to prevent fuch negleft of, or fin a gai nit
God and his commands. I thanked the young prieft
tor expreffing fo great a concern for us, and defired
him to explain the particulars of what he had obfer-
ved, that,-according to the parable of Achan, 1 might
remove the accurfed thing from among us. Why
then, Sir, (aid he, in the fir ft place, you have four
Engjilhmen, who have taken favag.e women to their
wives, by whom they have feveral children, though
none of them are legally married, a* the law of God
and man requires; they, I fay, Sir, are no lefs than
adulterers, and as they ftiU live in adultery, are liable
to the curie of God, J know, Sir, you may object
the want of a prieft or a clergyman of any kind; as
alfo pen ink and paper, to write down a contract of
marriage., and have it figned between them. But
neither this, nor what the Spanifh governor has told
you of their chufiag by confent, can be reckoned a
naarriage, nor any more than an agreement to keep
them from quarreling among themfelves; for, Sir,
the eflfence or facrament of matrimony (fo he called
Ù) not only conflits in mutual confent but legal ob-
ligation, which compels them to own and 'acknow-
ledge one another, to abftain from other perfons, the
men to provide for their wives*and children, and the
women to the fame and like conditions, mutatis, mu-
tandis, on their fide: whereas, Sir, thefe men, upon
their own pleaiure, on any occafion, may forfake
thofe women, and marry others, and by di [owning
their children, fuffcr them utterly to perifh. Now,
-jäir, added'he, can God be honouieçl in. fuch an un-?
lawful liberty as this? how can a Meiling fucceed
the belt endeavours, if men are allowed to live in
ío licentious a way? Í was indeed flrnek with the
thing myfeif, and thought-that they were rauch to
blame, that no formal con traft had been made**
though it had been but breaking a Pack between
them, to engage-them to live as man and wife, ne-
ver to feparate, but love,, cherifh and comfort one
another all their lives; yet, Sir, laid \, when they
took thefe women 1 was not here, and if if is adul-
try it is paft my remedy, and I cannpt help it.—
True, Sir\ anfwered the young pried, you cannot le'
charged with thdt part of ihe crime which was dove in
your ab fence: hut I befeech you, dont flatter yourfc(f¿
that yuu are under no obligation now to put a period to it-;
which if yow neglect to do, the guilt will be entirely en you
alone, fince it is certainly in nobody s potver but yours, to
alter their condition* I muft contefs, 1 was lb dull,
that I thought he meant Í mould' part them,' and
knowing this would put the whole iíland into conlu*
{ion, X told him I would not con lent to it upon any
account whatioever. Sir, laid he in a great Airprize;
I do not mean that they ßiould feperate, l ut marry them,-
by a written contract, Jigned by both man and woman, and
by all the witnejfcs pre fen t, which all the European laws
decree to be of fafficient efficacy * Amazed with fuel*
true piety and fincerity, and confidering the validity
of a written contraft,- I acknowledged all that he
laid to be very juft and.kind; and that Í would dif-
courfc with the men about it; neither could Í fee
what rea fon they-could have not to let him marry
them, whole authority in that affair is owned, to be
as authentic as if they were married by any of our
clergymen in England*
The next complaint he had to make to me was'
this, that though thefe Englilh fubjefts of mine had
lived with thole women feven yeais, and though they
were of good underftanding, and capable of induc-
tion, having learned.not only to fpeak, but to read
EngliQj, yet all this while they had never i aught them
any thing of the Chriflian religion, or the knowledge
c>{ God, much iefs in what manner he ought to be
ferved. And, is not this an unacceptable negleft? faid
he, warmly. Depend upon it, God Almighty will call
them to an account jor fach contempt. And though J am
not of your religion, yet Ißould be glad to fee thefe peo-
ple relea fed from the devil's power, and be faved by the
principles of the Chrijlian religion, the knowledge of God,
of a Redeemer, the refurreêlicn, and of a future fate.
But as it is not too late, if you pleafe to give me leave to
hßritft them, I doubt not but 1 ßall fupply this great de-
fect, by bringing them into the great circle of Chrißianity,
even while you continue in the iß and.
I could hold no longer, but embracing him, told
him, wiih a thoufand thanks, I would grant whatever
he requeficd, and dcfired him to proceed in the third
article, which he did in the following manner.
Sir, faid he, it ßould be a maxim among all ChrißianSf
That Chriflian knowledge ought to be propagated by all
pofjibte means, and on all occafwns. Upon this account our
church fends mifßonaries into Perfia, India, and China,
men who are zvilling to die for the fake of God and the
Chrijlian faith, in order to bring poor infidels in the way
of falvation. Now, Sir, as here is an opportunity to con-
vert feven and thirty poor favages, How can you pafs by
fuch an occqfion of doing good, which is really worth the
i\rpence of a man's whole life?
I rauft confefs Í was fo confounded at this difcourfe,
1 could not tell how to anfwer him.&V,' faid he, fee-
ing me in diforder, /ßall be very forry if I have given
you offence. No, Sir, faid I, I am rather confound-
ed: and you knew my circumftances, that, being
bound to the Eaft-Indies in a merchant fhip, I can-
not wrong the owners fo much, as to detain the (hip
here, the men laying on victuals and 'wages on their
account. If I if ay above twelve days, I muil pay
31. fterling per diem demurrage,, nor muft the fhip
Hay above eight days more; fo that I am unable to
engage in this work, imlefs Í would leave the (hip,
and be reduced to my former condition. The prieft,
though he owned this was hard upon mt, yet laid ]i'
to m v conicience, whether the bleffmg of faving fe~
ven and thirty fouls was not wortk venturing all that:
I had in the world? Sir, faid J, it is very true ; but-
as you are an eccleüaític, it naturally talis in your
profefïion: Why therefore don't you rather offer to
undertake it yourfelf,. than preis me to it; Upon this
he turned about, making a very low bow, / mojí hum-
bly thank God and you, Sir, iaid he, for jo hlefjed a call;
and mo ¡i * willingly undertake fo glorious an office\ which
will fußoicntly compevfale all the hazards and difficulties
I have gone through in a long and uncomfortable voy age »-
While he was thus /peaking, I could difcover a-
rapture in his face, by his cohuir racing and coining;
at the fame time his eyes iparkled like , with all
the figns of the moit zealous tranfportr. And when
1 a iked whether- he was in earneft: Sir, faid he, ir
was to preach to the Indians, I con fen ted to come along
nut h you; thefe infidels, even in this little {/land, arc in-
finitely of more worth than my poor life. If fo that I
ßüitld prove the happy injlrumcnt of faving the je poor
creatures* fouls, 1 care not'if I never fee my native coun-
try again. One thing I enly beg of you mu?t% is, that you
WJidd leave Friday ivitli wc, to be my interpreter, with-
out whof'e afijlance neither of us mil wide rjland eacli
other.-
This requeíívcry fen fi  troubled me; firft, upon
Friday's being bred a Prcteflant; and fecondly, for
the afre&ion i bore to him for hLs fidelity: But. im-
mediately the'remembrance of Friday's father com-
ing into my head, 1 recommended him to him as
having Seamed Spaniih,. which the prieif alio under-
flood, and fo was thoroughly fahsfied with him*-
When we came to the Engliihrnen,- alter having
to'd them what neceffary things J had done for them"; >
J talked to them of the fcandaloivs life they led, told
them-what notice the clergyman had taken of ur and
afked them if they were married men orábate h el or s?
They anfwered, two of them were widower? ;-and the:
 other- three GngJc men,- But, faid J > with what con - *
fcience can you cali thcie your wives, by whom you
have  many children, ard yet are not lawfully mar-
ried? Triey all faid, that the^ toe': them before the
governor as.iuch, having nobody elfe to marry them,
which they though as legal as if they had had a par-
ion. No doubt, (aid I, but in the eye of God you
are fo; But unlcfs I am affured of your honed in-
tentions never to delert thefe poor creatures, I can
do nothing more for you, neither can you expect
God's bleffing while you live in iuch an open courfe
cf adultery. Hereupon Will Atkins, who fpoke
for the reft, told me,"that they believed their wives
the moft innocent and virtuous creatures in the world;
that they would never foiiake them while they had
breath/: And that if there was a clergyman in the
ill p> they would be married to them with all their
hearts, Í told you "before, faid I, that I have a mi-
ni Rer with mc, who fhall marry you to-morrow
morning, if you are willing; fo 1 would have you to
confult to-night, with the reft about it, I told him,
the clergymen was a Frenchman, 2nd knew not a
word of Knglifn; but that 1 would a£t as clerk be-
tween them. Ai d indeed this bufinefs met with fuch
fpeedy fuccefs, that they all told me, in a few mi-
nutes after, that they were ready to be formally-
married as foon as 1 plealed, with which informing
the prieft, he. was exceedingly rejoiced.
Nothing now remained, but that the wompn ihould
bî made fenfible of the meaning of the thing; with
wuch being well fatisfiçd, they with their hufhands
attended.at my apartment the next morning. There
was my prieft, habited in.a black velf, fometbing
îike a caflbek with a fafh round it, much refembling
a minifler, and i was his interpreter. But the feri-
oufnefs of his behaviour, and the fcruples he made
of marrying the women, who were not baptized,
g*\e them an èxceeding reverence for his perfon:
Nnr indeed would he marry them at all, till he ob-
tened my liberty to difcourfe both with the men and
woiuen, and then he told them, That in the fight of
indifferent men, and in the fenfe of the laws of fo-
cicty, they had lived in open adultery, which nothing
now but their co^fent to marry, or final feparation,
could put an end to -, an4 even here was a-difficulty
with reípecl to the Jaws of Chriflian matrimony, in
marrying a profeffed Chriflian to a heathen idolater,
unbapti^ed; but yet there was time enough to make
them profefs the name of Chrift, without which no-
thing can be done: That, befides, he believed them-
felves very indifferent Chriftians: And consequently
had not difcourfed with their wives upon that fub-
jecT:; and that unlefs they promifed him to do fo, he
could not marry them, as being exprefsly forbidden
by the laws of God.
AH this they heard attentively, and owned readily.
But, Loid, Sir, laid Will Atkins to mc how fbould
we tench them rejigion, who know nothing of it our-
iclves? How can we trJkto our wivesof God, Je/us
Chrift, heaven and hell? why they, would only laugh
at us, who never yet have praótiíed religion, but, on
the contrary, all manner of wickednefs. Will At-
kins, íaid I, cannot you tell your wife, ihe is in the
wrong, and that her gods are idols which can neither
hear, (peak, r,cr underftand ; but that our God who
has made, can deftroy all things; that he rewards the
good, and punifiies the wicked ? and at lall will bring
us to judgement ? cannot you tell her thefe things?
That's true, iaid Atkins, but then ihe'U tell me, it is
utteily falle, fmcc I am not puniihed and fent to the
devil who hath been iuch a wicked creature. Thefe
words I interpreted to the prieft! ! íaid he, tell
him, his, repentance will make him a very good mi-
nifier to his fpoufe, and qualify him to preach on the
mercy and long fuffering of a merciful Being, who de-
fires not the death of a finner, ai d even defers dam-
nation to the laft judgement; this will lead him to
the above doctrine, and will make him an excellent
preacher to his wife, I repeated this to Atkins, who
being more than ordinary afiefted with it, îcplied, X
know all this. Sir, and a deal more, but how can Í
have the impudence to talk thus to my wife, when my
confeience wit nèfles againíl me? Alas, faid he, (with
tears in his eyes; and giving a great iigh), as for re-
penting, that  was for ever pair me. Pail you ! At-
kins, faid Î, what do you mean? You know well
enough, laid he,, what I mean ; 1 mean it is too late.
When I told the Prieft what he laid, the poor af-
fectionate man could not refrain from weeping; but
recovering himfelf,. Pray,. Sir, faid he, aik him if he
is contented that it is too late; or is he concerned-,,
and wiihes it'were not fo ? This queftion Í put fair-
ly to Atkins,, who replied in a paffion, How can Ï
•be eafy in a ftate which I know mud terminate in
. my ruin ? For I really believe, fome time or other,.
1 ihali cut my throat'to put a period to my life, and
to the terrors of my confeience.
At this the clergyman {hook his -head. Sir, ùld-
he, pray tell him it is not too late : Ghrift will give
him repentance, if he has recourfe to the merit of
his pailion. Does he- think he is beyond the power
of divine mercy? There may indeed be a time when
provoked mercy will no longer ftrmybut never too-
late for men to- repent in this world, 1 told At-
kins every word the prieft had faid, who then pul-
ed from us to talk-to his wife, while we difcourfed
with the reih- But thefe were very flupid in religi-
ous matters, yea,, alfôf them promiied to do their
•endeavours to make their wives tum Chriftians: and
upon which promifes the prieft married the th.-ec
couple,- But as Atkins was the oniy fmcere con-
vert, arid of more ienfe than the reft, my clergyman
was eaïneftly enquiring after him; Sir,, faid he, let
us walk out of this labyrinth, and i dare fay we
(hall find this poor man preaching to his wiie al-
ready. And* indeed- we found it true, for coming
fo the edge of the wood, we perceived Atkins and-v
his iavage-wife fitting under the ihade of a bulb, in
very earneft diíbouríV: He pointed to the fun, to'
the quarters of the earthy to himíelf, to herriha
woods- and-.thç tuces.*. But our misfortune- was, wö'
could not hear one word that paffed between them*
A little after, we oblerved by her motion, as fre-
quently lifting up her hands, and laying them on h-er
bread, that (he was mightily affected with his dif-
cmirfe, aVid Jo they withdrew [vom our fight.
When we came back, we found them both wait-
ing to be coiled i m: upon which we agreed to exa-
mine him; Prithee, Will Atkins, faid I, what edu-
cation had yon; what was vour falber?
IV. Af A better man than ever Î fhall be: he was
Sir, a clergyman, who gave me. good irt/h notion, or
correction, which Ï defpiled like a brute as Í was,
and murdered my father,
Pr. Ha! a murderer.
[Here the pried darted and looked pale, as think-
ing lie had really killed his father.
R. C. What, did you kill him with your hands?
W* A. No, Sir, I cut not his throat, but broke
his heart, by the moil unnatural turn of difobedience
to the tendered and bed of fathers.
R. C. Well, Í ptay God grant you repentance: I
did not aik you to extort a coníeíTion; but 1 a/led
you, becaufe I fee you have more knowledge of what
is good than your companions.
IV.  , Sir, whenever I look  upon my
pa(t hie, conference upbraids me with my father;
the fins again ft our parerrts make the deepeft
wounds, and their weight lies theheavieit upon the
mind.
R. C. Yon talk, Will, too feelingly and fenfible
for. me: 1 am not able to bear it.
IV. A. You bear it, Sii ! you know nothing of it
R. C, But yes, Atkins, I do; and eveiy fliore.
valley, and tree in this iiJand, witnefs theanguiih, of
my (oui for my undutifulnefs to my kind father,
whom 1 have muidered hkewife; Yet my repen-
tance falls infinitely ihort of yours. But, Will,
how comes the fenfc of this mattei to touch you
juft now.
W.A. Sir, the work you have, let me about has
occafioned it; for talking to my wife about God
and religion, {he has preached trie fuch a fermon,
that 1 .(hail retain it in laiting remembrance.
R>  No, no, it is  oar own moving pious ar-
guments to her, has made eonfeience Hing, them
back upon you. Bat pray,. Atiuns, inform us what
paííed between you and your wife, and what manner
did you begin?
W.A. 1 talked to her of the laws of marriage,n
the reaion of fuch compacts, whereby order andjuf-
tice.is maintained;- without which men would run
from their wives and children* to the diffolution oí
families or inheritances.
R, C. Well1, and what did ibe fay to al* this?
W. A* Sir, we began our cii-icourfe in the follow-
ing: mariner, which I ill a II exaétly repeat, if you
•think it worth your while to honour it with youï at-
tention
77«? DIALOGUE between Will Atkins and his Wife
in the zvoüä*
Wife ,'% OY tell me marriage God appoint ; have-
Ji ycu God in your country?
 A. Yes, child, God,; is in every nation.
Wife, No^ grant old Benamuckte gold is in my
country,, not yours.
W* A. My dear, God is in heaven, which he
made, he alio made the earth, the its,-and all that u*
therein,,
Wife. Why you not tell me much long ago?
W. A. My dearr I have been a wicked wretch,
having a long ti:me lived without the knowledge of
God in the world.
Wife* What,- not know great God in own na-
tion? No, no good ting? No lay  to him? that's
ft range?
W\ A, But, my dear, many live as if there was
no*God in heaven for aibthat*-
Wife. Why God fu'ffer this; why makee nol live
well?
W. A* It is our own faults, child.
Wife* But, if he much great, can makee kill, v^hy
no makee kill when no ferve him? No be gcod mans,
no cry O ta him?
W. A. That's true, my dear, he may ftrike us
dead, but his abundant mercy fpareth us.
Wife. Did not you tell God tankee for that ?•
W. A. No, I h tve neither thanked him-for' his
mercy, nor feared him for his power.
Wife. Then me not believe your God be good5
nor makee kill, when you makee him angry.
W* A, Alas Ï mutt my wicked life hinder you from
believing in him?
Wife. How can me tink your God live there?
{pointing to heaven.) Sure he no ken what you
do here.
W. A. Yes, yes, my dear, he hears as ipeak,
fees what we do, and knows what we even think.
Wife. Where then makee power ftrong, when
hears yöu eurfe, fwear de great damn?
W. A. My dear, this mews he is indeed a God,
and not a man, who has fuch tender mercy?
Wife. Mercy! what you call mercy ?..
W, A. He pities and fpares us: As he is our great
Creator, fo he is alfo our tender Father.'
Wife. So God never angry, never kill wicked \
then he no good, no great mighty.
W. ,  my dear, don't fay fo, he is both; and
many times he (hews"terrible examples oí his judge-
ment and vengeance.
Wife. Then you make de bargain with him; you
do b)d ting, he no hurt you he hurt other mans.
. W* A. No indeed, my fins are ail prefumtioas
upon his goodnefs.
Wife. Well, and yet no makee you dead? and
you give him no tank.ee neither?
, W. A. 'Tis true, I am a immigrate ful, unthankful
dog, that I am..
Wife, Why, you-fay,.-he naakee you, why 
you tio much better then?
W. A. 'Tis 1 alone that have deformed myfeif,
and abufed his good nefs.
Wife. What you put down knee, for? For to hat
hold up hand? Who you fpeak to?
W. A. My dear, 1 bowed in token of fubmiffion
to him that made me, and prayed that he would
open your eyes and und'erftanding.
Wife. And can he do that too V And will he hear
what you fay?
W. A* Yes, niy dear, he bids us pray, and has
given us promile that he will hear us.
Wife., When did he bid yon pray? What, do you
hear him (peak?
W. A. No, my dear, but God has fpoken for-
merly to good men from heaven; And by divine
revelation they have written all his laws down in a
book.
Wife.  where dat good book?
W. A. I have it not now by roe: but one time
or other I ihall get it for you te read.'
Wife. Pray tel i a mee, did God teachee them to
write that book* ,
W. A, Yes, and by that rule we know him to
be God.
Wife. What way, what rule you know him?
W. A. Beca ufe he teaches what is good, juft, and
hójy; and forbids ail wicked arid abominable aéüoris
that incur his dUpleafure,
Wife.  me fain underAand that, and if he do all
things you fay he do, furely he hear me fay  to
him; he makee,me good if I wifh to be good; he
no kill me if 1 love him; me link, believe him
great God; rae fay Oto him, along with you, my
dear.
Here the poor man fell upon his knees, and made
her kneel down by him, praying with the gveatefi
fervency that God by his piovideace would (end
'them a Bible for their inftruc'tions.
Such a Jurprifing account as this was proved very
afteclingto us both, but particularly to the young
..clergyman, who was mightily concerned he could
not talk to her himlelf: Sir, laid he, there is fome-
thing more to be done to this woman than to marry her: I
mean> that Jhe ought to he baptized. To this I p:e ent-
iy agreed; Pray, (aid-he again, aß her Itußuud, iahe-
ther he has ever talced to her of Je jus Chrijt, the ful ca-
tion of Jhiners, the nature of fallí 1, and redemption in and
by him, of the holy fpirit, the rejurretiion, lajfjudgements
.and a future ¡late: Uut the poor fellow incited in 10
tears at this queilion, faying, that he had laid fome-
thing to her of thefe things, but his inability to
•talk of them, made him afraid lefl her knowledge of
them ihould rather make her contemn religion than
be benefited by if: But that if 1 wowld üifcourfe
with her, it would be very evident my labour would
not be in vain. Accordingly Í called her in, and
placing myfelf as interpreter between the religious
prieft and the woman, I entreated him to go on:
but furely never was fuch a iermcn preached by any
clergyman in thefe latter ddys, with fo much zcai,
knowledge, and hnceiUy. In ihort, he brought
the woman to embrace the knowledge of Chnit,
and of redemption by him, with fo iurpiihng a de-
gree of underilanding, that hhe made it her own rt~
q lieft to be baptized. He then performed the office
of baptifm, in a devout and folemn manner, and I
(js being her godfather) gave her the name of Ma-
ty. Thus the woman being made a Chinitian, he-
married her to Will Atkins, whom he affectionately
exhorted to lead a holy life in future.
1 he aflairs of the iiland being fettled, Í was pre-
paring to go on board, when the young man (whole:
mother was ftarved) came to me, faying, that as
he underftood i had a clergyman with me, who had
manied the Engliihmen with lavages, he had a
match to make between two Uirihian?, whi;h h-
defired might be hmihed before 1 deputed. Think-
ing that it was he liímí'elf tha: had courted 1 v:v»-
ther's maid, i perfuaded hira not to do any thing-
rafhly upon tl\e account of his folitary circumftan^
ces: th \t the maid was an unequal match for him,,
;both in reipect to fubltance and years .; and that i<t
was very probable he would live to .return to his
own country, where he might have a far -.better
choice. At thefe words, imiling, he interrupted
., thanked me for my good advice; t hat as he had
nothing to beg of me but a fmall feulement, with
a íervant or two* orfomefew neceíTaries, fo hoped
Í would not be unmindful of him when I returned
bonne, but give his letters to .his relations; and .that
when he was redeemed, the plantation and all its
improvements* however valuable, fhould be return^
 to me again. But as for the marriage he propo^
íed; that it was not himfel.f, but that it was between
my jack of all trades, and the maidSufan.
í was indeed agreeably furprifed at the mention-
ing this match, which feemed very fuitable, the one
being a very ingenious fellow* and the other an ex-
cellents dexterous, and feniible houfe-wifey fit to
be gov eme i"s of the whole iiland: So we married
.chem the fame day, and as ï was her father, and gave
her away, fo I gave her a handfome portion, ap*
pointing her and her bufband a convenient large f'pace
of ground for their plantation. The fliaring out of
the land I left likewiie to Will Atkins, who readily
divided it very juftly, to every perfo.n's fati'sfa£tion.
"they only defired one general writing under my
Ibxnà for the whole, which I cauíed to be drawn up^
tinned snd fealed to them, fetting out their bounds,
-and giving them a right to the whole poHeiïion of
their refpeétive plantations, with their improvements
to them and their heirs, referving all the reft of the
iiund as my own property, and a eertain rent for
fvery plantation after eleven years. As to their
biws'aná government, 1 exhorted them to love one
another. And ¿is to the Indians, who lived in a
nook by themfelves, I alloted three or four of them
píiaiiMÚobs, and the reft willingly c.bofe to become
íervants to the other families, by which mentis they
were employed in ufeful Lbour, and fared much
better than they did before. Beiidrs, the fav.»ges be-
ing thus mixed with the Chriftians, the work of their
converfion might be fet on foot by the harter, in the
clergyman's , to our equal farisfa&ion. The
youngprieir, however, was a little anxious left the
Chriiïuns fhouîd not he willing to Inííruóí íhoíe poor'
ímíi'ans; I therefore told him, we mould call them
together, and m-.ike them prom ire never to make
any diftinc~liorf- in religion, but teach the general
true knowledge of God and his Son Jeftis Cnriir,-in
order to convert the poof favagès: And:-this indeed
they all promoted us accordingly.
When I came to Will Atkinis's houfe, Í found &
baptized wife,, and the young woman newly married
îo my Jack of all- trade«^ were become great in i-
tîntes, and difcour-llng of religion together. Ubirt
faid Will Atkins, when God" has finners to reconcile
to himfelf, he never wants an inft ruptor: I know 1.
was unworthy of fo good a work, and therefore thic>
young woman- has been tent hither, as it were frour
fteaven, who is fuiHcient to convert a whole iilandof
fa vages. The young woman bluibed, and was go-
ing to rife, but I defired her to"• fit ÜiII,. and hoped-
God would hlefs her in fo good work: And then pul-
ling out a Bible, here, Atkins, faid I, here is an
Mant that perhaps you had not before; ,8 confound-
ed was the poor man, that it was ibmetime before
he could fpeak -> at làft, turning to His wife, My dear,
faid he, did I-not toll you that God could hear what
we faid? Here's the book 1 prayed for, God heard
Hs, and'hasfent it. The woman was fwprifed, and
thought reàUy God had fent that individual book
from heaven \yui I aimed fo the young woman,
and deiired be* to explain to the new convert, that
Gód may properly  (aid tov artfwer out petitions,.*
^vhen, in tbp courte of His Providence, îugIï partiojj^
lar things carne tö pafs as we petitioned ioiv
After feveral religious difcpurfe?, J defired her to
give me an aceount of the anguiíh ihe felt when ibe
'was itarving to death for hunger: to which lhe rea-
t'ily confented, and began in the following manner:
AV, {aid ihe, all otír victuals being gone, after I had
fajled one day, my flomach was veryfickijh, and, at the
approach of night, I was inclined to yawning, and Jlecpy.
When Ijlept upon the couch three hours, I awaked a little
refreßied; Three hours after, my ß  ach being more,and
 Jk'ñjli, 1 lay, down again, but could notße/p, being
very faint and ill. Thus paß the fécond day with Jlrange
variety, frjt hungry, then fick again, zmth reaching* to
vomit: That night I dreamt I ivas at Barbadoes, buying
plenty of provisions, . and dined heartily. But whin I
awaked, myfpirits  ere exceedingly funk, to find my [elf
in the extremity of famine. 4 here was but one glafs of
 wine, which being mixed with fugar, I drank up; but for
want of fubflance to digefl upon, the fumes of it got into
7ny hfad, and made me fen [clefs for fome time. 7 he third '
day 1 was fo ravenous and furious, that 1 could have eaten
a little child, if it had come in my -way; during which
time I was as mad as. any creature in Bedlam-. In one of
thefe fits I fell down, andßruck my face againß the cor-
ner of a pallet bed, where my mißrefs lay: "the blood
guflied out of my nofe, but by my exceßve bleeding, both
the violence of the fever, and the ravenous part of the
hunger abated. . Jf ter this J grew fick again, ßrove to
vomit, but could not; then bleeding again, 1 fwooned
civ  as dead: when I came to myfclf, I had a dreadful
gnawning pain in my ßomach, which -xvent off towards
mght; with a longing defire for- food. I toök a draught
- of water and fugar, but ir camTup-again, afterwards I
drank zvater xvit'hout fugar^an'd Wat Jlmft with me. J laid
me down on the bed;  praying Gcfd  iàbe: me away ;%
arter I hadßumbered, 1 thought irfyfüf«-a-dying, there*
fore recommended my foul to God, , and wißn d fomebody
would throxo) 7* into the fea. All this time my dying mïs-
trefs lay by me; the laß bit of breadßiehadße gave it to.
her child, my young maßer* The morning after., I fell
-nto a violent paßon of crying,, and after that into .hunger,
At night I had the ufual variations, as pain in theßomach, >
Jick, jlcepy, and ravenous; and thought that 1fiould die
before morning; 7he morning after brought on terrible
gripings in my bowels* At this time I underJobd my mis-
tt-efs was dead! Soon after the Jailors cried, a-Jail! a Jdil!
hallowing as ij they were dißratledT.Jor joy of that relief
fahich we afterwards received from your hands, 
'Surely never was a more diftinéi account of fíar-
Ving to death than this. But, to return to the dif-
pófitíon of things amongniy people, I did not take
any notice to them of the floop,^ that I had framed, >
neither would I Jeave therri the two pieces1 of brafs
cannon, or the two quarter deck guns that: 1 had on 1
board, jeu,, lápon any diigufl, they fhould have
Separated, or turned pirates, and io made the i Hand-
a den of thieves, initead of a plantation of:fober
pious people: But leaving them in a flourishing'
condition, with a promife to fend them further re-
lief from Brafil, as íheep¿ hogs, and cov/s, (being''
obliged to kill th<r latter at iea, having no hay to'
Teed them )l 1 virent on board the ihip a gain 9 the hr ft
of May r695 after having been twenty days among
them: And next morning,- giving them a falute of
five guns at parting, we fet fail for the Brafib. The
third'day, towards evening, there happened a oalrru
and the current being very ftrong, we were'drove'
'îq the N¿ N.-E.-towards the-land.' Some hours
after we percei ved t he - fea covered as it were wi th
ío irret hing very black, not ea-fily at rirft to be d i (co-
vered Upon - which our chief mate afcending ithe
fhrouds a little way, and taking a view 17'i.ih a-per-
fpeclive gla% he- cries out, An army? an army f:
You fool,, faid- i7 what do you -mean? Nay, Sir*
Uiâ he, don't be angry,, 1 affure you- 'tis not only
an army, but\a fket too; for I believe there ait a •
ihoufand canoes paddling along,-and- making with"-
great hafte towards us.
Indeed, every one of us we>e'íuTpíi'fed4at this re-
lation; and my. nephew the captain could not tell ^
what to think of it, but thought we• (hbuhi'allb&•
~v 1' "'
devoured. Nor was I free from concern, when I
con fid er ed how much we were becalmed, and what
a -ft ron g current (et towards the íhore; Howeverl
encouraged him not to be afraid, but bring the fhip
to an anchor, as foon as we wtie certain that we
muft engage them. Accordingly we did io, and
furled all our fails: As to the lavages, we feared
nothing, but only that they might let the fhip on
fire, to prevent which, I ordered them to get their
boats out, and fallen them, one clofe by the head and
the other by the fterri, well manned, with fkeets and
buckets to extinguifh the flames, mould it fo happen.
1 he lavages foon came up with us, but there were
not fo many, as the mate had (aid; for initead of a
thou fand canoes, there v.ere only one hundred and
twenty; two many indeed for us, feveral of them
containing fixteen or feventeen men.
• As they approached us, they feemed .to be in the
the greateft amazement, not knowing what to make
of us. They, rowed round the mip, which occafi-
oned us to ca'l to the men in the bou?, not to iufrer
them tocóme near. Hereupon they beckoned to the
'favag.es to keep back, which, they accordingly did;
but at their retreat they let fly about fifty arrows at
us, and very much wounded one of our men in the
long-boat. I called to them not to fire upon any ac-
count, but handing them down fome deal boards, the
4 carpenters made them a kind of fence to fhisld them
from the arrows. In half an hour after, they came
io near a-iiein of. us, that we had a perfect light of
them ; then they rowed a little farther out, till they
came directly along fide of us, and then approached
fo near that they could hear us fpeak. This made
me order all our men to keep clofe,: and get their
guns ready* In the mean time, I ordered Friday
to go out upon deck, and afk them in hi* language
what they meant. No fooner did h%> do fo, but fix
of the favages, {looping down, fhewed us their na-
ked backfides, as much as to fay in Enghih,  i is
our ;but Friday quickly knew what this meant,
by immediately crying out they were going to {boot;
unfortunately for him, poor creature! who fell un-
der the cloud, of three hundred arrows, no iefs than
fcvc.n piercing through his body, killing one of the
Left.of fervants, and faithfulieii of companions in
all my folitudcs and affliction?.
So enraged was 1 at the death of poor Friday,
that the guns, which before were charged only
with powder, to frighten them, 1 oidered now to be
loaded with (mall (hot; nor did the gunners fail in
their aim, but at this, broad fide fplit and overiet
thirteen or fourteen of their canoes, which killed a
number of them, and fet the reft a fwimming; the
other frighted out of their wits, little regarding
their fellows drowning, fcoured away as fail as they
could. One poor wretch our people took up, fwim-
ming for his bfe, an hour after. He was very fül-
len at firfr, lo that he would neither eat nor /peak:
But 1 took a way to cure him, by ordering them to
throw'him into the fea again, which they did, and
then he came fwimming baC;< like a cork, calling in
his tongue, as I fuppofe, to fave him. So we took
him on board, but it was a very long time before We
could make him fpeak or under/rand En.glifb; yet
when we had taught him,; he told us they were go-
ing w/ith their kings to fight a great battle: And on
being'aiked, what made them come up to us? he re-
plied, to make de great wander look.
Being now under fail, we took our Jaft farewel of
hon  ft Friday, and interred him with all poffible de*
cency and iblemnity: putting him into a coffin and
committing him to the deep, firing eleven guns for
him. Thus ended the life of hon eft Friday.
Having now a fair wind for Brafils, in about ten
days time we made land in the latitude of five de-
grees fo.uth of the line. Four days we kept on S.
by £. in fight of ihore, when we made cape St. Au-
guftine, and in three days we came to an anch®r off
*he bay of All S.unts. J had great difficulty here
to get leave to bold correfpoidence on íhore ¿ for
tïeiftier therfigfLvt* of my partner^  two merchant*
t Hüft  ^ ït&r the farrte of'myfo'ôrtdeiful preíerva^cftv
in the iílaftd,*eouklv procure me the favour, till fncft
'time as the prior of tbe rowaíkryofthfr AuguftiiW,,
(to .whom [ giv*en 500 moidores)*èBta<iried leav^
fro av the govern orrfof me pgrfbn'a*lVy, vHth the Cap*
tain and enamore, together with eight\(aiLois, to
oômz pn fhorej upon "this co^dition^th'at^we fhóuíd'
Bot tend any goods.ont of the fhip,' or oarty any per*-
fyr¿ tywùf wnhdut licence» I;found* trteans, how*.-
ever to gffbcm lb ore ¿hrée'jbates of JSnglííh goods',,
fmb as fhid' 'broad,s5c1btfK8^ftii'jß,. aM fomë^ lkien^.
whiGh Lbiotäghü as a> preíefli. for ! riannéiy vi lVo -
hrf fent me' bn1 boa¡rd a* preffefrt öfrfrein^p'rjôvifibi'é, 
wine, and f^ein^arô, Wort^h^b'<^f thirty'ilaoiclores,,
; fbraê tbbaccoV aníd- tbrée oHour fine golá
irtedüls.* '' -t ' ' *
Here J-deMvcsreif ix&my partner good*s ío'tlíe Valué*
of îboii ikeïUng, awl obliged' hïin t6 fit' up tfie'lloo^-
ííbougbt, for the u»íe of my ifland',. in bréerto 
rtiet^'riofr.eíhments. Aiíd ;(b aáliVe w#élh® iivtfeis«
tfiaítter,^ t<hat he had''the veflel finifhe'd iijua ft*w days,,.
t#4he*niM^<j£ v^Ich* I 'gatfe-'patfiCohH* infíruftiórri
toifin**hçapÎa<^y'ÉMaoni íftided hi'rri   fmäll«
Wgo*,' órttf'oí «o«r fuil6F#;oíftr¡ed íícHeuJ'e.fiferéf,
üpOTirtiy-lötte^io Úfo S^áWh goverAo^-:if I ^oüfcjb
afoot- - pl-imtatirôm <'$' !t' vhi-Jingly,
granted^, and" gave hittvthe' lavage we had^ta^en pYil-
îori^tîo'»^ fkvfe» Albíhings-'beirig reatly for
,< v&Y&$%,'mf oíd pt>ftn<*rt0id me, tdbêfe w\ê an,
krty^é>Mn0e' oí' Wi$r # ^tafil'p.Mbtèri' wbc^' having-
11»1-^ dilpíeatee of OVe'irvjcríflfíérr, which'
obliged-{h hft.to be; c&ncealW/WbtMcTbé $ of' fucft
^^>1,4^ wtfeaodk'
^wo^Â^gÎUfefç^îi'né'if f wouM allow Mnv a planta^
' inMny! iftanct* hc^would allovv 'biW-a (malí ftocfe
to belfry wit<h, fot that the* officers IVad tecHbhi^ of-
faSbs-aml eftate^and'left hint  hJi i\£ birt' »/4li ft lé
teurfbould ftuff, arid wtofUves;>  irecjuefW pre*-
board our fiiip, till fuch time as the iloop ( where all
the effects were) wus gone out of the bay, and then
we put them on board, who carried  materials,
and plants for planting fugat Manes along with them*
Jîy this iloop, among other things, 1 fent my fubjefts
3 miik cows, and 5 calves, about 22 hogs, 3 fows big
with pig, two mares and a ftone-horle* I alio en-
gaged three Pommai women to go for the fake of the
bp^niards, which, with the perfecuted man's two
daughters, were (ufficient, fince the reft had wives
of their own, though in another country : Ail which
cargo arrived fafe, no doubt, to their exceeding com-
fort, who, with this addition, wtie about fixty or fc-
venty people, be fides children.
At this place my truly honeft and pious clergyman
left me for a fhip being icady to fct iail for Lifbun,
he aiked me leave tp go - thither; * but 1 aflure you,
it was vtith the greateft reluctance I parted from
a perfon, whoie virtue and piety mi rued the greateft
cftecm.
From the Brafils we made dheclly ovcr the Atlan-
tic ocean to the Cape of Good Hope, having a to-
lerable pood voyage, fteeiing for the m  ft part S» E«
We were on a trading voyage, and had a iupercargo
on board, who was to direct all the ih-ip's motions
after (he arrived at the Cape onlybeing limited to
a certain number of days, or ft ay., by charter-party,
at the ieveral ports, fhe was to go. At the Cape ive
only took in frcih water, and. then failed for the coaft
of Corocnandel: We were there informed-; that a
French man of war oí 50 guns, and two large mer-
chant íhips, viere failfcd lor the indies, but we heard
  more of them. .  ,
So curious was-I to view every corner of the
world, where I.camatlo*,t.but,l went on (höre as often
as I could* One* cvcifiog,. when on ihore, we ob-
served numbers of people ftanding .gazing at us at a
diftance. We thought ourfelves in no clanger, as
they had hitherto ufed. us -kindly,. • However, we cut
three boughs out of a tree, fticking them at a dif-
tance from u?, which, it feems, in that country, il
irot only a token ,of truce and amity, but when poles
e'f^beüghs are'fettnp on the other fide, it is a figiv
the truce is accepted. In thefe treaties,, however9-
thene is one principal thing to- be regarded, chat nei-
ther party, come beyond one another's thiee polss or
boughs :; fry that the middle fpace is not only fecure,
but.ïs alio allowed as a market for traffic and com^
merce Whert'the^mce is thus accepted, they flick
tip the'W javelins and lances at the fir-'ft poles, and-
rohte in -un^rhed r but if any violence is offered,,
-wáy they run to their poles, take up their weapons,
*1 then the truce is at an end* 'Ihis evening it hap-<
pened that a greater number of peopb than ui'ual
both men and women, traded among us for inch-toys
ué we bad, with luch great civility, that we made us
ft littJe töiifc of liti ge boughs of trees,, fomc of the men
íeíblvmg to; lie on the ihorfc ali night. But, for my
part, ! atëd fomè others took ©ur lodging in the boat,
with boughs of trees, fpread over it, having a iaii
4 at the bóttbrh to lie upon. About two o'clock
in the morning,, we were awakened by the firing oí
nHiífccfs, und our men crying out for help, or elfe
tkfy would all be nnwHlerôd# Scarce had we time to
get!the boat öw ihoVe, whew our men came plunging
Siemfeiv^s into thé waiter, with ' about four hundred
of the iflaflders at their heels. We took tip feven of
fhe' merf,. threè of thqm very much wounded, and left
fine* b<*toind tóiied4, while-the enemy poured their ar-
rows fo thick amoftg lis, that we were forced to mako
a barricade,, wirh boaids lying 'Ht the fide boat, to
ib'teid  fàiïm dagger: Aftd having got ready ouft
iire.-armsf. we returned them a volley, which
wouded fev*eral of them,, äs we could he^r by theis*
cries. In this*coition we lay till bres;k of day, and
then making .figrtab of diiVtefs to the {hip, which my
nephew the: captain heat arid üticterüood^he weighed
ärtchtö* &né ñboá' a»1 near thé (höre; as , n*l
fhei) Tent ariöthef boats with ten hands in her to alTifb
a*-;, but we called to thcm. tiOtito com* near, î»fo*&-
sngthem of qui* unhappy condition. However, they
ventured: when one of the mc'J taking the end of a
tow line in his one hand, and keeping our bo.it be-
tween him and our adverfaries, fwam on board us*
and made faft our line to the boat; upon this, flip-
ping our cables, they towed us out of the reach of
their arrows* and quickly after, a bioadfide was given,
them from the íhip, which made  moil dread fuj ha-
voc  among them. When we got on board,, we ex-
amined into the occaiion of this fray ¿ the men who
íied informed us, that an old woman who fold milk
within the poles, had brought a young woman with
¿1er, who carried roots or herbs, the fight of whom fa
•much tempted our men,, that they offered rudenefs to
the maid, at which the old woman fet upa great cry;
 would the Jailors part with the prbse, but car-
ried her among the trees., while the old. woman went
and brought a whole army down upom them. At the
'beginning of the attack one of Our men was killed
with a lauce0 and the fellow, who begun the mil-
.chief, paid dear enough for his raiikefs, though, as
yet we did not know what had become of him ¿ the
£tik luckily eleaped.
The third night after the action, being curious
to underftand how affairs ftood, I took the ilipercar-
go, and twenty Août fellows with me, and landed
about two hours before midnight, at the fame place
where thofe Indians ftood the night before, and
•there we divided our men into two bodies., the boat-
iwahi commanding one, and I another. It was fo
dark, tli it we could fee nobody, neither did we
hear any voice near us; But by and by the boat-
swain falling over a dead body, we agreed te> halt
•till the moon (hould rife, which we knew would be
hi an hour after,. We perceived here no kwtiMhari
tvv'o and thirty bodies upon, che ground, whereof
two were not quite dead. Satisfied with tbisdi(co-
very, i was for going on board again ; but the boat-
f.va-in and the red told me, they would make a viiit
$o the Judian town, where tfe.oied.ogs, i<*they called
them* refided aiki'ng me'at the fame time to go along
with them; for they did not doubt, befides getting
a good booty, but they ibould find Tom Jeffrey
there, for th'át was the unhappy man we miffed.
But Í utterly vefufed to go,'arid commanded them
back, being unwilling to hazard their lives, as the
fafety of the fhip wholly depended upon them.
Notwithstanding all 1 could fay. to them, they all
left me but one, and the fupercargo: So we three
returned to'the boat, where a boy was left, revolving
to flay till they returned*- At parting,  told them
I fuppofed moil of them would fhave the fame fate
with Torn Jeffery, To this they replied, Come,
boys, come along we'll warrant we'll come off fafe
enough: And fo away they went, notwithstanding
ail my admonitions, either concerning their own
fafety; or the prefervation of the Ihip, Indeed,
they were well armed, every man having a rnuiket,
bayonet, and a' piftol, belîdes cutlaiïes, hangers,
pole axes, and hand granades. They came to a few
Indian houfesat firil, which not being the town they
expected, they went, farther, and finding a cow tie'd
to a tree, they concluded that {fie would be a fumV-
dent guide, and  it proved ; for after they untied
her, fhe led them diteeliy to the town, which con-
fided of above two hundred houfe?^ lèverai families
living in iome of the huts together. At their ai-
rival, all being in a profound ileep, the failors agreed
to divide themfelves into three bodies, and fet three
parts of the town on fire at once, to kill thofe that
were efcaping, and plunder the reft of the houfes.
Thus defperately reiolved-they went to work -, but
the firft party had not gone far, befoie they called
out to the reft, that they had found Tom Jeffreys;
whereupon they all ran up to the place, and found
the poor feilow indeed hanging up naked by one arm,
and his throat cut almoft from earto ear: In a houfe
that was hard by the tree they found fixteen or fe-
venteen Indians, who had been concerned in the
fray, two or thxee of them being, wounded, who ha J'
not gone to deep; this houfe they fet cn fire itrft.;
and in a few minutes after, five or fix places more in
the town appeared in flames* The conflagration
fpread like-wild fire, theirhouies being ail of woodg
and covered with ^ftags or ruihes. The poor af-
frighted inhabitants endeavoured to run out to favç
their livesj but they were driven back into thç
flames by the favors, and killed without mercy*
At the firft houfe above-mentioned, after the boat-
fwain had flain two'with his pole-axe, he threw a
hand-granade into the houfe, which, burfting, made
a terrible havock, feilling and wounding moft of
them; and their-king and moft of his .train, who
were then in that houfe, 'fell viétims to their fury,
every creature of them either being'fmotheired 
burnt. All this while they never fired a-jgun, left:
the people mould awaken fafter than they çouîd
overpower them. But the fire awakened them fail
enough, which ob'iged our fellows to keep together
in bodies. By this time the whole town was in s
flame, yet their fury rather jncreafed, calling^uit\t<a
one another to remember Tomjeffiey. The terri-
ble light of this conflagration made me very uneafy>
and roufed my nephew the captain., and the reft of
his men, who knew nothing of the matter.. When
he perceived the dreadful imoke, and heard thç
•guns go off, he readily concluded his men were in
iLmger; he therefore took another boat, and comes
afhore himfelf, with thirteen men well armed, 'He
was greatly-furpri fed to lee me and only two -mes*
in the boat, but more fo when-I told him the 
•but though I argued with him., as J did with-his men*
about the danger of the voyage, the intercfts of the
TKercivlnts and owners,, and the fa-fet  of the (hip,
yet my nephew, like the reit declared., f-hat he
would rathpr lefe the íhip, hb voyage, his lvfe, and
nil, (han his men fhould be loft for wane of help*
And fo away he went. For my part, feeing "him
refolved to go, 1 had not power to (lay behind. $<#
•ih.en we marched directly .as the flame gu¡ided*u?*
z
The firft objeft, I think, we met with,;was the ~
 ruins of one of their habitations, before which lay
.four men and three women killed, and two more
< burnt jto death among the fire, which was now de-
, cayimg. Nothing could appear more barbarous than
this revenge: None more .cruel than the authors of
it. As we v^ent on,;the fireincreafed, and the cry
proceeded in proportion. We had not gone^much
-farther, when we beheld three naked .women, fol-
lowed by fixteen or fevent^en men, flying with the
greateft fwiftnefs from, our (men,( who fhot one of
them in our fight. When they perceived us, whom
they fuppofed alfo'their'murderers, they let up a
moft dreadful ihriek,, and both of ihem fwooned
away. ;This was a hghtjwhieh might have foftened
the hardeil hearts; and in pity we.t ípme ways
• let them know we would not , them, while
the poor creatures, with bended knees.¿-and lift up
hands, made pite-om lamentations to us to fave
.their lives. I ordered our men not to hurt any of
the poor creatures whatloever y but being willing to
vmderiland the occafion of all this, I went among
:thefe unhappy wretches, who neither uwderilood
me, noc the good I meant them. However, being
lefolved to put an end to this barbarity, I ordered
,tne men to follow me. We had not gone fifty
.yards before we came up with the boatfwain, with
lour of our men-at his heels all of them covered
with-blood and duhVand in fearctbof more people
 fatiate their vengeance. As torn as we law them
we called out, and made them unclerûand who we
-were; upon which they came up to u«, letting up
a halloo of triumph, that more help was. come,
Noble captain, faid he to my nephew, I am glad
.you are come; We have not half done with theie
.villainous hell hound dogs; we willrout out the very
.nation of them from the earth, and kill more th/.n
•poor Tom has hairs upon his head: And thus he
went on till I interrupted him. Blood-thirfty dog/
¡íaid I? will you,r.cruelty never end! flop your hands
and ftland ftiil> or you are a dead man' this moment.
Why, Sir, faid he, you neither know whom you
are protecting, or what they have done; but pray^
come hither, and behold an inftance of companion,
if iuch can meiit your clemency; and with that he
{hewed rae the poor fellow with his throat cut, hung
upon a tree,
Indeed here Was enough to fill their breafts with
i*age, which however I thought had gone too far.—;"
But this fight made my nephew and the reft as bad'
as themfelves; nay,-my nephew declared, his only
concern was for his men; as for the people not one
of them ought to live. Upon which the boatfwain
and eight more turned about to finiih the intended
tragedy; which being out of my power to prevent,
I turned back both from the diimal fight, and the
pjteous cries.of thoie unfortunate aeatures, who1
were made victims to their fury. Indeed it was rnoft'
egregious folly in me to attempt to return to the
boat with but one attendant. When I had got to
the boat, the fire was almoft extmguiihed, and the
noife was abitéd; therefore I went on board along
with the fupercargoe; I had fcarce been on board
the (hip half an hour, when l heard another volley
gi ven by our failors, and-a great imoke, which, as I
afterwards found, was our men falling upon thofe
houfes and perfons that (rood between them and the
fea. ßut here they fpared the wives and children*
and killed only the men, to the number of fixteen
or feventeen. By the time they got to the (höre,
the pmnance and fhip's boat were ready to receive
them, and they all got fafe on board, not a man of
them having received the leaft hurt, excerpt two, one
of thein ftfained his foot, and the other burnt his
hand a little; for they met with no refiftance, the
poor Indians being unprepared. - ¿
While we were under fail, the-boatfwain would:
often defend this- bloody aclipn, by faying, that the
Indians had 'broken the tru cè the nigtjj: before, by"
{hooting .one of our men without provocation t -a«d--
though* the poor fellow had * taken a little liberty -
with the wench, he ought not to have been murder-
ed iivfo villainous aaîianner: And that they had ac-
ted nothing, but what the divine laws commiflionect
to be done to fuch homicide?» However, I was in>
the fame mind as before,, telling, them that they were-
murderets, and bid them depend upon it, that God
would, blaft theii voyage fox fuch unparalleled bar-
barity.
When we came into the gulf of Perfia, five of.
our men, who ventured on Chore, were either killed-
or made llaves by the Arabians, the reft ©f them-
having fcarce time t-o efcape to their boat. This in-
duced me to upbraid them afte-fh with the juft re*
tribution of Heaven for fuch actions. Upon which
she boatfwain very warmly aiked me, whether.thofe
men on whom the tower of SUoam fell were greater
iinners than the re& of the Galileans: and beftdes,,
Sir, faid he,.none of thçie five poor men were with
vss at the maffacre of Madagafcar, as you call it %.
and therefore your application is. unjuft and impro-
per. Befides,. added he.,, you are continually ufing
the.men very ill, upon this account, and being but
a paflenger- youvfelf^; we are not obliged to bear it;
nor can we TeU'what ill defignsyou may have to bring
us to judgement for it in England .;. and therefore, if
you do not-leave this difcourie,. as alio not concern
yourfeif with any of our affairs, will leave the
íhip, and not fail among fuch dangerous company*
AH this I heard'very patiently but it being re-l
peated, I at length told him^the concern 1 had on?
board was none of his bufmefs; that 1 was a consi-
derable-owner in. the ihip9„.and therefore-had a right
ro fpsak in common, ..and that 1 was no way ac-
countable* to hici, npr. any, body elfe,. As no more
paifed for fome time after, i thought all. had been
over. At-this time we were in the road of. Bengal,
where going on fhore with the fupercargoe one. day,
})\ the evening.as I was preparing to on board, one
of the menéame to me* and. told, me,, i need not
tfouble myfelf to come to the boat, for that the men
had ordered him not to carry me on board any more.
This irifolent mefl'age much furprifed me ; yet i gave
no anfwer to it, but went directly and acquamed
the fupercargo, entreating hirn to go on board, and
by acquainting the captain with it, prevent the mu-
tiny which I perceived'would happen. But before I
had ipoken' thus, the matter was effected on board;
for 'no fooner was hé.gone off in the boat, but the
boatfwain, gunner, carpenter, and all the inferior
officers, came to the quarter-deck, defiring to fpeak
with the çaptain Y and there the boatfwain made a
long harangue, exclaiming againft me; as before
mentioned , that if I had not gone on more peace-
ably, they would have compelled me to it for their:
own fatisfa&ion, that as they had (hipped themfelves
with the captain, fo they would faithfully ferve him;
but if i did not quit the íbip, or the captain oblige
me to It, thé y would leave themip immediately, and
turning his face about by way of fignal, they all eried
out, one and all, one and all.
You may be fure that though m'y nephe.w was a
man of great courage, yet he could not but be fur-
prifed at their fudden and unexpected behaviour
And though'he talked ftoutty to them, and espcfiula-
ted with them, that, in common jufíice to me, they
could not turn me out of my own houie as it were»
which might bring their lives in danger, "fhould they
ever be taken in England. Nay, though "he invited
the boatfwain on fhore to accommodate matters with
me, yet ail this,- I fayr-fignified nothing :—Thev in-
filled upon' having nothing, to do with me, and were
re fol ved to go on (bore, if I Came on board. - WeU¿
faid my neyhew, if you are io refolveu, permit me
to talk with him, and theri I have done. • Arid fo he-
camelo nié, giving me an account of their resolu-
tion, for which he was "mightily concerned, i am
glad to fee you, nephew,; faid î7 and l juice it ifc no
Wor fe,- fi ne'e they have not rebelled againft 'you'" {
on) y defi-re you to fend my neceflaries on ftiore, wnh;
a fufficient fum öf xnoney, and I will find my way to
England as well as I can.. Though this grieved my
nephew tcKhe hearty yet there; was no remedy but.
compliance : all my neceffaries were, accordingly fent
me, and fo this, matter was over in. a few hours.
My nephew left me two perfons to attend me ; one-
of them was his own feiwant, and the other clerk to
the purfer, was engaged to be mine.. I took lodg-
ings in an Engliih woman's houfe, .where lèverai mer-
chants refuted*.. Xhe handforae entertainment I met
with here, occafioned me to ftay nine months, con-
fidering what. cpurfeJ fbould take. Some Engliih
goods I had with, me of great value, befidesa thou~
fand pieces of e;ghJt> and a, letter of credence for
more, if there was any fuch neceffity.. The. goods I
foon difpofed of to advantage, .and bought there fe~
Veral good diamonds,..which 1, could eafily take with .
me. One morning the Engliih merchant came to
rwe,..as being very intimate together, Countryman,.,
iaid he,. J have, a project .to communicate to you, and
I hope it will fuit both' our advantage.. To be.ihort,..
Sir, we are*.both in a remote part of the world from,
our country, b.ut\yet in. a place where men of bufi-
n-efs may get-a. great deal of,money.. Now, if you¿
will put a thouíand^ouT^ís to my thoufahd pounds^
we will hire a fhip. to ourv.faüsfaóUon; you fhall bë
captain, wilt be Vnercl'int, and we-11. go a trading,
voyage to China ;t for wny ihould.we lie likje drones^,
white the.whole world is in continual «motion.
This propofal foon got my. consent,., being very,
agreeable to ray ,r,am^: 4>g^ genius-; and thje. more fo?.
becaníe I looked, «upe . my. countryman- to.be a very
iinccre per fon t it retjirñíet) fame time before we could
get a veifel to our mind and fail ors to manit accord-
ingly - at length we bought a flnp,. and got an Eng-
liih mate? Jboatfwain, and.vgunne.r, a Dutch carpenter^.
and three PoUuguefs.fore-maft men ;„and* for want
of others, made .ihift withjndïan . Teamen. We firib
failed to A'chin, in the iiUnil of Sumatra, and.then to >
S.iarn, whercwe bartered our waie for fome arrack,;
and-opium, the laftof which bore a great price among
•the Chinefe ; in a word, we went up to Suikan, mak-
ing a very great voyage ; and after eight months tirner
1 returned to Bengal,.very well fatisfied with this ad-
yenture,,.having not^only got a^fufEcient quantity of
money, but an iniight of getting a great deaLmore;
The next voyage my friend propofed tome was to
go among,the Spice iflands, .and bring home a load o£
cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts, iilands be-
longing.parti y to Spain,,but where the Dutch trade
very confidcrably. We were not long preparing for
this voyage, which we made no lefs fuccefsfu) than
the laft, touching, at Bornea, and fevera 1 other places
which 1 do not perfectly remember, and returning
home in about five months. We loon fold our fpi-
ces,. which were chiefly cloves,, and ibme nutmegs,,
to the Perfian merchant.s5..who carried them away for
the gulf; and, in ihort?, making five to one advan-
tage* we were loaded with money*
Not long ^fier my friend and I had made u.p oup.
accountSj taour entire fa tis faction, there came in a
Dutch coafter from. Batavia, of about two hundreds
tons. 1 he crew of this veiFel pretended themfelves^
io fickly^that there were not hands fufficient to un-
dertake a voyage, and the/ captain., having given, out:
that he intended to g,o to Europe, public notice was
given that the.* {hip was to be ibid. No fooner did
this come to our ears,, but we bought the ihip, paid-
the inafler,.and took, pofleffion.. We would alfo ve-
ry willingly have entertained fome of-the-men: But
they haying received their mare of booty,.were not to
be found, bfiing».altogethether fied to Agra, the.great
city of the Mogul's relldence and from thence-were,
to travel to Surat, and fo by-.lea to the Perfian gulf* •
And indeed they had reaion to ñy in this manner :.:
for the truth of it was, the pretended captain.was the.
g.unner onlv?,.and not the commander: That, hav-
ing been on a trading».vuyage<) ..they were attacked on,
ihare.by^the Melayans, who killed three men and the:
capfain. ô - Aítex .whole. deaths the. other ekven -menu*
run away with ths> (hip to the bar of Bengal, and left
the ovate and five other mën on íhore, bat of this af-
fair we (hail have occafion to fpcak more at length
hereafter.
However they came by the fhip, we thought wfe
bought it honeftly: neither did we fufpecl any thing
of the matter; when the man flawed us a bill of fale
for the (hip,, , undoubtedly forged to one Emanuel
Clofterfhoven, which name he went by. And Í6
without any more to do, we picked up forrie Dutch
and Engliih feamen, refolving for another voyage for
cloves among the 'Phillippian Melaeca iflands: in
fhort we continued thus five or fix years, trading
from port to port with extraordinary fuccefs ;\in the
feverith year we undertook a voyage toChina, defign-
ing to touch at Siam, and buy fome rice by the way.
In this voyage contrary winds beat us up and down
fora considerable time among the iilands in the ftraits
of Malacca. No fooner were we clear of'thofe
rugged feas but we perceived our fhlp had fprung a
leak, which obliged us to put into the river Cam-
bodia, which lies northward of the gulf, and goes up
to Siam.
One day as I was on fhore refreshing myfelf, there
comes to me an Englishman, who was a gunner's
mate on board of an Engliih Eaft India (hip, riding
up the river, near the city of Cambodia; Sir,  id he
you may wonder, at my.bufmefs, having never feen
you in mv life; but though I am a ftranger, I have
fomething to tell you that very neaily concerns you:
and indeed it is the imminent danger you are in has
moved me 10 give you this timely notice. Danger!
(aid!, what danger? Í know of none, except my
Onp being leaky, for which 1 defign to have run her
aground to-morrow morning. Sir,, (aid1 he, I hope
you will be better employed, when you (hall hear
what I have to fay to you. You know the town of
Cambodioa is about fifteen leagues up this river:
About thtee leagues on this fide of it, there lies- two
Dutch and three Engliih (hips. And would you ven-
ture here, without confidering what ftrength you
have to engage them? I knew not what he meant by
this difcourfe, and turning ihort upon him, Sir, faid 1
I know no reafon Ï have to be afraid of any Engliih
or Dutch íliips. I am no interloper, and what bufi-
nefs have they then with me? Well Sir, faid the man,
if you do think yourfelf fecure, all as Í can fay, yoa
m.uft take your chance; however, I am very forry
you are fo deaf to good advice; but I affure you, if
you do not put to-fea immediately, you will be attack*
ed by long boats Full of men, hanged yourfelf for a
pirate, if you .arc taken, and the particulars examined
afterwards*- Sir, faid 1, I never was ungrateful to
any man: But pray explain yowrfelf, and I will g<*
on board this minute,, whether the leak be flopped
or no. Why, Sir, faid he, to be fhort, becaufe time
is precious, the matter is this ; you know well-enough
that you was with the, ihip at Sumatra, where youp-
captain-was murdered by the Malayans, with three of
his failörs, arid that either you, or fome who were on
board you, ran away with the ihip, and . are fince
turned pirates at fea. Now, Sir, this is the. fum ©£
what I had to fay. And 1 can . pofitively aiFure you,
that if you be taken-, you will be executed without
much ceremony; ior.undoubtedly you cannot but
be fenfible what little law merchants ihew to pirates,,
whenever they fall into their unmerciful hands.
Sir, faid I, I thank you for-your kind informa-
tion ; and though I no man could come more ho*
neftly by the fhip than I have done, yet knowing
their enterpriie, and being fatisfied of your honeii
intention, 1 will be upon my defence, jffalk not of
that faid the man, the beft defence . make is
to be out of danger: and therefore if you have any
regard to your iife, ,an.d the lives of your men, put
out to fea at high water, and you will be gone too
far out of their reach before they comedown,
i am mighty well fatisfied, faid I, in this parti-
cular, and of your kindnefs, which merits my ut-
mofteiteem,. pray, Sir,...what amends, (ball I make
you: He replied, on board of the EngHih fhips Í
Bave nineteen months pay due to me, and this man
tfàât is with; me käs feven months pay due to him,
which if you will make good to us We will go along^
With you.
So reasonable did this every way appear, that I im-
mediately confen ted, and we wentdirectly on board.
As foon as we eameon board, my partner calls joy-
fully out, that they had flopped the leak! Well,
thank God, (aid , but pray let us weigh ançhoï-
•forthwith* Weigh! /aid he, what is the meaning
of this hurry? Pray afk rio queflions, laid I, but
ail hands to work, without loiing a moment's time*
Upon which, in great furprife, the captain was cal-
ltd, who immediately ordered the anchor to be got-
úp; and though the tide was- not quite down, yet
being affifled with; a little land breeze we flood .out-
to fea. 1 then called my partner into the cabin, and
related the flory at large. Scarce had we finished
our difcourfe, upon this head, when a failor came
to the cabin door, with a meffage from the^aptain,
'that we' were chafed by five floops full of armed
raen. Very well, íaid Í, it is plain now there is
fonïething in it. And fo going upon deck, 1 told
the men there was adefign for feizing the fhip, and-
executing us for pirates; and aiked them whether or
net they would faithfully fiand by us? .To which
they unanimoufly replied, th^t they would fight to
their làft drop of blood. We now perceived the
boats following us with5 all the fail they could make,
and we found the two foremofl were Englrfh, and
would fociî be up with us. Hereupon we tired a
gun without ball, intimating that'they (hould bring
too, and we put a flag of truce out, as a iighal for'
parley: but finding them flill croudlng after us, we
imngout the red fing, and immediately hred at them
with ball, calling to them with a fpeaking trumput,
and deiiring them to keep off.
But all this fignified nothing: for depending on
the ftrength that followed them, they were refokitely.
bent for mifchief: Hereupon I refolved to bring to,;
by which means,, they laying upon our broadiide, we
let,fly.at them at once, one of whom carried away
the item of the hindermoft boat, and obliged them
not only to take down their fail, but made them all
run to the head of the boat to keep her from finking;
#nd fo fhe lay by¿ having eriough of it. In the mean
time we-prepared to'welcome the foremoft boat in
the fame manner. While we we're doing this, one of
the three hindermoft boats came up to the relief of
. that which was elifabled, and took the men out of
her. We again called to parley witja them -, butjn-
ftead of an anfwer one of the boats came clofe under
our ftern: whereupon our gunner let fly his two
chace guns, but miífing the men in the boat ihoutec},
and waving their caps, came on with great fury.—
The gunner, foon got ready, and firing again, did a
great:.4eal ;of mifchief among the enemy. We now
waved in turn, and bringing our quarter to bear
upon them, fired three guns more, when we found
the boat a^fmking, and lèverai men already in the
.fea ;hereu£>on manning our pinnace, I gave orders
.to fave as ma'ny as they could, and inftantly crome
on board, becaufe the reft of the boats were ap-
proaching; accordingly they did fo, and took up
three of them, one of whom was aimoft pail rece-
.very; and.then crowding all the fail we could, after
our men came on boatd, we flood out farther to fea,
fo that the other three boats gave over the chace,
when they came up with the fii'ft two. Thus deli-
vered from imminent danger, we changed our cour.fc
to the eaftward.'
Being.now at fea^ and inquiring more parricular-
Jy of the two feamen the meaning of all this, the
Dutchman, at once, let us into the fecret. He in-
formed us, that the fellow who fold the fbip, was
an arrant thief, who had r.un away with her; that*
the captain was treacheroufly murdered ota the coaft
of Malacca by the natives there, with three of his
men; that he,, the Dutchman., .and four more., be-
ing obliged to have recourfe to the woods for their
fafety, at length efcaped by means of a Dutch fbip,
in its way to China, which 'had fent their boat on
ihore for ffefh water; that after this he went to
Batavia, where two of the feamen belonging to the
fhip (who had deserted the  ft in theirtravels) ar-
rived, and there gave an account that the fellow who
ran away with the íhip, had fold her at 'Bengal, to a
fet of pirates, who went a cruifing, and had already
taken one Englifh and two Dutch (hips richly hden.
Now, though this was abfolutely falfe, yet con-
cerning us direéUy, my partner truly faid, that
our deliverance was -to be efteemed fo much the
more, by rea fon, had we faltan into their hand s v
we could have expelled nothing from them but im-
mediate death, eonfidering our accufers would have
been our judges: And'therefore his opinion was,
to return direélly to Bengal, \vhere, being known.,
we could prove how hone ill y we came bythe ihip,
of whom we bought bsr, and the like, and wherç,
we are fure of fome juftice..; at leaflU would not be
hanged firft, and judged afterwards,, I was at firil
of my partner's opinion; but when I-had more fe-
rioufly confidered of the matter, Ttold him we run
ä great hazatd in attempting to return, beiwg on the
wrong fide of the ftraits of Malacca, arid that if,
upon alarm given, we iliould be taken.by the Dutch
on Batavia or Englifh elfewhere, our running away
would be afufficient evidence to condemn us. This
danger indeed'ftartléd-not only my partner, but al-
io the whole 'fhip's company -; fo-w-e changed our
former refolution, and determined to go to Ton-
quin, and foto that of China, where, purfuingour
'íírft defign as to -trade, .we might Hkewife have an
opportunity ^tlo difpofe of the (hip fome way or
other, and' to return to Bengal-in any country vef-
fel we could prqcure. Tnis being agreed to, we
peered away N; N. E. about fifty leagues off the
uiual courfe to the eaft, which put us to fome i>-
.epnveniencies,. $ ihe v/ind ..blew fteAdily .a^alnfi;
us, our voyage became very tedious* and we begm
to be afraid tor want of provifiofrs; and, what was
ftill worfe, we apprehended-, that as thofe fhips*
from whofe boats we had efcaped, were bound t®
China, they might get before us -and -have given
freih information* which might create another vi-
gorous purfuit* Indeed I could not help being
grfeved., When I confidered that I, who had -neve*
wronged nor defrauded any per fon in my life, was
now purfued like  common thief; and, if taken*
to run the great eft danger of being executed-as
iuch.; and though innocent, I found myielf under
the neceflity of -flying for my iafety: And thereby
efcape being brought to fhame of which I was evert
more afraid than of death itfelf. It was eafy to read
my dejection in my countenance, but my partnei
feeing rne fo concerned, encouraged me as well as
he could: And, after describing to me the fevcrat
ports of the coaft, he told me, he would either put
in on thè coaft of Cochinchina, or eile in the bay
of Tonquin, from whence we might go to Macoa, a
town once poffeffed by the Portuguefe, and where
ft ill many European families redded.
To this place we fteered, and early next morning
camé in fight of the coaft; but thought it advifable
to put into a fmall river where we couki either over
land; or by the {hip's pinnace, know what veffela
were in any ports thereabouts. This happy ftep
proved our deliverancefor next morning there came
to the bay of Tonquin two Dutch (hips, and-a third
without any colours; and, in the evening, two Eng-
üíh fhips fleered the fame courfe* T he river where
we we*e was hui fmall, and run but a few league s
up the country north-ward; the country wild an4
barbarous, and the people thieves, having no coi>
reipondence mhh any othex Ration* dealing only
with fiih5 oil, and íuch grofs commodities: and one
barbarous cuftotn they ftill retained, that when any
veffel was -unhappily'(hipwrecked upon their coaft#
they * the men ptsfoaers or flaves; So that now
A a
we might fairly fay we were furrounded by enemies
both by fea and land.
. As the (hip had been leaky, we took the opportuv
iiity, in this place, to fearch her, and to flop up the
places which let in the water. We accordingly
lightened her, and bringing oar guns and other
moveable things to one fide, we effayed-to bring
tier down, that we might come at her bottom. But
upon fécond consideration, we did not think it fafe
for her to lie on dry ground, neither indeed was the
place convenient for it. The inhabitants, not ufed
to fuch a fight as to fee the fhip lie down on one fide,
and heel in towards the ihore, no;t perceiving, her
,, who were at work on her bottom, with ííages
and boats on the off fide, prefently imagined the
fhip had been caft away, and lay fail on the ground.
Agreeable to this fuppofition they furrounded us,
with ten or twelve large boats, with a rçfolutipn
undoubtedly, to plunder the fhip, and to carry away
thole they found alive for (laves to their king. But
when they perceived our.men herd at work on the
fhip's bottom and fide, wafhing, graving, and flop-
ping her, it filled them all with Tuch furprife, that
they ftood gazing as though they were confounded?
Nor could we imagine what their defign was; how-.
<ever, for fear vpf danger, we handed down, arms and
ammunition to thofe at worein order to defend them-
felves; and indeed this precaution was absolutely ne-
çeiTary ; for, in about a quarter of an hour after, the
natives^ concluding it was really a fhipwreck and that
we were faving our lives and: goods, which they
thought belonged to them, came down upon our
men, as though it had been in a line of battle. We
jay at prefent in a very unfit pçvfiure.to fight, and
]before the flages could be got down,;ort;the men .in
the boat come on board, as they were ordered, the
Cochinefes were upon them, and two of their boats
boarding our long boat, they began to lay hold of
. pur men as prifoners, The fir ft they feized was a
gout EngUCb failor, who nçver fired hs mufket,,
like ar fool, as I imagined, but laid it down in the
boat, but he knew what he was doing, for "by main*
forcé We dragged the pagan ont of the boat into ours
by the two ears*, and knocked"his brains out againft
the boat's gunnel : Ä Dutchman that was next him1
fnatched up the rtiuífeét, afid knocked down five
üiore with the butt end of it : however, this waff
doiftg very little to thefr number; but a dränge un-
expected accident, which rather merits la ugh ter that*
any thing elfe, gave our men a complete vi&ory
over them.
It feerris the*carpenter, who was preparing fo grá-ve"
the outfide of the ihip, as weil as to pay the feamsy
where he caulked, to flop the leaks, had gotten two
kettles j!uft let down withe boat, one filled with boil-*
ing pitch, and the other wilth rofin, tallow, oil, and
fuch fluff as the fhipw rights uie: The carpenter's*
man hada great rron-Faddle v/ith which he uíed ta
fupply the workmen with hot fluff,-and as two of the
enemies entered the boat where the fellow (food,- he
faluted them! with a full laddie of the hot boiliiig li-
quor, which, the poor creatures being half naked,
made then roar out, and jump itóto the iea. Well
done, Jack, fays the carpenter, give them the other
dofe : And fo irepping forward himfelf, took a tnopy
and dipping it into the pitch pot, he and his man to
plentifully flung it among them, as that none efcaped
being fcalded :• Upon which they all'made the be ft
of their way, crying and howling. And indeed ne-
ver was I better pieafed with any ccnqueft than f
was with this, there being io little bloodihed, and-
having an avcrfion to.killing fuch wretches, as know-
i-ng they came on errands which their laws and cus-
toms made them think were jufi and equitable, By
this time all things-being -in order, and the ihip fwi mi-
ming, they found their miftake, fo they did not ven-
ture a fécond attack: and having got feme rice?>
bread, roots, and ilxteen good hogs on board the7
day before, we let fail, nut daring to go into the'-
Lay of Tonquin, but fleered N. £. towards the lite-'
© Jpon?iQfa,pr as though,we, would go to theKianilr
las,, or Phillipine ifland.s for jar of meeting with any
European (hips* When- we anchored at the, ill?
Fojmwfa, the inhabitants r\ot çnly courteeufly fup,T
plied, us with provifions and^freih water but dealt ver
$y fairly and honeftly with us in their bargains and*
agreements., From thi\s place w,e fleered north, keepr
iqg ftill o|F the coaft of i China* till we we.re.beyoncj
M its ports where F.urppean. Chips ufually come, and
at length being come to the latitude of thirty de-
$rçes?. we refqlved  put into the fir ft tracing port'
We fliould c?eme at ;. and ftanding for the ihore à bpajt
came off,jtwo leagues to us with a^old Portuguefe
pilot en board,, who. offered, bis(«rvi.ee ; we very
gladly accepted hirn^and ient.the boat back again».
And now,, having the old roan on hoard,. I talked to
him of going to NanquÍB,,th.e ffl,oft northward part
t>fthe coaft of China.. What will yqu there;,
laid he/ imijing: I told; ni m /we. would fell our. car-
go, and purchafe callicos, raw and wrought filks,
-: and fo return the fame way back, Oh, foid he^
you had better put in at Macoa, where you may
buy China wares as cheap as at Nanquín, and felji
your opium at a greater advance. But,, faid I, we
are gentlemen as well ás merchants, and defigm to
fee the great city of Pekín, and the magnificent
court of the monarch of China... Why then, faid
he, you fhouíd go to Ningpo, where there iß a na-
vigable river that goes through the heart of that va (I
empire, two hundred and feventy leagues from the
fea, which croifes ail the rivers, paffes confidenblç
hills, by the help of the fluices and gates, and goes
çven up to the city of Pekin. You may go to Nan-
quín if you plcafe, and travel to Pekin, and there is
a Dutch fhip juft before bound that way., At the
name of a Dutch or Engliíh íhip, I was ftrtick. with
confufion : they being as great a terror to me in this
vefiel,.asan Algerine man oí w,ar is to them in. the
mediterranean. The old man finding me troubled,
Sir,, faid he, I hope, the Dutch are not now at war.
wi'lh your nation: No, faid I, but God knows what'
liberty they may take when out of reach of the law„
Why, fays he, what occafion is there* for peaceable*
merchants to fear? For believe me> they never med-
dle with any but pirates,-
At the mentioning of the word pirates> my coun-*
tenance turned to- that of fcarlet : nor was it poffi-
ble for me to conceal1 it from the old pilot !- who
taking notice of it, Sir,- faid he, take what courier
you pieafe, I will do you' ail thefervice I can. Sig-
Tiiorj faid I, -1 am a little concerned at your-menti-"
oning pirates; I hope there arc^ none fuch in thefe'
feas,; becaufe you fee in what a weak condition we
are to defend' ourfelves. O Sir^ faid he, if that's all
do not be concerned1,. I do not'remember one in-
thefe feas thefe fifteen years, except about  month
ago One was feen in the bay of Siam,< but (he is gone
to the fouth :' neither was {he built for a privateer,
but was run away with by a reprobate captainr and;
fome of his men, the right captain having been
murdered by the Malayans-.
What! faid i V (as though ignorant of what'had*
happened), did they kill the captain? No, faid he, it
is generally thought the Malayans murdered him ¿
but perhaps they mights procure them to do it, and:
therefore they-j.uftlyi defervé hanging* - The rogues
were, lately dilcovered in the bay of.Siam, in the ri-
ver of Cambodia, by-fome Dutchmen who belonged'
to the (hip, who had much ado to efcape the five"
boats that purfued them, but they have all' given1
fuch an £ defcription of the {bip., that wherever,
they find her, they will be lure to know her, and>l
they have folemnly fwore to give no quarter to the-*
captain or tfe feamen^ but hang them every, one at*
the yard arm -
Being fenfiblerthat having/tlíe old marl'on board
he was incapable of doings me any mifchief,-Well, *
Signior,iaid I,.it is for this very rea fon I would have
you carry us to Nanquín, where neither Engliih nor
Dutch* Ihips coracv And I.rnuit tell you their capr>~
A a 3. :.
tains are a parcel*of raih, proud, infoJent rafeáis, tria-,
neither know what belongs to juftice,  how to
behave themfelves as the laws ot God,or nature di-
rect. Fellows that would prove murderers to pib
niih robbers and take upon them to adjudge inno-
cent men to death, without any proof to prove them,
guilty; but perhaps 1 may live to call, them to ac-
count for it,, in a place where they may be taught
how juftice is executed.. And fo I told him all the
ftory of buyiog the fhip,, and how we were faved by.
the means of two men: That the murder of the
captain by the Malayans,, as alfo the running away
with the fhip, I believed to be true;, but that we,,
who bought it, were turned pirares,.,,was a mere fic-
tion, to cover their cowardice and fooliflx behaviour^,
when they attacked-us,„ and the hlood of thofe men.
we killed on our ownjuft defence*, lay to their door,-
who fent to attack us by iurprife.
Sir, faid the old man amazed, you have taken the
right courfe to fteer to the north,.and if I might ad-
vife you, I would have you fell your fhip in China,,
and buy or build another in that country ; and I will
procure people to buy the one and fell the other..
Well, but Signior,JaidJ,,if you>feli the,fhip in this>
manner,* J,may bring.fome innocent perfons.mto the
fame danger as Iihave gpne through perhaps woríe¿,
even death Jtieif,. whereby I ihould bet as guilty of
their murder as villainous executioners* That need'
not trouble you,, fays the old man ; L'will And a way
to prevent that ;.for thefe commanders you talk of;
I know them very wellj will inform them rightly of
the matter as you have related, and J am perfuaded
they will not only believe me,, but zQ. mere cauti-
oufly for the future*. And will you delivenone mef-
fagc from-me to them? Yes,, faid he, if you will,
give it under your band,,that«-hmay pf.ove it is not
ray own produ£tion. Hereupon* 1 wrote,a.lai'ge ac-
count of their attacking nie in their Jong boat, the
pretended rea fon and unjuft defign of it that they had;?
dune.what.they might he aihamed of,, and couldaat.
of ROBINSON Crusoe. 269
anfwer for at any tribunal in England,, But this let-
ter was written in vain.. Providence ordered things-
another way,, We failed directly for, Nanquin, and
 about thirteen days fail, carne to an anchor at the
íbuth-weft point of the great gulph of that place,,
where we learned that two Dutch ihips were gone the
length before us,, and that we fhouId: certainly fail
into thejr hands.. We were all at a great lofs in this
exigency,-and would very gladly have been on ihore
aimoft any where;, but our old pilot,told me, that i£
I would- fail, to the fomhward about two and forty
leagues there was- a little port called Quinchance,-
where no European ihips ever came, and where we
might confides what was further t© be done. Ac-
cordingly we weighed anchor the next day,, calling
only twice on ihore by the way to get frelh water *
The country, people vety. courteoufiy fold-us roots¿
tea, rice, fowls,, and other provifions.. After five
days fail we carne to*the^ port, and landed with un-
fpeakable joy. We refolved to difpofe of ouifelves
and effects in any other way pofHble,, than enter on
board that i » fated veflbl more;. for no ftate can be
more miferable than a continued fearr which is a life
of deaths a confounder of- ou rv under {landings, that
fets the-imagjnation at work to form a thoufand frigh-
fub things that may never happen.. And we fcarce.
flept one night, without dreaming of halters, yard-
armsvor gibbets ;.of fighting, being taken, and being,
killed nay, fo violentwere our approhenfions, that
we would bruife our hands and heads againft the fides
of the cabin,, as though acl-ually engaged.. The flo~
ry of the Dutch cruelty at Ampona oft&n came into*
our thoughts when, awake And,, for my part 
thought*my condition very hard,, that; after fo many*
difficulties, and fuohifignal deliverances, íhould bç
hanged in my old age,-though innocent of/any crime.-
that deferved fuch punimment..
But now, thank kind heaven, being a ihore, our old ?
pilot procured its a lodging and a^warebo-ufe for our-
goods 5, it was- a. Iii letona- witli..aw Iwge* warehouse-
joining to it, all built with' canes, and pallifadoes
round with large onesy to keep out pilfering thieves,,
which are very numerous m that country! The
Magiftrates allowèd us a little guard during'-the night,
and we employed a centinel for- three-periee.&i day.
The; fair or martr we fou'rid, had been over for fome
time : however* there remained in . the river four
jurtks and: two'Japtoibipsy the merchants of .the lat-
ter being ön , In the fir ft placer our old pilot
brought us .acquainted with the; miffiomry fioraaa
priefts,v who were converting the people ;to;Gh rift i a-
nity : 'Two-of them wêre referved, rigid^and auftere,.
applying thcrnfel ves. to the work they, came-about
with great earneftnefs but the third who was a*
Frenchman, called Father. Simon,; was of a freer con*
verfationy nokfeemingly fo ferious and graven yet
no worfe Chriftian than the other two, -oneiof whc-m
was a*Pot.tuguefe,,and the,other Genoefe.-. Father^Sir
mon* it féemsy was appointed to go tosRekin, the
royal feat I©f the Emperor of, China and. be only-
waited for another prieftr who was ordered from JVia-
eoa to accompany him. ;« We nieven met. together
but he was prompting me to keep him company in-
his journey; Sir,. íaid he;, I will {hew you the glori-
ous things! of this,mighty empire, the city of Pekin,,
far .exceeding London, or Paris,; put them both toge-
ther- One day in particular, being at dinner with
him, I ihewed forne inclination to go: which made
him prefe the more .upon me and my, partner, to gain
our per$*£fc oonfent.'
But we (hall leave|hira?a whiter to aonfider of-ouo>
fliip and the merchandise which we had to difpofe of*-
There was but very little trade in the place, where-
we were; and  was once re(olved to venture to
fail to the rjver Kilam> and fo to the city of Nan-
quin: But Providence ordered it otherwife,. by out?
old pilot's bringing af Japan merchant to usr to fee
what goods-we hack He immediately bought ourr
opium* for which, he gave us-a very gootd; price hi*
gpld by weighty fcme. wedges. o& which-, were "about*
ten or eleven ounces. Jt came into my head, that
perhaps he might buy the fbip too; a»d Î ^rderedf
hist interpreter to propofek to him* He faid no-:
thing then, but ihrunk up his fhoulders; yet in; à
few days he came, accompanied by a miffionary,
pçieil, w'ho« was his interpreter, whh.this 
that, as he had bought a greai <fuantity of ,
goods,, hjq ha4,hot money enough to*puxcftafe our
íbip; but if I pleaied he would,hire her with all n\f
Then,. to,go to japan y an<^from thence with apo^hetj
loadm.gto the: #hilippian iflands, the freight of bot %
which he would very willingly pay to us before l,
and, at their return to japan, would buy thé íbip»
Upon this we aflced the Captain ,and his men, i£
they were willing to gio to Japan: to. which the^
unanimoufly agreed. While this wash in agitationr
the young man my nephew left, to attend , told
mer That as I did not care to accept, thifr profpeéfr
of advantage,, he would manage it for me as 1 pleafed>
and render me a faithful, account of his fuccef«,;
which ihopld be wholly mine. Indeed, i was very
unwilling to part with him: But confidemig i£
might beifor the young man's good, I difcourfed*
my partner about ît, who, of his own generofity,
gave him his ihare of the veffel, fo that Í could do,
nootherwife than give him mine; but,, however^
we let him have but the property of half of it, and
referved a power, that, when we met in England,*
if he had obtained fuccefs, he fhould account to us
for one half of the profit's of the iliip's freight9 and
the other ihould be his own-
Thus having taken a writing under his hand, away
he failed to Japan, where the merchant dealt very ho-
neilly by him,,.got him-a licence to come on ihore,.
font him loaded to the. Philippines with a Ja pane fe
fupercargp^ fronx whence he came back again loaded
with European goods, cloves and other fpiceries. By
this voyage he cleared a confiderable fum of money,
which determined him not to fell his ihip, but to
trade on his own account: So he returned to tkz
Manillas, where"gétting acquaintance, he made his?
ôïîp free,* was hi reef by the governor privately to gö
to Acapulco in America*, on the Mexican coaft, with
á licence to travel tó the gfeat city of Mexico. This
traffic turned out greatly to account, and nfy friend
findirig means tó]gét to Jamaica, returned r>rne years
after, exceeding'rich into England*
In patting vv^th^hëihipit'comes trT&rjrfe to con*
fider of thofe méñ who r*ad faved our lives wrieïi in the
/ivér of Cambodia: And though, by trie ty, "ihty
Were-a couple of rogues, who thought to turn piratés"
themfelves, yet we paid therh what they had before*
demanded, and gavé each of them a fma'l fum of
money, making the Englifhraan a gunner and the
Dutchman a bóatfwain, with which they wefe very
well contented.
We were now about a- thou fend leagues farther
from home than when at Bengal. All the comfort
we could expeel: was, that there being a-nother fair to'
be kept in a month's time, we might not only pur-
chafe all forts of that country's manufactures,.but ve-
ry poffibly find fome Chinefe jtinks, or veflel from
Ton quin, to be fold, which won I'd carry us and our
goods wherefoever we pleafed. Upon thete hope?,
we refolved to continues and, to divert ourfeîves, we
took feveral little journeys in the country. About
ten days after we parted with our fliip, we travelled
to fee the cj'ty of Nanquin. This cky lies in lati-
tude thirty deg. north of the line; it is regularly
built,- and. the ftreets are ex a £11 y ftraight. and croîs
one another in" direel: lines, whick fets it out to the
greateft advantage, • At our return, we found the
pried was come from Macoa that was to accompany
Father Simon to Pekin* That Father eaineftly fo-
licited me to accompany him, and' 1 referred him to
my partner. In fhort, we both agreed, and prepared
accord i ri gl y j*a-ßd- we were fo-lucky as to have liberty
to travel among the retinue of one of their Manda-
rines, who is a' principal Mbgiftraie',- and much re-
vererj-ced by the people,'
We were five and twenty days travelling through
this miferable country, infinitely populous, but as
indifferently cultivated -7 but yet their pride.is infinite-
ly . gr.eater than, their poyertyr infomuch that the
priefts themfelves derided therm As we pafled by the
h  nie of one of their country gentlemen, two leagues
off Nanquín, we had the honour, forfooth to ride
with the Chinefe fquire about two miles, . Never was
Don Quixote fo exaftly imitated, never fuch a com-
pound of pomp and poverty feen before!
'At length we arrived at the great city of Pekin,
accompanied by two fervants, and the old Portu-
guefe pilot, whofe charges we bore, and who ferved
us as an interpreter by the way. We had fcarce
been a week at Pekin, but he comes laughing to us,
AH! Sígnior Inglife, faid he, rae fomething tell you
make your heart glad, but make me forry: for you
bring me  twenty-five days journey, and now
you will leave me go back alone; and which way
mall- I make my port after, without,de íbip,, with-
out de horfe, without pecune? fo he called money
in his broken Latin. He^then informed me, that
there was a great, caravan of Muscovite and VolUh
merchants in the city, who were preparing to iet
out fqr Mufcovy by land within fix week: and that
he was certain we would take this opportunity, and
çonfequently that he muft go home by hi mi elf. In-
deed, this news infinitely furprifed and pleafed me,.
Are you certain of this faid I ? Yes, Sir, {aid he me
lure it is true,. And fo he.told me, that having met
an old acquaintance of his, an Armenian^ in the
ii reefy who w/as among them, and, who had come;
from Aftracan, with a defign to go to Tonquin, but
for certain reafons, having altered his refolution, he
was now refolved to go with the Caravan, and to
return by the river Walga to Aílracan. Well, Sig-
nior, faid I, do not be difcontented about your re-
turning alone; and it by this means Î can find a paf-
fage to England, it will be your own fault if you re-
turn to Macoa at ail. And fo confulting with my
partner what was beft to he done, he referred it to 
as I pleafed, having  affairs fo well fettled at
at Bengal, thatif <ve could convert the good voyage*
We had made in China iilks, wrought (raw, he would
be fatisfied to go to England, and fo return to Ben-
gal in the company's ihips..
Thus refolded we agreed, that if our pilot would
go with us, we would bear his charges either to
Mufcow or England, and to give him in a prefent
the fum of 170 pounds fterling. Hereupon we
called him in, and told him the caufe of his com-
plaint Chould be removed, if he would accompany
us with the caravan: And therefore we defired to
know his mind. At this helhook his head. Great
long journey, faid he, me no pecune, carry me
to Mufcow,, or keep me. But we foon put him
\ out of that concern, by making him fenfible of what
vve would give him here to lay out to the beft advan-
tage 5 and as for his charges, we would fet him fafe
on more, God willing, either in Mufcovy., or Eng-
land, as he plea fed., at our own charge, except the
carriage of his goods. At this propofal he was like
a mart tranfported, telling us, he would go with us
âli the world over: and we made preparations for
our journey, but it was near four months before all
the merchants were ready.
ín the mean time, my partner and the pilot went
exprefs to the port where we -firft put in, to difpofe
.óf what goods had been left there, while I accom-
panied a Chinefe merchant, who was going to Nan-
quín, and there bought twenty-nine pieces of da«
maík, with about three hundred more of otheç fine
iilks; and by the time my partner returned to Pé-
kin, I had them all carrlrd thither; our cargo in
iilks amounted tc 45,000!. Sterling«, which., toge-
ther with tea, fine calicoes, nutmegs, and cloves*
loaded eighteen camels for our (hare, fbefides what
we rode upon, with two or three fpare horfes, and
two more louden with provisions: the company
itow was very great, making about four hundred
4
borfe.f and about a hundred men, well armed and.
provided. We were of feveral nations, and twenty
among whom were five Scots merchants inhabiting la
Mufcow, and well experienced in trade-o
We fet out from Pekín the beginning of Febru-
ary; and in two days more, we paffed through the
-gate of the great China wall, which was ere&ed as
a fortification againft the Tartars, being one hundred
-and eight Engliih miles long. We then entered " a
country not near fo populous, chiefly under the
power of plundering Tartars, feveral companies oi'
whom we perceived riding on poor ilarved horfes^
contemptible as themfelves, without any difcipline0
One time our leader for the day gave us leave to go
a hunting. But what do you think we huntsd, on-
ly a parcel of iheep, which,indeed exceeded any hi
the world for wildnefs and fwiftnefs; but while we
were purfuing this game, it was our chance to 
with about forty Tartars, who no {boner perceived
us, but one of them blew a horn, at the found c5l:
which there foon appeared a troop of forty or fifty
more, at about a mile diftance. Hereupon one Of
the Scots merchants (who knew their way) ordered
us to advance towards thera, and attack them im-
mediately* As we advanced, they let fly a volley
ofarrowsp which happily fell a little ihort of ,us:s.
This made us halt a little, to return the complrmerfô
xiixh bullets-; and then being led up by the .
Scot, we fired our piilols in their'faces, and dre^?"
out our fwords, but there was no occáíion, for they
flew like timorous iheep, and only three of them rb»
mained, beckoning to the reft to come backs But
our brave commander gallops up to them by himíelí,
-ihot one dead, knocks another off his horfe, wh-iife
the third ran away and thus ended our; battle wits*
the Tartars*
We travelled a month more through the E'töpero'r
of Chinaos dominions : and at length coming tö-:or&
of their towns about a day and a-hill's journey frotti.
fhe city of Naum, I wanted to buy a eemeW 4T-h£
9 b
jjberfon I fpoke.to would have brought me one, but,
like a fool, I muft go along with him about two
miles from the village. Myoid pilot and I walked
on fo3t, forfooth, for fome variety, when coming to
the place where the camels were;kept as in a park
guarded by-Chinefefoidiers, we there agreed and
. bought one, which the Chinese man that came with
me led along the road. But we had not gone far
before we were attacked by five Tartars, mounted
on h or fe back, two of whom feized the man, took
; the camel from him, and rode away, while the other
three approached us the fir ft of whom iuddenly
fei-zed me as 1 was drawing my fword, the fécond
knocked me down; but,my old trufty Portnguefe,
taking.a piftol. out of his pocket, which I knew no-
thing of, and coming up to the. fellow that ftruck
me, he, with one hand, pulled him off his horfe,
*Jod then fbot him dead upon the fpot; then taking
his fcymitar he ft ruck at the man that ft opt us, but
miffing him, cut off one of his horfe's ears, the
pain of which made him throw his rider to - the
ground. The poor Chinefe who had led the camel,
feeing the Tartar down, runs.to him, and feizing
upon his pole-axe, wrenched it from his'hands* and
knocked his brains out* But there was another
Tartar to. .(tel with, who, feemed .neither inclined
to fight nor. to fly, and my old man having begun
to charge his piftoi, the very fight of it ftmck fuch a
terror into the wretch, that away he fcoured, leaving
my old pilot, rather my.champion and defender, an
abfolute victory.
By this time, being awakened from my trance, I
fyegan.to.open my eyes, wondering where I was,
having quite forgot all that paft.: but my íeníes re-
turning, .and feeling a great pain in my head, and
feeing the bloojd was.rurming oyer my clothes, I in-
ftantly jumped upon my-feet, and grafped my fword
in my hand, with a refolutiou to  revenge.; but
no enemies now remained, except the dead Tartar,
,'^'ilh his horfe Jtanding by him, .The old man ice-
îng'nse recovered, whom he thought ilain, ran to-
wards me, and embraced me with the greateft ten-
dcrncfs, at the lame time examining into my wounds
which was far from being mortal. When we retur-
ned to the village, the man demanded payment for
his-camel, which I réfufing; we brought the caufe
before a Chinefe judge, who ailed with great im-
partiality: Having heard both fides, he afked the'
Chinefe maw that went with me, whofe fervant he
was? Sir, faid he¿ I am nobody's but went with
the ftranger, at" his requeil: Why then, (aid the
judge, you were the firanger's fervant for the time*
and the camel being" delivered to his fervant, it is
the fame as though delivered to himfelf, and accor-
dingly-he-tnuft pay for it. Indeed, the cafe was fo
fairly ftateel, that 1 had nothing to object to it; fo
having paid for that I was robbed of, 1 fern for ano-
ther, but did not.go my Í elf to fetch it, as I had e-
nóugh of that fpmt before,
When we were with in-a days march of, we had
information that the governor had fent meffengen
to" every part of the road, to inform the travelieis
and caravans to halt, till a-guard was fent to protect
f hein "from- the nurrierous bodies of Tartars, that
lately appeared about the city. This news put us
into great confirmation; but, obeying the orders,
we ftopt, and two days after there came two hun-^
dr'ed foldiers from a garriior* of the Chinefe, and •
three hundred more from Naum; Thus guarded
both in the front and rear; with cur. men on ths
flanks', we1 boldly advanced, thinking we were able
to combat with ten thou fand Mogul-Tartars, if they
appeared •
Early next morning, in our march from a little
well fituated town called Changu, after having paf-
fed a river, and entered upona delert of"about fif-
teen or fixteen miles over, we Toon beheld, by a
cloud of duft the city of Naum that was raifed,
that the enemy was approaching. This much clif-
pir.ited the Chinefe. My old pilot took notice of
 b a
it- and called .out, Signior Inglefe, thofe- fellows
muft be encouraged or they will ruin us all; and I,
'am afraid, if the. Tartars attack us,.,they will alb.
:yin away. Why, Signior,. faid I, what will be
done in this cafe? Done, fays he, why, let fifty of-
our men advance, and flank them on each wing. 1
know the fellows will fight well enough in company*..
We accordingly took his advice, and marched ñíty ^
to the right wing, and the fame number te> the left,;
sind with the red made aline of referve, leaving the
lait two hundred men to guard the camels, or to-
affift.us as occafion required.
Thus prepared, a party of the enemy came for-
watd, viewing our poifure, and traverfing the ground
on the front of our . line. Hereupon we ordered
i he two wings to move on,, and give them a faidte
v/ith their (hot; which accordingly was done. This,
put a flop to their proceedings; for immediately
wheeling off to their left they ail marched away, and ,
we faw no more of them*. They had undoubtedly
given aw account to their companions of what recep-
* lion they might expe£r, which made them fo eafily
give over their enterprise..
When we came to the city of Naum, we returned
the governor hearty thanks,,and difperfed a hundred
crowns among the foldiers that guarded us. We
refted there one day9 then proceeded on our travels,
palling feveral great rivers and defarts; and on the
13th of April, we came to the frontiers of Mufcovy,
nhe firft town of which was called Argun*
This happy occaíion, as I thought, of coming in- .
to a Chriftian country^ made me congratulate the
Scots merchant upon it: He fmiled at that,, telling
me not to rejoice too foon; for, faid he, except,
the Ruffian foldiers in garrifon, and a, few inhabi-
tants of the cities upon the road, all the reft
of this country, for above a thoufand miles, is-
inhabited by the moil ignorant, and barbarous
pagans.
We advanced.from the river Arguna> by moderate
journeys, and found convenient garrifons on the
road, filled with 'Chriftian~ibldiers, for the fecurity
of commerce, and for the convenient lodging oí
travellers; but the inhabitants of the country
were mere pagans, worihipping the moon, fun,
and ftars.
When we came to the city of Jarewena, we refled
ñve days, and then entered into a frightful defart,
which held us twenty-three days march, infefled
with feveral. {mall companies of robbers, or Mogul
Tartars, who never had the courage to attack us.
Nothing remarkable occurred in our march through
this country. When we had got through the defarr^
after two days further travi], we came to Jenezo,
a Mufcovite city,, on the great river fo called, which
we were told parted Europe from Afia.
From this city to the river of Oby, we travelled
over a plea fant, fruitful, but very uncultivated
country,, for want of good management and people,
and thofe few/are moftly Pagans. This is the, place
where the Mufcovite criminals are baniihed to, if,
they are not put to death. t The next city we came
to was the capital .city. of Siberia, called Tobolfki,
when^ having been almoft feven months on our
journey, and winter drawing on apace, my partner
and I confulted about our particular afTairs, in what
manner we íhould diipofe of ourfelves. We had
been told of fledges and rein.deer to carry us over
the fnow in the winter feafon, the fnow being frozen
fo hard, that the fledges can run upon the furface-*
without any danger of going,down, As I was bound
to England, it now behoved me either to go with the
caravan to Jeroilaw. from thence weft to Narva, ,and
thegulph of Finland, and fo by land or fea to Den-
mark, or elfe I mud leave the caravan at a little
town on the Dwina, and fo to Archange), where ,
I was certain of (hipping either to England, Hol-
land, or Hamburgh. One night I happened to get
int© the company of an illuftrious but baniihed prince
whofe company and virtues were fuch as made me
propofe to him a method how he might obtain his
liberty. My dear friend, faid he as I am here hap<s
piiy free from my miferable greatnefs, with all its
attendants of pridë, -ambition, avarice, and luxury j.
If I ihould efcape from thfe- place, thefe pernicious
feeds may again revive, to my laftMng difquietude?
therefore let me remain in a blefled confinement, fop
I 'am but fleíTi, a mere man, with paffions and affec-
tions as fuch :  be not my friend and tempter too;
Struck'dumb'with furprife, I flood filent a while, nor
was he in lefs dîfonder ; by which-perceiving he4
wanted to give-vent to his mind, I deiired him to
confider of it, and-fo withdrew* But about two
hours after he'came to my apartment: Dear friend^
faid he, though I cannot confent to accompany you
I-fhall have this fatisfaclrion in- parting, that you- 
leave me an honeft man dill :. but as a teftimony of
ray afféftion to you, be pica fed- to accept this- prefeni •
of table?. -
Jn return for this compliment,' I-Tent my Tervant1"
next morning to his Lordihip, with a (mail preient
of tea, two pieces of China damaík, and-four-littleí
wedges of geld: But he.only accepted the7tea,' ene
piece of damaík^ and*a piece of gold, for the curi-
ofity of the Japan ftamp that was upon' it. Not
long after he lent for me, android me, that what,
foe had refufed himfelf, he hoped^ upon his account
1 would grant to another, whom he fhould name t
In ihort,. it was his only foi?, wht>r was about two-
fa uncired miles diftance from him, on the" other fide
of thé Oby, whom- he faid he would fend for if I
gave my confent; This 1 foon ccnnplied with r
Upon: which he Tent his ferv'ants next day for his*
fori, who returned in twenty days time, bringing*
feven horfes loaded/with valuable fürs. At nigh if
the young.-lord wäs conducted incognito into-our a*-
partment, where his father prefented him to me,
We- then conceited the- beft ways for travelling;
and after having bought a considerable quantity of
fables, black fox (kins* fine ermines, &c. fwbicb
1 fold at Archangel at a good price), we fet our.
from this city the beginning of June miking a fmaife
•'Caravan, being about tlûrty-two horfes and camels,
of which I reprefented the head. My young lord
'had with him a very faithful Siberian fervant, well
acquainted with..the ro^ds: We fhunned the prin-
cipal towns and cities, as Turnen, Soli-Kamoíkoj,
and feveraî others, by reafon of their ft rift nefs in
.examining travellers, Left any of the banifhed per-
lons of diftinclion fhould elcape. Having paiTed
the river Kama., we carne to a city on a. European
iide, called Soloi Komoikoi, where we found the
.people 'moftly Pagans as before. We then paiTed
a defart of about two hundred miles over: but in
other places it is near feven hundred. In pafsing
this wild place, we were befet by a troop of men
on horfeback, and about five and forty men armed
with bows and arrows. But perceiving a fmall grove
at-a little diftance, with a triarchy piece of ground
and a fpring of water we retreated thither without
joppoiition, and waited till within two hours of night;
.when they attacked us. with great fuiy. We fir ft
iircd without ball, calling to, them in the Ruffian
tongue to know their bu#.nefs ; ..but they, either not
Jknowing, or feeming not to underftand us, came di-
rectly to the wood-ciide, not confiderißg that we had
fo fortified it by cutting the houghs nearly off fome
trees and joining them to others.fo that they could
#ot break in upon our rear.
In the mean while we loaded our pieces with two
or three tmlkts each, fired again, and wounded 14,
and fallying out, Secured four or five of their horfes,
Avhofe riders we-found were killed, and perceived
4:hem to be Tartars. About an hour after, they
vmade another attempt, to fee where they might break
in; but finding us ready to receive }hem, they
retired.
All that night we wrought hard, in {lengthening
onr iituation, and barricading the entrances into the
woods: but when day-light came, we had a very un-
welcome difcovery ,* for the enemy being encouraged
hy phen- affiftance, had fet up eleven or twelve tents
Ja form of a camp, about three quarters of a mile
from us. I muft confefs I was never more concerned
in my life, giving myfelf and all that I had over for
loft. And my partner declared, that as the lofs of
his goods would be his ruin, before they fliould be
taken from him, he would fight to the laft drop of
his blood. Äs we could not pretend to force our
way, we had recourfe to a ftratagem; we kindled a
large fire which burnt all night; and no fooner was
it dark, but we purfued our journey towards the
pol«, or •••north üar, and travelling all night, by fix
o'clock in the morning we came toa Ruffian village,
called Kertza, and from thence came to a-large town
named Ozonoys, where we heard that feveral troops
of Calmuch Tartars had been abroad upon the de-
fert, but that we were pail all danger* In five days
after we came to Veuflima, upon the river Witzedga
from thence we came to Lawrenikoy on the third of
July, where, providing ourfelves with two luggage
boats and a.convenient bark, we embarked the yth9
and arrived at Archangel the 18th, after a year five
months, and three days journey, including the eight
-months, and odd days, at Tobolikoi, We came
from Archangel the 20th of Auguft in the fame year,
and arrived at Hamburgh rhe 30th of September.
iTere my partner and 1 made a very good íale of our
goods, both thofe.ßf China and Siberia; when, di-
viding our effe&s, my (hare came t© 3475U 17s. 3do
after all the lofles we had fuftained, and charges we
had been at. Here the young lord took his leave of
me, in order to go to the courr of Viena, not only
to fcek protection, but to corefpond with his father's
friends. After we had ftaid four months in Ham-
burgh, I went from thence ov«r land to the Hague,
where, ebmaricing in the packet, I arrived in Lon-
don the. 10th of January 1705, after-ten years and
nine months abfeace from England.
* I N I S.
J. Nuttall, • Printer, Livtffo»l
