
Hubbard
Imag. voy.
.M
V.3-

THE FART

ADVENTURES
\
- O F
ROBINSON CRUSOE;
B 'E I M O -' .
The Second and I. a ; t Pa r t
of HIS
F E,
And of the Strange Surprising
Account os his TRAVELS
Round Three Parts of the Globe.
Written by Himself.
The Thirteenth Edition, Adorned with Cuts.
IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. U.
- LONDON:
Printed for J. Buckland, W. Strahan, J. Rivincton,
R. Baldwin, L. Hawes and W. Clarke and R.
Collins, W.Johnston, T. Caslon, T. Longman,
B. Law, J. Wilkie, T. Lowndes, W. Nicoli,
and the Executors of B. Dod.
MDCCLXVI.


3-3-
THE
PREFACE.
i«MH£ Success the former Part of
agreeable Manner of the Performance.
All the Endeavours of envious People to re-
proach it with being a Romance, to search it for
Errors in Geography, Inconsistency in the Rela-
tion, and Contradictions in the Fact, baveprov'd
abortive, and as impotent as malicious.
The just Application of every Incident, the
religious and useful Inferences drawn from every
Part, are so many Testimonies to the good De-
sign of making it public, and must legitimate all
the Part that may be call'd Invention or Parable
in the Story.
The Second Part, if the Editor's Opinion
may pass, is {contrary to the Usage of Second
Parts) every way as entertaining as the First;
contains as strange and surprising Incidents, and

this Work has met with in the
World, has yet been no other, than
is acknowledged to be due to the fur-
prifing Variety of the Subject, and to
A 2
as
The Farther
ADVENTURES
O F
Robinson Crusoe, &c.
HAT homely Proverb, used on so many
Occasions in England, viz. That sxhat is
bred in the Bom, luill not go .out os the
Flejh, was never more verified than in
the Story of my LIFE. Any one
would think, that after thirty-five Years
Affliction, and a Variety of unhappy Circumstances,
which few Men, if ever any, went through besore, and
after near seven Years of Peace and Enjoyment in the
Fulness of all things; grown old, and when, is ever*
it might be allowed me to have had Experience of every
State of middle Life, and to know which was moil
adapted to make a Man completely happy; I say, after
all this, any one would have thought, that the nasive
Propensity to Rambling, which I gave an Account of
in my first setting out into the World, to have been so
predominant in my Thoughts, should be worn out, the
volatile Part be sully evacuated, or at least condens'd,.
and I might at 61 Years of Age have been a little in-
clined to stay at Home, and have done venturing Life and
Fortune any more.
Nay, sarther, the common Motive of foreign Adven-
tures was taken away in me; for I had no Fortune to
make, I had notning to seek: If I had gain'd ten thou-
A 3 said

ROBINSON CRUSOE. 7
tion work'd up to such a Height, and brought me into>
such Excess of Vapours, or what else I may call it, that
I actually supposed myself oftentimes upon the Spo;, at
my old Castle behind the Trees; saw my old Spaniard,
Friday's Father, and the reprobate Sailors, whom I lest
upon the Island: Nay, I sancy'd I talk'd with them, and
look'd at them so steadily, tho' I was broad awake, as
at Person* just besore me; and this I did, till 1 often
frightened myself with the Images my Fancy represented
to me. One Time in my Sleep, I had the Villainy of
the three Pirate Sailors so lively related to me, by the
first Spaniard, and Friday's Father, that it was surprising;
they told me how they barbarously attempted to murder
all the Spaniards, and that they set Fire to the Provi-
sions they had laid up, on purpose to distress and starve
them; things that I had never heard of, and that yet
were all of them true in Fact: And it was so warm in-
my Imagination, and so realiz'd to me, that to the Hour
I saw them, I could not be persuaded, but that it was,
or would be true; also how I resented it, when the Spa-
niards complained to me; and how I brought them to-
Justice, try'd them besore me, and ordered them all
three to be hang'd: What there was really in this, shall
be seen in its Place: For however I came to form such-
things in my Dream, and what secret Converse of Spi-
rits injected it, yet there was, / fay, very much of it
true. I own that this Dream had nothing in it literally
and specifically true; but the general Part was so true,
the base and villainous Behaviour of these three harden'd
Rogues was such, and had been so much worse than all
I can describe, that the Dream had too much Similitude
of the Fact; and as I would afterwards have punished?
them severely, so if I had hanged them all, I had been
much in the Right, and should have been justified boilv
by the Laws of God and Man.
But to return to my Story: In this kind of Temper
1 had lived some Years; I had no Enjoyment of my
Life, no pleasant Hours, no agreeable Diversion, but
what had something or other of this in it; so that my
Wife, who saw my Mind so wholly bent upon it, told
me very seriously one Night, that she believed there was
some secret powersul Impulse of Providence upon me,
"A 4 which
many of these Cogitations, I struggled with the Power
of my Imagination, reafon'd myself out of it, as I believe
People may always do in like Cases, is they .will; and, in a
Word, I conquered it; compos'd myself with such Argu-
ments as occured to my Thoughts, and which my pre-
sent Condition surnisiVd me plentisully with ; and particu-
larly, as the most esfectual Method, I resolved to diverc
myself with other things, and to engage in some Business
that might esfectually tie me up from any more Excur-
sions of this Kind; for I found the thing return'd upon
me chiesly when I was idle, had nothing to do, or any
thing of Moment immediately besore me.
To this Purpose I bought a little Farm in the County
of Bedsord, and resolved to remove myself thither. 1 had
a little convenient House upon it, and the Land-about it
I found was capable of great Improvement, and that it
was many Ways suited to my Inclination, which delighted
ih Cultivating, Managing, Planting, and Improving iff
Land; and particularly, being an Inland County, I was
removed from converting among Ships, Sailors, and
things relating to the remote Parts of the World.
In a Word, 1 went down to my Farm, settled my Fa-
mily, bought me Ploughs, Harrows, a Cart, Waggon,
Horses, Cows, Sheep; and, setting seriously to work,
became in one half Year, a mere Country Gentlemen;
my Thoughts were intirely taken up in managing my
Servants, cultivating the Ground, Inclosing, Planting,
and I liv'd, as I thought, the most agreeable Life
that Nature was capable of directing, or that a Man
always bred to Misfortunes was capable of being retreated
to.
Isarm'd upon my" own Land, I had no Rent to pay,
was limited by no Articles; I could pull up, or cut
down, as I pleased: What I planted was for myself}.
and what I improved was for my Family; and having
thus lest off the Thoughts of Wandering, I had not
the least Discomfort in any Part of my Life, as to this
World. Now I thought indeed, that 1 erjoy'd that
middle State of Life, which my Father so earnestly re-
commended to me: A kind of Heavenly Life, some-
thing like what is described by the Poet upon the Sub-
ject of a Country Life;
A 5 ?**
Circulation of Sorrow, living but to work, and working
but to live, at if daily Bread were the only End os
wearisome Life, and a wearisome Life the only Occasion
of daily Bread.
This put me in mind of the Life I lived in my King-
dom, the Island; where I suffered no more Corn to grow,
because I did not want it; and bred no more Goats, be-
cause I had no more Use for them: Where the Money
lay in the Drawer till it grew mildew'd, and had scare*
the Favour to be looked upon in 20 Years.
& All these things, had 1 improved them as I ought
to have done, and as Reason and Religion had dictated
to me, would have taught me to search surther than hu-
man Enjoyments for a sull Felicity, and that there was.
something which certainly was the Reason and End of
Life, superior to all these things, which was either to-
be possess'd, or at least hoped for on thii Side the Grave.
But my sage Counsellor was gone; I was like a Ship.-
without a Pilot, that could only run asore the Wind: My
Thoughts run all away again into the old Affair; my
Head was quite turn'd with the Whimsies of foreign
Adventures; and all the pleasing innocent Amusement*
of my Farm, and my Garden, my Cattle and my Family,
which besore imirely possest me, were nothing to me; had-
no Relish-, and were like Music to one that has no Ear.
or Food to one that has no Taste: In a Word, J resolv'd
to leave off Housekeeping, lett my Farm, and return to
London; and ia a few Months after, I did so.
When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as be-
fore; I had no Relish to the Place, no Employment in it,
nothing to do but to saunter about like a-n idle Person,
of whom it may be said, he is perfectly useless in God's
Creation, and it is not one Farthing Matter to the red
of his Kind whether he be dead or alive. This also was
the thing, which of al! Circumstances of Life wa* the
most my Aversion, who had been all my Days used to
an active Life; and I would often say to myself, A Stale
cs Idleness is the very Dregs os Life; and indeed I thought
I was much more suitably employed, when I was 26
Days a making me a Deal board;
It was now the Beginning of the Year 1693, w-hest-
ray Nephew, whom, as I haie observed before, I had-
A. 6 hrought.
go with him: Bat I told him, I would not promise to go
any sarther than my own Island. Why Sir, says he, you
don't want to be lest there again, I hope? Why, said I, can
you not take me up again in your Return? He told me, it
would not be possible to do so; that the Merchants would
never allow him to come that Way with a loaden Ship of
such Value, it being a Month's sail out of his Way, and
might be three or fcur: Besides, Sir, is I jhould miscarry,
said he, and not return at all, then you would be just reduced
to the Conaition you were in besore.
This was very rational; but we both found out a
Remedy for it, which was to carry a framed Sloop on
board the Ship, which, being taken in Pieces, and
fhip'd on board the Ship, might, by the Help of some
Carpenters whom we agreed to carry with us, be set up
again in the Island, and sinish'd, fit to go to Sea in a few
Days. .
I was not long resolving; for indeed the Importuni-
ties of my Nephew, join'd in so effectually with my In-
clination, that nothing could oppose me: On the other
hand, my Wife being dead, I had nobody that concern-
ed themselves so much for me, as to persuade me one
way or other, except my antient good Friend the Wi-
dow, who earnestly struggled with me to consider my
Years, my easy Circumstances, and the needless Hazard
of a long Voyage; and, above all, my young Children:
But it was all to no Purpose, I had an irresistible Desire
to the Voyage; and I told her, I thought there was
something so uncommon in the Impressions I had upon
my Mind for the Voyage, that it would be a kind of
resisting Providence, if I should attempt to stay at Home;
after which she ceas'd her Expostulations, and join'd
with me, not only in making Provision for my Voyage,
but also in settling my Family-Affairs in my Absence, and
providing for the Education of my Children.
In order to this, I made my Will, and fettled the
Estate I had in such a Manner for my Children, and
placed it in such Hands, that I was perfectly easy and
satissy'd they would have Justice done them, whatever
might besal me i and for their Education, I lest it
wholly to my Widow, with a sussicient Maintenance to
Aerself for her Care: All which she richly deserv'd; for
no
of every Kind, Staples, Hooks, Hinges, and every neces-
sary thing I could think os.
I carried also a hundred spare Arms, Mufquets and
Fusils, besides some Pistols, a considerable Quantity os Shoe
of all Sizes, three or four Tons of Lead, and two Pieces
of Brass Cannon; and because I knew not what Time,
and what Extremities, I was providing for, I carry'd an
hundred Barrels of Powder, besides Swords and Cutlaccs,
and the Iron Part of some Pikes, and Halbertu, so that,
in short, we had a large Magazine of all Sorts of Stores;
and I made my Nephew carry two small Quarter-deck
Guns more than he wanted for his Ship, to leave behind,
if there was Occasion ; that, that when they came there,
we might build a Fort, and man it against all Sorts of
Enemies : And indeed I at first thought there would be
Need enough for it all, and much more, if we hoped to
maintain our Posse ssion of the Island, as shall be seen in
the Course of the Story.
I had not such bad Luck in this Voyage, as I had
been used to meet with; and theresore shall have the lest
Occasion to interrupt the Reader, who perhaps may be
impatient to hear how Matters went with my Colony;
yet some odd Accidents, cross Winds, and bad Weather
happen'd, on this first setting out, which made the Voyage
longer than I expected it at first; and I, who had never
made but one Voyage, wz. my sirst Voyage to Guinea,
in which I might be said to come back again, as the
Voyage was at first designed, began to think the same ill
Fate still attended me; and that I was born to be never
contented with my own Shore, and yet to be always un-
fortunate at Sea.
Contrary Winds first put us to the Northward, and
we were obliged to put in at Galuaj in Ireland, where
we lay Windbound two-and-thirty Days; but we
had this Satissaction with the Disaster, that Provisions
were here exceeding cheap, and in the utmost Plenty;
so that while we lay here, we never touched the Ship's
Stores, but rather added to them; here also I took
several Hogs, and two Cows with their Calves, which
I refolv'd, if I had a good Passage, to put a-shore in
my Island, but we found Occasion to dispose otherwise
cs them. .1
diately, that is to say, in a few Minutes, all the Fire
was out, that is to say, the rest of the Ship sunk: This
was terrible, and indeed an afflicting Sight, for the Sake
of the poor Men, who, I concluded, must be either all
destroyed in the Ship, or be in the utmost Distress in their
Boats in the Middle of the Ocean, which, at present, by
reason it was dark, I could not fee: However, to direct
them as well as I could, I caused Lights to be hung out
in all the Parts of. the Ship where we could, and which
we had Lanthorns for, and kept firing Guns all the Night
long; letting them know by this, that there was a Ship
not sar off.
About eight o'Clock in the Morning, we discovered
the Ship's Boats, by the Help of our Perspective-glasses;
and found there were two of them, both throng'd with
People, and deep in the Water: We perceived they row'd,
the Wind being against them; that they saw our Ship,
and did the utmost to make us fee them.
We immediately spread our Ancient, to let them know
we saw them; and hung a Waft out, as a Signal for them
to come on board; and then made more Sail, standing
directly to them. In a little more than half an Hour, we
came up with them, and, in a Word, took them all in,
being no less than sixty-four Men, Women, and Children;
for there were a great many Passengers.
Upon the whole, we found it was a French Merchant-
ship of 300 Tons, homeward-bound from Shtebeck, in
the River of Canada. The Master gave us a long Ac-
count of the Distress of his Ship, how the Fire began in
the Steerage by the Negligence of the Steersman; but,
on his crying out for Help, was, as every Body thought,
intirely put out: But they soon found, that some Sparks
of the first Fire had gotten into some Part of the Ship,
so dissicult to come at, that they could not effectually
quench it; and afterwards getting in between the Tim-
bers, and within the Cieling of the Ship, it proceeded
into the Hold, and mastered all the Skill, and all the
Application, they were able to exert.
They had no more to do then, but to get into their
Boats, which, to their great Comfort, were pretty large;
heing their Long-boat, and a great Shallop, besides a
small Skiff, which was of no great Service to them,
other
and at last, to their inexpressible Joy, they found we saw
them, ,
It is impossible for me to express the several Gestures,
the strange Ecstasies, the Variety of Postures, which these
poor delivered People run into, to express the Joy of their
Souls at so unexpected a Deliverance; Gries and Fear
are easily described; Sighs, Tears, Groans, and a very
few Motions of Head and Hands, make up the Sum of its
Variety: But an Excess of Joy, a Surprise of Joy, has a
thousand Extravagancies in it; there were some in Tears,
some raging and tearing themselves, as if they had been
in the greatest Agonies of Sorrow; some stark raving and
downright lunatic; some ran about the Ship stamping
with their Feet, others wringing their Hands i some were
dancing, some singing, some laughing, more crying ; many
quite dumb, not able to speak a Word; others sick and
vomiting, several swooning, and ready to saint; anda/iiu
were crossing themselves and giving God Thanks.
I would not wrong them neither; there might be many
that were thanksul afterward; but the Passion was too
strong for them at first, and they were not able to master
it: They were thrown into Ecstasies and a kind of Frenzy,
and so there were but a very few who were compos'd and
serious in their Joy. ,
Perhaps also the Case may have some Addition to it,
from the particular Circumstance of the Nation they be-
longed to; I mean the French, whose Temper is allowed
to be more volatile, more passionate, and more sprightly,
and their Spirits more sluid, than of other Nations. I
am not Philosopher enough to determine the Cause, but
nothing I had ever seen besore came up to it: The Ec-
stasies poor Friday, my trusty Savage, was in, when he
found his Father in the Boat, came the nearest to it; and
the Surprise of the Master, and his two Companions, whom
I delivered from the two Villains that set them on Shore
in the Island, came a little Way towards it ; but nothing
was to compare to this, either that I saw in Friday, or
any-where else in my Life.
It is sarther observable, that these Extravagancies did
not shew themselves in that different Manner 1 have
mentioned, in different Persons only: But all the Va-
ries/ would appear in a fliort Succession of Moments,
him, and he waked next Morning perfectly composed,
and well.
The younger Priest behaved himself with great Com-
mand of his Passion, and was really an Example of a
serious well governed Mind; at.his first coming on board
the Ship, he threw himself slat on his Face, prostrating
himself in Thanksulness for his Dei! vers acs S in which I
unhappily and unseasonably a iti.rbtd ii.ni. rer.iiy think-
ing he had been in a Swoon; bat r.c .pair r i;i :/ ; thank-
ed me; told me, he was giving Goo i':.*ritts t'n bis De-
liverance; begged me to leave him .-. j':.. ..ioments,
and that, next to his Maker, he woulc; -ie Thanks
also.
I was heartily sorry that I disturbed Kim; -:nd not on-
ly lest him, but kept others from inteirupting him also;
he continued in that Posture about three Minutes, or
a little more, after J lest him; then came to me, as he
had said he would, and, with a great deal of Seriousness
and Affection, but with Tears in his Eyes thanked me,
that had, underGod, given him, and 10 many miserable
Creatures their Lives: I told him, I had no room to
move him to thank God for it, rather than me; for I
had seen, that he had done that already: But I added,
that it was nothing but what Reason and Humanity dic-
tated to all Men, and that we had as much Reason as he
to give Thanks to God, who had blessed us so sar as to
make us the Instruments of his Mercy to so many of his
Creatures.
After this, the young Priest applied himself to his Coun-
try-folks, laboured to compose them; persuaded, in-
treated, argued, reasoned with them, and did his utmost
to keep them within the Exercise of their Reason; and
with some he had Success, tho' others were, for a Time,
out of all Government of themselves.
I cannot help committing this to Writing, as perhaps
it may be usesul to those into whose Hands it may fall,
in the guiding themselves in all the Extravagancies of
their Passions; for if an Excess of Joy can carry Men
out tc\ such a Length beyond the Reach of their Reason,
what will not the Extravagancies of Anger, Rage, and
a provoked Mind, carry us to? And indeed, here I saw
Reason for keeping an exceeding Watch over our Pas-
sions
them; and that it would be a most barbarous thing, to
take that little from them which they had sav'd out of
the Fire, and then set them on Shore, and leave them;
that this would be first to save them from Death, and
then kill them ourselves; save them from drowning, and
then abandon them to starving; and theresore I would
not let the least thing be taken from them: As to setting
them on Shore, I told them indeed, that was an exceed-
ing Dissiculty to us, for that the Ship was bound to the
East-Indies; and though we were driven out of our
Course to the Westward a very great Way, which perhaps
was directed by Heaven on Purpose for their Deliverance,
yet it was impossible for us wilsully to change our Voyage
on this particular Account; nor could my Nephew, the
Captain, answer it to the Freighters, with whom he was
under Charter-party to pursue his Voyage by the Way
of Brasil; and all I knew he could do for them was, to
put ourselves in the Way of meeting with other Ships
homeward-bound from the West-Indies, and get them
Passage, if possible, to England or France.
The first Part of the Proposal was so generous and
kind, they could not but be very thanksul for it; but
they were in a great Consternation, especially the Pas-
sengers, at the Notion of being carried away to the East-
Indies; they then intreated me, that seeing I was driven
so sar to the Westward besore I met with them, I would
at least keep on the same Course to the Banks of New-
soundland, where it was possible I might meet with some
Ship or Sloop; that they might hire to carry them back to
Canada, from whence they came.
I thought this was but a reasonable Request on their
Part; and theresore I inclined to agree to it; for indeed
I considered, that to carry this whole Company to the
East-Indies, would not only be an intolerable Severity to
the poor People, bat would be ruining our whole Voy-
ago by devouring all oar Provisions; so I thought it no
Breach of Charty-party, but what an unsoreseen Acci-
dent made absolutely neceslary to us; and in which no
one could say we were to blame; for the Laws of God
and Nature would have forbid, that we should resuse
to take up two Boats sull of People in such a distressed
Condition; and the Nature of the thing as well re-
specting
fires a Gun as a Signal of Distress; the Weather was
pretty good, Wind at N. N. W. a fresh Gale, and we
soon came to speak with her.
We found her a Ship of Bristol, bound home from
Barbadaes, but had been blown out of the Road at
Barbadaes, a few Days besore she was ready to sail, by
a terrible Hurricane, while the Captain and chies Mate
were both gone on Shore; so that beside the Terror of
the Storm, they were but in an indifferent Cafe for good
. Artists to bring the Ship home: They had been already
nine Weeks at Sea, and had met with another terrible
Storm after the Hurricane was over, which had blown
them quite out of their Knowledge to the Westward,
and in which they lost their Masts, as above; they told
us, they expected to have seen the Bahama Islands, but
were then driven away again to the South-east, by a
llrong Gale of Wind at N.N.W. the same that blew
now, and having no Sails to work the Ship with, but a
Main-course, and a Kind of square Sail upon a Jury-
fore-rrrast, which they had set up, they could not lie
near the Wind, but were endeavouring to stand away
for the Canaries.
.But that which was worst of all, was, that they were
-almost starv'd for Want of Provisions, besides the Fatigues
they had undergone; their Bread and Flesh was quite
gone, they had not an Ounce lest in the Ship, and had
had none for eleven Days; the only Relief they had,
was, their Water was not all spent, and they had about
half a Barrel of Flour lest; they had Sugar enough; some
Succades or Sweet meats they had at first, but they were
devour'd, and they had seven Casks of Rum.
There was a Youth and his Mother, and a Maid-ser-
vant, on board, who were going Passengers, and think-
ing the Ship was re?dy to sail, unhappily came on board
the Evening besore the Hurricane began; and, having no
Provisions of their own lest, they were in a more deplo-
rable Condition than the rest; for the Scarnen, being re-
duced to such an extreme Necessity themselves, had ,:o
Compassion, we may be sure, for the poor Passe.-iaers;
and they were indeed in a Condition that their Misery
is very hard to describe.
VO L. II.
B
I had
ef being made the Food of other Creatures. But all
the while the Mate was thus relating to me the misera-
ble Condition of the Ship's Company, I could not pu
out as my Thought the Stoiy he had told me of th,i
three- poor Creatures in the great Cabin; (viz.) th«
Mother, her Son, and the Maid-iervant, whom he had
heard nothing- of for two or three Days; and whom he
feem'd to confess they had wholly neglected, their own
Extremities being so great; by which I understood, that
they had really given them no Food at all ; and that
theresore they must be perished, and be all lying dead
perhaps on trie Floor or Deck of the Cabin.
AsT therefore kept the Mate, whom we then call'd Cap-
tain, on board with his Men to resresh them, so I also forgot
not the starving Crew that were lest on board, but order'd
my own Boat to go board the Ship, and with my Mate and
twelve Men to carry them a Sack of Bread, and four or five
Pieces of Bees to boil. Our Surgeon charg'd the Men to
cause the Meat to be boil'd while they stay'd, and to keep
Guard in the Cook-room, to prevent the Mens taking it to
eat raw, or taking ittiut of the Pot besore it was well boil-
ed, and then to give every Man but a little at a Time;
and by this Caution he preserv'd the Men, who would
otherwise have kill'd themselves with that very Food that
was given them on Purpose to save their Lives.
At the same Time, I order'd the Mate to go into the great
Cabin, and fee in what Condition the poor Passengers were
in, and. if they were alive, to comfort them, and give them
what Resreshment was proper; and the Surgeon gave him
a large Pitcher with some of the prepar'd Broth which he
had given the Mate that was on board, and which he did
not question would restore them gradually.
I was not satisfy'd with this ; but, as I said above, hav-
ing a great Mind to fee the Scene of Misery, which I knew
the Ship itself would present me with, in a more lively
Manner than I could have it by Report, I took the Cap-
tain of the Ship, as we now call'd him, with me, and
went myself a little after in their Boat.
1 found the poor Men on board almost in a Tumult
to get the Victuals out of the Boiler besore it was ready:
But my Mate observ'd his Order, and kept a goo J
Guard at the Cook-room Door; and the Man hi
B 2 placed
though I questio^whether he could be sure of it or not:
But it was too late, and she died the same Night.
The Youth, who yv;»s preserved at the Price of his most
affectionate Mother's L'Ife, was not so sar gone; yet he lay
in a Cabin-bed'as on«; stretches out, with hardly any Life
lest in him; he had a Piece of an old Glove in his Mouth,
having eaten up "the rest of it; however, being young,
and having more Strength thanlns Mother, the Mate got
something down his Throat, and he began sensibly to re-
vive, though by giving him sorqe Time after but two or
three Spoonsuls extraordinary, he was very sick, and
brought it up again.
But the next Care was the poor Maid; she lay all
along upon the Deck hard by her Mistress, and just
like one that had fallen down with an Apoplexy, and
struggled for Life: Her Limbs were distorted, one of
her Hands was clasped round the Frame of one Chair,
and she griped it so hard, that we could not easily make
her let it go; her other Arm lay over her Head, and her
Feet lay both together, set fast against the Frame os the
Cabin^table; in short, she lay just like one in the last
Agonies of Death; and yet she was alive too.
The poor Creature was not only starved with Hanger,
and terrified with the Thoughts of Death, but, as the
Men told us afterwards, was broken-hearted for her Mis-
tress, whom she saw dying two or three Days besore, and
whom she loved most tenderly.
We knew not what to do with this poor Girl; for when
our Surgeon, who was a Man Of very great Knowledge
and Experience, and with great Application recover'd
her as to Life, he had her upon his Hand as to her Senses,
for she was little less than distracted for a considerable
Time after; as shall appear presently.
Whoever shall read these Memorandums, must be de-
sired to consider, that Visits at Sea are not like a Jour-
ney into the Country, where sometimes People stay a
Week or a Fortnight at a Place. Our Business was to
relieve this distressed Ship's Crew, but not lie by for
them ; and though they were willing to steer the same
Course with us for some Days, yet we could carry no
Sail to keep Pace with a Ship that had no Masts: How-
ever, as their Captain begged of us to help him to set up
deceased Widow; which I suppose was not done; for I
could never learn, that the Ship came to Brijiol; but was,
as is most probable, lost at Sea, being in so disabled a Con-
dition, and so sar from any Land, that I am of Opinion,
the first Storm she met with afterwards, she might founder
in the Sea; for she was leaky, and had Damage in her
Hold when I met with her. ,.
I was now in the Latitude of it)Y)eg. 32 Min. ard
had hitherto had a tolerable Voyage as to Weather, tho'
at first the Winds had been contrary. I shall trouble no-
body with the little Incidents of Wind, Weather, Cur-
rents, &c. on the rest of our Voyage; but shortening
my Story for the Sake of what is to follow, sliall observe
that I came to my old Habitation, the Island, on the
10th of Jpril, 1695. It was with no small Dissiculty
that I found the Place; for as I came to it, and went
from it besore, on the South and East-side of the Island,
as coming from the Brastls, so now coming in between
the Main and the Island, and having no Chart for the
Coast, nor any Land-mark, I did not know it when I
saw it, or know whether I.saw it or no.
We beat about a great while, and went on Shore on
several Islands in the Mouth of the great Kiver Oroaneque,
but none for my Purpose; only this I learn'd by my coast-
ing the Shore, that I was under one great Mistake besore,
.viz. that the Continent which I thought I saw, from the
Island I lived in, was really no Continent, but a long
Island, or rather.a Ridge of Islands reaching from one
to the other Side of the extended Mouth of that great
River ; and that the Savages who came to my Island, were
not properly those- which we call Caribees, but Islanders,
and other Barbarians of the same Kind, who inhabited
something nearer to our Side than the rest.
In short, I visited several of the Islands to no Purpose;
some I found were inhabited, and some were not. On
one of them I sound some Spaniards, and thought they
had lived there; but, speaking -with them, found they
had a Sloop lay in a small Creelc hard by, and that they
came thither to make Salt, and catch some Pearl-mus-
cels, if they could 1 but they belonged to the Isle dt Trim-'
dad, which lay f^dierNpriih.i.injhs1 Latitude of 10 an4
11 Degrees-, . :7.Y--. v '-L
H Thus
white Flag, or a Flag of Truce, I went directly on
Shore, taking with me the young Frier I mentioned, to
whom I had tpld .rIie whole Story of my living there,
and .the Wfajiner ofi£ and every Particular, both of my-
self] and &p&tha't;[t left tWe^. and'whp was on that
Account- extremely desirous to go with me. We had be-
sides about sixteen Men very well armed, if we had found
any new Guest there which we did not know of; but we
had no need of Weapons. ... .,
As We. went on Shore upon the Tide of Flood, near
'high Water, we rowed directly into the Creek; and
the first Man I fixed my Eye upon, jvas the Spaniard
whose Life I had saved, and whom I knew by his Face
perfectly well; as to his Habit, I shall describe it after-
wards. I ordered nobody to go on Shore at first but my-
self, but there was no keeping Friday in the Boat; for
the affectionate Creature had spied his Father at a Dis-
tance, a good Way off of the Spaniards, where indeed
1 saw nothing of him; and if they had not let him go
on Shore, he would have jumped into the Sea. He was
no sooner on Shore, but he slew away to his Father
like an Arrow out of a Bow. It would have made any
Man shed Tears, in spite of the firmest Resolution, to
have seen the first Transports of this poor Fellow's Joy,
when he came to his Father; how he embraced him,
kissed him, stroaked his Face, took him up in his Arms,
set him down upon a'Tree, and lay down by him ; then,
stood and looked at him, as any one "would look at a
strange Picture, for a Quarter of an Hour together; there
lay down upon the Ground, and stroaked his Legs, and
kifs'd. them, and then got up again, and star'd at him;
one would have thought the Fellow bewitched: But it
would have made a Dog laugh to fee how the next Day
his Passion; ran out another way: In the Morning- he:
walked along the Shore, to-and-again, with his Father,-
several Hours, always leading him by the Hand, as if
he had been a Lady; and «very now-and-then would'
come to fetch something or other for him to the Boat,
either a Lump of Sugar, ora Dram, a Biscuit, or some-
thing or other that was good. In the Afternoon his-
Frohcks ran another Wsiy, for then he would set the old
Man down u]:on the Ground, and dance a-bout him, and'
B 5 made-
gone: He told me he could not but have some Satis-
saction in my good Fortune, when he heard that I was
gone in a good Ship, and to my Satissaction; and that he
had oftentimes a strong Persuasion, that one Time or other
he should see me again: But nothing that ever besel him in
his Life, he said, was so surprising and afflicting to him at
first, as the Disappointment he was under when he came
back to the island, and sound I was not there.
As to the three Barbarians (so he called them) that
were lest behind, and os whom he said he had a long
Story to tell me; the Spaniards all thought themselves
much better among the Savages, only that their Num-
ber was so small. And, says he, had they been strong
enough, we had been all along ago in Purgatory; and
with that he crose'd himself upon the Breall: But, Sir,
fays he, I hope you will not be displeased, when I shall
te l you how, forced by Necessity, we were obliged, for our
own Preservation, to disarm them, and making them our
Subjects, who would not be content with being moderately
our Maters, but would be our Murderers. I answered, I
was heartily afraid of it when I lest them there; and no-
thing troubled me at my parting from the Island, but that
they were not come back, that I might have put them in
Possession of every thing first, and lest the other in a State
of Subjection, as they deserved: But if they had reduced
fhem to it, 1 was very glad, and mould be very sar from
finding any Fault; with it; for I knew they were a Parcel
of resractory ungovernable Villains, and were fit for any
manner of Mischies.
While I Was saying this, came the Man whom he
had sent back, and with him eleven Men more: In
the Dress they were in, it was impostible to guess what
Nation they were of; but he made all clear both to them
and tome. First he turned tome, and pointing to them,
stid, These, Sir, arc some of the Gentlemen who owe
their Lives,to you and then turning to them, and point-
ing to me, he let them know who I was; upon which
tiiey all came up one by oaie, not as if they had beon
Sailors, and ordinary Fellows, and I the like, but really,
as if they had betn Ambassador* or Noblemen, and I
a Monarch, or a great Conqueror: Their Behaviour was
to the lall Degree obliging and courteous, and yet
B 6 mix'J
37
The first' thing, however, which I inquired into,
that I might begin where I lest off, was of their own
Part i. and. I;desired-;h5.wou!d give me a particular Ac-
count of his Voyage back to his Countrymen with the
Boar,:\vheBrJ.ftrg him; to: fptch them over. He told
me the*? was.. .Variety in that Part; for nothing
remarkable happened -to fbero pn the Way, they having
very calm Weather, and a smooth- Sea; for his Coun-
trymen, it c.ould not be doubted, he said, but that they
were overjoyed to see him: (It seems he was the prin-
cipal Man among them,- t.he Captain of the Vessel they
had been ftipwreck'dja, having been dead some Time:)
They were,-he ssaid,; the por£ surprised to see him, be-
cause they kn«w. that he was sallen; into the Hands of
Savages,; who,-they were satisfy'd, would devour him,
as they did all the rest of their Prisoners; that when he
told them the Story of his Deliverance, and in what
Manner he was sur;iish'd for carrying them away, it was
like a Dream to them; and their Astonishment, they said,
was something like that of Joseph's Brethren, when he
told them who he was, and told them the Story of his
Exaltation in Pbaraob\ Court: But when he shewed them
the Arms, the Powder, the Ball, and the Provisions that
he brought them for their Journey or Voyage, they were
restored to themselves, took a just Share of the Joy of
their Deliverance, and immediately prepared to come
away with him.
Their first Business- was to get Canoes; and in this
they were obliged not to stick so much upon the honest
Part of it, but to trespass upon their friendly Savages,
and to borrow two large Canoes or Periagua's, on Pre-
tence of going out a Fishing, or for Pleasure.
In these they came away the next Morning; it seems
they wanted no Time to get themselves ready, for they
:thing in the World, but what they had on them, and a
few Roots to eat, of which they us'd to make their Bread.
-.They were in all these Weeks absent, and in that
Time, unluckily for them, I had the Occasion offered
for my Escape, as I mentioned in my other Part, and
to get off from the Island; leaving three of the most
impudent, harden'd, ungoyern'd, disagreeable Villains

behind
39
happened a little Quarrel on board our Ship, which I was
afraid once would turn to a second Mutiny; nor was it
appeas'd, till the Captain, rousing up his Courage, and
taking us all to his Assistance, parted them by Force,
and making two of the most resractory Fellows Prison-
ers, he laid tfoem in Irons; and as they had been active
in the former Disorders, and let sall some ugly danger-
ous Words the second Time, he threaten'd to carry
them in Irons to England, and have them hang'd therefor
Mutiny, and running away with the Ship..
This, it seems, though the Captain did not intend to
do it, frighted some other Men in the Ship; aud some
of them had put it in the Heads of the rest, that the Cap-
tain only gave them good Words for the present,; till they
lhould come to some Englijh Port; and that then they
should be all put into a Goal, and try'd for their Lives.
The Mate got Intelligence of this, and acquainted us
with it; upon which it was desir'd, that I, who still
passed for a great Man among them, should go down
with the Mate, and satisfy the Men, and tell them, that
they might be assured, if they behaved well the rest of
the Voyage, all they had done for the Time past, should
be pardon'd. So I went, and after passing my Honour's
Word to them, they appear'd easy, and the more so,
when I caus'd the two Men, who were in Irons, to be
releas'd aud forgiven. .... -
But this Mutiny had brought us to an Anchor for that
Night, the Wind also salling calm; next Morning we
found, that our two Men who had been laid in Irons,
had stole each of them a Mufquet, and some other Wea-
pons; what Powder or Shot they had, we know not;
and had taken the Ship's Pinnace, which was not yet
haled up, and run away with her to their Companions
in Roguery, on Shore. s -.;v
As soon as we found this, I ordered the Long-boat on
Shore, with twelve Men and the Mate, and away they
went to seek- the Rogues; but they could nei;her find
them, nor any of the rest; for they all sled into the Woods,
when they saw the Boat coming on Shore. The Mate
was once resolu'd, in Justlee to their Roguery, to have
destroy'd their Plantations* burnt all their £ioushold-stuff
and. Furniture, aud lest them to shift without it; but
having
they should build no Houses upon their Gound, unless
they would pay them Rent for them.
The two Men thought they had jested at first; and
aslc'd them tdttfrne Snd fit down', and fee what fine Houses
they were that they had built, and tell them what Rent
they demanded: And one Of them merrily told them, if
they were Ground landlords, he h'op'd, if they built Te-
nements upon the'L'alrid, and made Improvements, they
would, according "to the Custom of all Landlords, grant
them along Leafs, "andbid them go fetch a Scrivener to
draw the Writings. One of the three, damning and raging,
told them,' they should see they were not in Jest; and go-
ing to a little Plkce'at a Distance, where the honest Men
had made a Fife to;dress their Victuals, he takes a Fire-
brand, and claps it'to the Outside of their Hut, and very
sairly set it on Fire; and it would have been all burnt
down in a few Minutes, if one of the two had not run to
the Fellow, thrust Kim away, and trod the Fire out with
his Feet, and thai not without some Dissiculty too.
The Fellow was in such a Rage at the honest Man's
thrusting him away, that he turn'd upon him with a Pole
he had in his Hand; and had not the Man avoided the
Blow very nimbly, and run into the Hut, he had ended
his Days at once. His Comrade, seeing the Danger they
were both in, ran in after him, and immediately they
came both oat with their Mosquets; and the Man that was
first struck at with the Pole, knock'd the Fellow down,
who began the Quarrel,' with the Stock of their Musquet,
and"rilat before the other tWo could come to help him;
and then seeing the rest come at them, they stood toge-
ther; and presenting 'the other Ends of their Pieces to
them, bade them stand Off.'
The other had Fife-Arms With them too; but one of
the two honest Men, bolder than his Comrade, and made
desperate' by hU Danger, told them, if they offered to
move Hand Or Foot; they were all dead Men; and boldly
commanded them to lay down their Arms. They did
not indeed lay down their Arms; but, seeing him re-
solute, it brought them to a Parley, and they consented
to take their wounded MaV with them, and be gone;
and indeed, it seems' the Fellow was wounded sussicient-
ly with the Blow; however, they were much in the
Wrong,
One of the Englijhmen return'd very briskly, What had
they to do there ? That they came on Shore without Leave,
and that they should not plant or build upon the Island;
it was none of their Ground. Why, says the Spaniard,
very calmly, Seignior Inglese, they must notstarve. The Eng-
lijhmen replied, like a true rough-hewn Tarpaulin, they
might starve and be damn'd, they should not plant, nor
build in that Place. But what must they do then, Seignior?
says the Spaniard. Another of the Brutes return'd, Do!
D—n them, they should be Servants, and work for them.
But hovu can you ex feel that os them? They are not bought
'with your Money; you have no Right to make them Servants.
The Englijhmen answer'd, The Island was theirs, the Go-
vernor had given it to them, and no Man had any thing
to do there but themselves; and with that swore by his
Maker, that he would go and burn all their new Huts;
they should build none upon their Land.
Why, Seignior, says the Spaniard, by the fame Rule, tut
must be your Servants too. Ay, says the bold Dog, and so
you shall too, besore we have done with you, mixing two
or three G—d d—mme's in the proper Intervals of his
Speech. The Spaniard only fmil'd at that, and made him
no Answer. However, this little Discourse had heated
them; and starting up, one says to the other, I think it
was he they call'd Will Atkins, Come, Jack, let us go
and have t'other Brush- with them; we'll demolish their
Castle, I'll warrant you; they shall plant no Colony in
our Dominions, '-' '-
Upon this, they were all trooping away, with every
Man a Gun, a Pistol, and a Sword, and muttered some
insolent things among themselves, of what they would
do to the Spaniards too, when Opportunity offer'd; but
the Spaniards, it seems, did not ib perfectly understand
them, as to know all the Particulars; only, that, in ge-
neral, they threatened them hard for taking the two Eng-
lijhmen's Part; ' -
Whither they went, or how they bestow'd their Time
that Evening, the Spaniards hid, they did not know;
but it seems they wander'd about the Country, Part of
the Night; and then lying down in the Place which I
used to call my Bower, they were weary, and overslept
themselves. The Cafe was this: They had resolved to
they had dogged one another, when the three were gone
thither, the two were here; and afterwards, when the
two went back to find them, the three were come to the
old Habitation again; we shaIl see their differing Con-
duct presently. When the three came back, like surious
Creatures, slushed with the Rage which the Work they
had been about put them into, they came up to the
Spaniards and told them what they had done, by way
of Scoff and Bravado; and one of them stepping up to
one of the Spaniards, as if they had been a Couple of
Boys'
Head

he t
the
same Sauce, is you do not mend your Manners.
The Spaniard, who, though quite a civil Man, was as
brave as a Man could be desired to be, and withal a
strong well-made Man, looked steadily at him, for a
good while; and then, having no Weapon in his Hand,
stept gravely up to him, and, with one Blow of his Fist,
knocked him down, as an Ox is felled wich a Pole-ax;
at which one of the Rogues, insolent as the first, fired
his Pistol at the Spaniard immediately; he missed his Bo-
dy indeed, for the Bullets went through his Hair, but
one of them touch'd the Tip of his Ear, ar.d he bled
pretty much. The Blood made the Spaniard believe he
was more hurt than he really was, and that put him in-
to some Heat, for besore he acted all in a perfect Calm;
but now resolving to go through with his Work, he
stooped, and took the Fellow's Musquet whom he had
knock'd down, and was just going to shoot the Man
who had fir'd at him; when -the rest of the Spaniards,
being in the Cave, came out, and calling to him not to
siioot, they stept in, secur'd the other two, and took their
Jama wornthjsnf•'.'... tm0' h*^t f r. -«
When they were thus disarmed, and found they had
made all tht Spaniards their Enemies, as well as their
own Countrymen, they began to. cool; and, giving the
Spaniards better Words, would have had their Arms
again; but the Spaniards, considering the Feud that was
between them and the other two Engli/bœen, and that
it would he the best Method they could take to keep
them from one another,'toid them they Would do them
upon this Condition we hope you will promise to life no
Violence with them, other than in ydur Desence.
The two Enghjhmen yielded to this very aukwardly,
and with great Reluctance; but the Spaniards protested,
they did it only to keep them from Bloodshed, and to
make all easy at laftV far} said they, we are not so
many of us; here is Room enough for Us all, and it is
great Pity we should not be all good Friends. At length
they did consent, and waited for the Issue of the thing,
living for some Days with the Spaniards; for their own
Habitation was destroy'd.
Fn about five Days Time the three Vagrants, tired
with Wardering, and almost starv'd with Hunger, hav-
ing chiesly lived on Turtles Eggs all that while, came
back to the Grove; and finding my Spaniard, who, as
I have Jaid, was the Governor, and two more with him,
walking by the Side of the Creek; they came up in a
very submissive humble Manner, and begged to be re-
ceived again into the Family- The Spaniards used them
civilly, but told them, they had acted so unnaturally by
their Countrymen, and so very grossly by them (the
Spaniards) that they could not come to any Conclu-
sion without consulting the two Englijhmen, and the
rest; but, however, they would go to them, and dis-
course about it, and they should know in half an Hour.
It may be guess'd, that they were very hard put to it;
for it seems, as they were to wait this Half-hour for an
Answer, they begged he would send them out some Bread
in the mean Time; which he did, and sent them at the
same Time a large Piece of Goat's Flesh, and a broil'd
Parrot; which they eat very heartily, for they were
hungry enough.
After half an Hour's Consultation they were called in,
and a long Debate had about them, their two Country-
men charging them with the Ruin of all their Labour,
and a Design to murder them; all which they own'd
besore, and theresore could not deny now; upon the
Whole, the Spaniards acted the Moderators between
them; and as they had obliged the two Englijhmen not
to hurt the three, while they were naked and unarmed,
so they now obliged the three to go and rebuild their
Fellows two Huts, one to be of the same Dimensions,
and
mocks and Ship-beds, as I did, who was but cne; so
they had little to do, when they were willing to rife, bat
to .get up upon their Feet, and perhaps put on a Coat,
such as it was, and their Pumps, and they were ready for
going any Way that their Thoughts guided them.
Being thus gotten up, he look'd out; but, being dark,
he could fee little or nothing; and besides, the Trees which
I had planted, as in my former Account is described, and
which were now grown tall, intercepted his Sight, so
that he could only look up, and fee that it was a clear
Star light Night; and, hearing no Noise, he return'd and
lad him.down again; but it was all one, he could not
sleep, nor could he compose himself to any thing like
Rest, but his Thoughts were to the last Degree uneasy,
and yet he knew not for what.- --,
Having made some Noise with rising and walking
about, going out and coming in, another of them wak'd,
and, calling, alk'd, who it was that was up? The Go-
vernor told him, how it had been with him: Say you
so? says the other Spaniard; such things are not to be
slighted, I assure vou; there is certainly some Mischies
workng, says he, near us; and presently he aslc'd him,
Where are the Unglistmcn? They are all in their Huts,
says he, safe enough. It seems, the Spaniards bad kept
Possession of the main Apartment, and had made a Place,
where the three Englijhmen, since their last Mutiny, al-
ways quartered by themselves, and Could not come at the
rest. Well, says the Spaniard, there is something in it, I
am persuaded from my own Experience; I am satisfied
our Spirits embodied have Converse with, and receive
Intelligence from, the Spirits unembodied, and inhabit-
ing the invisible World; and this friendly Notice is
given for our Advantage, if we know how to make use of
it. Come, fays he, let us go out, and look abroad; and
if we find nothing at all in it to justify our Trouble, I'll
tell you a Story to the Purpose, that shall convince you
of the Justite of my proposing it.
In a Word, they went out to go to the Top of the
Hill, where I used to go; but they, being strong, and in
good Company, not alone, as I was, used none of my
Cautions to go up by the Ladder, and then pulling it
up after them, to go up a second Stage to the Top, but
Vol. II. C were
doing, they knew not, and what to do themselves, they
knew not; for, first, the Enemy were too many; and,
secondly, they did not keep together, but were divided
into several Parties, and were on Shore in several Places.
The Spaniards were in no small Consternation at this
Sight; and as they found, that the Fellows ran strag-
gling all over the Shore, they made no Doubt, but, first
or last, some of them would chop in upon their Habitat
tion, or upon some other Place, where they would fee
the Tokens of Inhabitants; and they were in great Per-
plexity also for sear of their Flock of Goats, which would
have been little less than starving them, if they should
have been destroy'd; so the first thing they resolv'd npor,
was to dispatch three Men away besore it was light, .via.
two Spaniards and one Engtifiman, to drive all the Goa's
away to the great Valley where the Cave was, and, if Need
were, to drive them into the very Cave itself.
Could they have seen the Savages altogether in one
Body, and at any Diilance from their Canoes, they re-
solved, if there had been an Hundred of them, to have
attacked them; but that could not be obtained, for,
*hey were some of them two Miles off from the other,
end, as it appeared afterwards, were of two differenl:
Nations.
After having mused a great while on the Course
they mould take, and beaten their Brains in considering
their present Circumstances; they resolv'd at last, while
it was dark, to fend the old Savage (Friday's Father)
out, as a Spy, to learn, if possible, something concern-
ing them, as what they came for, and what they in-
tended to do, and the like; the old Man readily under-
took it, and, stripping himself quite naked, as most of
the Savages were, away he went: After he had been
gone an Hour or two, he brings Word, that he had been
among them undiscover'd, that he found they were
two Parties, and of two several Nations, wh» had War
with one another, and had had a great Battle in their
own Country, and that both Sides having had several
Prisoners taken in the Fight, they were by mere
Chance landed in the same Island, for the devouring
their Prisoners, and making merry; bat their coming so
by chance to tb,s same Place, had spoilt! all their Mirth;
C 1 that
53
them down with the Stock of the Musquet, not by shooting
them, for fear of raising an Alarm by the Noise.
As they expected, it fell out; three of the routed
Army sled for Life, and crossing the Creek, ran directly
into the Place, not in the least knowing whither they
went, but running as into a thick Wood for Shelter; the
Scout they kept to look abroad, gave Notice of this
within, with this Addition, to our Mens great Satis-
saction, mix. That the Conquerors had not pursued
them, or seen which Way they were gone. Upon this,
the Spaniard Governor, a Man of Humanity, would not
suffer them to kill the three Fugitives; but, sending three
Men out by the Top of the Hill, order'd them to go
round, and come in behind them, surprise and take them
Prisoners, which was done; the Residue of the conquered
People sled "to their Canoes, and got off to Sea; the
Victors retired, and made no Pursuit, or very little; but,
drawing themselves into a Body together, gave two great
screaming Shouts, which they suppos'd were by way of
Triumph,.and so the Fight ended: And the same Day
about three o'Clock in the Afternoon, they also marched
to their Canoes. And thus the Spaniards had their Island
again free to themselves, their Fright was over, and they
saw no Savages in several Years after.
After they were all gone, the Spaniards came oat of
their Den; and, viewing the Field of Battle, they found
about two and-thirty dead Men upon the Spot; some
were killed with great long Arrows, several of which
were found stirk:ng in their Bodies; but most of them
were killed with their great wooden Swords, sixteen or
seventeen of which they found in the Field of Battle,
and as many Bows, with a great many Arrows: These
Swords were great unwieldly things, and they must be
very strong Men that used them: Molt of those Men that
were killed with them, had their Hends maih'd to Pieces,
as we may say, or, as we call it in EngUJh, their Brains
knock'd out, and several of their Arms and Legs broken;
so that it is evident they fight with inexpressible Rage and
Fury; they found not one wounded Man that was not
stone dead ; for either they stay by their Enemy till they
have quite killed them, or they carry all the wounded
Men, that are not quite dead, away wi;h them.
C 3 This
ft O a I K S O N CRUSOE. 55
and that there were more remote and retired Parts of it
equally adapted to their Way of Living, and mani-
festly to their Advantage, they should not rather remove
their Habitation, and plant in some rrtore proper Place
for their Safety, and especially for the Security of their
Cattle and Corn? .J ".:
Upon this, after long jJebafe, it was conceived, thaf
they would not remove their Habitation; because that some
Time or other they thought they might hear from their Go-
vernor again, meaning me.; and if I should send any one
to seek them, I would be sure to direct them on that Side,
where, if they should find the Place demolIsh'd, they
would conclude the Savages had killed as all, and we were
gone, and so our Supply would go away too.
But as to their Corn and Cattle, they agreed to re-
move them into the Valley where my Cave was, where
the Land was as proper to both, and where indeed there
was Land enough: However, upon second Thoughts,
they altered one Part of that Resolution too, and re-
solved only to remove Part of their Cattle thither, and
plant Part of their Corn there; and so,- if one Part was-
destroyed, the other might be saved: And one Piece of
Prudence they used, which it was very well they did;
.viz. That they never trusted fhese three Savages, which
they had taken Prisoners, with knowing any thing of
the Plantation they had made in that Valley, or of any
Cattle they had there; much less of the Cave there,
which they kept in Cafe of Necessity, as a safe Retreat >
and thither they carried also the two Barrels- of Powder;
which I had sent them at my coming away.
But, however, they resolv'd not to change their Ha-
bitation ; yet they agreed, that as I had caresully co-
ver'd it first with a Will or Fortification, and then with
a Grove of Trees; so, seeing their Safety consisted in-
tirely in their being concealed, of which they were now
sully convine'd j they set to work to cover and conceal
the Place yet more esfectually thta before: To this Pur-
pose, as I had planted Trees for rather thrust Irt Stakes,
which in Time all grew to be Trees): for some good
Distance besore the-Entrance into my Apartment, they
went on iri'the same Manner, and filled up the rest of
that whole Space of Ground, from the Trees I had set,
C 4 quite
which, by the Way, was that End where I never went, for
fear of being discover'd, they were surpris'd with seeing
above twenty Canoes of Indians, just coming on Shore.
They made the best os their'Way home, in Hurry
enough; and giving the'Alarm to their Comrades, they
kept close al! that Day and the next, going out only at
Night, to make Observation: But they had the good
Luck to be mistaken; for where-ever the Savages went,
they did not land at that Time on the Island, but pursu'd
some other Design. 1
And now they had another Broil with the three Eng-
lijhmen; one of which', a most turbulent Fellow, being in
a Rage at one of the three Slaves, which I mentioned
they had taken, because the Fellow had not done some-
thing right which he bid him do, and seem'd a little un-
tractable in his shewing him, drew a Hatchet out of a
Frog-belt, in which he wore it by his Side, and fell upon
the poor Savage, not to correct him, but to-kill him.
One of the Spaniards, who was by, feeing him give the
Fellow a barbarous Cut with the Hatchet, which he
aimed at his Head, but struck into his Soulder, so that
he thought he had cut the poor Creature's Arm off, ran
to him, and, intreating him not to murder the poor Man,
'clapt in between him and the Savage, to prevent the
Mischies.
The Fellow, being enraged the more at this, struck
at the Spaniard with his Hatchet, and swore he would
serve him as he intended to serve the Savage; which
the Spaniard perceiving, avoided the Blow, and with a
Shovel, which he had in his Hand (for they were work-
ing in the Field about their Coin land,) knocked the
Brute down: Another of the Englijhmen, running at thi
same Time to help his Comrade; knocked the Spaniard
down; and then two Spaniards more came to help their
Man, and a third Englijhman fell upon them. They had
none of them any Fire'-afms, or any other Weapons but
Hatchets and other Tools, except the thi:d Englijhman;
he had'one of my o".d rusty Cutlaces, with which he made
at the last Spaniards, and wounded them both: This Fray
set the whole Family in'an Uproar, and more Help com-
ing in, they took the three Englijhmtn Prisoners. The next
Question was, What should be done With, them 1 They had
.- C j''' been

That they Jhould hang one os the three sor an Example to the
res; and that particularly it siould be he that had twice at-
tempted to commit Murder with his Hatchet, and indeed there
was some Reason to believe he had done it, for the poor
Savage was in such a miserable Condition with the Wound
he had receiv'd, that it was thought he could not live.
Eut the Governor Spaniard still said; No, it was an
Englishman that had saved all their Lives, and he wot/Id
never consent to put an Englishman to Death, tha' he had
murdered hals os them; nay, he said, is he had been killed
himsels iy an Englishman, and had Time 1st to speak, it
Jhould he, that they Jhould pardon him.
This was so positively insisted on by the Governor Spa-
niard, that there was no gainsaying it; and, as merciful
Councils are most apt to prevail, where they are so ear-
nestly press'd, so they all came into it; but then it was
to be corisider'd, what mould be done to keep them from
the Mischies they design'd; for all agreed, Governor and
a's, That Means were to be uj'ed sor preserving the Society
srom Danger: Afier a long Debate it was agreed, First,
That they Jhould be disarmed, and not permitted to have either
Gun, or Powder, or Shot, or Sword, or any Weapon, and
siouU le turnd out os the Society, and lest to live where they
would, and how they could, by themselves; but that none os
the rest, either Spaniards or English, Jhould converse with'
them, speak with them, or have any thing to do with them;
that they jhould be sorbid to come within a certain Distance
os the Plaee where the rest dwelt; and that is they offered to
(01w.it any Disorder, so at to spoil, burn, kill, or destroy any.
os the Com, Plantings, Buildings, Fences, or Cattle belong-
ing to the Society, that they siould die viithout Mercy, and
they Jhould Jhoot them where ever they couldstnd them.
The Governor, a Man of great Humanity, musing up-
on the Sentence, considered a little upon it; and, turn-
ing to the two honest Englijhmen, said, Hold; you must re-
sted, that it will be long ere they can raise Corn and Cattle os
their own, and they must not starve; we must theresore al-
low them Provisions. So he caus'd to be added, That they
jhould have a Proportion os Corn given them to last them eight
Months, andsor Seed to sow, by which Time they might be
supposed to raise some os their own; that they jhould have six
MtUhGouts, four He-Goats, and fix Kids given them, aswell
C 6 for
on, for want of a. Cave in the Earth, they could not keep
their Grain dry,' and it was in great Danger of spoiling;
And this humbled them much; fa they came and begg'd
the Spaniards, tit help, them, whlch:they very readily did;
and in four Dajsj wosk'd a great Hole ifr the'Side of the
Hill for thew, Uig .enBugh;tc*ifeCure tbeirlCorn, and other
things, from tee .;- biit it was but a poor Place at
. best, compared to mine; and especially as mine was
then; for the Spaniards had greatly enlarg'd it, and made
several new Apartments in i»J.siru%' -,« ?rw -,?.-,
About three Quarters of a Year after this Separation,
a new Frolkk took these Rogues, which, together with
the former Villainy they had committed, brought Mis-
chies enough upon'ihem, and. had very near been the
Ruin os the whole Colony; The three new Associates be-
gan, it seems, to be weary of the laborious Life they led,
and that without Hope of bettering their Circumstances;
and a Whim took them, that they would make a Voyage
to the Continent, from whence the Savages came, and
would try if they could not seize upon some Prisoners
a^mong the Natives there, and bring them home, so as
to make them do the laborious Part of their Work for
them.
The Project was not so preposterous, if they had gone
no sarther; but they did nothing, and proposed nothing,
but had either Mischies in the Design, or Mischies in the
Event: And, if I may give my Opinion, they seem'd to
be under a Blast from Heaven; for if we will not allow
a visible Curse to pursue visible Crimes, how shall we re-
concile the Events of things with divine Justice ? It was
certainly an apparent Vengeance on their Crime of Mu-
tiny and Piracy, that brought them to the State they
were in; and, as they shewed not the least Remorse for
the Crime, but added new Villainies to it, such as, par-
ticularly, that Piece of monstrous Cruelty of wounding
a poor Slave, because he did not, or perhaps could not
understand to do what he was directed; and to wound
him in such a Manner, as no question, made him a
Cripple all his Life; and in a Place where no Surgeon
or Medicine could be had for his Cure; and, what was
still worse, the murderous Intent; or, to do Justice to
the Crime, the intentional Murder, for such to be sure
it
sweet, and a great Eaiketsull of dry'd Grapes, a Pot sull
of fresh Water, a»d;'a young Kid alive to kill, they bold-
ly set out in a Canoe for a Voyage over the Sea, where it
was at least forty Miles broad. -r .£«.« K- .
The Boat was indeed a large one, and would have ve-
ry well carried 15 or 2CrMen; and theresore was rather
too big for them to manage; but as they had a sair Breeze
and the Flood-tide wfth them, they did well enough:
They had made a Mast of a long Pole, and a Sail of
four large Goat-skins dry'd, which they had few'd or
laced together,' and away they went merrily enough;
the Spaniards cailt!d after them, BonVeajo; and no Man
ever thought ofifeeingthem any more. - i
The Spaniards would often say to one another, and
the two honest Englijhmen who remain'd behind, how
quietly and comfortably they liv'd, now those three tur-
bulent Fellows were gone; as for their ever coming again,
that was the remotest thing from their Thoughts that
could be imagin'd ; when behold, after 22 Days Absence,
one of the Englijhmen, being abroad upon his Planting-
work, fees three strange Men coming towards him at a
Distance, two of them with Guns upon their Shoulders.
Away runs the Englijhman, as if he was bewitch'd, and
came frighted and amaz'd to the Governor Spaniard, and
tells him they were all undone, for there were Stangers
landed upon the Island, he could not tell who: The
Spaniard, pausing a while, says to him, Hoiv do you mean,
you cannot tell ni^ba? They are Savages to be sure. No, no,
says the Englijhmin, they are Men in Cloaths with Arms:
Nay then, says the Spaniard, why are you concerns? Is
they are not Savages, they must be Friends; sor there is it»
Christian Nation upon Earth, but .will do us Good rather than
Harm. t
While they were debating thus, came the three Eng-
lijhmen, and, standing without the Wood, which was
r.ew-planted, halloo'd to them; they presently knew
their Voices, and so all the Wonder of that kind ceased.
But now the Admiration was turn'd upon another Ques-
tion, mix.. What could be the Matter, and what made
them come back again.
It was not long besore they brought the Men in; and
inquiring where they bad been, and what they had been
doing.'
Voyage, just as we would bring so many Gows and Oxen
down to a Sea-port Tbwn. to victual a Ship.
As brutish and barbarous as these Fellows were' at home,
their Stomachs turnM'atthis'Sighf, and they did not know
what to do; to retdfethe'Prifiiners,' would have been the
highest Affront to the Savage Gentry that tiffey'd tHem;
and what to do with them they-knew not; however; upon-
some Debate, they resolv'd to accept of (hem; and, in: Re-
turn, they gave the Savages that brought them, Onerof
their Hatchets, an old Key, a Knife, and fix or seven of
their Bullets, which, though they did not'understand, they
seem'd extremely pleased with: And then, tying the poor
Creatures Hands behind them,'they (the People) dragg'd
the Prisoners into the Boat for our Men. . '.'
The Englijhmen were obliged to come away as soon as
they had them, or else they that gave them this noble
Present, would certainly have expected that they should
have gone to work with them, have killed two or three
of them the next Morning, and perhaps, have invited
the Donors to Dinner.
But, having taken their Leave with all the Respects
and Thanks that could well pass between People, where
on either Side,' they understood not one Word they could
say, they put off with their Boat, and came back to-
wards the first Island, where, when they arrived, they
set eight of their Prisoners at Liberty, there being too
many of them for their Occasion.
Ia-their Voyage they endeavoured to have some Com-
munication with their Prisoners, but it was impossible to
make them understand any thing; nothing they could
say to them, or give them, or do for them, but was look-
ed upon as going about to murder them: They first of
all unbound them, but the poor Creature*, scream'd at
that, especially the Women, as if* they had juft felt the
Knife at their Throats; for they immediately concluded
they were unbound on purpose to be killed. -
If tfley gave them any thing to eat, it was the same
thing; then they concluded, it was for fear they should
sink in Flesh, and so not be sat enough to kill: If they
look'd at one of them more particularly, the Party pre-
sently concluded, it was to fee whether he or she was sat-
test and fittest to kill first; nay,' after they had brought
* them
Friday's Father, to go in, and see first if he knew any of
them; and then, if he understood any of their Speech:
As soon as the old Man came in, he looked seriously at
then, but knew none of them; neither could any of
them understand a Word he said, or a Sign he could
make, except one of the Wpmen.
However, this was enough to answer the End, which
was to satisfy them, that the Men into whose Hands they
were sallen were Christians; that they abhorr'd eating of
Men or Women, and that they might be sure they would
not be killed: As soon as they were assured of this, they
discovered such a Joy, and by such aukward and several
Ways, as is hard to describe; for it seems they were of
several Nations.
The Woman, who was their Interpreter, was bid, in
the next Place, to aslc them if they were willing to be
Servants, and to work for the Men who had brought
them away, to save their Lives? At which they all sell a
dancing; asd presently one fell to taking sp this, asd
another that, any thing that lay next, to carry on their
Shoulders, to intimate, that they were willing to work.
The Governor, who found, that the having Women
among them would presently be attended with some In-
conveniency, and might occasion some Strife, and per-
haps Blood, asked the three Men, what they intended to
do with these Women, and how they intended to use
them, whether as Servants, or as Women? One of the-
Englijhmen answered very boldly and readily, that they
would use them as both. To which the Governor said, I
am not going to restrain yo« from it; you are your owo
Masters as to that; But this I think is but just, for avoid-
ing Disorders and Quarrels among you, and I desire it
of you for that Reason only, viz. That you will all en-
gage, that if any of you take any of these Women, as
a Woman, or Wife, ht shall take but one; and that,
having taken one, none else should touch her; for tho*
we cannot marry any cf yOu. 'yet' it is but reasonable,
that while you "slay here, the Woman any of you takes,-
should be maintains by the Man that takes her, and
should be his Wise; I mean,/^ he, while he continues
here; and that none else should have any thing to do
with her. All this appear'd so just, that every one agreed
» it without any Dissiculty.

out one of them, the rest set up a most lamentable Cry,
and hung about her, and took their Leave of her with such
Agonies, and such Affection, as would have grieved the
hardest Heart in the; \^orld; .nor was it possible for the
Englijhmen to -satisfy them, that they were not to be. im-
mediately murder'd, till they fetched the old Man, Friday's
Father, who inllanly let them know, that the five Men,
who had fetched them out one by one, had chosen them
for their Wives. ..
When they had done this, and the Fright the Women
were in was a little over, the Men went to work, and the
Spaniards came and helped them; and, in a few Hours,
they had built them every one a new Hut or Tent for
their lodging apart; for those they had already were
crouded with their Tools, Houshold-stuff and Provisions:
The three wicked ones had pitched sarthest off, and the
two honest ones nearer, but both on the North-shore of
the Island, so that they continued separate as besore:
And thus my Island was peopled in three Places, and, as
I might say, three Towns were begun to be planted.
And here 'tis very well worth observing, that as it often
happens in the World (what the wife Ends of God's Pro-
vidences are in such a Disposition of things, I cannot
say) the two honest Fellows had the two worst Wives; and
the three Reprobates, that were scarce worth hanging,
that were fit for nothing, and neither seemed born to do
themselves Good, or any one else, had three clever, di-
ligent, caresul, and ingenious Wives; not that the tW3
first were ill Wives as to their Temper or Humour; for
all the five were most willing, quiet, passive, and subject-
ed Creatures, rather like Slaves than Wives; but my
Meaning is, they were not alike capable, ingenious, or
industrious; or alike cleanly and neat.
Another Observation I must make, to the Honour of'
a diligent Application on the one hand, and to the Dis-
grace of a slothsul, negligent, idle Temper on the other,
that when I came to the Place, and view'd the several
Improvements, Planting, and Management of the seve-
ral little Colonies; the two Men had so sar ontgone the
three, that there was no Comparison: They had indeed
both of them as much Ground laid out for Corn as they
warned; and the Reason was, because, according to my
Rule,
Colony of the other two, there was the very Face of Indu-
ilry arid Success upon all they did; there was not a Weed
to be seen in all their Corn, or a Gap in any of their
Hedges ; And they, on the other hand, verified Solomon's
Words in another Place: That the diligent Hand makes rich.
For every thing grew and thriv'd, and they had Plenty
within and without; they had more tame Cattle than
the other, more Utensils and Necessaries within Doors,
and yet more Pleasure and Diversion too.
It is true, the Wives of the three were very handy and
lleanly within Doors; and, having learn'd the Englijh
Ways of dressing and cooking from one of theother Englijh-
men, who, as I said, was a Cook's Mate on board the
Ship, they dressed their Husband's Victuals very nicely and
well; whereas the other could not be brought to under-
stand it; but then then the Husband, who, as I said, had
been Cook's Mate, did it himself; but, as for the Hus-
bands of the three Wives, they loitered about, fetched
Turtles Eggs, and caught Fish and Birds: In a Word,
any thing but Labour; and they sared accordingly. The
Diligent lived well and comfortably, and the Slothsul
lived hard and beggarly; and so 1 believe, generally
speaking, ir is all over the World.
But now I come to a Scene, different from all that had
happened besore, either to them or to me; and the Ori-
ginal of the Story was this.
Early one Morning there came on Shore five or six
Canoes of Indians, or Savages, call them which you
please; and there is no room to doubr, that they came
upan the old Errand of feeding upon their Slaves; But
that Part was now so samiliar to the Spaniards, and to
our Men too, that they did not concern themselves about
it, as I did; but, having been made sensible by their
Experiences, that their only Business was to lieconceal'd,
and that, if they were not seen by any of the Savages,
they would go off again quietly, when their Business was
done, having as yet not the least Notion of there being
any Inhabitants in the Island; 1 say, having been made
sensible of this, they had nothing to do but to give No-
tice to all the three Plantations to keep within Doors,
and not to shew themselves.; only placing a Scout in a
proper
they resolved upon this, that they would lie still awhile
longer, till, if possible, these three Men might be gone;
bot then the Governor Spaniard recollected, that the three
Savages had no Boat; and that, if they were lest to rove
about the Island, they would certainly discover, that there
were Inhabitants in it; and so they mould be undone that
Way.
Upon this, they went back again, and there lay the
Fellows sast asleep still: So they resolved to awaken
them, and take them Prisoners, and they did so; the
poor Fellows were strangely frighted when they were
ieiz'd upon and bound, and afraid, like the Women,
that they should be murder'd and eaten; for, it seems,
those People think all the World do as they do, eating
Men's Fleso; but they were soon made easy as to that,
and away they carried them.
It was very happy to them, that they did not carry them
home to their Calile; I mean, to my Palace under the
Hill i but they carried them first to the Bower, where was
the chies of their Country-work; such as the keeping the
Goats, the planting the Corn, &c. and afterwards they car-
ried them to the Habitation of the two Englijhmen.
Here they were set to work, tho' it was not much they
had for them to do: And, whether it was by Negligence
in guarding them, or that they thought the Fellows could
not mend themselves, I know not, but one of them ran
away; and, taking into the Woods, they could never
hear, of him more.
They had good Reason to believe he got home again
soon after, in some other Boats or Canoes of Savages,
who came on Shore three or four Weeks afterwards, and
who, carrying on their Revels as usual, went off again in
two Days Time: This Thought terrified them exceeding-
ly; for they concluded, and that not without good Cause
indeed, that if this Fellow got safe home among his Com-
rades, he would certainly give them an Account that there
were People in the Island, as also how weak and few they
were; for this Savage, as I observed besore, had never
been told, as it was very happy he had not, how many
they were, or where they liv'd; nor had he ever seen or
heard the Fire of any of their Guns, much less had they
shewn him any other of their retired Places, such as the
Vol. II. P Cave
tad what Ammunition they had, and retreated towards
the Place in the Wood, where their Wives were font,
keeping at a Distance) yet so that they might fee, if
possible, which Way the Savages took.
They had not gone sar, but that, from a fifing
Ground, they could fee the little Army of their Enemies
come on directly to their Habitation, and in a Moment
more could fee all their Huts and Houfhold-stuff slaming
op together, to their great Gries and Mortification; for
they had a very great Loss, and to them irretrievable,
at least for some Time. They kept their Station for-
awhile, till they found the Savages, like wild Beasts,
spread themselves all over the Place, rummaging every
Way, and every Place, they could think of, in search
for Prey; and, in particular, for the People, of whom it
now plainly appear'd they had Intelligence.
The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves
no: secure where they stood, because, as it was likely
some of the wild People might come that Way, so they,
might come too many together, thought it proper to
make another Retreat about half a Mile sarther, be-
lieving, .as it afterwards happened, that the sarther they
strolled, the fewer would be together.
The next Halt was at the Entrance into a very thick
grown Pait of the Woods, and where an old Trunk of
a Tree stood, which was hollow, and vastly large; and
in this Tree they both took their Standing, resolving to
fee there what might offer.
They had not stood there long, but two of the Savages
appear'd running directly that Way; as if they had already
Notice where they stood, and were coming up to attack
them; and a little Way surther, they espy'd three more
coming after them, and five more beyond them, ail coming
the same Way; besides which, they saw seven or eight more
at a Distance, running another Way; for, in a Word, they
ran every Way, like Sportsmen beating for their Game.
The poor Men were now in great Perplexity, whether
they should stand, and keep their Posture, orsly: But after
a very short Debate with themselves, they consider'd, that
if the Savages rang'd the Country thus, besore Help came,
they might, perhaps, find out their Retreat in the Woods,
and then all would be lost; so they resolv'd to stand them
D z thsre;
The five that were behind, more frighted with the
Noise, than sensible of their Danger, stood still at first;
for the Woods made the Sound a thousand Times bigger
than it really was; the Echoes rattling from one Side to
another, and the Fowls rising from all Parts, screaming
and making, every Sort, a several Kind of Noise, ac-
cording to their Kind, just as it was when I sired the
first Gun that, perhaps, was ever shot off in that Place,
since it was an Island.
However, all being silent again, and they not know-
ing what the Matter was, came on unconcern'd, till
they came to that Place where their Companions lay,
in a Condition miserable enough: And here the poor
ignorant Creatures, not sensible that they were within
Reach of the same Mischief, stood all of a Huddle over
the wounded Man, talking, and, as may be supposed,
inquiring of him how he came to be hurt i and who, 'tis
very rational to believe, told them that a Flash of Fire
first, and immediately after that, Thunder from their
Gods, had kill'd those two, and wounded him: This, I
say, is rational; for nothing is more certain than that, as
they saw no Man near them, so they had never heard a
Gun in all their Lives, or so much as heard of a Gun i
neither knew they any thing of killing or wounding at a
Distance, with Fire and Bullets; if they had, one might
reasonably believe, that they would not have stood so un-
concerned, in viewing the Fate of their Fellows,'without
some Apprehension of their own.
Our two Men, though, as they consessed to me, it
grieved them to be obliged to kill so many poor Crei-
tures, who at the same Time had no Notion of their
Danger; yet, having them all thus in their Power, and
the first having loaded his Piece again, resolv'd to let
sly both together among them; and, singling out, by
Agreement, which to aim at, they shot together, and
kill'd or very much wounded sour of them; the fifth,
frighted even to Death; though not hurt, fell with the
rest; so that our Men, seeing them all sall together,
thought they had kill'd them all.
The Belies that the Savages were all killed, made
our two Men come boldly out from the Tree besore
they had charg'd their Guns again, which was a wrong
D 3 Step;
standing so thick, as besore, unless the Persons seeking ic
had been directed by those that knew ir, which these were
not; they found, therefore, every thing very safe, only
t'le Women in a terrible Fright: While they were here,
they had the Comfort of seven of the Spaniards coming to>
their Assistance; the other ten, with their Servants, ard
old Friday, I meaxi Friday'*Father, were gone in a Body
to desend their Bower, and the Corn and Cattie that were
kept there, in Cafe the Savages should have roved over to
that Side of the Country; but they did not spread so sar -.
With the seven Spaniards came one of the Savages, who, as
I said, were there Prisoners formerly, and with them
also came tha Savage, whom the Englijhmen had lest
bound Hand and Foot at the Tree; for it seems they
came that Way, saw the Slaughter of the seven Men,
and unbound the eighth, and brought him along with-
them; where, however, they were oblig'd to bind hinv
again, as they had done the two others, who were lest
when the third ran away.
The Prisoners began now to be a Burden tothem; and
they were so afraid of their escaping, that they thought
they were under an absolute Necessity to kill them for
their own Preservation: However, the Spaniard Governor
would not consent to it; but order'd, rhat they should be
sent out of the Way, to my old Cave in the Valley, and
be kept there with two Spaniards to guard them, and give
them Food: Which was done; and they were bound
there Hand and Foot for that Night.
When the Spaniards came-, the two Englijhmen were
so encourag'd, that they could not satisfy themselves to
stay any longer there; but taking five of the Spaniards,
and themselves-, with four Musquets and a Pistol among:
them, and two stout Quarter-staves, away they went in
Quest of the Savages: And first, they came to the Tree
where the Men lay that had been killed; but it wast
easy to fee, that some more of the Savages had been
there; for they attempted to carry their dead Men away,
and had dragg'd two of them a good Way, but had given
it over-: From thence they advanced to the first rising
Ground, where they had stood, and seen their Camp destroy-
ed, and where they had the Mortification still to-fee some
©f the Smoke; but neither could they here see any of the
J 'a; D 4 Savages s
Luck, or had given over the Hopes of better; when, on
a sudden, they were .invaded with a most formidable
Fleet, of no less than twenty-eight Canoes sull of Savages
armed with Bows and Arrows, great Club;, wooden
Swords, and such like Engines of War; and they
brought such Numbers with them, that, in short, it put
all our People into the utmost Consternation.
As they came on Shore in the Evening, and at the
Eastermost-side of the Island, our Men had that Night
to consult and consider what to do; and^in the first Place,
knowing that their being entirely concealed, was their
only Safety besore, and would much more be so now,
while the Number of their Enemies was so great, they
theresore resolved, first of all, to take down the Huts
which were built for the two Englisomen, and drive away
their Goats to the old Cave; because they supposed the
Savages would go directly thither, as soon as it was Day,
to play the old Game over again, tho' they did not now
land within two Leagues of it.
In the next Place, they drove a'way all the Flock of
Goats they had at the old Bower, a* I called it, which
belonged to the Spaniards; and, in short, lest as little
Appearance of Inhabitants any where as possible; and
the next Morning early they posted themselves with ail
their Force, at the Plantation of the two Men, waiting
for their coming. As they guessed, so it happened;
these new Invadtrs, leaving their Canoes at the East-end
of the Island, came ranging along the Shore directly
towards the Place, to the Number of two hundred and
fifty, as near as our Men could judge. Our Army was
but small indeed % but, that which was worse, they had
not Arms for all their Number neither: The whole Ac-
couit, it seems, stood thus: First, as to Men:
J 7 Spaniards^ - ' ... t :.- 1
5 Englijhmen. !.. , *
1 "1 Old Friday, or Friday's, Father.
3 Slaves, taken with the Women, who proved
very saithsul.
3 Other Slaves who lived with the Spaniards.

--: 7
D 5
To
with fix or seven Bullets apiece, about as big as large Pi-
stol-Bullets, How many they. killed or wounded, they
knew not; but the Consternation and Surprise was inex-
pressible among the Savages, who were frighted to the last
Degree, to hear such a dreadsul Noise, and see their Men
killed, and others hurt, but fee nobody that did it; when,
in the Middle of their Fright, WiUiatn Atkins, and his o-
ther three, let sly again among the thickest of them; and
in less than a Minute, the first three, being loaded again,
gave them a third Volley. .- .
Had William Akins and his Men retir'd immediately,
as soon as they had fired, as they were ordered to do;
or had the :est of the Body been at hand, to have pour'd
in the.r Shot continually, the Savages had been effectually
routed i for the Terror that was among them came princi-
pally from this, «wss. That they were killed by the Gods with
7hunder and Lightning, and could fee nobody that hurt
them; but William Atkins, staying to load again, disco-
vered the CheatSome of the Savages, who were at a
Distance, spying them, came upon them behind ; and'
tho1 Atkins and his Men fired at them also, two or three-
Times, and killed above twenty, retiring as sast as they
could, yet they wounded Atkins himself, and killed'
one of his Fellow Englifimen with their Arrows, as they
did afterwards one Spaniard, and one of the Indian Slaves-
who came with the Women ; this Slave was a most gallant
Fellow, and sought most desperately, killing five of them:
with his own Hand, having no Weapon but one of the
armed Staves, and an Hatchet.
Our Men being thus hard laid at, Aikins. wounded
and two other Men killed, retreated to a rising Ground
in the Wood; and the Spaniards, after firing three Vol-
lies upon them, retreated also; for their Number was so
gieat, and they were so desperate, that tho1 above fifty
of them were killed, and more than so many wounded,
yet they came on in the Teeth of our Men, fearless of.
Danger, and shot their Arrows like a Cloud; and it was
observed, that their wounded Men, who were not quite
disabled, were made outrageous by their Wounds, and
fought like Madmen.
When our Men retreated, they left the Spaniard and
the EngliJliKOii that were killed, behind them; and the
D 6 Savages
The Sfaniartilchatg'd again with the utmost Expedition,
and then divided themselves into 3 Bodies, and resolv'd to
fall in among them all toga&ef: They hatfin each Body
8 Persons; that is- to soy' 24, whereof were 22 Men, and
the 2 Women, whoT*ythe way, sought desperately.
They divided the' Fire-arms equally^in/feaih' .Party,
and for of the'Haltterts 'BrM'Staves. : 1%ey wduld have
had the- Women keep back; but they said,: they were
resolv'd to die with their Husbands. Having thus form'd
their little Army, they march'd out from among the
Trees, and came up to the Teeth of the Enemy, shout-
ing and hallooing-as loud as they could; the Savages
stood all toge-thferi' bu^were m-the utmost Consusion,
hearing the Noise ofour Men shouting from three Quar-
ters together; they would have fought if they had seen
us faed, .as soon as we came near enough to be seen,
some Arrows were shot, and poor old Friday was wound-
ed, tho' not dangerously. But our Men gave them no
Time; but, running up to them, fir'd among them three
Ways, and then fell in with the But-ends of their Mus-
quets, their Swords, arm'd Staves, and Hatchets; and
laid about them so well, that, in a Word, they set up a
dismal Screaming and Howling, slying to save their Lives
which Way soever they could.
Our Men were tir'd with the Execution ; and kill'd, or
mortally wounded, in the two Fights, about 180 of them;
the rest, being frighted out of their Wits, fcour'd thro'
the Woods, and over the Hills, with all the Speed and
Fear that nimble Feet could help them to do i and as we
did not trouble ourselves much to pursue them, Vney got
all together to the Sea-side, where they landed, and
where their Canoes lay. But their Disaster was not at an
End yet; for it blew a terrible Storm of Wind that Even-
ing from the Sea-ward; so that it was impossible for
them to put off; cay, the Storm continuing all Night,
when the Tide came up, their Canoes were most of them
driven by the Surge of the Sea so high upon the Shore,
that it requir'd insinite Toil to get them off; and some
of them were even dash'd to Pieces against the Beach, or
against one another.
Our Men, tho' glad of their Victory, yet got little Rest
that Night; but having resresh'd themselves as well as
they
86 Tbe Life Adviktbrij is
they could, they resolv'd to march to that Part os the IQmi
where the Savages were sled, and fee what Posture they
were in. This necessarily led them over the Place where
the Fight had been, and wheie they found several of the
poor Creatures not quite dead, and yet past recovering
X^ife; a Sig'.:t disagreeable enough to generous Minds i
for a t-roly great Man, tho' oblig'd by the Law of Battle
destroy his Enemy, takes no Delight in his Misery.
However, there was no need to give any Order in this
Cate; for their own Savages, who were their Servants*
dispatched those poor Creatures with their Hatchets.
.At length they came in View of the Place where the
snore m.ierable Remains of the Savages Army lay, whe:e
there appeared about too still; their Posture was gene-
rally sitting upon the Ground, with their Knees up to-
wards their Mouth, and the Head put between the Hands,
leaning down upon the Knees.
When our Men came within two Musquet-ftiot of them*
the Spaniard Governor ordei'd two Musquets to be fired
without Ball, to alarm them; this he did, that by their
Countenance he might know what to expect, •viz. Whe-
ther they were still in Heart to fight, or were so heartily
feeaten, as to be dispirited and difeourag'd, and- fo he:
ssiight manage accordingly.
heard the first Gun, and sow the Flash of the second,
they started up upon their Feet in the greatest Conster-
nation imaginable; and, as our Men advanced swiftly
tovvards them, they all ran Icreaming and yawling away,
with a kind of an howling Noise, which our Men did
TOt understand, and had never heard besore; and thus
they ran up the Hills into the Country.
.At first, our Men had much rather the Weather had
been cairn, and they had all gone away to Sea: But they-
did not then consider, that this might probably have been
the Occasion of their coming again in such Multitudes as
not to be resisted; or, at least, to come so many and so
often, as would quite desolate the Island, and starve-them:
Will Atkins theresore, who-, notwithstanding his Wound,
litpt always with them, prov'd the best Counsellor in tbi»
Case: His Advice was, to take the Advantage that of-
fered, and clap in between them and their Boats, and.

for, as soon as the Savages
so deprive them of the Capacity of ever returning any
more to plague the Island.
They consulted long about this, and seme were against
it, for fear of making the Wretches sly into the Woods,
and live there desperate; and so they should have them
to hunt litre wild Beasts, be afraid to stir about their Ea-
siness, and have their Plantation continually risled, all
their tame Goats destroyed, and, in short, be reduc'd to
a Life of continua! Distress.
Will Atkins told them-, They had better have to ero with
looMen, than with ioo Nations; that as they must de-
stroy their Boats. so they must destroy the Men, Or be all'
of them destroy'd themselves. In a Word, he Ihew'd them
the Necessity of it so plainly, that they all came into it s
so they went to work immediately with the Boats, and,
getting some dry Wood together from a dead Tree, they
try'd to set some of them on Fire; but they were so wet,
that they would scarce burn. However, the Fire so burn'd
the upper Part, that it soon made them unsit for swim-
ming in the Sea as Boats. When the Indians saw what
they were about, some of them came running out of the
Woods; and, coming as near as they could to our Men,
"kneel'd down and cry'd, Oa, Oa, Waramckoa, and some
other Words of their Language, which none of the others
understood any thing of; but as they made pityfal Ges.
tures, and strange Noises, it was easy to understand, they
begged to have their Boats spared, and that they would
be gone, and never come thither again.
But our Men were now satisfied, that they had no way
to preserve themselves, or to save their Colony, but ef-
fectually to prevent any of these People from ever going
home again; depending upon this, that if ever so much
as one of them got back into their Country to tell the
Story, the Colony was undone: So that, letting them
know that they should not have any Mercy, they sell to
work with their Canoes, and destroyed them every one,
that the Storm had not destroyed besore; at the Sight of
which the Savages raised a hideous Cry in the Woods,
which our People heard plain enough; after which they
ran about the Island like distracted Men; so that, in 2
Word, our Men did not really know at first what to do
With them.
No?
g8 Tbi Life and Adventures of
Nor did the Spaniards, with all their Prudence, confider
that while they made those People thus desperate, they
ought to have kept good Guard at the same Time upon
their Plantations; fortho' it is true they had driven away
their Cattle, and the Indians did not find their main Re-
treat, I mean my old Castle at the Hill, nor the Cave io
the Valley; yet they found out my Plantation at the
gower, and pulled it all to Pieces, and all the Fences
and Planting about it; trod all the Corn under Foot-;
tore up the Vines and Grapes, being just then almost
ripe; and did our Men an inestimable Damage, tho', to
themselves, not one Farthing's worth of Service.
Tho' our Men were able to fight them upon all Occa-
sions, yet they were in no Condition to pursue them, or
hunt them up and down; for as they were too nimble of
foot for our Men when they found them single, so our
f^Ien durst not go about single, for sear os being surround-
ed with their Numbers: 7 he best was, they had no Wea-
pons ; sor tho' they had Bows, they had ro Arrows lest, .
n0r any Materials to make any, nor had they any edg'd
Tool or Weapon among them.
The Extremity and Distress they were reduc'd to was
great, and indeed deplorable, but at the same Time our
lVtfen were also brought to very hard Circumstances by
them; for tho' their Retreats were preserv'd, yet their
provision was destroyed, and their Harvest spoiled; and
lVhat to do, or which Way to turn themselves, they
[jnew not: The only Resuge they had now, was the
Stock of Cattle they had in the Valley by the Cave, and
fome little Corn which grew there. The three Eng'ijh-
psen, William Atkins, and his Comrades, were now re-
duc'd to two, one of them being killed by an Arrow,
^hich struck him on the Side of his Head, just under the
ipernp!es, so that he never spoke more; and it was very 1 ^
remarkable, that this was the fame barbarous Fellow who L -
cUt the poor Savage Slave with his Hatchet,- and who 1;;^-
afterwards intended to have murder'd the Spaniards.
I look'd upon their Cafe to have been worse at this -\^,
'j";rnc, than mine was at any Time after I first discover'd ^
tlie Grains of Bailey and Rice, and got into the Method I
cf planting and raising my Corn, and my tame Cattle; julr
for now they had, as I may say, an hundred Wolves upon
the
i
the Island, which would devour every thirg they could
come at, yet could'-'be very hardly come at themselves.
The first thing they concluded, when they saw what
their Circumstances were, was, that they would, if possible,
drive them'up to the sarther Part of the Island, South-
East, that if'an'y more Savages came on Shore, they might
not find one another; then, that they would daily hunt
and harrass them, and kill as many of them as they could
come at, till they had reduc'd their Number; and if they
could at last tame them, and bring them to any thing,
they would give them Corn, and teach them how to plant
and live upon their daily Labour.' ^ 1
In order to this, they follow'd them, and so tertify'd
them with their Guns, that in a few Days, if any of them
fired a Gun at an Indian, if he did not hit him, yet he
would fall down for Fear; and so dreadsully frighred
they were, that they kept out of Sight sarther and sar-
ther, till at last our Men following them, and every Day
almost killing and wounding some of them, they kept up
in the Woods and hollow Places so much, that it reduc'd
them to the utmost Misery for want of Food; and many
were afterwards found dead in the Woods, without any
Hurt, but merely starved to Death.
When our Men found this, it made their Hearts re-
lent, and Pity mov'd them; especially the Spaniard Go-
vernor, who was the most Gentleman-like, generous-
minded Man that ever I met with in my Life: And he
proposed, if possible, to take one of them alive, and
bring him to understand what they meant, so sar as to be
able to act as Interpreter, and to go among them, and
fee if they might be brought to some Conditions, that
might be depended upon to save their Lives, and to do
us no Spoil.
It was some Time besore any of them could be taken;
but, being weak and half ftarv'd, one of them was at last
surpris'd, and made a Prisoner; he was sullen at first,
and would neither eat nor drink; but finding himself kind-
ly used, and Victuals given him, and no Violence ofter'd
him, he at last grew tractable, and came to himself.
They brought old Friday to him, who talked often
with him, and told him how kind the others would be
to them all; that they would not only save their Lives,
but
but would give them a Part of the Island to live in, pro-
vided they would give Satissaction, that they should keep
in their own Bounds, and not come beyond them, to in-
jure or prejudice others; and that they should have Corn
given them, to plant and make it grow for their Bread,
and some Bread given them for their present Subsistence;
and old Friday bade the Fellow go and talk with the rest
of his Countrymen, and ste what they said to it; assuring
them, that if they did not agree immediately they should
all be destroyed.
The poor Wretches thoroughly humbled, and reduced
in Number to about thirty-seven, closed with the Proposal
at the first Offer, and begged to have same Food given
them ; upon which twelve Spaniards, and two Englijhmen,
tvell arm'd, and three Indian Slaves, and old Friday,
marched to the Place where they were; the three Indian
Slaves carry'd them a large Quantity of Bread, and some
Rice boil'd up to Cakes, and dry'd in the Sun, and three
Iive Goats; and they were order'd to go to the Side of
an Hill, where they sat down, eat the Provisions very
thanksully, and were the most saithsul Fellows to their
Words that could be thought of; for, except when they
came to beg Victuals and Directions, they never came out
of their Bounds; and there they liv'd when I came to the
Island, and I went to fee them.
They had taught them both to plant Corn, make Breae},
breed tame Goats, and milk them; they wanted nothing
but Wives, and they soon would have been a Nation:
They were consined to a Neck of Land-, surrounded with
Iiigh Rocks behind them, and lying plain towards the Sea
before them, on the South-east Corner of the Island : They
Jiad Land enough, and it was very good and fruitsul; scr
they had a Piece of Land about a Mile and half broad,
and three or four Miles in Length.
Our Men taught them to make wooden Spades, such as
I made for myself; and gave among them 12 Hatchets, an*
3 or 4 Knives; and there they liv'd the most subjected
innocent Creatures, that ever were heard of.
After this, the Colony enjoyed a perfect Tranquillity-*
v^ith respect to the Savages, till I came to re-visit them,.
which was in about two Years: Not but that now-and-
then some Canoes of Savages came on Shore for their
triumphai
triumphal unnatural Feasts; but as they were of several
Nations, and, perhaps, had never heard of those that
came besore, or the Reason of it, they did not make
any Search or Inquiry aster their Countrymen; and if
they had, it would have been very hard for them to
have found them oat.
Thus, I think, I have given a sull Account of all that
happened to them, to my Return, at least, that was
worth Notice. The Indians, or Savages, were wonder-
sully civilizM by them, and they frequently went among
them; but forbid, on Pain of Death, any of the Indians
coming to them, because they would not have their Set-
tlement betrayed again.
One thing was very remarkable, viz. that they taught
the Savages to make Wicker-work, or Baskets; but they
soon out-did their Masters; for they made Abundance of
most ingenious things in Wicker-work; particularly, all
Sorts of Baskets, Sieves, Bird cages, Cupboards, Jjfr. at
also Chairs to fit on, Stools, Beds, Couches, and Abun-
dance of other things, being very ingenious at such Work,
When they were once put in the Way of it.
My coming was a particular Relies to these People*,
because we surnish'd them with Knives, Scissars, Spades,
Shovels, Pick-axes, and all things of that Kind wbicfc
they conld want.
With the Help of these Tools they were so very han-
dy, that they came, at last, to build up their Huts, or
Houses, very handsomely; raddling, or working it up
like Basket-work all the Way round, which was a very
extraordinary Piece of Ingenuity, and look'd very odd;
but was an exceeding good Fence, as well against Heat,
as against all Sorts of Vermin ; and our Men were so taken
with it, that they got the wild Savages to come and do
the like for them; so that when I came to see the two
Englijhmen'i Colonies, they look'd, at a Distance, as if
they liv'd all like Bees in an. Hive; and as for Will Atkins,
who was now become a very industrious, necessary, and
sober Fellow, he had made himself such a Tent of Bas-
ket-work, as I believe was never seen ; it was 120 Pace*
round on the Outside, as I measured by my Steps; the
Walls were as close-worked as a Basket, in Pannels
or Squares, thirty, two in Number, and very strong,
standing
standing about 7 Feet high: In the Middle was another
not above 22 Paces round, but built stronger, being eight-
square in its Form, and in the 8 Corners stood 8 very strong
Foils, round the Top of which he laid strong Pieces,
join'd together with wooden Pins, from whico he rais'd a
Pyramid besore the Roof of 8 Rafters, very handsome, I
assure you, and join'd together very well, though he had
no Nails, and only a few Iron Spikes, which he had
made himself too, out of the old Iron that I had left
there; and, indeed, this Fellow fliew'd Abundance of In-
genuity in several things which he had no Knowledge of;
he made himself a Forge, with a Pair of wooden Bellows
to blow the Fire; he mad.e himself Charcoal for his Work,
and he form'd out of one of the Jron Crows a middling
good Anvil to hammer upon; in this Manner he made
many things, but especially Hooks, Staples and,Spikes,
Bolts and Hinges. But to return to the House; after he
Jiad pitch'd the Roof of his innermost Tent, he work'd
it up between the Rafters with Basket-work, so firm,
and thaich'd that over again so ingeniously with Rice-
ftraw, and over that a large Leaf of a Tree, which
cover'd the Top, that his House was as dry as if it had
been tiled or slated. Indeed, he own'd that the Savages
siiade the Basket-work for him.
The outer Circuit was covered, as a Lean-to, all
t-ound this inner Apartment, and long Rafters lay from
the 32 Angles to the Top Posts of the inner House, being
about twenty Feet distant; so that there was a Space like
a Walk, within the outer Wicker-wall, and without the
inner, near twenty Feet wide.
The inner Place he partitioned off with the same
Wicker-work, but much sairer, and divided it into six
Apartments, for that he had six Rooms on a Floor, and
0ut of every one of these there was a Door; first, i"t0
the Entry or Coming into the main Tent, and another
JJoor into the Space or Walk that was round it; so that
this Walk was also divided into six equal Parts, which
serv'd not only for a Retreat, but to store up.any Necessa-
ries which the Family had Occasion for. These six Spaces
rot taking up the whole Circumference, what other
Apartments the outer Circle bad, were thus ordered:
/is soon as you were in at the Door of the outer Circle, - you
you had a short Passage strait besore you to the Door of
the inner House; but on either Side was a Wick»rPar-
tition, and a Door in it, by which you went, first, into
a large Rtiom or Store-house, 20 Feet wide, and about
30 Feet long, and thro' that into another not quite so
long: So that in the outer Circle were ten handsome
Rooms, six of which were only to be come at thro' the
Apartments of the inner Tent, and serv'd as Closets or
retir'd Rooms to the respective Chambers of the inner
Circle; and four large Warehouses or Barns, or what you
please to call them, which went in thro' one another,
two on either Hand of the Passage, that led thro' the
outer Door to the inner Tent.
Such a Piece of Basket-work, I believe, was never seen
in the World i nor an House or Tent, so neatly contriv'd,
much less, so built: In this great Bee-hive liv'd the three
Families, that is to say, Will Atkins, and his Companion;
the third was kill'd, but his Wife remain'd with three Chil-
dren; for she was, it seems, big with Child when he dy'd;
and the other two were not at all backward to give the
Widow her sull Share of every thing, I mean, as to their
Corn, Milk, Grapes, &c. and when they kill'd a Kid, or
found a Turtle on the Shore; so that they all lived well
enough, thb' it was true, they were not so industrious as
the other two, as has been observ'd already.
One thing, however, cannot be omitted; vix. .That,
as for Religion, I don't know that there was any thing
of that Kind among them; they pretty often, indeed, put
one another in Mind, that there was a God, by the very
common Method of Seamen, .viz. swearing by his Name:
Nor were their poor ignorant Savage Wives much the bet-
ter for having been marry'd to Christians, as we must call
them; for as they knew very little of God themselves,
so they were utterly incapable of entering into any Dis-
course with their Wives about a God, or to talk any
thing to them concerning Religion.
The utmost of all the Improvement which I can say
the Wives had made from them, was, that they had taught
them to speak Englijh pretty well; and all the Children
theySiad, which were near twenty in all," were taught to
speak Englijh too, from their first learning to speak, tho'
they at h;st spoke it in a very broken Manner, like
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

their
their Mothers. There were none of those Children above
six Years old when I came thither; for it was not much
above seven Years that they had fetched these five Savage
Ladies over, but the/ had all been pretty fruitsul, for
they had all Children, more or less: I think the Cook's
Mate's Wife was big of her sixth Child ; and the Mothers
%vere all a good Sort of well-goven'd, quiet, laborious
Women, modest and decent, helpsul to one another,
mighty observant and subject to their Masters, I cannot
call them Husbands; and wanted nothing but to be well
Instructed in the Christian Religion, and to be legally
married; both which were happily brought about after-
wards by my Means, or, at least, by the Consequence of
my coming among them.
Having thus given an Account of the Colony in gene-
ral, and pretty much of my five runagate Englijhmen, I
must say sorr.thing of the Spaniards, who were the main
Body of the Family; and in whose Story there are some
incidents also remarkable enough.
I had a great many Discourses with them about their
Circumstances, when they were among the Savages: They
told me readily, that they had no Instances to give of their
application or Ingenuity in that Country; that they were
a poor miserable dejected handsul of People; that if
fi/Ieans had been put into their Hands, they had yet so
abandon'd themselves to Despair, and so sunk under the
\Veight of their Misfortunes, that they thought of nothing
but starving: One of them, a grave and very sensible
fl/Jan, told me, be was convinc'd they were in the wrong!
that it was not the Part of wife Men to give up them-
selves to their Misery, but always to take hold of the
J-Ielps which Reason offer'd, as well for present Support,
as for future Deliverance: He told me, that Gries was
the most senseless insignificant Passion in the World; for
that it regarded only things past, which were generally
impossible to be recalled or to be remedied, but had no
View to things to come, and had no Share in any thing
that look'd like Deliverance, but rather added to the
affliction, than proposed a Remedy: And upon this, he
repeated a Spanijh Proverb; which, tho' I cannot repeat
in just the some Words that he spoke it, yet I remember
X made it into an EngKJb Proverb of my own thus:
3 h
In Trouble to be troubled,
Is to have your Trouble doubled.
He ran on then in Remarks upon all the little Improve-
ments I had made in my Solitude; my unwearied Appli-
cation, as he call'd it, and how I had made a Condition,
which, in its Circumstances, was at first much worse than
theirs, a thousand Times more happy than theirs was,
even now, when they were all together: He told me, it
was remarkable, that Englijhmen had a greater Presence
of Mind, in their Distress, than any People that ever he
met with; that their unhappy Nation, and the Portuguese,
were the worst Men in the World to struggle with Mis-
fortunes; for that their first Step in Dangers, after com-
mon Efforts are over, Was always to despair, lie down
under it and die, without rousing their Thoughts up to
proper Remedies for Escape.
I told him, their Case and mine differed exceedingly;
that they were cast upon the Shore without Necessaries,
without Supply of Food, or of present Sustenance, till
they could provide it: That it is true, I had this Dis-
advantage and Discomfort, that I was alone; but then
the Supplies I had providentially thrown into my Hands,
by the unexpected driving of the Ship on Shore, was
such a Help as would have encouraged any Creature in
the World to have applied himself as I had done:
Seignior, says the Spaniard, had we poor Spaniard/
been in your Cafe, we should never have gotten half
those things out of the Ship as you did: Nay, fays he,
we should never have found Means to have gotten a
Raft to carry them, or to have gotten a Raft on Shore
without Boat or Sail; and how much less mould we
have done, said he, if any of us had been alone! Well,
I desired him to abate his Compliment, and go on with
the History of their coming on Shore, where they
landed: He told me, they unhappily landed at a Place
where there were People without Provisions; whereas,
had they had the common Sense to have put off to Sea
again, and gone to another Island a little sarther, they
had found Provisions, though without People; there
being an Island that Way, as they had been told, where
there were Provisions, though no People; that is to say,
that the Spaniards of Trinidad had frequently been there,
and filled the Island with Goats and Hogs at several
Times; where they have bred in such Multitude, and
where Turtle and Sea-fowls-were in such Plenty, that
they could have been in no want of Flesh, though they
had found no Bread; whereas here they were only sul-
tain'd with a few Roots and Herbs, which they under-
stood not, and which had no Substance in them, and
which the Inhabitants gave them sparingly enough, and
who could treat them no better, unless they would turn
Canibals, and eat Men's Flesh, which was the great Dain-
ty of their Country.
They gave me ac Account how many ways they strove
to civilize the Savages they were with, and to teach them
rational Customs in the ordinary Way of living, but in
vain; and how they retorted it upon them, as unjust,
that they, who came thither for Assistance and Support,
should attempt to set up for Instructors of those that gave
them Bread i intimating, it seems, that none should set
up for the Instructors of others, but those who could live I ^
without them. | id,-
They gave me dismal Accounts of the Extremities they I ^
were driven to; how sometimes they were many Days
without any Food at all; the Island they were upon being
inhabited by a Sort of Savages that lived more indolent,
and, for'that Reason, were less supplied with the Neces-
saries of Life, than they had Reason to believe others
were in the same Part of the World; and yet they found,
that these Savages were less ravenous and voracious, than
those who had better Supplies of Food.
Also they added, That they could not but fee with
what Demonstrations of Wisdom and Goodness, the go-
verning Providence of God directs the Event of things
in the World ; which, they said, appear'd in their Cir-
cumstances; for if, pressed by the Hardships they were
under, and the Barrenness of the Country where they
were, they had searched after a better Place to live in,
they had then been out of the Way of the Relies that
happened to them by my Means.
Then they gave me an Account, how the Savag«,
whom they lived among, expected them to go out with
them
them into their Wars: And it was true, that, as they had
Fire-arras with them, had they not had the Disaster to 1 ise
their Ammunition, they should not have been serviceable
only to their Friends, but have made themselves terri-b'e
both to Friends and Enemies; but being without Powder
and Shot, and yet in a Condition, that they could not in.
Reason deny to go out with their Landlords to their Wars;
when they came in the Field of Battle, they were in a
worse Condition than the Savages themselves; for they
neither had Bow*-nor Arrows, nor could they use those
the Savages gave them; so that they could do nothing
but stand still, and be wounded with Arrows, till they
came up to the Teeth of their Enemy; and then, indeed,
the three Halberts they had, were of Use to them,; and
they would often drive a whole little Army besore them,
with those Halberts and sharpened Sticks put into thei
Muzzles of their Mufquets: But that for all this they
were sometimes surrounded with Multitudes, and in great
Danger from their Arrows; till at last they found the Way
to make themselves large Targets of Wood, which they
cover'd with Skins of wild Beasts, whose: Names they
knew not; and these cover'd them from the Arrows of the
Savages; that, notwithstanding these', they were sometimes
in great Danger, and were once five of them knock'd-
down together, with the Clubs of the Savages, which was
the Time when one of them was taken Prisoner; 'that is
to say, the Spaniard, whom I had reliev'd: That at first
they thought he had been kill'd, but when afterwards they
heard he was taken Prisoner, they were under the greatest
Gries imaginable, and would willingly have all ventur'd
their Lives to have reseu'd him.
They told me, That when they were so knock'd down.
the rest of their Company refeu'd them, and stood over
them, fighting riil they were come to themselves, all but
he who they thought had been dead; and then they made
their Way with their Halberts and Pieces, Handing closes
together in a Line, through a Body of above a thousand
Savages. beating down all that came in their Way, got
the Victory over their Enemies, but to their great Sorrow,
because it was with the'Lofsof their Friend; whom., ths
other Party finding him alive, carried off with feme o-
thers, as 1 gave an Account in my former.
Vol. II, £ They
They described most affectionately, how they were
surprised with Joy ac the Return of their Friend and
Companion in Misery, who they thought had been de-
voured by wild Beasts of the worst Kind, viz. by wild
^Æen; and, yet how more and more they were surpris'd
with the Account he gave them of his Errand, and that
there was a Christian in any Place near, much more one
that was able, and had Humanity enough to contribute,
to their Deliverance.
They described how they were astonished at the Sight
cf the Relies I sent them, and at the Appearance of
J^oaves of Bread, things they had not seen since their com-
ing to that miserable Place; how often they cross'd it, and
bless'd it as Bread sent from Heaven ; and what a reviving
Cordial it was to their Spirits to taste it i as also, of the
other things I had sent for their Supply. And, after all,
they would have told me something of the Joy they were
j0, at the Sight of a Boat and Pilots to carry them away
to the Person and Place, from whence all these new Com-
forts came; but they told me, it was impossible to express
Jt by Words; for their excessive Joy naturally driving them
t0 unbecoming Extravagancies, they had no Way to de-
scribe them, but by telling me, that they border'd upon
J^unacy, having no Way to give Vent to their Passion,
suitable to the Sense that was upon them; that, in some
-t vvorked one Way, and in some another; and that some
0f them, through a Surprise of Joy, would burst out into
ri"ear6 . others be ha!f-mad, and others immediately saint,
rphis Discourse extremely affected me, and called to my
jyI;nd Friday's Ecstasy, when he met his Father, and the
o0r People's Ecstasy, when I took them up at Sta,
after their Ship was on Fire ; the Mate of the Ship's
T0y, when he found himself delivered in the Place,
where he expected to perish; and my own Joy, when,
after twenty-eight Years Captivity, I found a good Ship
xeady to carry me to my own Country: All these things
tnade me more sensible of the Relation of these poor
ffiert, and more affected with it.
Having thus given a View of the State of things,
3s I found them, I must relate the Heads of what L did
/sir these People, and the Condition in which I lest them,
jt was their Opinion, and mine too, that they would be
-3" 7' troubled
troubled no more with the Savages; or that, if they'were,
they would be able to cut them off, if they were twice at
many as besore; so that they had no Concern about that.
Then 1 enter'd into a serious Discourse with the Spaniarl
-whom I call'd Governor, about their Stay in the Isl ind;
for, as I was not come to carry any of them off, so it
would not be just to carry off some, and leave others,
who perhaps, would be unwilling to stay, if their Strength
was diminished.
On the other Hand, I told them, I came to establish-
them there, not to remove them; and then I let them know,
that I had brought with me Relies of sundry Kinds for
them: That 1 had been at agreat.Charge to supply them
with all things necessary; as well for their Convenience,
as their Desence; and that I had such and such particu-
lar Persons with me, as well to increase and recruit their
Number, as by the particular necessary Employments
which they were bred to, being Artificers, to assist them
in those things,-in which, at present, they were to seek.
They were all together, when I talk'd thus to them;
and besore I deliver'd to them the Stores I had brought, I
asked them, one by one, if they had intirely forget and
buried the first Animosities that had been among them,
and could shake Hands with one another, and engage in
-a strict Friendship, and Union of Interest, so that there
might be no more Misunderstandings or Jealousies.
William Atkins, with Abundance of Frankness and
Good-humour, said, They had met with Afflictions
^enough to make them all sober, and Enemies enough
to make them all Friends: That, for his Part, he would
live and die with then); and was so sar from designing
.anything against the Spaniards, that, he owned, they
had done nothing to him but what his own mad Hu-
tinour made necessary, and what he would have done,
and, perhaps, much worse, invtheir Cafe; and that he
would ask them Pardon, if I desired it, for the foolish
and brutish things he had done to them; and was
very willing and delirous of living in Terms of entire
Friendship and Union with them; and would do any
thing that lay in his -Power to convince them of it:
And as for going to England, he cared not if lie did
not go thither these twenty Years.
i . - "£ z Th«
The Spaniards said, They had, indeed, at first, dis.
0rmed and excluded William Atkitu, and his two Coun-
trymen, for their ill Conduct, as they had let me know:
.And they appealed to me, for the Neceliily they were
under to do so; but that William Atkins had behaved
Jiimself Ib bravely in the great Fight they had with the
Ravages, and on several Occasions since, and had shewed
Jiimself lo saithsul to, and concerned for the general In-
terest of them all, that they had forgotten all that was
past; and thought lie merited as much to be trusted with
J^sms, and supplied with Necessaries, as any of them;
arid that they had testified their Satissaction in him, by
committing the Command to him, next to the Governor
Jiimself: And as they had an intire Considence in him,
iirid all his Countrymen, so they acknowledged, they had
srierited that Confidence, by all the Methods that honest
jVlen could merit to be valued and trusted: And they
jnost heartily embraced the Occasion of giving me this
.Assurance, that they would never have any Interest se-
parate from one another.
Upon these frank and open Declarations of Friend-
ship; we appointed, the next Day, to dine all together;
^rid indeed, we made a splendid Feast: I cauied the
Ship's Cook, and his Mate to come on Shore, and dress
cor Dinner; and the old Cook's Mate we had on Shore,
^flilled. We brought on Shore fix Pieces of good Bees
a0d four Pieces of Pork, out of the Ship's Provision,
^vith our Punch Bowl, and Materials to fill it; and, in
particular, I gave them ten Bottles of French Claret,
and ten Bottles of Etiglijh Beer; things that neither the
Spaniards, or the Enghpmen, had tasted for many Years;
f>nd which it may be supposed, they were exceeding
glad of.
The Spaniards added to our Feast five whole Kids,
tviiich the Cooks roasted; and three of them were sent
covered up close on board our Ship, to the Seamen,
that they might feast on fresh Meat from on Shore, as
^ve did with their salt Meat from on Board.
After this Feast, at which we were very innocently
,;ierry, I brought out my Cargo of Goods, wherein, that
there might be no Dispute about dividing, I shew'd them
there was sussicient fpr them all; and defir'd, that they
might
might ail take an equal Quantity of the Goods that were
for wearing; that is to say, equal when made up: As
first, I distributed Linen sussicient to make every one os
them four Shirts ; and, at the Spaniard's Request, afterwards
made them up six, these were exceeding comfortable to
them, having been what, as I may say, they had long since
forgot the Use of, or what it was to wear them.
I allotted the thin Englijh Stuffs, which I mentioned
tesore, to make every one * light Coat, like a Frock,
which I judged fittest for the Heat of the Season, cool
and loose; and ordered, that whenever they decayed.
they should make more, as they thought fit: The liks
for Pumps, Shoes, Stockings, and Hats, &e.
I cannot express what Pleasure, what Satissaction, sat
upon the Countenances of all these poor Men, when they
saw the Care I had taken of them, and how w.ell I had
furnished them: They told me, I was a Father to them;
and that, having such a Correspondent as I was, in so re-
mote a Part of the World, it would make them forget,
that they were lest in a desolate Place: And they all
voluntarily engaged to me, not to leave the Place with-
eut my Consent.
Then I presented to them the People I had brought
with me; particularly the Taylor, the Smith, and the
two Carpenters, all of them most necessary People; but,
above all, my general Artificer, than whom they could
not name any thing that was more needsul to them; and
the Taylor, to shew his Concern for them, went to work
immediately, and, with my Leave, made them every
one a Shirt the first thing he did; and, which was still
more, he taught the Women not only how to few and
stitch, and use the Needle, but made them assist to make
the Shirts for their Husbands, and for all the rest.
As to the Carpenters, I scarce need mention how usesul
they were; for they took in Pieces all my clumsy unhandy
things, and made them cle ver convenient Tables, Stools,
Bedsteads, Cupboards, Lockers, Shelves, and every thing
they wanted of that Kind.
But, to let them see how Nature made Artificers at first,
I carried the Carpenters to see William Atkinfi Basket-
house, as I called it; and they both owned, they never
saw an Instance of such natural Ingenuity besore; nor
E 3 any
any thing so regular, and so handily built, at least of its
.Kind: And oneofthem, when he saw it, after musing a
good while, turning about to- me, I am sure, says he,
that Man has no Need of ut; you need do nothing but
give him Tools.
Then I brought them out all my Store of Tools, and
gave every Man a Digging-spade, a Shovel, and a Rake,
tor we had no Harrows, or Ploughs; and, to every so.
parate Place, a Pickax, a Crow, a broad Ax, and a Saw;
al«rays appointing, that as often as any were broken, or
worn out, they- should be supplied, without grudging, out
ef the general Stores that I lest behind.
Nails, Staples, Hinges, Hammers, Chissels, Knives^
Scisio", and all Sorts of Tools, and Iron work, they had
without Tale, a-s they required; for no Man would care-
to take more than they wanted; and he muslr be a Fool
that would waste or spoil them, on any Account what-
ever: And, for the Use of the Smith, I lest two Tons of
wrought Iron for a Supply.
fcly Magazine of Powder and Arms, which I brought-
rfc&rnt was such, even to Prosusion, that they could not
tiot rejoice at them; sornow they could march as I used to
d o, witn a Musquet upon each Shoulder, if there was Oc-
casion; and-were able to fight 1000 Savages-, if they had
fruf fon,e liu'e Advantages of Situation; which also they-
cCu]d tot miss of, if they had Occasion.
r carried on Shore with me the young Man, whose Mo-
t\sr was starv'J to Death, and the Maid also; she was a
fobcf, weM educated, religious young Woman, and be-
iiaved so inoffensively, that every one gave her a good
V/crd: She had, indeed, an unhappy Life with us, there
being no Woman in the Ship but heiself; but she bore it
with Patience. Aster a while, seeing things so well order-
j and in so sine a Way of thriving, upon my Island;
nj considering, that they had neither Business or Ac-
u2intance in'the East-Indies, or Reason for taking so long
„ Voyage; I say, considering all this, both of them came
io rxiet and desir'd I would give them Leave toremain on
the Island, and be enter'd among my Family, as they
called it.
I agreed to it readily; and they had a little Plot ot
Ground allotted to them, where they had three Tents or
Houses
Houses set up, surrounded with a Basket-work, palisado'd
like Atkins's, and adjoining to his Plantation : Their Tents
were contriv'd so, that they had each of them a Room a-
part to lodge in, and a Middle Tent, like a great Store-
house, to lay all their Goods in, and to eat and drink in:
And now the other two Englijhmen remov'd their Habita-
tion to the same Place; and so the Island was divided in-
to three Colonies, and no more; -viz. the Spaniards with
old Friday, and the first Servants, at my old Habitation un-
der the Hill ; which was, in a Word, the capital City ; and
where they had so enlarged and extended their Works, as
well under, as on the Outside of the Hill, that they liv'd,
tho' perfectly conceal'd, yet sull at large. Never was there
such a little City in a Wood, and so hid, I believe, in
any Part of the World: For, I verily believe, 1000 Men
might have ranged the Island a Month, and, if they had
not known there was such a thing, and look'd on Purpose
for it, they would not have found it; for the Trees stood
so thick, and so close, and grew so sast matted into one
another, that nothing but cutting them down first, could
discover the Place; except the two narrow Entrances
where they went in and out, could be found; which was
not very easy:' One of them was just down at the Water's
Edge, on the Side of the Creek; and it was afterwards
above 200 Yards to the Place; and the other was up the
Ladder at twice, as I have already formerly described it;
and they had a large Wood, thick planted, also, on the Top
of the Hill, which contained above an Acre, which grew
apace, and covfir'd the Place from all Discovery there,
with only one narrow Place between two Trees, not easy
to be discover'd, to enter on that Side.
The other Colony was that] of Will Atkinss, where
there were sour Families of Englijhmen, I mean those I
had lest there, with their Wives a&d Children {three
Savages, that were Slaves; the Widow.and Children of
the Englijhman that was killed; the young Man and the
Maid, and, by the Way, we made a Wife of her also,
besore- we went away: There were also the two Carpen-
ters and the Taylor, who 1 brought with me, for them;
also the Smith, who was a very necessary Man to them,
especially as a Gunsmith, to take care of their Arms;
and my other Man whom I call'd Jack os all Trades;
E 4 who
who was, himself, as good, almost, as twenty Men, for
he was not only a very ingenious Fellow, but a very
merry Fellow; and, besore' I went away, we married
him to the honest Maid that came wirh the Youth in the
Ship; whom [ mentioned besore.
And now I speak of Marrying. it brings me naturally
to sey something of the French Ecclesiastic, that 1 had
brought with me out of the Ship's Crew, whom I took
at S*a- It is true, this Man was a Roman. and, perhaps
ic may give Offence to some hereafter, if I leave any thing
extraordinary upon Record, of a Man, whom, besore I
jp.egin, I must (to set him out in just Colours.) represent in
.j-erms very much to his Disadvantage, in the Account of
frettflanti; as first, that he was a Papist; secondly, a/V
f>7/fr Priefti and thirdly, a French Pojiijh Priest.
* B«it Justice demands of me to give him a due Cha-
rj-£ter; and I must say, he was a grave, sober, pious,
gifid most religious Person; exact in his Life, extensive
jn his Charity, and exemplary in almost every thing he
A\d . What, then, can any one say, against my being
very sensible of the Value of such a Man, notwithllariding
jsls Profession? 1 hough it may be my Opinion, perhaps,
a5 vvell as the Opinion of others, who ihall rsad this, that
- e was mistaken.
-X"he fiist Hour that I began to converse with him, aseer
j;g frnd agreed lo go with me to the East-Indies, 1 found
'o^as0" t0 delight exceedingly in his Conversation: And
, first began wiih me, about Religion, io the most obli-
iog manner imaj,in,',b!c.
glr, says he, you have not only, under God (and, at
. „e, he cross'd his Breast) saved my Life, but you have
j^nirted me to go this Voyage in your Ship, and, by
aQur obliging Civility, have taken me into your Family,
y.vlBg me an Opportunity of free Conversation: Now,
§-r says he, you fee by my Habit, what my Profeslion
- .' and I guesr by your Nation, what yours is: I may
'hi'"l5 it 15 mY DutX, an^- doubtlese it is so, to use my
1 tmost Endeavours, on all Occasions, to bring all the
jgoUls that I can to the Knowledge of the Truth, and to
ctp brace the Catholic Doctrine; but, as I am here under
-olJr Permission, and in your Family, I am bound in
Justice to you* Kindness, as well as in Decency and good
J Manners,
Manners, to be under your Government; and theresore,
I shall not, without your Leave, enter into any Debates
on the Points of Religion, in which we may not agree,
sarther than you shall give me Leave.
- I told him, his Carriage was so modest, that I could
not but acknowledge it; that it was true, we were
such People as they called Heretics; but that he was
not the first Catholic that I had conversed with, with-
out salling into any Inconveniencies, or carrying the
Questions to any Height in Debate; that he should not
find himself the worse used for being os a different Opi-
nion from us; and if we did not converse without any
Dislike on either Side, upon that Score, it would be his.
Fault, not ours.
He replied, That he thought our Conversation might
be easily separated from Disputes; that it was not his
Business to cap Principles with every Man he discoursed
with; and that he rather desired me to converse with
him as a Gentleman, than as a Religieux ., that if I would
give him Leave, at any Time, to discourse upon religious-
Subjects, he would readily comply with it; and that then-
he did not doubt but I would allow him also to desend his.
» vn Opinions, as well as he could: Rut that,, without
my Leave, he would not break in upon me with any
such thing.
He told me sarther, That he would not cease to do all
that became him in his Ossice, as a Priest, as well as a,
private Chitstian, to procure the Goods of the Ship, and
tie Safety of all that was in her t And though, perhaps*
we would not join with him, and he could not pray with
us, he hoped he might pray sar us, which he would dot
spon all Occasions. In this manner we conversed; and,
as he was of a most obliging Gentleman-like Behaviour,.
so he was, if I may be allowed to say so,- a Man of good-
Sense, and, as I believe, of great Learning,
He gave me a most diverting Account of. his Life,,
and of the many extraordinary Events of it; of many
Adventures which had besallen him in the few Years-
lhat he had been Abroad in the World, and particu-
larly this was very remarkable y niz.. That during the.
Voyage he was now engaged in, he had the Misfortune:
to be five Times stiipp'd and unshipp'd, and never to go.
to the Place whither any of the Ships he was in, were as
first designed: That his first Intent was, to have gone to
Jrfartimco; and that he went on board a Ship bound
thither, at St. Makes; but being forced into Lijbon in bad
Weather, the Ship received some Damage, by running
aground in the Mouth of the River Tagus, and was ob-
liged to unload her Cargo there: That finding a Portu-
guese Ship there bound to the Madeiras, and ready to sail,
and supposing he should easily meet with a Vessel there
bound to Mariinico, he went on board, in order to sail to
the Madeiras; but the Mailer of the Portuguese Ship, being
but *n indifferent Mariner, had been out in his Reckon-
ing* an^ t^ley drove to Fial; where, however, he hap-
pened to find a very good Market for his Cargo, which
^vas Corn; and theresore resolved not to go to the Ma-
jeiras, but to load Salt at the Isie os May, to go away
to Newsoundland: He had no Remedy in this Exigence,
but to go with the Ship; and had a pretty good Voyage
a3 far as the Banks, so they call the Place where they catch
the Fife, where meeting with a French Ship, bound from
jrra«a t0 ^uebech, in the River of Canada, and from thence
to Mar/inica,t0 earry Provisions, he thought he should have
aI1 Opportunity-to complete his first Design: But when he
earne to Quebeck, the Master of the Ship died, and the Ship
proceeded nosarther: So the next Voyage he shipp'd him-
le\f for France, in the Ship that was burnt, when we took
them UP at Sea, and then shipp'd them with us for the
j?ast.Indies, as I have already said. Thus he had been
disappointed in five-Voyages, all, as, I may call it, in one
VoyaSe' b£sidfS wslat I shall have Occasion to mention
farther of the same Person.
g0t I shall not make Digressions into other Mens
gtories, which have no Relation to my own. 1 return
to wha1 concerns our Affair in the Island: He came to
^2 one Morning, for he lodg'd among up all the while
we were upon the Island; and it happened to be just
whgn I was going to visit the Englijhmen's Colony, at the
farthest Part of the Island; I say, he came to me, and
told me, witn a vei7 grave Countenance, That he had,
for two or three Days, desired an Opportunity of seme
Difcourse with me, which, he hoped, would not be dis-
pleasing t0 mei because he thought it might, in some
£,- "Measure,
Measure, correspond with my general Design, which
was the Prosperity of my new Colony;' and, perhaps,
might put it, at least, more than he yet thought it was,
in the Way of God's Blessing.
I look'd a little surpris'd at the last Part of his Dis-
course; and turning a little short, How, Sir, said I, can
it be said, that we are not in the Way of God's Blessing,
after such visible Assistances, and wondersul Deliver-
ances, as we have seen here, and of which I have given
you a large Account?
If you had pleas'd, Sir, said he, (with a World of
Modesty, and yet with great Readiness) to have heard
me, you would have found no Room to have been dis-
pleased, much less to think so hard of me, that 1 should
suggest, that you have not had wondersul Assistances and
Deliverances: And, I hope, on your Behalf, that you
are in the Way of God's Blessing, and your Design is ex-
ceeding good, and will prosper. But, Sir, said he, tho'
it were more so, than is even possible to you, yet there
may be some among you, that are not equally right in.
their Actions: And you know, that in the Story of
1/rael, one Achan, in the Camp, removed God's Blessing
from them, and turned his Hand so against them, that
thirty-six of them, though not concerned in the Crime,
were the Objects of Divine Vengeance, and bore the
Weight of that Punishment.
i was sensibly touch'd with this Discourse, and told
him, his Inserence was so just, and the whole Design
seemed so sincere, and was really so religious in its own
Nature, that I was very sorry I had interrupted him s
and begg'd him to goon: And, in the mean Time,
because it seemed, that what we had both to say, might
take up some Time, I told him, I was going to the En-
gpjbmtn'% Plantations; and afk'd him to go with me, and
we might discourse of it by the Way: He told me, He
would more willingly wait on me thither, because there,
partly, the Thing was acted, which he desir'd to speak
to me about: So we walk'd on; and I press'd him to be
free and plain with me, in what he had to say.
Why then, Sir, says he, be pleased to. give me Leave
to lay down a few Propositions, as the Foundation of
what I have to say, that we may not differ in the ge-
E 6. nsrail
j;eral Principles, tho' we may be of some differing Ops-
jiions in the Practice of Particulars. First, Sir, tho' we
differ in some of the doctrinal Articles of Religion, and
ic is very unhappy, that it is so, especially in the Case
before us, as 1 shall shew afterwards-; yet, there are some
general Principles in which we both agree; viz. First,
that there is a God; and that this God, having given us
i'ome fiated general Rules for our Service and Obedience,
ought not willingly and knowingly to offend him, ei-
ther by neglecting to do what he has commanded, or by
<Joing what he has expresty forbidden: And let our dif-
ferent Religions be what they will, this general Princi-
Ie is readily owned by us all: That the Blessing of
(Tjod does not ordinarily follow a presumptuous Sinning
against his Command; and every good Christian will be
affectionately concerned to prevent any that are under
j;;s Care, Iiving in a total Neglect of God and his Com-
ss;af;cis. ft is not your Men being Protestants, what-
eV,er my Opinion may be of such, that discharges me
-from being concerned: for their Souls, and from endea-
vouring- if it lies besore me, that they should live in as
little Distance from, and Enmity with, their Maktr as
0fllti!e; especially, if you give me Leave to meddle
|? far in your Circuit.
j could not yet imagine what he aim'd at, and told
Viifli, 1 granted all he had said; and thank'd him,, that
y.e \vOulel so sar concern himself for us; ard begged he
ouJd exFlain tfie Particulars, of what he had observ'd,
hat. like JoJkua (to take his own Parable) 1 might put
* way t'le accur^e^ thing from as.
aV W'hy, then' Slr, %s he, I will take the Liberty you
.ve rsiti ane* 'here are three things, which, if I am
S] ^t, sla"d in the Way of God's Blessing upon
Endeavours here, and which I should rejoice, fcr
y°ur Sake, and their own, to fee remov'd. And, Sir,
?o s he, I promise myself, that you will sully agree with
e in them all, as soon as I name them; especially, be-
101 se I shall convince you, that every one of them
ca y with great Ease, and very much t» your Satis-
pje gave me no Leave to put in any more Civilities,
but went on" Fir^' ^*rt **ys ke, you have tiere sour
JLngliJkm*)
Englijhmen, who have fetch'd Women from among the Sa-
vages, and have taken them as their Wives, and have had
many Children by them all, and yet are not married to
them after any stated legal Manner, as the Laws of God
and Man require; and theresore are yet, in the Sense of
both, no less than Adulterers, and living in Adultery.
To this, Sir, says he, I know you will object, that there
was no Clergyman, or Priest of any kind, or of any Pro-
felsion, to perform the Ceremony; nor any Pen and Ink,
or Paper, to write down a Contract of Marriage, and have
signed it between them. And I know also, Sir, what
the Spaniard Governor has told you; I mean, of the
Agreement that he obliged them to make, when they took
these Women, viz. That they should chuse them out by
Consent, and keep separately to them ; which, by the Way,
is nothing of a Marriage, no Agreement with the Women
as Wives, but only an Agreement among themselves, to
keep them from quarrelling.
But, Sir, the Essence of the Sacrament of Matrimony
(so he call'd it, being a Roman) consists not only in the
mutual Consent of the Parties to take one another as Mart
and Wife, but in the formal and legal Obligation that
there is in the Contract, to compel the Man and Woman,
at all Times, to own and acknowledge each other; oblig-
ing the Man to abstain from all other Women, to engage
in no other Contract while these subsist; and on all Oc-
casions, as Ability allows, to provide honestly for them,
and their Children; and to oblige the Women to the
same, or like Conditions, mutatis mutandis, on their Side.
Now, Sir, says he, these Men may, when they please,
or when Occasion presents, abandon these Women, dis-
own their Children, leave them to perish, and take other
Women, and marry them whilst these are living. And
here -he added, with some Warmth, How, Sir, is God
honoured in this unlawsul Liberty? And how shall a
Blessing succeed your Endeavours in this Place, however
good in themselves, and however sincere in your Design,
while these Men, who at present are your Subjects, un-
der your absolute Government and Dominion, are al-
lowed by you to live in open Adultery?
I consess, I was struck at the thing itself, but . much
more with the convincing Arguments he supported it
. with;
«vich; for it was certainly true, that tho' they had na
Clergyman on the Spot, yet a formal Contract on both
Sides, made besore Witnesses, and confirmed by any To-
ken, which they had all agreed to be bound by, tho' it
j^ad been but the breaking a Stick between them, engag-
ing the Men to own these Women for their Wives upon
all Occasions, and never to abandon them or their Chil-
dren, and the Women to the fame with their Husbands,
Jiad been an esfectual lawsul Marriage in the Sight of
£?od; and it was a great Nnglect, that it was not done.
But I thought to have gotten off with my young Prieit,
j,y telling him, That all that Part was done when I was
r)ot here; and they had lived so many Years with them
now, that if it was an Adultery, it was past Remedy;
they could do nothing in it now.
Sir, says he, asking your Pardon for such Freedom,
y0u are right in this; That it being done in your Ab-
sence, you could not be charged with that Part of the
Crime. -But I beseech you, slatter not yourself, that you
are not theresore under an Obligation to do your utter-
jno-st now to put an End to it: How can you think, but
tIiat, let the Time past lie on whom it will, all the Guilt,
£0f the suture, will lie intirely upon you? Because it is
certainly in your Power now to put an End to it; and in
nobody's Power but yours.
J was so dull still, that I did not take him right; but
J imagined, that, by putting an End to it, he meant,
t}vat I should part them, and not suffer them to live toge-
ther any longer: And I said to him, I could not do that
-hy any means, for that it would put the whole Island in
confusion. He scem'd surprised that I should so sar
s^istak him. No, Sir, says he, I do not mean, that
oa should separate them, but legally and effectually
snarry them now: And, Sir, as my Way of marrying
snay not be so easy to reconcile them to, tho' it will be
as effectual, even by your own Laws; so your Way may
ije as well besore God, and as valid among Men,' I
snean, by a written Contract, siign'd by both Man and
-yt/oman, and by all the Witnesses present; which all
tlie .Laws of Europe would decree to be valid.
I was amazed to fee so much true Piety, and so much
Sincerity of Zeal, besides the unusual Impartiality in hi*
Discourse,
Discourse, as to his own Party or Church; and such a true
Warmth for the preserving People that he had no Know-
ledge of, or Relation to; I say, for preserving them from
transgressing the Laws of God; the like of which, I had,
indeed, not met with any-where. But recollecting what
he had said, of marrying them by a written Contract,
which I knew would stand too; I returned it back upon
him, and told him, I granted all that he had said to be
just, and, on his Part, very kind, that I would discourse
with the Men upon the Point now, when I came to ihem.
And I knew no Reason why they should scruple to let
him marry them all; which I knew well enough would
be granted to be as authentic and valid in England, as if
they were married by one of our own Clergymen. What
was afterwards done in this Matter, I shall speak of by
itself.
I then pressed him to tell me, what was the second
Complaint which he had to make; acknowledging, that
I was very tench his Debtor for the first; and thanked
him heartily for it. He told me, he would use the same
Freedom and Plainness in the second; and hoped I
would take it as well: And this was, That, notwith-
standing these Englijh Subjects of mine, as'he called them,
had lived with these Women for almost seven Years, and
had taught them to speak Englijh, and even to read it;
and that they were, as he perceived, Women of tolerable
Understanding, and capable of Instruction; yet they had
not to this Hour taught them any thing of the Christian
Religion; no, not so much as to know that there was a
God, or a Worship, or in what manner God was to be
served ; or that their own Idolatry, and worshipping they
knew not who, was salse and absurd.
This, he said, was an unaccountable Neglect, and
what God would certainly call them to an Account for;
and, perhaps, at last take the Work out of their Hands.
He spoke this very affectionately and warmly. I am per,
suaded, says he, had those Men lived in the Savage Coun-
try, whence their Wives came, the Savages would have
taken more Pains to have brought them to be Idolaters,
and to worship the Devil, than any of these Men, so sar
as I can fee, has taken with them, to teach them the
Knowledge of the true God. Now, Sir, said he, tho' I
<Jo not acknowledge your Religion, or you mine, yet we
/hould be all glad to see the Devil's Servants, and the
Subjects of his Kingdom, taught to know the general
Principles of the Christian Religion; that they might, ac
Jeast, hear of God, and of a Redeemer, and of the Re-
surrection, and of a suture State, things which we all
tielieve; they had, at least, been so much nearer coming
jnto the Bosom of the true Church, than they are now in
the public Profession of Idolatry, and Devil-worship.
J could hold no longer; I took him in my Arms, and
embraced him with an Excess of Passion: How sar, said
j to him, have I been from understanding the molt es-
fential Part of a Christian, -vix. to love the Interest of
trie Christian Church, and the good of other Men's Souls?
j scarce have known what belongs to being a Christian.
Sir, do not say so, replied he; this thing 13 not your
jTault No! said I, but why did I never lay it to Heart
as vvtll as you ? 'Tis not too late yet,, said he, be not
too forward to condemn yourself. But, what c.in be done
jioW - said I; you see I am going away. Wi.I you give
syie leave, said he, to talk with these poor Men about it?.
Yest with all my Heart, said I; and will oblige them
to give Heed to what you say too. - As to that, said he,
must leave them to the Mercy of Christ; but 'tis our
jjufine.fs toaf'ist them, encourage them, and instruct them;
and, if you will give me Leave, and God his Blessing, I
^ 0 not doubt but the poor ignorant Souls shrill be brought
ji0nieinto the great Circle of Christianity, if not into the
particular Faith that we all embrace; and that even
Jyfrile yem stay here. Upon this, I said, I shall not only
give you Leave, but give you a thousand Thanks for it.
\Vhat followed on this Account I shall- mention also again
in its Place.
I now pressed him for the third Article in which ws
yp/ere to blame: Why, really, says he, it is of the same
jsfature, and I will proceed (asking your Leave) with the
fame Plainness as besore: It is about your poor Savages
yonder, who are(asl.may say) your conquer'd Subjects.
jt is a Maxim, Sir, that is, or ought to be received
amon8 a'l Christians, of what Church, or pretended
Church soever; •wz. That Christian Knowledge ought
to be propagated by all poslible Means, and on all pot-
fifalc Occasions. 'Tis on this Principle that our Church
fends Missionaries into Persia, India, and China; and that
our Clergy, even of the superior Sort, willingly engage
in the most hazardous Voyages, and the molt dangerous
Residence among Murderers and Barbarians, to teach
them the Knowledge of the true God, and to bring them
over to embrace the Christian Faith. Now, Sir, you have
such an Opportunity here, to have six or seven-ar.d-thir-
ty poor. Savages brought over from Idolatry to the Know-
ledge of God, their Maker and Redeemer, that I won-
der how you can pass such an Occasion of doing good;
which is really worth the Expence of a Man's whole
Life.
I was now struck dumb indeed, and had not one Word
to say: I had here a Spirit of true Christian Zeal for
God and Religion besore me, let his particular Principles
be of what kind soever: As for me, I had not so much
as entertain'd a Thought of this in my Heart besore;
and, 1 believe, should not have thought of it; for I
look'd upon these Savages as Slaves, and People, whom,
had we any Work for them to do, we would have used
as such, or would have been glad to have transported
them to any other Part of the World; for our Business
was to get rid of them; and we would all have been sa-
tisfied, if they had been sent to any Country, so they had
never seen their own. But to the Case: I say, I was
confounded at his Discourse, and knew not what Answer
to make him. He looked earnestly at me, seeing me in
some Disorder: Sir, said he, I shall be very sorry, if what
I have said gives you any Offence: No, no, said I, I am
offended with nobody but myself; but I am perfectly
consounded, not only to think, that I should never take
any Notice of this besore, but with reslecting what No-
tice I am able to take of it now. You know Sir, said I,
what Circumstances I am in ; I am bound to the East-
Indies, in a Ship freighted by Merchants, and to whom
it would be an insufferable Piece of Injustice to detain
their Ship here, the Men lying all this while at Victuals
and Wages upon the Owner's Account: It is true, I
agreed to be allowed twelve Days here; and if I stay
more, I must pay 3 /. Sterling per Diem Demurrage : Nor
can I slay upon Demurrage above eight Days more; and
I have
J have been here thirteen Days already; so that I am
perfectly unable to engage in this Work, unless I would
fuffer myself to be lest behind here again; in which Case,
if this single Ship should miscarry in any Part of her
'Voyage, I should be just in the same Condition that I
was lest in here at first; and from which I have been so
wonderfully delivered.
He owned the Cafe was very hard upon me as to my
Voyage; but laid it home upon my Conscience, whether
the Blessing of saving seven and-thirty Souls, was not
worth my venturing all I had in the World for? I was
siot so sensible of that as he was; and I returned upon
>iim thus: Why, Sir, it is a valuable thing indeed, to
Jse an Instrument, in God's Hand, to convert feven-and-
thirty Heathens to the Knowledge of Christ i but as you
3 re an Ecclesiastic, and are given over to that Work, so
that it seems naturally to sall into the way of your Profes-
sion, how is it then, that you do not rather offer yourself
to undertake it, than press me to it?
Upon this he sae'd about, just besore me, as he walk-
ed along, and, putting me to a sull Stop, made me a
very low Bow: I most heartily thank God, and you, Sir,
fays he, for giving me so evident a Call to so blessed a
.tffork; and if you think yourself discharg'd from it,
&tid desire me to undertake it, I will most readily do it,
^rtd think it a happy Reward for all the Hazards and
j^ifnculties of such a broken disappointed Voyage as I
jiave met with, that I have dropt at last into so glorious
£ Work.
I discovers a kind of Rapture in his Face, while he
spoke this to me; his Eyes sparkled like Fire, his Face
clow'd, and his Colour came and went, as if he had
geen salling into Fits: In a Word, he was fired with the
T0y of being embark'd in such a Work. I paused a con-
querable while, besore I could tell what to say to him;
for I was really surprised to find a Man of such Since-
rity and Zeal, and carried out in his Zeal beyond the
ordinary Rate of Men, not of his Profession only, but
e vcn os any Profession whatsoever r But, after I had con-
sidered it a while, I alked him seriously, if he was in
earnest, and that he would venture on the single Consi-
deration of an Attempt on those poor People, to be lock'd
t - - °P
Up in an implanted Island for, perhaps, his Life; and,
at last, might not know whether he should be able to do
them any good, or not?
He turn'd short upon me, and asked me, what I call'd
a Venture: Pray, Sir, said he, what do you think I con-
sented to go in your Ship to the East-Indies for? Nay,
said I, that I know not, unless it was to preach to the
Indians. Doubtless it was, said he; and do you think,
if I can convert these seven-and-thirty Men to the Faith
of Christ, it is not worth my Time, tho' I Ihould never
be fetch'd off the Island again? Nay, is it not insinitely
of more worth to save so many Souls, than my Life is,
or the Life of twenty more of the fame Profession? Yes,
-Sir, says he, I would give Christ and the blessed Virgin
Thanks all my Days, if I could be made the least happy
Instrument of saving the Souls of these poor Men, tho*
I was never to set my Foot off this Island, or fee my na-
tive Coantry any more: But, since you will honour me,
says he, with putting me into this Work (for which I
will pray for you all the Days of my Life) I have one
bumble Petition to you, said he, besides. What is that,
said I. Why, says he, it is, that you will leave your Man
Friday with me, to be my Interpreter to them, and to as-
sist me; for, without some Help, I cannot speak to them,
or they to me.
1 was sensibly troubled at his requesting Friday, because
I could not think os parting with him, and that for many
Reasons; he had been the Companion of my Travels;
he was not only saithsul to me, but sincerely affectionate
to the last Degree; and I had resolved to do something
considerable for him, if he outlived me, as it was pro-
bable he would: Then I knew, that as I had bred Friday
up to be a Protestant, it would quite consound him, to
bring him to embrace another Profession; and he would
never, white his Eyes were open, believe that his old
^Master was an Heretic, and would be damned; and this
might in the End ruin the poor Fellow's Principles, and
so turn him back again to his first Idolatry.
However, a sudden Thought relieved me in this
Streight, and it was this; I told him, I could not say,
that I was willing to part with Friday on any Account
whatever; though a Work, that to him was of more
* . Value
Value than his Life, ought to be to me of mncSf
more Value than the keeping or parting with a Ser-
ver. But, on the other hand, I was persuaded, that
Friday would by no Means consent to part with me;
and then to force him to it, without his Consent. would
be manifest Injustice; because I had promised I would
never put him away; and he had promised and engaged
to me that he would never leave me, unless I put him
away.
He seem'd very much concern'd'at it; for he had no
rational Access to these poor People, seeing he did not
understand one Word of their Language, nor they one
Word of his. To remove this Dissiculty, I told him,
Fridays Father had learned Spanijh, which I found he
also understood; and he should serve him for an Interpre-
ter; so he vyas much better satisfied, and nothing could
persuade him but he would slay to endeavour to convert
them; but Providence gave another and very happy
2'urn to all this.
I come back now to the first Part of hk Objections.
VVhen we came to the Englijhmen, I sent for them all
:ogether; and after some Accounts given them of what
f had done for them, viz. What necessary things I had
provided for them, and how they were distributed;
tvhich they were sensible of, and very thanksul for; I
began to talk to them of the scandalous Life they led,
ar.3 gave them a sull Account of the Notice the Clergy-
man had already taken of it; and, arguing how unchris-
tian and irreligious a Life it was, I first alked them, if
they were married Men or Batchelors? They soon ex-
plained their Condition to me, and shewed me that two
of them were Widowers, and the other three were single
IVsen or Batchelors: I a&ed them, With what Consci-
ence they could take these Women, and lie with them,
38 they had done, call them their Wives, and have so
many Children by them, and not be married lawsully to
;hem?
They all gave me the Answer that I expected; wix.
That there was nobody to marry them; that they
agreed besore the Governor to keep them as their Wives;
and to keep them, and own them, as their Wives; and
they thought, as things flood with them, they were as
legally
legally married as if they had been married by a Parson,
and with all the Formalities in the World.
J told them, That no doubt they were married in
the Sight of God, and were bound in Conscience to
Jceep them as their Wives; but that the Laws of Men
being otherwise, they mil'ht pretend they were not mar-
ried, and so desert the poor Women and Children here-
after; and that their Wives, being poor desolate Wo-
men, friendless and money less, would have no way to
help themselves: I theresore told them, That unless I
was assur'd of their honest Intent, I could do nothing
for them; but would take care, that what I did should
be for the Women, and Children, without them; and
that unless they would give some Assurances, that they
would marry the Women, I could not think it was
convenient they should continue together as Man and
Wife; for that it was both scandalous to Men and of-
fensive to God, who they could not think would bless
them, if they went on thus.
All this passed as I expected; and they told me,
especially Will Atkins, who seem'd now to speak for the
rest, That they loved their Wives as well as if they had
been born in their own native Country, and would not
ltave them upon any Account whatever; and they did
verily believe their Wives were as virtuous, and as modest,
and did to the utmost of their Skill, as much for them,
and for their Children, as any Women could possibly do;
and they would not part with them ob any Account:
And William Atkins, for his own Particular, added, If
any Man -would take him away, and offer to carry him
home to England, and make him Captain of the best
Man of War in the Navy. he would not go wish him, if
he might not carry his Wife and Children with him;
and if there was a Clergyman in the Ship, he would be
married to her now, with all his Heart.
This was just as I would have it; the Priest was
not with me at that Moment, but was not sar off:
So, to try him sarther, I told him, I had a Clergyman
with me, and, if he was sincere, I would have him
married the next Morning; and bade him consider of
it, and talk with the rest: He said, As for himself, he
need not consider of it at all; for he was very ready to
do it, and was glad I had a Minister with me; and"
he believed they would be all willing also. I then told
him. That my Friend, the Minister, was a Frenchman,
and could not speak Englijh; but that I would act the
Clerk between them. He never so much as asked me
whether he was a Papist or Protestant; which was,
indeed, what I was afraid of. But, I say, they never
inquired about it. So we parted: I went back to my
Clergyman; and Will Atkins went in to talk with his
Companions. I desired the Trench Gentleman not to
fay any tning 10 them, till the Business was thorough
ripe; and I told him what Answer the Men had given
me.
Besore I went from their Quarter, they all came to.
sjie, and told me, they had been considering what I had
said ; that they were very glad to hear I had a Clergy-
iii an in my Company; and they were very willing to
give me the Satissaction I desired, and to be formally
juarried as soon as I pleased; for they were sar from
£e. siring to part from their Wives; and that they meant
yi a thing but -what was very honest, when they chose
them: So I appointed them to meet me the next Morn-
ing! and that, in the mean Time, they should let their
-^ives know the Meaning of the Marriage-Law; and
that it was not only to prevent any Scandal, but also
tQ oblige them, that they should not forsake them,
whatever might happen.
The Women were easily made sensible of the Mean-
ing of the thing, and were very well satisfied. with it,
as, indeed, they had Reason to be; so they sailed not
xo attend all together, at my Apartment, the next
I^Jorning, where I brought out my Clergyman: And
though he had not on a Minister's Gown, after the
nlanner of England, or trie Habit of a Priest, after the
nlanner of Frante ; yet having a black Vest, something
iil.ce a Cassock, with a Sash round it, he did not look
very unlike a Minister; and as for his Language, I was
jnterpreter.
But the Seriousness of his Behaviour to them, and
the Scruples he made of marrying the Women, be-
cause they were not baptized, and profesied Christians,
gave .them an exceeding fi.everen.ce for his Person; and
~ '"- there
there was no need after that to enquire whether he was a
Clergyman or no.
Indeed I was afraid his Scruple would have been car-
ried so far, as that he would i ot have married them at
all i nay, notwithstanding all I was able to say to him,
he refilled me, though modestly, yet very steadily; and
at last resused absolutely to marry them, unless he had
first talked with the Men, and the Women too: And
though, at first, I was a little backward to it, yet at
last, I agreed to it with a good Will, perceiving the
Sincerity of his Design.
When he came to them, he let them know, that I had
acquainted him with their Circumstances, and with the
present Design: That he was very willing to perform
that Part of his Function, and marry them, as I had
desired; but that, besore he could do it, he must take the
Liberty to talk with them: He told them, That in the
Sight of all different Men, and in the Sense of the Laws
of Society, they had lived all this while in an open Adul-
tery; and that it was true, that nothing but the consent-
ing to marry, or esfectually separating them from one
another now, could put an End to it; but there was a
Dissiculty in it too, with respect to the Laws of Christian
Matrimony, which he was not sully satisfied about, vi«.
That of marrying one that is a profesied Christian, to a
Savage, an Idolater, and a Heathen, one that is not bap-
tized i and yet that he did not fee, that there was Time
left for it, to endeavour to persuade the Women to be
baptized, or to profess the Name of Christ, whom they
had he doubted, heard nothing of, and without which
they could not be baptized.
He told me, He doubted they were but indifferent
Christians themselves; that they had but little Know-
ledge of God, or his Ways; and theresore he could not
expect, that they had said much to their Wives on that
Head yet; but that unless they would promise him to
ose their Endeavours with their Wives, to persuade!
them to become Christians, and would as well as they
could instruct them in the Knowledge and Belies of
God that made them, and to worship Jesus Christ that
redeemed them, he could not marry them; for he
would have no Hand in joining Christians with Sa-
vages;
/ages; nor was it consistent with the Principles of the
Christian Religion; and was, indeed, expresly forbid-
ien in God's Law.
They heard all this very attentively, and I delivered
t very saithsully to them, from his Mouth, as near his
Dwn Words as I could, only sometimes adding some-
thing of my own, to convince them how just it was,
and how I was of his Mind: And I always very saith-
fully distinguished between what I said from myself,
and what were the Clergyman's Words. They told
rne, it was very true what the Gentleman had said,
That they were but very indifferent Christians them-
felves, and that they had never talked to their Wives
about Religion: Lord, Sir, says #7// Atkins, how should
we teach them Religion? Why, we know nothing our-
selves: And besides, Sir, said he, should we go to talk
to them of God, and Jesus Christ, and Heaven and Hell,
'rwculd be to make them laugh at us; and ask us, What
%ve believe ourselves? And if we should ttll them; we
believe all the things that we speak of to them; such
as of good People going to Heaven, and wicked Peo-
ple to the Devil; they would ask us, Where we intended
to go ourselves, who believe all this, and yet are such
wicked Fellows, as we indeed are: Why, Sir, said Will,
'xis enough to give them a Surfeit of Religion at first
Hearing: Folks must have some Religion themselves,
before they pretend to teach other People. Will At'
lim, said I to him, tho' I am afraid what you say
fcas too much Truth in it, yet can you not tell your
-Wife, that she is in the wrong? That there is a God,
and a Religion better than her own; that her Gods are
Idols; that they can neither hear nor speak; that were
is a great Being that made all things, and that can de-
stroy all that he had made; that he rewards the Good,
and punishes the Bad; that we are to be judged by him,
at last, for all we do here: You are not so ignorant, but
even Nature itself will teach you, that all this is true;
and I am satisfy'd you know it all to be true, and be-
Jieve it yourself.
That's true, Sir, said Atfons; but with what Face
can I say any thing to my Wife of all this, when she
will tell me immediately, it cannot be true i
'Not
-Not true, said I, what do you mean by that? Why,
£\r, said he, she will tell xne it cannot be true, that this
-God (J shall tell her of) caa -be just, or can punish, or
.reward, stnee I am not.ptinHhed, and sent to the Devi),
that have been such a wicked Creature as .she knows J
iave-been, even to her, and to every Body else; and
-that I shauld be scffer'd to live, that have been alw-a-ys
acting so.contrary to what-I must'tell her is good, acd
to what I ought to have done.
Why truly, 4tkins, said I, I am afraid thou speak est
too much Truth; and with that J. let the Clergyman
.know what Jtkitis haA said; for .he was impatient to
.know: O! said the Priest, Tell him there is one thing
will make him the best Minister in the Woild to his Wife,;
and that is Repentance; for none teach Repentance like
true Penitents: He wants nothing, but to repent; and
then he will be so much the better qualified to instruct
his Wise; he will then be able to tell her, that there is not
only a God, and that he is the just Rewarder of Good
and Evil; but that he is a mercisul Being, and, with in-
finite Goodness and Long-suffering, forbears to punish these
that offend; waiting to be gracious, and willing not the
Death of a Sinner, but rather that he should return and
Jive; that he often suffers wicked Men to go on a long
Time, and even reserves Damnation to the general Day
of Retribution: That it is a clear Evidence of God, and
-of a suture State, that righteous Men receive not their
Reward, or wicked Men their Eunishment, till they come
into another Worlds and this will lead him to teach his
Wife the Doctrine of the Resurrection, and of the last
Judgment: ,Let him but repent for himself, he will be an
excellent Preacher of Repentance to his Wife.
I repeated all this to Atkins, who look'd very serious
all the while, and who, we could easily perceive, was
more than ordinarily affected with it: When being ea-
ger, and hardly suffering me to make an End, I knew all
this, Master, says he, and a great deal more; but I han't
the Impudence to talk thus to my Wife; when God,
end my one Conscience knows, and my Wise will be
an undeniable Evidence against me, that I have liv'd as
if I had netfer'heard of a God, or a suture State, or any
lthing about it; And to talk of my repenting, alas (ard
Vo.l. if. F with
with that he fetch'd a deep Sigh; and I could see that
Tears stood in his Eyes) 'tis past all that with me. Past
it .' Atkins, said I, What dost thou mean by thatf I know
well enough what I mean, Sir, says he; I mean 'tis too
late; and that is too true.
I told my Clergyman, Word for Word, what he said;
the poor zealous Priest (I must call him so; for be his
Opinion what it will, he had certainly a most singular
Affection for the Good of other Mens Souls; and it
would be hard to think he had not the like for his own;
I fay, this zealous affectionate Man) could not resrain
Tears also: But, recovering himself, he said to me, Ask
him but one Question. Is he easy, that it is too late, or is.
he troubled, and wishes it were not so ? I put the Question
fairly to Atkins; and he answer'd with a great deal of Fas-
iion, How could any Man be easy in a Condition that
certainly must end in eternal Destruction? That he was
/ar from being easy; but that, on the contrary, he be-
lieved it would one Time or other ruin him.
What do you mean by that? said I. Why, he said,
jie believed he should, one Time or another, cut his own
Throat to put an End to the Terror of it.
The Clergyman shook his Head, with a great Con-
cern in his Face, when I told him all this; but, turning
quick to me upon it, said, If that be his Cafe, you may
assure him, it is not too late; Christ will give him Re-
pentance: But pray, says he, explain this to him, That
as no Man is saved but by Christ, and the Merit of his
passion, procuring divine Mercy for him, ho.v can it
j,e too late for any Man to receive Mercy? Does he
think he is able to fin beyond the Power or Reach of
jjivine Mercy ? Pray tell him, There may be a Time
when provoked Mercy will no longer strive, and when
God may resuse to hear; but that 'tis never too late for
lylen to ask Mercy; and we that are Christ's Servants
are commanded to preach Mercy at all Times, in the
jsjame of Jesus Christ, to all those that sincerely repent;
fg that 'tis never too late to repent.
I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great
jjarnefines;; but it seem'd as if he turn'd off the Dis-
course to the rest; for he said to me, he would go and
jvave some -Talk with his Wife: So he went out awhile.
z and
and we talk'd to the rest. I perceived they were all stu-
pidly ignorant, as to Matters of Religion; much as I was
when I went rambling away from my Father; and yet
that there were none of them backward to hear what had
been said; and all of them seriously promis'd, that they
would talk with their Wives about it, and to do their En-
deavour to persuade them to turn Christians.
The Clergyman smil'd upon me, when I reported
what Answer they gave, but said nothing a good while;
but, at last, shaking his Head, Welhat are Christ's Ser-
vants, says he, can go no surther than to exhort and in-
struct; and when Men comply," submit to the Reproof,
and promise what we ask, 'tis all we can do; we are
bound to accept their good Words: But, believe me,
Sir, said he, whatever you may have known of the Life
of that Man you call William Atkins, I believe he is the
only sincere Convert among them; I take that Man to
be a true Penitent; I won't despair of the rest; but that
Man is perfectly struck with the Sense of his past Life;
and I doubt not, but when he comes to talk Religion to
his Wife, he will talk himself esfectually into it; for at-
tempting to teach others, is spmetimes the bell Way of.
teaching ourselves. I kne.v a Man, added he, who, haij-'-"
ing nothing but a summary Notion of Religion h^r~r^;p
and being wicked and prosligate, to the last Degre., iri'h'i's
Life, made a thorough Resormation in himself, by labour-
ing to convert a Jeiu: And if that poor Atkins begins but
once to talk seriously of Jesus Christ to his Wife, my Life
for it, he talks himself into a thorough Convert, makes
himself a Penitent: And who knows what may follow?
Upon this Discourse however, and their promising,
as above, to endeavour to persuade their Wives to em-
brace Christianity, he married the other three Couple;
but WiU Atkins and his Wife were not yet come in:
After this my Clergyman, waiting awhile, was curious
<o know where Atkins was gone; and, turning to me,
says he, I intreat you, Sir, let us walk out of your
Labyrinth here, and look; I dare say, we shall find this
poor Man, somewhere or other, talking seriously with
liis Wife, and teaching her already something of Reli-
gion. I began to be of the same Mind: So we went
out together; and 1 carried him a Way which none
F 2 knew
knew but myself, and where the Trees were so thick
fet, as that it was not easy to see through the Thicket of
I_,eaves, and sar harder to fee in, than to fee out; When
coining to the Edge of the Wood, I saw Atkins, and
his tawny Savage Wife, sitting under the Shade of a
Bush, very eager in Discourse; I stopp'd short, till my
Clergyman came up to me; and then, having shewed
him where they were, we llood and look'd very steadily
at them a good while.
Weobserv'd him very earnest with her, pointing up to
the Sun, and to every Quarter of the Heavens; then down
to the Earth, then out to the Sea, then to himself, then to
her, to the Woods, to the Trees. Now, says my Clergy-
man, you fee my Words are made good ; the Man preaches
to her; mark him, now he is telling her, .that our God
has made him, and her, and the Heavens, the Earth, the
Sea, the Woods, the Trees, &c. I believe he is, said I:
Immediately we perceived Will Atkins start up upon his
yeet, sall down upon his Knees, and lift up both his
J-Iands; We suppose he said something, but we could not
Jiear him; it was too sar for that: He did not continue
kneeling half a Minute, but comes and sits down again
'by his Wife, and talks to her again. We perceiv'd then
the Woman very attentive, but whether she said any thing
or no, we could not tell. While the poor Fellow was upon
his Knees, I could fee the Tears run plentifully down
sny Clergyman's Cheeks; and I could hardly forbear
suysclf; but it was a great Affliction to us both, that we
xvere not near enough to hear any thing that passed be-
tween them.
Well, however, we could come no nearer, for fear
a{ disturbing them: So we resolved to see an End of
this Piece of Jiill Conversation; and it spoke loud enough
to us, without the Help of Voice: He sat down again,
as I have said, close by her, and talk'd again earnestly to
tier; and two or three Times we could fee him embrace
Jier passionately; another Time we saw him take out his
Handkerchief, and wipe her Eyes, and then kiss her
again, with a Kind of Transport very unusual: And af-
ter several of these things, we saw him on a sudden jump
trp again, and lend her his Hand to help her up, when
immediately, leading her by the Hand, a Step or two,
.3 they
they both kneel'd down together, and continu'd so about
two Minutes.
My Friend could bear it no longer, but cries out aloud,
St. Paul, 5/. Paul! behold he prayetb: I was afraid Atkins
would hear him; theresore I intreated him to with-hold
himself a while, that we might fee an End of the Scene,
which to me, I must consess, was the most afFecting, and
yet the most agreeable, that «ver I saw in my Life. Well,
be strove with himself, and contain'd himself for a while,
but was in such Raptures of Joy, to think that the poor
Heathen Woman was become a Christian, that he was
not able to contain himself; he wept several Times;
then throwing up his Hands, and crossing his Breast, said
over several things ejaculatory, and by Way of giving
God Thanks for so miraculous a Testimony of the Suc-
cess of our Endeavours; some he spoke softly, and I
could not well hear; others audibly, some in Latin, some
in French; then two or three Times the Tears of Joy
would interrupt him, that he could not speak at all.
But I begg'd, that he would compose himself, and let
os more narrowly and sully observe what was besore us,
which he did for a Time, and the Scene was not ended
there yet: For, after the poor Man and his Wife were
risen again from their Knees, we observed he stood talk-
ing still eagerly to her; and we observed by her Mo-
tion, that she was greatly affected with what he said, by
her frequent lifting up her Hands, laying her Hand to
her Breast, and such other Postures, as usually express
the greatest Seriousness and Attention: This continued
about half a Quarter of an Hour, and then they walk-
ed away too; so that we could see no more of them in
that Situation.
I took this Interval to talk with my Clergyman; and
first, I told him, I was glad to see the Particulars we
had both been Witnesses to; that though I was hard
enough of Belies in such Cases, yet that I began to
think it was all very sincere here, both in the Man and
his Wife, however ignorant they might both be; and I
hoped such a Beginning would have yet a more happy
End; and who knows, said I, but these two may in
Time, by Instruction and Example, work upon some
of the others? Some of them, said he, turning quick
F 3 upon
upon me, Ay, upon all of them; depend upon it, if
those two Savages (for he has been but little better, as
you relate it) should embrace Jesus Christ, they will
never leave till they work upon all the rest; for true
Religion is naturally communicative; and he that is once
.made a Christian, will never leave a Pagan behind him,
if he can help it. Iown'd, it was a most Christian Prin-
ciple to think so, and a Testimony of a true Zeal, as
well as a generous Heart in him. But, my Friend, said
I, will you give me Liberty to start one Dissiculty here?
J cannot tell how to object the least thing against.ttut as-
fectionate Concern, which you shew for the turning the
poor People from their Paganism to theChrislian Religion.
ii ut how does this comfort you, while these People are, in
your Account, out of the Pale of the Catholic Church;
without which you believe there is no Salvation; so that
you esteem these but Heretics still; andforother Reasons,
as effectually lost as the Pagans themselves?
To this he answered with Abundance of Candour,
and Christian Charity, thus; Sir, I am a Catholic of
the Roman Church, and a Priest of the Order of St Be-
tiediS, and I embrace all the Principles of the Roman
faith: But yet, if you will believe me, and this I do
r. ot speak in Compliment to you, or in respect to my
Circumstances, and your Civilities; I say, nevertheless,
J do not look upon you, who call yourselves Resormed,
without some Charity: I dare not say, though I know
jc is our Opinion in general; yet, I dare not say. that
you cannot be saved; will by no Means limit the Mercy
of Christ, so sar as to think, that he cannot receive you
into the Bosom of his Church, in a manner, to us, im-
pc-rceivable, and which it is imposlible for us to know;
andl hope you have the same Charity for us: I pray
daily for your being all restored to Christ's Church, by
whatsoever Methods, he, who is all wise, is pleased to
direct. In the mean Time, sure, you will allow it to
consist with me, as a Roman, to distinguish sar between
n Protestant and a Pagan; between one that calls on
Jesus Christ, though in a Way which I do not think is
according to the true Faith; and a Savage, a Barbarian,
that knows no God, no Christ, no Redeemer at all;
and if you are not within the Pale of the Catholic
Church,
Church, we hope you are nearer being restor'd to it, than
those that know nothing at all of God, or his Church; I
rejoice theresore, when I fee this poor Man, who, you
say, has been a Prosligate, and almost a Murderer, kneel
down and pray to Jesus Christ, as we suppose he did,
though not sully enlighten'd; believing that God, from
whom every such Work proceeds, will sensibly touch his
Heart, and bring him to the surther Knowledge of the
Truth in his own Time; and if God shall insluence this
poor Man to convert and instruct the ignorant Savage h^s
Wife, I can never believe, that he shall be call away him-
self: And have I not Reason then to rejoice, the nearer
any are brought to the Knowledge of Christ, though they
may not be brought quite Home into the Bosom of. the
Catholic Church, just at the Time when I may desire it;
leaving it to the Goodness of Christ to perfect his Work
in his own Time, and his own Way? Certainly I would
rejoice, if all the Savages in America were brought, like
this poor Woman, to pray to God, though they were to
be all Protestants at first, rather than they should continue
Pagans and Heathens ;- firmly believing that he who had
bestowed that first Light upon them, would sarther illu-
minate them with a Beam of his heavenly Grace, and
bring them into the Pale of his Church, when he should
see good.'
I was astonished at the Sincerity and Temper of this
truly pious Papist, as much as I was oppressed by the
Power of his Reasoning: And it presently occurred to
my Thoughts, that if such a Temper was universal, we
might be all Catholic Christians, whatever Church, or
particular Profession, we joined to, or joined in; that a
Spirit of Charity would soon work us all up into right
Principles; and, in a Word, as he thought, that the like
Charity would make us all Catholics, so I told him, I be-
lieved, had all the Members of his Church the like Mo-
deration, they would soon be all Protestants: And there
we lest that Part; for we never disputed at all.
However, I talk'd to him another Way, and, taking
him by the Hand, My Friend, said I, I wish all the
Clergy of the Roman Church were blessed with such Mo-
deration, and an equal Share of your Charity; I am in-
tirely of your Opinion; but I must tell you, that if you
F 4 should
22* El FE fflli^ A'DVEKTi;8'E8'j/
i"boHli3preachsuch Doctrine ia Spain or I/a/y, they would?
j>ut you into the Inquisition.
It may be so, said he, I know not what they might dc
5 n S/a/'ff and /te/y; but I will not say, they would be the
setter Christians for that Severity; for I am sure there is-
xto Heresy-in too much Charity.
Weil, as WiU Atkini and his Wife were gone, our
yjusiness there was over: So we went back our own-
"VVay; arid when we came back, we found them waiting
jo be called in. Observing this, I asked my Clergyman,
l f y/e should discover to him, that we had seen him under
the Bush, or no; and it was his Opinion we should not;.
that we should talk- to him first, and hear what he-
^ytyald say to us: So we called him in alone, nobody
being in the Place but ourselves; and I began with him'
If ill Atkins, said I, prithee what Education had you?
-^.'hat was yonr Father?
iy. A. A better Man than ever I shall be; Sir, my
father was a Clergyman.
p.. C. What Education did he give you?
ff. A. He would have taught me well, Sir; but I de-
- :fed all Education, Instruction, or Correction, like *
-g^ast as I was.
je. C It is true, Solomon says, He that despifith Reproof
jff. A. Ay, Sir, I was brutish indeed; I murder'd my
pather; for God's Sake, Sir, talk no more about thatr.
g;r' I murder'd my poor Father.
friefl- Ha! a Murderer • I
* Here the Priest started (for I interpreted every
Word as he spoke it) and looked pale: It seemt
he believed that WiU had really killed hit o-wir
Father.
JZ. C. No, no, Sir, I do not understand him so: Will
jffkirt!, explain yourself; you did not kill your Father,
did yo", with your own Hands?
IV- A! No, Sir; I did not cut his Throat; but I cut-
trie Thread of all his Comforts, and fhorten'd his Days
j broke his Heart by the most ungratesul unnatural Re-
turn
turn for the most tender affectionate-Treatment that ever
Father gave, or Child could receive.
R. C. Well, I did not ask you about your Father, to
extort this Consession; I pray God give you Repentance
for it, and forgive you that, and all your other Sins s
but I asked you, because I fee, that though you have
not much Learning, yet you are not so ignorant as some:
are, in things that are good; that you have known more
of Religion a great deal than you practised.
W. A. Though you, Sir, did not extort the Consession
that I make about my Father, Conscience does; and
whenever we come to look back upon our Lives, the
Sins against our indulgent Parents are certainly the first
that touch us; the Wounds they make, lie deepest; and
the Weight they leave, will lie heaviest upon the Mind',
of all the Sins we can commit.
if. C. You talk too feelingly and sensibly for me At-
tests; I cannot bear it.
VF. A. You bear it, Master! I dare say you know
nothing of it.
R. C. Yes,. Atkins,- every Shore, every Hill, nay, I may
say, every Tree in this Island is Witness to the Anguish
cf my Soul, for my Ingratitude, and base Usage of a good
tender Father; a Father much like yours, by your De-
scription; and I murdered my Father as well as you,
Will Atkins; but think, for all that, my Repentance is
sliort of yours too • by a great deal.
* I would have said more, is I could have refrain d
my Passions; but I thought this poor Mans Repentance
ivas Jo much sincerer than mine, that I was going 11
leave off the Discourse, and retire ; for Iivas surprised
•with ivhat he said; and thought that instead os my
going about to teach and infruli him, the Man ivas
made a Teacher and Infiruclor to me, in a most sur*
prising and unexpected Manner.
I laid all this besore the young Clergyman, who was
greatly affected with it, and said to me, Did I not say,
Sir, that when this Man was converted, he would preach
to us all? I tell you, Sir, if this one Man be made a
true Penitent, here will be no need of me; he will make
f 5-" . Christians
Christians of all in the Island. Bat, having a little com-
posed myself, I renewed my Discourse with mil Atkins.
But, mil said I, How comes the Sense of this Matter
to touch you just now i
W. A. Sir, you have set me about a Work that has
struck a Dart through my very Soul; I have been talk-
ing about God and Religion to my Wife, in order, as
you directed me, to make a Christian of her; and see
Jias preached such a Sermon to me, as I mail never for-
get while I live.
R. C. No, no; it is not your Wife has preached to
you; but when you were moving religious Arguments
te> her, Conscience has slung them back upon you.
W. A. Ay, Sir, with such a Force as is ndt to be
resisted.
R. C. Fray, Will, let us know what passed between
you and your Wife; for I know something of it al-
ready.
W. A. Sir, it is impossible to give you a sull Account
0f it; I am too sull to hold it, and yet have no Tongue
fo express it; but let her have said what she will, and
though I cannot give you an Account of it, this I can
teIl you of it, that I resolve to amend and resorm my
R. C. But tell us some of it. How did you begin,
For this ha& been an extraordinary Cafe, that is
certain; she has preached a Sermon, indeed, if she has
wrought this upon you.
}V. A. Why, I first told her the Nature of our Laws
about Marriage, and what the Reasons were, that Men
^.nd Women were obliged to enter into such Compacts,
it was neither in the Power of one or other to break;
that otherwise Order and Justice could not be maintain-
e,j, and Men would run from their Wives, and abandon
the11' Children, mix consusedly with one another, and
neither Families be kept intire, or Inheritances be set-
,led by a legal Descent.
R. C. You talk like a Civilian, Will. Could you make
iier understand what you meant by Inheritance and Fami-
lies? They know no such thing among the Savages, but
tsiarry any-how, without any Regard to Relation, Con-
sanguinity, or Family; Brother and Sister; nay, as I
have
have been told, even the Father and Daughter, and the
Son and the Mother.
W. A. I believe, Sir, you are misinsormed; and my
Wife assures me of the contrary, and that they abhor
it; perhaps, for any surther Relations, they may not
be so exact as we are; but she tells me, they never touch
one another in the near Relations you speak of.
R. C. Well, what did she say to what you told her?
W. A. She said, shelik'd it very well, and it was much
better than in her Country.
R. C. But, did you tell her what Marriage was?
W. A. Ay, ay, there began all our Dialogue. I afk'd
her, If she would be married to me our Way? She
alk'd me, What Way that was? I told her, Marriage
was appointed os God; and here we had a strange Talk to-
gether) indeed, as ever Man and Wife had, 1 believe..
N. B. This Dialogue between W. Atkins and his Wife,
as I took it down in Writing, jus after be told it me,
ivas as sollows:
Wise. Appointed by your God! Why, have you &
God in your Country?
W. A. Yes, my Dear; God is in every Country.
Wise. No your God is my Country; my Country
have the great old Benamuckee God.
W. A. Child, I am very unsit to shew you who God
is; God is in Heaven, and made the Heaven and the
Earth, the Sea, and all that in them is.
Wife. No makee de Earth; no you God makee do
Earth; no make my Country *.
* W. A. laughed a little at her Expression os God not
making her Country.
Wise. No laugh: Why laugh me? This no ting to
laugh t.
t He was justly reproved by his Wise; for Jbt was more
serious than he, at sirst.
W. A. That's true indeed; I will not laugh any more,
my Dear.
Wife. Why you say, you God make all?
W. A. Yes, Child, our God made the whole World,
and you, and me, and all things; for he » the only
F 6 trM
true God; there is no God but he; he lives for ever in
JrJea.ven.
Wse. Why you no tell me long ago?
W. A. That's true indeed i but I have been a wicked
-Wretch, and have not only forgotten to acquaint thee
^vith any thing besore, but hav» lived without God in
the World myself.
Wise. What have you de great God in you Country,
you-no know him? No say O to him? No do good
-ting for him? That no impossible!
W. A. It is too true though, for all that: We live as
jf there was no God in Heaven, or that he had no Power
Earth.
Wise, But why God let you do so? Why he no makee
.yoti good live?
W- A. It is all our own Fault.
Wise. But you say me, he is great, much great, have
jrjueh great Power; can make kill when he will; why
no makee kill when you no serve him? No say O to
j,isn? No be good Mans?
W- A. That is true; he might strike me dead, and I
^ught to expect it; for I have been a wicked Wretch,
tv>at is true; but God is merciful, and does not deal
_lrh us as we deserve.
W<fi- But then, do not you tell God tankee for that
tt°°ifr. A. No, indeed: I have not thank'd God for his
-jyjercy, any more than I have feared God for his
-power.
fftf*. Then you God no God; me no think, believe
be such one, great much Power, strong; no makee
j^jll you, though you makee him much angry.
-0s. A. What-! will my wkked Life hinder you from
Relieving in God I What a dreadful Creature "am I! And
^,fcat a sad Truth is it, that the horrid Lives of Christians
-v.;rider the Conversions of Heathens.
Wife- How me link you have great much God * up
tVier«, and yet no do well, no do good ting? Can he
tell . Sure he no tell what you do.
• She points up to Heaven, - .
W. A. Yes, yes, he knows and fees all things; he
hears us speak, sees what we do, knows what we think,
though we do not speak.
Wise. What! he no hear you swear, curse, speak the
great Damn?
W. A. Yes, yes, he hears it all.
Wise. Where be then the muchee great Power
strong?
W. A. He is merciful; that is all we can say for it;
and this proves him to be the true God 5 he is God, and
not Man; and theresore we are not consumed ".
• Here Will Atkins told us, He svas struck .with
Horror, to think how he could tell his Wise so
clearly, that God sees, and hears, and knoius the
secret Thoughts os the Heart, and all that ive do;
and yet that he had dared to do all the vile things
be bad done.
Wise. Mercisul! What you call dat?
W. A. He is our Father and Maker; and he pities
and spares us.
Wise. So then he never makee kill, never angry
when you do wicked; then he no good himself, or no
great able.
- W. A. Yes, yes, my Dear; he is insinitely good, and
insinitely great, and able to punish too; and sometimes,
to Ihew his Justice and Vengeance, he Iets sly his Anger
to destroy Sinners, and make Examples; many are cut
off in their Sins.
Wise. But no makee kill you yet; then he tell you,
may he, that he no makee you kill, so you make de Bar-
gain with him, you do bad ting, he no be angry at you,
when he be angry at other Mans?
W. A. No, indeed, my Sins are all Presumptions upon
his Goodness; and he would be insinitely just, if he de-
stroyed me, as he has done other Men.
Wise. Well, and yet no kill, no makee you dead?
What you say to him for that.' You no tell him Taniee
for all that too!
W. A. I am an unthanksul, ungratesul Dog, that is
true.
Wist,
x34 ??< Lifi «*</ Adventuris «/
iVist. Why he no makee you much good better? You
fay he makee you?
IV. A. He made me as he made all the World; 'tis
j have desormed myself, and abused his Goodnese, and
jiave made myself an abominable Wretch.
Wise. I wish you makee God know me; I no makee
Jiim angry; I no do bad wicked ting.
Here Will Atkins said his Heart funk within him,
to hear a poor untaught Creature dtsire to be taught
to know God; and he such a -wicked Wreteh, that
he could not say one Word to her about God, but
what the Reproach os his own Carriage would make
most irrational to her to believe; nay, that already
fse could not believe in God, because he that was Jo
wicked was not destroyed.
'fp. A. My Dear, you mean, you wish I could teach
.sU to know God, not God to know you; for he knows
y 0a already, and every Thought in your Heart.
y ffisi- Why then he know what I say to you now i
he kIi0W me to know him: How {hall me know
iio makee roe?
* pp. A. Poor Creature, he must teach thee; I can-
t teach thee: I'll pray to him to teach thee to know
JjisU ; and to forgive me, that I am unworthy to teach
tfhe poor Fellow was in such an Agony at her de-
siring him to make her know God, and her wip-
ing to knmv him, that, he said, he sell down on
his Knees before her, and prayed to God to en-
lighten her Mind with the sawing Knowledge os
Jesus Christ, and to pardon his Sins, and accept
es his being the unworthy Instrument os instruct-
ing her in the Principles os Religion; after which
he sat down by her again; and their Dialogue
went on.
jf. B. This was the Time when we saw him kneel
down, and lift up his Hands.
Wist,
Wise. What you put down the Knee for? What you
.hold up the Hand for? What you say? Who you speak
to? What is that?
W. A. My Dear, I bow my Knees in Token of my
Submission to him that made me: I said, O to him,
as you call it, and as you say, your old Men do to their
Idol Benamuchee ; that is, I prayed to him.
Wise. What you say O to him for?
W. A. I prayed to him to open your Eyes, and your
Understanding, that you may know him, and be accepted
by him.
Wise. Can he do that too?
W. A. Yes, he can; he can do all things.
Wife. But no he hear what you say?
W. A. Yes, he has bid us pray to him; and promised
to hear us.
Wise. Bid you pray? When he bid you? How he bid
you? What! You hear him speak?
W. A. No, we do not hear him speak; but he has
revealed himself many Ways to us.
Here he svas at a great Loss to make her understand,
that God had revealed himsels to us by his Word;
and u/hat his Word uuas: But, at last he told it her
thus.
W. A. God has spoken to some good Men in former
Days, even from Heaven, by plain Words; and God
has inspired good Men, by his Spirit; and they have
written all his Laws down in a Book.
Wise. Me no understand that: Where is Book?
W. A. Alas! my poor Creature, I have not this Book;
but, I hope, I shall, one Time or other, get it for you to
read it.
Here he embraced her svith great AffeBion; but with
inexpressible Gries, that he had not a Bible.
Wise. But how you makee me know, that God teachee
them to write that Book?
W. A. By the fame Rule that we know him to be God.
Wse. What Rule, what Way you know?
IT. 4.
IV. A. Because he teaches and commands nothing
Jjut what is good, righteous, and holy; and tends to
jnake us perfectly good, as well as perfectly happy s
&nd because he forbids, and commands us to avoid all
chat is wicked, that is evil in itself, or evil in its Conse-
quences.
fftfe. That me would understand, that me sain fee;
jf he reward all good thing, punish all wicked thing,
j,e teachee all good thing, forbid all wicked thing,
ylC make all thing, he give all thing; he hear me
^v'hen I say O to him, as you go to do just now; he makee
xrie good, if I wish be good; he spare me, no makee
kill we, when I no be good; all this you say he do; yes,
. e be great God ; me take, think, believe, him be great
£jod ! me say O to him too, with you, my Dear.
Jiere the poor Man said he could forbear no longer;
. ut( raising her up, made her kneel by him; and he
r&ycd to God aloud, to instruct her in the Knowledge
P f himself, by his Spirit; and that by some good Pro-
°;<3ence, if possible, she might some Time or other come
V have a Bible, that she might read the Word of God,,
^,<i be taugnt by it to know him.
This svas the Time that •we fazv him lst her up fy
the Hand, and fasv him kneel down by her, at
above.
rfhey had several other Discourses, it seems, after
, . too long to set down here; and particularly she
* Ae him promise, That since he consessed his own
ssiaflt * r— ->
I^lfe bad been a wicked abominable Course of P/ovo-
arion against God, that he would reform it, and not
'a(te God angry any more, lest he mould make him
seaJ, as she called it, and then she should be lest alone;
nt] never be taught to know this God better; and lest
jiC should be miserable, as he had told her wicked-Men
£i0uld be after Death.
This was a strange Account, and very affecting to us
-both, but particularly the young Clergyman; he was
in£Jeed wondersully surprised with it; but under tho
greatest Affliction imaginable, that he could not talk to
fjer i that he could not speak Englijh to make her un-
derstand him; and a» Ihe spoke but very broken Eng-
HJh he could not understand her. However he turn'd
himself to me, and told me, that he believed there must
be more to do with this Woman than to marry her: I
did not understand him at first, but at length he explained
himself; viz. That she ought to be baptiz'd.
I agreed .with him in that Part readily, and was for
going about it presently: No, no; hold Sir, said he,
though I would have her baptiz'd by all Means, yet I
mult observe, That Will Atkins, her Husband, has, in-
deed, brought her in a wondersul manner to be willing
to embrace a religious Life; and has given her just Ideas
of the Being of a God, of his Power, Justice, and Mercy;
yet I desire to know of him, if he has said any thing
to her of Jesus Christ, and of the Salvation of Sinners;
of the Nature of Faith in him, and the Redemption by
him; of the Holy Spirit, the Resurrection, the last Judg-
ment, and a suture State.
I called Will Atkins again, and asked him; but the
poor Fellow fell immediately into Tears, and told us,
He had said something to her of all those things, but
that he was himself so wicked a Creature, and his own
Conscience so reproached him with his horrid ungodly
Life, that he trembled at the Apprehensions, that her
Knowledge of him should lessen the Attention she should
give to those things, and make her rather contemn
t Religion, than receive it: But he was assured, he said,
that her Mind was so disposed to receive due Impressions
of all those things, that if I would but discourse with her,
she would make it appear to my Satissaction, that my
Labour would not be lost upon her.
Accordingly I called her in, and, placing myself as In-
terpreter between my religious Priest and the Woman,
I intreated him to begin with her; but sure such a Ser-
mon was never preached by a Popish Priest in these latter
Ages of the World; and, as I told him, I thought he had
all the Zeal, all the Knowledge, all the Sincerity of a
Christian, without the Errors of a Roman Catholic ; and that
I took him to be such a Clergyman, as the Reman Bishops
were, besore the Church of Rome assumed spiritual So-
vereignly over the Consciences of Men.
In a Word, he brought the poor Woman to embrace
the Knowledge of Christ, and of Redemption by him,
not
not wi-th Wonder and Astonishment only, as {he did tiie
firil Notions of a God, but with Joy and Faith, with
an Affection, and a surprising Degree of Understanding,
scarce to be imagined, much less to be expressed; and at
h-er own Request, she was baptiz'd.
When he was preparing to baptize her, I intreated him,
that he would perform that Ossice with some Caution,
that the Man might not perceive he was of the Roman
Church, if possible; because of other ill Consequences
which might attend a Difference among us in that very
Religion, which we were instructing the other in. He told
Die, That as he had no consecrated Chapel, nor proper
things for the Ossice, I should see he would do it in a
manner, that I should not know by it, that he was a Ro-
man Catholic, myself, if I had not known it besore: And
fa he did; for, saying only some Words over to himself in
Latin, which I could not understand, he pour'd a whole
pish sull of Water upon the Woman's Head, pfonounc-
i ng in French very loud, MARY; which was the Name her
f-Jusband desired me to give her, for I was her Godsa-
ther, Ibaptixe thee in the Name os the Father, and of the Son,
and os the Holy Ghost; so that none could know any thing
by it, what Religion he was of: He gave the Bene-
diction afterwards in Latin; but either WillAthim did
nOt know but it was in French, or else did not take notice
0f it at that Time.
As soon as this was over, he married them; and af-
,er the Marriage was over, he turned himself to Will
Atkins, and in a very affectionate manner exhorted him,
not only to persevere in that good Disposition he was in,
but to support the Convictions that were upon him, by
s Resolution to resorm his Life; told him, it was in
yain to say he repented, if he did not forsake his Crimes;
represented to him, how God had honoured him with
being the Instrument of bringing his Wife to the Know-
ledge of the Christian Religion; and that he should b«
caresul he did not dishonour the Grace of God; and that,
;f he did, he would see the Heathen a better Christian
;ban himself; the Savage converted, and the Instrument
jastaway.
He said a great many good things to them both, ana
;hen recommended them, in a few Words, to God's
Good-
Goodness, gave them the Benediction again, I repeating
every thing to them in Englijh: And thus ended the Ce-
remony. I think it was the most pleasant agreeable Day
to me that ever I passed in my whole Life.
But my Clergyman had not done yet; his Thoughts
hung continually upon the Conversion of the 37 Savages;
and sain he would have slaid upon the island to have
undertaken it; but I convinced him, First, That his Un-
dertaking was impracticable in itself;'ar.d idly, That,
perhaps, I would put it into a Way of being done, in his
Absence, to his Satissaction; of which by-and-by.
Having thus brought the Affair of the Island to a nar-
row Compass, I was preparing to go on board the Ship,
when the young Man, whom I had taken out of the
samish'd Ship's Company, came to me, and teld me, He
understood I had a Clergyman with me; and that I had
caused the Englifomen to be married to the Savages,
whom they called Wives; that he had a Match too,
which he desired might be finished besore I went, be-
tween two Christians; which, he hoped, would not be
disagreeable to me. -
'I knew this must be the young Woman who was his
Mother's Servant, for there was no other Christian Wo-
man on the Island; so I began to persuade him not to do
any thing of that kind rashly, or because he found him-
self in this solitary Circumstance: I represented, that he
had some considerable Substance in the World, and good
-Friends, as I understood by himself, and by his Maid
also; that the Maid was not only poor, and a Servant,
but was unequal to him, she being 26 or 27 Years old,
and he not above 17 or 18; that he might, very pro-
bably, with my Assistance, make a Remove from this
Wilderness, and come into his own Country again; and
that then it would be a thousand to one but he would
repent his Choice; and the Dislike of that Circumstance
might be disadvantageous to both. I was going to say
more, but he interrupted me, smiling; and told me,
with a great deal of Modesty, that I mistook in my
Guesses ; that he had nothing of that kind in his Thoughts,
his present Circumstances being melancholy and discon-
solate enough; and he was very glad to hear, that I had
Thoughts of putting them in a Way to see their own
Country
Country again; and that nothing sliould have set him
upon slaying there, but that the Voyage 1 was going was
{o exceeding long and hazardous, and would cariy him
quite out of the Reach of all his Friends; that he had
nothing to desire of me, but that I would settle him in
fome little Property in the island where he was; give
him a Servant or two, and some few Necessaries, and
he would settle himself here like a Planter, waiting the
good Time when, if ever I returned to England, I would
redeem him, and hoped I would not be unmindsul of
him when I came to England; that he would give me
fome Letters to his Friends in London, to let them know
how good I had been to him, and what Part of the
World, and what Circumstances I had lest him in: And
fae promised me, that whenever I redeemed him, the
plantation, and alI the Improvements he had made upon
jt, let the Value be what it would, should be wholly mine.
His Discourse was very prettily delivered, considering
j,ls Youth; and was the more agreeable to me, becaule
jie 1old me positively the Match was not for himself,
j gave him all possible Assurances, that, if I lived to
corne safe to England, I would deliver his Letters, and
£o his Business effectually; and that he might depend I
^ould never forget the Circumstances I lest him in; but
Alll I was impatient to know who was the Person to be
parried: Upon which he told me, it was my Jack of all
ij-yades, and his Maid Susan.
I was most agreeably surprised when he named: the
jyjatch; for, indeed, I had thought it very suitable.
rfbe Character of that Man I have given already; and
^s for the Maid, stie was a very honest, modest, sober,
and religious young Woman; had a very good Share of
genfe , was agreeable enough in her Person ; spoke very
handsomely, and to the Purpose; always with Decency
and good Manners, and not backward to speak, when
thing required it, or impertinently forward to speak
^yhen it was not her Business; very handy and house-
wifely in any thing that was besore her; an excellent
iVlanager, and fit indeed to have been Governess to the
yvhole Island; she knew very well how to behave her-
felf to all kind of Folks she had about her, and to better,
jf she had found any there.
'The
tier,.
The Match being proposed in this Manner, we mar-
ried them the same Day; and, as I was Father at the
Altar, as I may say, and gave her away, so I gave her
a Portion; for I appointed her and her Husband a hand-
some large Space of Ground for their Plantation; and,
indeed, this Match, and the Proposal the young Gentle-
man made to me, to give him a small Property in the
Island, put me upon parcelling it out among them, that
they might not quarrel afterwards about their Situation.
- This sharing out the Land to them I lest to WMJt-
iim, who, indeed, was now grown a most sober, grave,
managing Fellow; perfectly resormed, exceeding pious
and religious; and, as sar as I may be allowed to speak
positively in such a Case, I verily believe, was a true,
sincere Penitent.
He divided things so justly, and so much to every
one's Satissaction, that they only desired one genera!
Writing under my Hand for the whole ; which I caused
to be drawn up, and signed and sealed to them, setting
out the Bounds and Situation of every Man's Planta-
tion, and testifying, that I gave them thereby, several-
ly, a Right to the whole Possession and Inheritance of
the respective Plantations or Farms, with their Improve-
ments, to them and their Heirs; reserving all the rest of
the Island as my own Property, and a certain Rent for
every particular Plantation, after eleven Years, if I or
any one from me, or in my Name, came to demand it,
producing an attested Copy of the same Writing.
As to the Government and Laws among them, I told
them, I was not capable of giving them better Rules
than they were able to give themselves; only made
them promise me, to live in Love and good Neighbour-
hood with one another: And so I prepared to leave
them.
One thing I must not omit; and that is, that being
row settled in a kind of Commonwealth among them,
selves, and having much Business in Hand, it was but
odd to have seven and thirty Indians live in a Nook of
the Island, independent, and,indeed, unemployed; for,
excepting the providing themselves Food, which they had
Dissiculty enough in, sometimes, they had no man-
ner of Business or Property to manage: I propos'd there-
fore
142 1$>e L1 f£ Adventures »/
fore to the Governor Spaniard, that he should go to them
tvith Friday % Father, and propose to them to remove,
and either plant for themselves, or take them into their
feveral Families as Servants, to be maintained for their
J_,abour, but without being absolute Slaves; for I wouid
jjot admit them to make them Slaves by Force, by any
jiicans: because they had their Liberty given by Capitu-
ja«on, at"l, as » were, Articles of Surrender, which
they ought not to break.
They most willingly embraced the Proposal, and came
all very chearsul along with him ; so we allotted them
j^andi and Plantations, which three or four accepted of,
£,ut all the rest chose to be employed as Servants in the
several Families we had settled; and thus my Colony was
- 0 a manner settled, as follows: The Spaniards possessed
original Habitation, which was the capital City, and
eJ£cended their Plantation all along the Side of the Brook,
%vhich made the Creek that I have so often described, as
as my Bower; and as they increased their Culture,
-1 vvent always Eastward; the Englijh lived in the North-.
jjast Part, wflere Will Atkins and his Comrades began,
&0d came on Southward, and South-West, towards the
^ack Part of the Spaniards; and every Plantation had a
reat Addition of Land to take in, if they found Occa-
sion; so that they need not jostle one another for want
^.11 the West-end of the Island was lest uninhabited,
^at if any of the Savages should come on Shore there,
1 nIy for their usual customary Barbarities, they might
ottie and go; if they disturbed nobody, nobody would
jjslurb them; and no doubt but they were often ashore,
nd went away again; for I never heard, that the Planters
* eTe ever attacked and disturbed any more.
jt now came into my Thoughts, that I had hinted to
y Friend the Clergyman, that the Work of converting
he Savages might, perhaps, be set on Foot in his Ab-
J- „ce, to his Satissaction: And I told him, that now I
hougnt it was put in a sair Way; for the Savages being
^,,3 divided among the Christians, if they would but
eVe*y one of them do their Part with those which came
0ndet their Hands, I hoped it might have a very good
'He
He agreed presently in that, if, said he, they will do
their Part; but how, says he, (hall we obtain that of
them? I told him, we could ca!l them all together,
and leave it in .Charge with them, or go to them one
by one, which he thought heft; so we divided it; he
to speak to the Spaniards, who were all Papists; and I
to the Englijh, who were all Protestants; and we recom-
mended it earnestly to them, and made them promise,
that they would never make any Distinction of Papist
or Protestant, in- their exhorting the Savages to turn
Christians; but teach them the general Knowledge of
the true God, and of their Saviour Jesus Christ; and
they likewise promised us, that they would never have
any Differences or Disputes, one with another, about
Religion.
When I came to Will Mini's House (I may call it so,
for such a House, or such a Piece of Basket-work, I be-
lieve, was not standing in the World again! I say, when
I came thither) I found the young Woman 1 have men-
tioned above, and William Atkins's Wife, were become
Intimates; and this pruJent, religious, young Woman,
had perfected the Work Will Atkins had begun; and
though it was not above four Days after what 1 have
related, yet the new-baptized Savage Woman was made
such a Christian, as I have seldom heard of any like
her, in all my Observation, or Conversation in the
World.
It came next into my Mind, in the Morning, besore I
went to them, that among all the needsul things I had
to leave with them, I had not lest a Bible; in which I
shewed myself less considering for them, than my good
Friend the Widow was for me, when she sent me the
Cargo of 100 /. from Lijbon, where she packed up three
Bibles and a Prayer Book. However, the good Woman's
Charity had a greater Extent than ever she imagined;
for they were reserved for the Comfort and Instruction
of those that made much better Use of them than I had
done
I took one of the Bibles in my Pocket, and when
I came to William Atkins's Tent or House) I found
the young Woman, and Atkins's baptized Wife, had
been discoursing of Religion together; (for William At-
kms
kins told it me, with a great deal of Joy;) I asked, if
they were together now? and he said, Yes ; so I went
into the House, and he with me, and we found them
together very earnest in Discourse: O, Sir, says William
jltkins, when God has Sinners to reconcile to himself,
and Aliens to bring Home, he never wants a Messen-
ger: My Wife has got a new Instructor; I knew I
was unworthy, as I was uncapable of that Work; that
young Woman has been sent hither from Heaven; she
is enough to convert a whole Island of Savages. The
young Woman blushed, and rose up to go away, but
I desired her to fit still; I told her she had a good
'Work upon her Hands, and I hoped God would bless
her in it.
We talked a little, and I did not perceive they had
any Book among them, though I did not ask; but I put
my Hand in my Pocket, and pulled oat my Bible ; Here,
said I to Atkins, I have brought you an Assistant, that,
perhaps, you had not besore. The Man was so con-
founded, that he was not able to speak for some Time;
but, recovering himself, he takes it with both his Hands,
and, turning to his Wife; Here, my Dear, says he,
Jid not I tell you, our God, though he lives above,
could hear what we said? Here is the Book I prayed for,
«phen you and I kneel'd down under the Bush; now
Cod has heard us and sent it. When he had said thus,
the Man fell into such Transports of a passionate Joy,
that between rhe Joy of having it, and giving God
T'hanks f°r iti the Tears ran down his Face like a Child
that was crying.
The Woman was surprised, and was like to have
run into a Mistake, that none of us were aware of;
for she firmly believed God had sent the Book upon her
j-Iusband's Petition: It is true, that providentially it
vvas so, and might be taken so in a consequent Sense;
but I believed it would have been no dissicult Matter, at
that Time, to have persuaded the poor Woman to have
b-elieved, that an Express Messenger came from Heaven,
on purpose to bring that individual Book; but it wa-s
too seiious a Matter, to suffer any Deluiion to take
place: So I turned to the young Woman, and told
Ji«r, We did not desire to impose upon the new Con-
vert,
vert, in her first, and more ignorant understanding of
things; and begged her to explain to her, that God
may be very pfdperly said to answer our Petitions, when
in the Course of his Providedce, such things are, in a
particular Manner, brought to pass, as we petition'd for;
but we do not expect Returns from Heaven, in a mira-
culous and particular Manner ', and that it is our Mercy
it is not so.
This the young Woman did afterwards effectually; so
that there was, I assure you, no Priestcraft used here;
and I should have thought it one of the most unjustifiable
Frauds in the World, to have had it so; but the Sur-
prise of Joy upon Will Atkins, is really not to be ex-
pressed; and there, we may be sure, was no Delusion:
Sure no Man was ever more thanksul in the World for
any thing of its kind, than he was for this Bible; and,
I believe, never any Man was glad of a Bible from a
better Principle; and though he had been a molt prosli-
gate Creature, desperate, headstrong, outrageous, suri-
ous, and wicked, to a great Degree; yet this Man is a
standing Rule to us all for the well instructing Children;
.viz. that Parents- should never give over to teach and
instruct, or ever despair of the Success of their Endea-
vours, let the Children be ever so obstinate, resractory,
or, to Appearance, insensible of Instruction; for, if ever
God in his Providence touches the Consciences of such,
the Force of their Education returns upon them, and the
early Instruction of Parents is not lost, tho' it may have
been many Years laid asleep; but, some Time or other,
they may find the Benefit of it.
Thus it was with this poor Man, however ignorant he
was, or directed of Religion and Christian Knowledge.
He found he had some to do with now more ignorant
than himself; and that the least Part of the Instruction
of his good Father, that could now come to his Mind,
was of Use to him.
Among the rest it occurred to him, he said, how his
Father uled to insist much upon the inexpressible Valpe
-of the Bible i the Privilege and Blessing of it to Nations,
Families, and Persons; but he never entertained the
least Notion of the Worth of it till now; when, being
Vo l. II. G to
i
to talk to Heathens, Savages, and Barbarians, he wanted
the Help of the written Oracle for his Assistance.
The young Woman was very glad of it also, for the
present Occasion, though she had one; and so had the
Youth on board our Ship, among the Goods, which
were not yet brought on Shore. And now, having said
fo many things of this young Woman, I cannot omit
telling one Story more of her and myself, which has
-something in it very insorming and remarkable.
I have related to what Extremity the poor young
Woman was reduced; how her Mistress was starved
to Death, and did die, on board that unhappy Ship we
rnet at Sea; and how the whole Ship's Company be-
ing reduced to the last Extremity, the Gentlewoman,
and her Son, and this Maid, were first hardly used, as
to Provisions; and, at last, totally neglected and starv-
ed i that is to say, brought to the last Extremity of
lounger.
Cne Day, being discoursing with her up.'n the Extre-
mities they suffered, I afted her, if she could describe,
"by what the felt, what it was to starve, and how it ap-
peared? She told me, she believed she could; and Ihe
told" her Tale very distinctly thus:
First, Sir, said she, we had for some Days sared ex-
ceeding hard, and suffered very great Hunger; but now,
at last, we were wholly without Food of any kind, ex-
cept Sugar, and a little Wine, and a little Water. The
first Day, a/ter I had received no Food at all, I found
sriyself towards Evening, first empty and sickish at my
Stomach; and nearer Night, mightily inclined to yawn-
ing, and sleepy; I laid down on a Couch, in the great
Cabin, to sleep; and slept about three Hours, and
awaked a little resreshed, having taken a Glass of Wine
vvhen I lay down; after being about three Hours awake,
lt being about five o'clock in the Morning, I found my-
felf empty, and my Stomach sickish again, and laid down
again; but could not sleep at all, being very saint and
ill; and thus I continued all the second Day, with a
strange Variety, first hungry, then sick again, with
Heachiogs to vomit; the second Night, being obliged to
po to Bed again, without any Food more than a Draught
_ of sair Water, and being asleep, I dreanied I was at
Barbadin,
Barbadees, and that the Market was mightily stocked with
Provisions; that I bought some for my Mistress, and went
and dined very heartily.
I thought my Stomach was as sull after this, as it
would have been after, or at, a good Dinner; but when
I awaked, I was exceedingly sunk in my Spirits to rind
myself in the Extremity of Famine: The last Glass of
Wine we had, I drank, and put Sugar into it, because
of its having some Spirit to supply Nourishment; but
there being no Substance in the Stomach for the digest-
ing Ossice to work upon, I found the only Effect of the
Wine was, to raise disagreeable Fumes from the Stomach
into the Head; and I lay, as they told me, stupid and
senseless, as one drunk, for some Time.
The third Day in the Morning, after a Night of strange
and consused inconsistent Dreams, and rather dozing
than sleeping, I awaked, ravenous and surious, with
Hunger; and I question, had not my Understanding re-
turned, and conquered it; I say, I question whether, if
I had been a Mother, and had had a little Child with me,
its Life would have been safe, or not,
This lasted about three Hours; during which Time I
was twice raging mad, as any Creature in Bedlam, as my
young Master told me, and as he can now insorm you.
In one of these Fits of Lunacy, or Destraction, whe-
ther by the Motion of the Ship, or some Slip of my Foot,
I know not; I fell down, and struck my Face against
the Corner of a Pallet-bed, in which my Mistress lay;
and with the Blow, the Blood gushed out of my Nose;
and the Cabin-boy bringing me a little Bason, I sat
. down, and bled into it a great deal; and as the Blood
ran from me, I i ame to myself; and the Violepce of the
Flame, or the Fever I was in, abated, and so did the
ravenous Part of the Hunger. -"
Then I grew sick, and reached to vomit, but could
not; for I had nothing in my Stomach to bring up:
After I had bled some Time, I swooned, and they - all
believed I was dead; but I came to myself soon after,
and then had a most dreadsul Pain in my Stomach, not
to be described; not like the Cholic, but a gnawing
eager Pain for Food; and, towards Night, it went off
with a kind of earnest Wishing or Longing for Food;
G 2 some-
something like, as I suppose, the Longing of a Woman
- with Child. 1 took another Draught of Water, with Su-
gar in it, but my Stomach loathed the Sugar, and brought
it all up again: Then I took a Draught of Water with-
out Sugar, and that stayed with me; and laid me down
upon the Bed, praying most heartily, that it would please
Cod to take me away ; and composing my Mind in Hopes
of it, I slumbered awhile; and then waking, thought my-
felf dying, being light with Vapours from an empty Sto-
xnach, I recommended my Scul to God, and earnestly
idied, that somebody would throw me into the Sea.
All this while my Mistress lay by me, just, as I
thought, expiring; but bore it with much more Patience
tban I, and gave the last Bit of Bread she had to her
Child, my young Master, who would not have taken it,
Dut she obliged him to eat it; and, I believe, it saved
j,is Life.
Towards the Morning, I slept again; and first, when
J awaked, I fell into a violent Passion of Crying; and
after that, had a second Fit of violent Hunger, so that
j got up ravenous, and in a most dreadsul Condition:
J-Jad my Mistress been dead, as much as I loved her, I
arn certain, I mould have eaten a Piece of her Fleih with
as much Relish, and as unconcerned, as ever I did the
jrlesh of any Creature appointed for Food; and, once
01 twice, I was going to bite my own Arm. At last,
j saw the Bason, in which was the Blood 1 had bled at
Nose the Day besore; 1 raji to it, and swallowed it
%vith such Haste, and such a greedy Appetite, asif I had
pondered nobody had taken it besore, and afraid it
jhould be taken from me now. ,.
Though after it was down, the Thoughts of it filled
_ie with Horror, yet it checked the Fit of Hunger; and
2 drank a Draught of sair Water, and was composed and
refreshed for some Hours after it. This was the fourth
-pay, and thus I held it till towards Night, when within
the Compass of three Hours, I had all these several Cir-
cumstances over again, one after another; sick,
/leepy, eagerly hungry, Pain in ,the Stomach, then ra-
venous again, then sick again, then lunatic, then crying,
t „en rrve:ious again, and so every Quarter of an Hour;
apd my Strength walled exceedingly. At Night I laid
ce
me down, having no Comfort, but in the Hope that I
mould die besore Morning. --" u .
All this Night I had no Sleep, but the Hunger was now
turned into a Disease; and I had a terrible Cholic and
Griping; Wind, instead of Food, having found its Way
into the Bowefe; and in this Condition I lay till Morning,
when I was surprised a little with the Cries and Lamen-
tations of my young Master, who called out to me, that
his Mother was dead. I lifted myself up a little, for I
had not Strength to rise, but found stie was not dead* tho*
Ihe was able to give very little Signs of Life.
I had then such Convulsions in my Stomach, for want
of some Sustenance, that I cannot describe them; with
such frequent Throes and Pangs of Appetite, that no-
thing but the Tortures of Death* can imitate: And this
Condition I was in, when I heard the Seamen above cry
out, A Sail, A Sail, and halloo and jump about as if they
Were distracted.
I was not able to get off from the Bed, and my Mis-
tress much less; and my Master was so sick, that I
thought he had been expiring; so we could not open the
Cabin Door, or get any Account what it was that occa-
sioned such a Combustion; nor had we any Conversation
with the Ship's Company for two Days, they having
told us they had not a Mouthsul of any thing to eat ia
the Ship : And they told us afterwards, they thought we
had been dead.
It was this dreadsul Condition we were in, when you
were sent to save our Lives: And how you found us, Sir,
you know as well as I, and better too.
This was her own Relation, and is such a distinct Ac-
count of starving to Death, as, I consess, I never met
with-, and was exceeding entertaining to me: I am the
rather apt to believe it to be a true Account, because the
Youth gave me an Account of a good Part of it; though
I^nruft own, not so distinct,- and so- .feelingly, as his
Maid; and the rather, because, it seems, his Mother
fed him at the Price of her own Life: But the poor
Maid, though her Constitution being stronger than that
of her Mistress; who was in Years, and a weakly Woman
too, file ditgblf'stiuggle harder with it; I say, the poor
Maid might be supposed to feel the Extremity something
G 3 sooner
sootier than her Mistress, who might be allowed to keep
the last Bits something longer than lhe parted with any
to relieve the Maid. No question, as the Case is here
related, if our Ship, or some other, had not so providen-
. tial'Iy met them, a few Days more would have ended all
their Lives, unless they had prevented it by eating one
another; and even that, as their Cafe stood, wouldhave
served them but a little while), they being 500 Leagues
from any Land; or any Possibility of Relies, other than
in the miraculous manner it happened: But this is by the
way. I return to my Disposition of things among the
People. .i-. :- .
And First, It is to observed here, That, for many
seasons, I did not think fit to let them know any thing .
0f the Sloop I had framed, and which 1 thought of setting
vp among them; for I found, at least at my first coming,
-fixctt Seeds of Divisionamong them, that I saw it plainly,
^ad I set up the Sloop, and lest it among them, they
^vou'di upon very light Disgust, have separated, and gone
3\vay from one another; or perhaps, have turned Pirates,
so ma^e Island a Den of Thieves, instead of a
j>)antation of sober and religious People, as 1 intended it
to be; nor did I leave the two Pieces of Brass Cannon
that Lhad on board, or the two Quarter-deck Guns, that.
-roy Nephew took extraordinary, for the same Reason: I
sought they had enough to qualify them for a desensive
-\Var against any that should invade them; but I was not
set them up for an offensive War, or to encourage
^eni to go abroad to attack others, which, in the End,
* oUld only bring Ruin and Destruction upon themselves,
all t! eir Undertakings: I reserved the Sloop, there-
?nTe-, an<^ tsle Guns, for their Service another Way, as I
/hall observe in its Place.
* r have now done with the Island: I lest them all in
0o<i Circumstances, and in a slourishing Condition, and
ent on board my Ship again the fifth Day of May, hav-
-0cr been sive and-twenty Days among them; and, as
th^y were a" resolved to stay upon the Island till I came
t0 remove them, I promised to send some surther Relies
from *be Bra/l/s, if I could possibly find an Opportunity;
and Particu!arly. I promised to send them some Cattle;
j wch as Sheep, Hogs, and Cows: For, tis to the two
Cows
Cows and Calves, which I brought from England, we had
been obliged, by the Length of our Voyage, to kill them,
at Sea, for want of Hay to feed them.
The next Day, giving them a Salute of five Guns at
parting, we set Sail, and arrived at the Bay of All-Saints,
in the Brafils, in about zzDays; meeting nothing re-
markable in our Passage, but this, that about three Days
after we sailed, being becalmed, and the Current setting
strong to the E. N. E. running, as it were, into a Bay
or Gulph, on the Land-side, we were driven something
out os oilr Course; and once or twice our Men cry'd,
Land, to the Westward; 'but whether it was the Continent
or lslands, we could not tell by any means.
But the third Day, towards Evening, the Sea smooth,
and the Weather calm, we saw the Sea, as it were, co-
vered, towards the Land, with something very black,
not being able to discover what it was; but, after some
Time, our Chies Mate going up the main Shrouds a
little Way, and looking at them with a Perspective, cry'd
out, it was an Army. I could not imagine what he meant
by an Army, and spoke a little hastily, calling the Fel-
low a Fool, or some such Word: Nay, Sir, says he,
dfl'n't be angry, for it is an Army, and a Fleet too; for
I believe there are a thousand Canoes, and you may fee
them paddle along, and they are coming towards us too,
apace, and sull of Men.
I was a little surprised then, indeed, and so was my
Nephew.the Captain; for he had heard such terrible
Stories of them in the Island; and having never been in
those Seas besore, that he could not tell what to think of
it, but said two or three Times, we should all be devour-
ed. I mult consess, considering we were becalm'd, and
the Current set strong towards the Shore, I liked it the
worse: However, I bade him not be afraid, but bring
the Ship to an Anchor, as soon as we came so near as to
know, that we mull engage them.
The Weather continued calm, and they came on apace
towards us; sol gave Orders to come to an Anchor, and
surl all our Sails. As for the Savages, I told them, they
had nothing to fear from them but Fire; and theresore
they should get their Boats out, and fasten.them, one
close by the Head, and the other, by the Stern, and man
G 4 them
..1 O ?. tj q o v; i" / [ j] Q p
152 92^ Life æs*/ Adventures 0/
them both well, and wait the Issue in that Posture:
T his I did, that the Men k the Boats might be ready,
with Shtets and Backets, to put out any Fire these Sa-
-vages might endeavour to fix upon the Outside of the
Ship. .. ,.4. i
In thij. Posture we lay by for them, and in a little while
they came up with us; but never was such a horrid Sight
seen by Christians: My Mate was much mistaken in his
Calculation of their Number, I mean of a thousand Ca-
noes; the most we could make of them when they came
np> being about 1.26; and a great many of them too;
for some of them had sixteen or seventeen Men in them,
forne more, and the least .six or seven.
\Vhen they came nearer to us, they seemed to be struck'
vvith Wonder and Astonishment, as at a Sight which they
j>ad, doubtless, neves seen besore; nor could they, at
£rst> a! we as^rwards understood, know what to make of
9- They came boldly up however, very near to us, and
feemed to go about to row round us; but we called to our
n in the Boats, not to let them come too near them.
'This very Order brought us to an Engagement with
. eIn, without our designing it; for five or six of their
: „e Canoes came so near our Longboat, that our Men
~^cl<oned with their Hands to them to keep back; which
hey understood very well, and went back; but at their
Ssgtreat about 500 Arrows came on board us from those
*r ats; and one of our Men in the Longboat was very
** ch woundeiI.
j-£owever, I called to them not to fire by any means;
. tve handed down some Deal Boards into the Boat,
J;O1 • _ r _.!.. y_. .._ _ 1.:_J „s _
30 j the Carpenter presently set up a kind of a Fence,
Waste-boards, to cover them fiom the Arrows of the
came all up in a
3'^flges, if they .should shoot again.
About half an Hour afterwards they

*<rerigage with; and in a little Time more they rowed
l° evvhat farther out to Sea, till they came directly
'°oaCJside with us, and then rowed down strait upon us^
.**fi they came so near, that they could hear us speak:
tl Upon
Upon tWis I ordered all my Men to keep close, lest they
should shoot any more Arrows, and make all our Guns
ready; but, being so near as to- be within Hearing; I
made'' flfddj go oat upon" the Detk, and call ouraloud
tothferfi jn hil Language, to know what they«meamV;
which adtorctingly he did: Whetherthey understood
him or not, that I knew not; but, as soon as he had
called to them, fix of them, who were in the foremost,
or nighest Boat to us, turned their Canoes'from its; and,
stooping down, shewed us their naked "Backsides; just
as if, in Engtijh (saving your Presence) they had bid us
kiss -—; whether this was a Defiance or Challenge,
we know not; or whether it Was ekme in mere Con-
tempt, or a Signal to the/reft; tut immediately' Friday
cry'd out. They wefS going'to' shoot; and Unhappily
for him (poor Fellow)' they les sly about 366 of tnerr
Arrows; and, to my inexpressible Grief, killed poor
Friday, no dther Man being in their Sight. The poor
Fellow was shot with no less than three Arrows, and
about three more fell very nigh him; such unlucky
Marksmen they were.
I was so enraged with the Loss of my old Servant,
the Companion of all my Sorrows and Solitudes, that I
i ni tried i ate fy ordered five Guns to be loaded with small
Shot, and four with great; and gave them such a Broad-
fide as they had never heard in their Lives besore, to be
sure. 1'
They werejnbt aboye'half a Cable's Length off when
we fired; and our Gunners took their Aim so well, that
three or sour of their Canoes were overset, as we had
Reason to believe, by one Shot only.
The ill Manners of turning up their bare Backsides
to us, gave us no great Offence; neither did I know for
certain, whether that, which would pass for the greatest
Contempt among us, might be understood so by them,
or not; therefore in Return, I had only resolved to have
fired four or five Guns with Powder only, which I knew
would fright them sussiciently: But when they shot at us
directly with all the Fury they were capable of, and
especially as they had killed my poor Friday, whom 1 so
intirely loved and valued, and who, indeed, so well de-
served it; Lnot only had been justified before God and
Man, but would have been very glad, if I could, to
Jiave overset every Canoe there, and drowned every one
of them. !i. ,-:
X54 Life Adventures of
we wounded, at this Broadside; but sure such a Fright
and Harey, never was seen among such a Multitude;
there were 13 or 140s their Canoes split, and overset, in
all; and the Men all set a swimming; the rest, frighted
oat of their Wits, scoured away as sast as they could;
taking but little Care to save those whose Boats were split
or spoiled with our Shot: So I suppose, that they were,
xriany of them, lost; and our Men took up one poor
yellow swimming for his Life, above an Hoiir after they
were all gone.
Our small Shot, from our Cannon, must needs kill and
wound a great many: But, in short, we never knew any
thing how it went with them; for they sled so sast, that,
jn three Hours, or thereabout!, we could not fee above
three cr 1our draggling Canoes; nor did we ever fee the
reA any more; for a Breeze of Wind springing up the same
j^vening, we weighed, and set Sail for the Brajth.
We had a Prisoner indeed, but the Creature was so
|0jIen-, that he would neither eat or speak; and we all
fgiticy'd he would starve himself to Death: But 1 took
Way to cure him; for I made them take him, and turn
hits into the Longboat, and make him believe they would
t0ss him into the Sea again, and so leave him where they
,-otlnd him, if he would not speak; nor would that do,
j;tir they really did throw him into the Sea, and came
0,ny from him; and then he followed them, for he swam
s ue a Cork, and called to them in his Tongue, tho' they
J1 eiv not one Word of what he said. However, at last
ftGy took him in again, and then he began to be mote
r 3£lable; nor did I ever design they should drown him.
tr We were now under Sail again; but I was the most
-ffcon(olate Creature alive, for want of my Mm Friday,
j would have been very glad to have gone back to
f£e Island, to have taken one of the rest from thence
5 r my Occasion, but it could not be; so we went on:
\f/e bad one Prisoner, as I have said; and it was a long
xvW^e besore we could make him understand any thing;
. ^,uc, in Time, our Men taught him some Euglfi, and he
began
began to be a little tractable: Afterwards we enquired
what Country he came from, but could make nothing
of what he said; for his Speech was so odd, all Guttu-
rals, and spoken in the Throat, in such an hollow and
odd Manner, that - we could never form a Word from
him; and we were aJJ of Opinion, that they might
speak that Language a*iW.elI, if they were gagged, as
otherwise; nor could we perceive that they had any
Occasion, either for Teeth, Tongue, Lips, or Palate;
but formed their Words, just as a Hunting horn forms
a Tune, with an open Throat: He told us however,
some Time af;er, when we had taught him to speak a
little Englijh, that they were going, with their Kings,
to fight a great Battle. When he said Kingsi *e afted
him how many Kings? He said, There were st-ve Na-
tion (we could not make him understand the plural S,)
and that they ail joined to go against two Nation. We
asked him, What made them come up to us? He said,
To mtkee te great Wonder took: Where it is to be ob-
served, That all those Natives, as also those of Asrica,
when they learn EngUJh, they always add two E's at
the End of the Words where we use one, and place the
Accent upon the last of them; as tnakte, takee, and
the like; and we could not break them of it; nay,
I could hardly make Friday leave it off, though at last
he did.
And now I name the poor Fellow once more, I
must take my last Leave of him; poor honest Friday!
We buried him with all Decency and Solemnity possi-
ble, by putting him into a Cossin, and throwing him
into trie Sea; and I caused them to fire eleven Guns for
him; and so ended the Life of the most gratesul, faith-
sul, honest, and most affectionate Servant that ever Man
had. '. .
j We now went away wi:h a sair Wind for Brqsil,
and, in about twelve Days Time, we made Land in the
Latitude of five Degrees South of the Line, being the
North.-eallermost Land of all that Part of America.
We kept on S. by E. in Sight of the Shore, four Days,
when we made the Cape St. Augustine, and in three Days
came to an Anchor off the Bay of All-Saintt, the old
- .. - . G 6 - - piace
1'lace of my Deliverance, from whence came both my
good and evil Fate.
Never Ship came to this Part, that had lefe Business
than I had i and yet it was wkh.;great-'Djfeulty that
w^'were admitted to hold the least Correspondence on
Shore: Not my Partnet. himself, jwho.was.aKve^aBd
snade a great Figure among them; not my two Mer-
chant Trustees, nor the Fame of my wondersul Pre-
fervation in the Island, could obtain me that Favour:
JJut my Partner, remembering that I had given five hun-
dred Moidores to the Prior of the Monastery of the Au-
gu_fti»es. ar"d three hundred and seventy-two to the Poor,
vvent to the Monastery, and obliged the Prior that then
V7a*, t0 go 10 (he Governor, and beg Leave for me pre-
fently, with the Captain, and one more, besides eight
geamen, to come on Shore, and no more; and this upon
Condition absolutely capitulated for, that we should not
gfgcr to land any Goods ont of the Ship, or to carry any
-person away without Licence.
They were so strict with us, as to landing any Goods,
th3t it was with extreme Dissiculty that I got on Shore
three ^ales of Englijh Goods, such as fine Broadcloths,
Stuff5' ar|d some Linen, which I had brought for a Pre-
f£nt 1o my Partner.
fie was a very generous broad-hearted Man, though
y]ike me) ^e came from little at first; and though he
J^ne*v not, that I had the least Design* of giving him
„y thing, he sent me on board a Present of fresh Pro-
a-f;ons, Wine, and Sweetmeats, worth above thirty Moi-
tJ res, including some Tobacco, and three or four fine
pedals in Gold. But I was even with him in my Pre-
s ot, which, as I have said, consisted of fine Broadcloth,
Vtte.liJ1' Stuffs, Lace, and fine Hollands- Also 1 deli_
-* fc6 him about the Value of 100/. Sterling, in the
^e-e Goods, for other Uses; and I obliged him to set
the Sloop which I had brought with me from Eng-
lri<t, aS 1 have said' for tlie Use of my Colon>'' in or-
*£er to fend the Resreshments I intended to my Plan-
tjon-
* .Accordingly he got Hands, and finished the Sloop in
_ very few Days, for she was already framed, and 1 gave
The Master of her such Instructions as he could not miss
"the
the Place; nor did he miss it, as I had in Account from
my Partner afterwards. J got him soon loaded'Wiith, the
small Cargo I had sent them; and one of our Seamen,
that had been on Store-with me there, offered' to- gp^wtyji
the Sloop, tnd fettle-there, upon my Letter to'th^po-
vernor Spaniard, to allot him a sufficient Quantity of
Land for a Plantation ; and giving him some Cloaths,
and Tools for his Planting-work, which, he said, he un-
derstood, having been an old Planter in Maryland, and a
Buccaneer into the Bargain.
I encouraged the Fellow by granting all he desired;
and, as an Addition, I gave him the Savage whicL3\M
had taken Prisoner of War, to be his Slave, and ordered
the Governor Spaniard to give him his Share of every
thing' he wanted with the rest.
When we came to fit this Man out, my old Partner
told me, there was a certain very honest Fellow, a Bra-
sil Planter of his Acquaintance, who had sallen into the
Displeasure of the Church; I know not what the Mat-
ter is with him, says he; but, on my Conscience,. I
think he is an-Heretic in his Heart; and he has been
obliged to conceal himself for fear of the Inquisition;
that he would be very glad of such an Opportunity to
make his Escape, with his Wife, and two Daughters;
and if I would let them go to the Island, and allot them
a Plantation, he would give them a small Stock to be-
gin with; for the Ossicers of the Inquisition had seized
all his Effects and Estate, and he had nothing lest but a
little Houfhold stuff, and two Slaves. Arid, adds, he,
though 1 hate his Principles, yet I would not have him
sall into their Hands; for he will assuredly be burnt alive,
if he does.
I granted this presently, and joined my Englijhman'
with them; and we concealed the Man, and his Wife
and Daughters, on board our Ship, till the Sloop
put out to go to Sea; and then (having put all their
Goods on board the Sloop some Time besore) we put
them on board the Sloop, after ihe was got out of the
Bay.
Our Seaman was mightily pleased with this new
Partner; and their Stock, indeed, was much alike rich
in Tools, in Preparations, and a Farm; but nothing to
begin
being with, but as above. However, they carried over
-with them (which was worth all the rest) some Materials'
for planting Sugar-canes, with some Plants of Canes;
which he, I mean the Portugal Man, understood very
well.
Among the rest of the Supplies sent my Tenants in
the island, I sent them, by this Sloop, three Milch
CJows, and five Calves, about tAventy-two Hogs among
them, three Sows big with Pig, two Mares and a Stone-
horse.
J,'or my Spaniards, according to my Promise, I engag'd
three, Portugal Women to go; and recommended "if to
ti1efli W marry them, and use them kindly. I could have
r0cured more Women, butl remembered, that the poor
*Lc.rsecuted Man had two Daughters, and there were but
five of the Spaniards that wanted i the rest had Wives of
their own, tno'm another Country.
All this Cargo arrived safe, and, as you may easily
/-appose, very welcome to my old Inhabitants, who were
oVV (with this Addition) between sixty and seventy
pe£Jple, besides little Children; of which there were a
reat many: I found Letters at London from them, all by
?Vay o^ Lijlon, when I came back to England, being
^ nt back to the Brasils by this Sloop; of which I shall
|4e some Notice in its Place.
*a J have now done with my Island, and all manner of
f-)l fcourse about it; and whoever reads the rest of my
«/iernorandums, would do well to turn his Thoughts
J* . _t„ srnm it ar.A fvp.ffl tr, rparl nnlu flf the PollieS

r001c" "/ ' / a
ot <"at"^ed wn^ Prosperity beyond Expectation; not
11 „de cautious by Affliction and Distress beyond Imi-
* * had no more Business to go to the East-Indies, than
iyian at sull Liberty. and having committed no Crime,
*a.s to 8o t0 tne Turnkey at Newgate, and desire him
lock him up among the Prisoners there, and starve
\\ff\- Had I taken a small Vessel from England and
vent directly to the Island; had I loaded her, as I did
h6 other Vessel, with all the Necessaries for the Planta-
tion,
tion, and for ray People, took a Patent from the Govern-
ment here, to have secured my Property, in'Subjection
only to that of England, which, to be sure, 1 might have
obtained; had I carried over Cannon and Ammunition,
Servants, and People to plant, and, taking Possession of
the Place, fortified and strengthened it in the Name of
England, and increased it with People, as I might easily
have done; had I then settled myself there, and sent the
Ship back, loaden with good Rice, as I might also have
done in six Months Time, and order'd my Friends
to have fitted her out again for our Supply; had I done
this, and stayed there myself, I had, at least, acted like a
Man of common Sense; but I was possess'd with a wander-
ing Spirit, scorn'd all Advantages, pleas'd myself with be-
ing the Patron of these People I had plac'd there, and do-
ing for them in a Kind of haughty majestic. Way, like an
old Patriarchal Monarch; providing for them, as if I had
been Father of the whole Family, as well as of the Planta-
tion: But I never so much as pretended to plant in the
Name of any Government or Nation, or to acknowledge
any Prince, or to call my People Subjects to any one Na-
tion more than another: Nay, I never so much as gave
the Place a Name; but lest it as I found it, belonging to
no Man; and the People under no Discipline or Govern-
ment but my own; who, though I had an Insluence over
them as Father and Benesactor, had no Authority or Power
to act or command one Way or other, sarther than vo-
luntary Consent moved them to comply; yet even this,
had I stayed there, would have done well enough; but
as I rambled from them, and came thither no more, the
last Letters I had from any of them, were by my Part-
ner's Means, who afterwards sent another Sloop to the
Place; and who sent me Word, though I had not the
Letter till five Years after it was written, that they went
on but poorly, were malecontent with their long Stay
there; that JViU Jttins was dead; that five of the Spani-
ardi were come away; and that though they had not been
much molested by the Savages, yet they had had some
Skirmishes with them; that they begg'd of him to write
to me, to think of the Promise I had made to fetch them
away, that they might see their own Country again, be-
fore they died.
But
But I was gone a <wild Goose Cbacc indeed; and they
vho will have any more of roe, tiiust cpnfent to
"ollow me through a new Variety .of. folli^H;^-
.hipa, andiiwild Adventures i wherein the Iiisti^f. of
providence may be dulyobserved.: and^we-maj fye
lQ<v easily Heaven can gorge us with our own Desires,
^alcfr the strongest of our Wishes to be our Aslliction,
ind punish us most severely with those very things
^vbich we think it would be our utmost Happiness to be
allowed in.
JL.et no wife Man slatter himself with the Strength os
fo\s own Judgment, as if he was able to chuse any parti-
cular Station of Life for himself. Man is a fliort-sighted
Creature, sees but a very little Way besore him; and as
jiis Passions are none of his best Friends, so his particular
affections are generally his worst Counsellors.
I say this, with respect to the impetuous Desire I had
from a Youth, to wander into the World; and how evi-
dent it now was, that this Principle was preserved in me
fot fl1v Punishment. How it came on, the Manner* t! e
circumstance, and the Conclusion of it, it is easy to give
_.0u historically, and with its utmost Variety of Particu-
lar's. But the secret Ends of Divine Providence, in thus
.permitting us to be hurried down the Stream of our own
j}esires, are only 10 be understood of those who can listen
to Voice of Providence, and draw religious Conse-
quences from God's Justice, and their.own Mistakes.
"Be it, had I Business, or no Business, away I went;
,tls no' Time now to enlarge any farther upon the Rea-
y-o0 or Absurdity of my own Conduct; but to come
tQ the History, I was embarked for the Voyage, and
hg Voyage I went.
I should only add here, that my honest and truly
— lOus Clergyman lest me here; a Ship being ready to
PQ to Listen, he alked me Leave to go thither; being
as he observed, bound never to finish any Voyage
j,e began; how happy had it been for me, if I had
„qne with him.
'But it was too late now; all things Heaven appoints
gji-e best i had I gone with him, I had never had so many
things to be thanksul for, and you had never heard of trie
Second Part of the Travels and Adventures of Robinson
Crusoe;
Crusoe; so I must leave here the fruitless exclaiming ac
myself, and go on wiih my Voyage.
From the Brasils we made directly away over the Atlan-
tic Sea, to the Cape de bonne Efperanct, or, as we call it, the
Cape os Good Hope; and had a tolerable good Voyage, our
Course generally South-East . now-and-then a Storm,
and some contrary Winds. But my Disasters at Sea were
at an End; my suture Rubs and cross Events were to
besal me on Shore; that it might appear, the Land was
as well prepared to be our Scourge, as the Sea; when
Heaven, who directs the Circumstances of things, pleases
to appoint it lo be so. -
Our Ship was on a Trading Voyage, and had a Super*
cargo on board, who was to direct all her Motions, after
she arrived at the Cape; only being limited to certain
Number of Days, for Stay, by Charter-party, at the
several Ports site was to go to: This was none of my
Business,- neither did I meddle with it all; my Nephew
the Captain, and the Supercargo, adjusting all those things
between them, as they thought fit.
We made no Stay at the Cape, longer than was need-
ful to take in fresh Water; but made the best of our
Way for the Coast of Coromandel; we were indeed in-
formed, that a French Man of War of fifty Guns, and
two large Merchant-ships, were gone for the Indies;
and, as I knew we were at War with France, I had some
Apprehensions of them; but they went their own Way,
and we heard no more of them. u vo. ..
I shall not pester my Account, or the Reader, with
Descriptions of Places, Journals of our Voyages, Varia-
tions of the Compass, Latitudes, Meridian Distances,
Trade-winds, Situation of Ports, and the like; such as
almost all the Histories of long Navigation are sull of,
and which make the Reading tiresome enough; and are
perfectly unprofitable to all' that read,-except only to
those who are to go to those Places themselves.
It is enough to name the Ports'and Places which we
touched at; and what occurred to us upon our passing
from one to another. We touch'd first at the Island of
Madagascar ; where, tho' the People are fierce and treache-
r6us, and in particular, very well armed with Lances and
Bows, which they use with inconceivable Dexterity, yet
we
.ve sared very well with them awhile; they treated us very
riviliy; and, forsome Trisles which we gave them, such as
Knives, Scissors, i$c. they brought us ;i good sat Bui-
locks, middling in Size, but very goodinFleth; which we
.ook in, partly for fresh Provisions for our present spend-
ing. and the rest to salt for the Ship's Use.
We were obliged to stay here for some Time, after we
had surnish'd ourselves with Provisions; and I, that
was always too curious to look into every Nook of
the World wherever I came, was for going on Shore
as often as I could. ft was on the East Side of the
Island that we went on Shore one Evening; and the
People, who, by the Way, are very numerous, came
thronging about us, and stood gazing at us, at a Dis-
tance: As we had traded freely with them, and had
trcc;i kindly used, we thought ourselves in no Danger;
but when we saw the People, we eu« three Boughs
out of a Tree, and stuck them up at a Distance from
us, which, it seems, is a Mark in the Country, not
only of Truce and Friendlhip, but, when it is accepted,
tv;e other Side set up three Poles, or Boughs, also;
shiest is a Signal, that they accept the Truce too; but
then this is a known Condition of the Truce, that you
are not to pass beyond their three Poles towards them,
por they come past your three Poles, or Boughs toward
you; so that you are perfectly secure within the three
poles, and all the Space between your Poles and theirs,
ls allowed like a Market, for free Converse, Trassick,
Commerce. When you go thither, you must net
carry your Weapons with you; and if they come into
sI^at Space, they stick up their Javelins and Lances, all
^t the first Poles, and come on unarmed; but if any
Violence is offered them, and the Truce theeby broken,
3%vay they run to the Poles, and lay hold of their Wea-
pons, and then the Truce is at an End.
It happened, one Evening, when we went on Shore,
that a greater Number of their People came down
£f-,an usual; but was all very friendly and civil. They
brought with them several Kinds of Provisions, for
which we satisfied them, with such Toys as we had;
their Women also brought ns Milk and Roots, and se-
veral things very acceptable to us, and all was quiet;
and we made us a little Tent, or Hut, of some Boughs
of Trees, and lay on Shore all that Night.
I know not what was the Occasion, but I was not so
well sati:fied to lie on Shore as the rest; and the Boat ly-
ing at an Anchor, about a Stone's Cast from the Land,
with two Men in her to take care of her, I made one of
them come on Shore,; and getting some Boughs of
Trees to cover us also in the Boat, I spread the Sail on
the Bottcm of the Boat, and lay on board, under the
Cover of the Branches of the Trees, all Night.
About two o'Clock in the Morning we heard one
of our Men make a terrible Noise on the Shore, calling
out, for God's Sake, to bring the Boat in, and -come
and help them, for they were all like to be murdered;
at the same Time I heard the firing of five Musqucts,
which was the Number of the Guns they had, and that
three Times over; for, it sceir.s, the Natives here were
not so easily frighted with Guns, as the Savages were in'
America, where I had to do with them.
All this while I knew not what was the Matter; but
rousing immediately from Sleep with the Noise, I
caused the Boat to be thrust in, and resolved, with
three Fusils we had on board, to land, and assist our
Men.
We got the Boat soon to the Shore; but our Men
were in too much Haste: For, being come to the Shore,
they plunged into the Water, to get to the Boat with
all the Expedition they could, being pursued by be-
tween three and four hundred Men. Our tylen were
but nine in all, and only five of them had Fusils with
them; the rest, indeed, had Pistols and Swords, but
they were of small Use to them.
We took up seven of our Men, and with Dissiculty
enough too, three of them being very ill wounded;
and that which was still worse, was, that while we
stood in the Boat to take our Men in, we were in as much
Danger as they were in on Shore; for they pour'd their
Arrows in upon us so thick, that we were fain to
barricade the Side of the Boat up with the Benches,
and two or three loose Boards, which, to oar great
Satissactjpn, we had, by mere Accident, or Providence
rather, in the Boat.
And
And yet, had it been Day-light, they are, it seems,
such exact Marksmen, that if they could have seen but
the least Part of any of us, they would have been sure
of us; we had, by the Light of the Moon, a little
Sight of them, as they stood pelting us from the Shore
with Darts and Arrows; and, having got ready our
Fire Arms, we gave them a Volley; and we could hear
by the Cries of some of them, that we had wounded se-
veral; however, they stood thus in Battle-array on the
Shore till Break of Day, which we suppose was, that
they might fee the better to take their Aim at us. ,
In this Condition we lay, and could not tell how to
weigh our Anchor, or set up our Sail, because we must
needs stand up in the Boat, and they were as sure to hit
us, as we were to hit a Bird in a Tree with small Shot i
we made Signals of Distress to the Ship, which, tho'
/he rode a League off, yet my Nephew the Captain,
Jieiring our Firing, and, by Glasses, perceiving the Pos-
ture we lay in, and that we fired towards the Shore,
pretty well understood us; and, weighing Anchor with
all Speed, he stood as near the Shore as he durst with
the Ship, and then sent another Boat, with ten Hands
in her, to assist us; but we called to them not to come
too near, telling them what Condition we were in:
Jlowever, they stood in nearer to us; and one of the
fjlen, taking the End of a Tow-line in his Hand, and
I<eeping our Boat between him and the Enemy, so that
they could not perfectly fee him, swam on board us,
and made the Line sast to the Boat; upon which we-
/Iipt our little Cable, and, leaving our Anchor behind,
they tow'd us out of the Reach of trre Arrows, we all
the while lying close behind the Barricado we had
As soon as we were got from between the Ship and
the Shore, that she could lay her Side to the Shore, we
ran along just by them, and we poured in a Broadside
among them, loaded with Pieces of Iron and Lead, small
^ullets, and such Stuff, besides the great Shot, which
snade a terrible Havock among them.
When we were got on board, and out of Danger, we
jiad Time to examine into the Occasion of this-Fray i
and, indeed, our Supercargo, who had been often in
those
those Parts, put me upon it; for he said, he was sure
the Inhabitants would not have touched us, after we had
made a Truce, if we had not done something to pro-
voke them to it: At length it came out, 'viz. that an
old Woman, who had come to sell us some Milk, had
brought it within our Poles, with a young Woman
with her, who also brought some Roots or Herbs;
and while the old Woman (whether me was Mother to
the young Women, or no, they could not tell) was sell-
ing us the Milk, one of our Men offered some Rude-
ness to the Wench that was with her; at which the
old Woman made a great Noise. However, the Seaman
would not quit his Prize, but carried her out of the old
Woman's Sight, among the Trees, it being almost dark;
the old Woman went away without her, and, as we
suppose, made an Outcry among the People she came
from; who, upon Notice, raised this great Army upon
us in three or four Hours; and it was great Odds but
we had been all destroyed.
One of our Men was killed with a Lance that was
thrown at him, just at the Beginning of the Altack, as
he sally'd out of the Tent we had made; the rest came
off free, all but the Fellow who was the Occasion of all
the Mischies; who paid dear enough for his black Mis-
tress, for we could not hear what became of him a
great while; we lay upon the Shore two Days after,
though the Wind presented, and made Signals for him;
made our Boat sail up-shore, and down-shore, several
Leagues, but in vain; so we were obliged to give him
over; ahd if he alone had suffeied for it, the Loss had
been the less.
I could not satisfy myself, however, without ventur-
ing on Shore once more, to try if I could learn any thing
of him or them; it was the third Night after the Action,
thatl had a great Mind to learn, if I could by any Means,
what Mischies we had done, and how the Game stood on
the Indian Side; I was caresul to do it in the Dark, lest
we should be attack'd again; but I ought indeed, to
have been sure, that the Men I went with, had been un-
der my Command, besore I engag'd in a thing so hazar-
dous arid mischievous, as I was brought into it without
my Knowledge or Desire.
We
We took twenty stout Fellows with us as any in the
Ship, besides the Supercargo and myself; and we landed
two Hours besore Midnight, at the same Place where
the Indians stood drawn up the Evening besore; I landed
here, because my Design, as I have said, was chiesly to
fee if they had quitted the Field, and if they had lest
any Marks behind them, or of the Mischies we had
done them; and I thought, if we could surprise one or
two of them, perhaps we might get our Man again, by
VVay of Exchange.
We landed without any Noise, and divided our Men
into two Companies, whereof the Boatswain com-
manded one, and I the other: We neither could hear
nor see any Body stir, when we landed; so we marched
up, one Body at a Distance from the other, ta the
l''ield of Battle: At first we could see nothing, it being
very dark; but by-and-by, our Boatswain, that led the
fs.rH Party, stumbled and feil over a dead Body: This
made them halt there awhile; for, knowing by the Cir-
cumstances, that they were at the Place where the /«-
dians had stood, they waited for my coming up: Here
vve concluded to halt till the Moon began to rife, which
we knew would be in less than an Hour; and then
xve could easily discern the Havock we had made a-
roong them: We told two and thirty Bodies upon the
ground, whereof two were not quite dead . Some had
an Arm, and some a Leg, mot off; and one, his Head:
'J'hose that were wounded, we supposed they had car-
ded away. -v
When we had made, as I thought, a sull Discovery
cf all we oould come at the Knowledge of, I was for
going on board again; but the Boatswain and his Party
^ften sent me Word, that they were resolved to make a
Visit to the Indian Town, where these Dogs, as they
cal!ed them, dwelt; and desired me to go along with
tbem; and if they could find them, as they still sancied
they mould, they did not doubt, they said. getting a
good Booty; and it might be, they might find Thomas
.jcjsrjs there ; that was the Man's Name we had lost.
Had they sent to alk my Leave to go, I knew well
e0ough what Answer to have given them; for I would
have commanded them instantly oh board, knowing it
was
was not a Hazard fit for us to run, who had a Ship,
and a Ship's Loading in our Charge, and a Voyage to
make, which depended very much upon the Lives of
the Men; but as they sent me Word they were re-
st lved to go, and only aslt'd me and my Company to
go along with them, I positively resused it, and rose
up (for I was fitting on the Ground) in order to go to
the Boat; one or two of the Men began to importune
me to go; and, when I still resused positively, began
to grumble, and say they were not under my Command,
and they would go: Come, Jack. says one of the Men,
will you go with me? I will go for one. Jack said he
would; and another followed, and then another; and,
in a Word, they all lest me but one, whom, with much
Difficulty too, I persuaded to stay; so the Supercargo
and I, with one Man, went back to the Boat, where,
I told them, we would stay for them, and take care to
take in as many of them as should be lest; for I told
them, it was a mad thing they were going about, and
supposed most of them would run the Pate of Thomas
Jifrys.
They told me, like Seamen, they'd warrant it they
would come off again; and they would take care, £aV.
So away they went. I intreated them to consider the
Ship, and the Voyage; that their Lives were not their
own; and that they were intrusted with the Voyage,
in some Measure; that if they miscarried, the Ship
might be lost for Want of their Help; and that they
could not answer it to God and Man. I said a great
deal more to them on that Head, but I might as well
have talked to the Main mast of the Ship; they were
mad upon their Journey; only they gave me got d
Words, and begg'd I would not be angry ; said, they
would be very cautious, and they did not doubt but
they would be back again in about an Hour at sarthest;
for the Indian Town, they said, was not above half a
Mile off: Though they found it above two Miles be-
fore they got to it.
Well, they all went away, as above; and though the
Attempt was desperate, and such, as none but Madmen
'would have gone about, yet, to give them their Due,
they went about it warily, as well as boldly. They were
gallantly
fallantly armed, that is true; for they had every Man a
usil or Musquet, a Bayonet, and every Man a Pistol;
fome of them had broad Cutlaces, some of them Hangers .
and the Boatswain, and two more, had Pole axes: Be-
fides all which they had among them thirteen Hand-Gre-
nadoes. Bolder Fellows, and better provided, never went
about any wicked Work in the World.
When they went out, their chies Design was Plunder;
and they were in mighty Hopes of finding Gold there;
but a Circumstance which none of them were aware of,
fet them on Fire with Revenge, and made Devils of them
all: When they came to the few Indian Houses, which
they thought had been the Town, which were not above
Jsalfa Mile off, they were under a great Disappointment;
for there were not above twelve or thirteen Houses; and
^vhere the Town was, or how big, they knew not: They
consulted theresore what to do, and were some Time be-
sore they could resolve; for if they fell upon these, they
syiust cut all their Throats; and it was ten to one but some
0f them might escape, it being in the Night, though the
saloon was up; and if one escaped, he would run away,
&nd raise all the Town, so they should have a whole Ar-
jfiy upon them. Again, on the other Hand, if they
vVent away, and lest those untouch'd (for the People
vvere all asleep) they could not tell which Way to look
f0i the Town.
However, the last was the best Advice; so they re-
vived to leave those Houses, and look for the Town as
^ell as they could : They went on a little Way, and
/bund a Cow tied to a Tree: This they presently con-
cJiided would be a good Guide to them; for they said,
t|;e Cow certainly belonged to the Town before them,
ot the Town behind them; and if they untied her,
they should see which Way she went; if ihe went back,
they had nothing to say to her; but, if ihe went for-
ward, they had nothing to do but to follow her; so
they cut the Cord, which was made of twisted Flags,
and the Cow went on besore them: In a Word, the
t;ow led them directly to the Town, which, as they
reported, consisted of above 200 Houses, or Huts; and
jn some of these, they found several Families living
together.
Here
. - / ' . Ul . .. -. .- .;; b ;'i
- ' - IfiM .iSV9 'JC6 .*ailOVs8 . fif uM X sit
\i) nxs s.tM - •d .atom qvm *7t * >- - )4; t,..
tins'-f er- - TJ3if-, f< ... .' , . ' B
. -- "i. v}(3 - f-an.. uq is:33Q tin. •. ''.: -3C.
li.ioW eri' - .. *'-'' - v . ~r - S
-jli)*Q J»tr.:- . .' - Mv
-t'»». J a - -o t""5'1 si: * ----j bae-
;.cv s -stM Jo »«',.-. .i:- ;.--/. K. J ...:i
sl'.sri; 'o i '. -r-'''.' sbcra bnfi '^-''VsR du r t * -,- --. -,t -
"Isirf'v .EStUO'l JTOiWl V/9T £ -} C) D'"'. - t' . 'Ig-
- 0Ci6 50'i 5T2'» rbiiiw -l«oT s." -i?d ... t'i'J
"'- i :i Wt'ill! - o" -'J - --.r!.. ... - - i.-.
{: .? .. yi.i' .jV .! :'- :.t- .. "{ ... . -
3'j't"l :' « i>M '--- -.' - -- -;
or. r.;.n - -: ,t e >.
>."! V 'L''.'' * '•. i L,'i'' . |-.' i
iHl .. '-i' '. - -: . .t.
'JO
-- ,o - .-13 'ot o-' ->5iuoH s'T.n'J svem L
.... ,t'// .. ''-. -i.-ii r; i.^ i
. - / ' . Ul . .. -. .- .;; b ;'i
. .( r*{* ;-'.-* '' )" 1. 0' i .'.' i,. - I d
'\\ .y.:i-h i... \: '-' "i ."-f. s-A -) ..! ^ ,i
; i. lud;03 vn 03 on'/i.'or'"eh vat-
0'i - -s) iu6 cb '3 3rriri3on%bV'' .fisv.t
--.g. --- lo abstn u£v/ .tarrivu' . .-
3.:: ... . iT rr.-rf) ')iolstl .io . ---l .inn
y^Hi tB ,.'3.ri'- -nf"". o; .''j'-s-ib rr'iil' L'-i *v. -
-it; 'M io .fi .' -oeis lo basil.:03 nioQ'i'
Here they found all silent; as profoundly secure, a&
Sleep and a Country that had never seen an Enemy of
that Kind, could make them: Upon this they call'd ano-
ther Council, to consider what they had to do; and,
in a Word, theyresolr'd to divide themselves into three
Bodies, and to set three Houses on Fire in three Pans
of the Town; and as the Men came out, to seize them
and bind them if any resisted, they need not be asked
what to do then; and so to search the rest of the House*
for Plunder; but resolved to inarch silently first through
the Town, and see what Dimensions it was of, and con-
sider if they might venture upon it, or no.
They did so, and desperately resolved that they would
venture upon them; but while they were animating one
another to the Work, three of them, that were a little
besore the rest, called out aloud, and told them they had
sound Tbo. Jeffryi; they all ran up to the Place, and so
it was indeed, for there they found the poor Fellow hang-
ed up naked by one Arm, and his Throat cut: Ti ere
was an Indian House just by the Tree, where they found
sixteen or seventeen of the principal Indians, who had
be.n concerned in the Fray with us before, and two or
three of them wounded with our Shot; and our Men
found they were awake, and talking one to another in.
that House, but knew not their Number.
The Sight of their poor mangled Comrade so enraged
them, as besore, that they swore to one another they
would be revenged', and- that not an Indian who came
into their Hands should have Quarter; and to work they
went immediately; and yet not so madly as by the Rage
and Fury they were in, might be expected. Their first
Ca:e was to get something that would soon take Fire;
but after a little Search, they found that would be to no
Purpose, for most of the Houses were low, and thatch'd
with Flags or Rushes, of which the Country is sull; so
they presently made some Wildfire, as we call it, by wet-
ting a little Powdf r in the Palms of their Hands; and, in
a Quarter of an Hour, they set the Town on Fire in four
or five Places; and particularly that House where the In.
Mans were not gone to Bed. As soon as the Fire began
to blaze, the poor frighted Creatures began to rush out
to save their Lives; but met with their Fate in the At-
V»l. I. H tempt,
tempt, and especially at the Door, where they drove
them hack, the Boatswain himself killing one or two
vvith his Pole-Ax; the House being large, and many in
Jc, he did not care to go in, but called for an Hand gre-
ipado, and threw it among them, which, at first, frighted
them; but when it burst, made such Havotk among
them, that they cried out in a hideous Manner.
In short, most of the Indians who were in the open
part of the House, were killed or hurt with the Gre-
xia.oo, except two ar three more, who pressed to the
J5oor, which the Boatswain and two more kept with
the Bayonets in the Muzzles of their Pieces, and dis-
patched all who came that way. But there was ano-
ther Apartment in the House, where the Prince or
Jviog, or whatsoever he Was, and several others, were;
suid they kept in, till the House, which was hy this
1*irr.e all of a light Flame, fell in upon there, and they
^ere smothered, or burnt together.
All this while they fired not a Gun, because they
^yould not waken the People saster than they could
s^a^'er them; but the Fire began to waken them sast
enough, and our Fellows were glad to keep a little to-
gether in Bodies; for the Fire grew so raging, all the
IEjouses being made of light combustible Stuff, that they
c0old hardly bear the Street between them; and their
gpsiness was to follow the Fire for the surer Execution:
j±s sall as the Fire either forced the People out of those
jjofses which were burning, or frighted them out of
thers, our People were ready at their Doors to knock
trtem on the Head, still calling and hallooing to one ano-
ther to remember Tho. Jtffrys.
While this was doing, I must consess I was very un-
e3fy, and especially when I saw the Flames of the ToWir
^fcich, it being Night, feem'd to be just by me.
My Nephew the Captain, who was rous'd by his Men
t0o, se«ing such a Fire, was very uneasy, not knowing
^hat the Mat er was, or what Danger I was in; especi-
ally hearing the Guns too; for by this Time they began
to use their Fire-Arms: A thousand Thoughts oppress'd
jijs Mind concerning me and the Supercargo, what should
.become of us: And at last, though he could ill spare
»»y more Men, yet, not knowing woai Exigence wemight
be
be in, Tie takes another Boat, and with thirteen Men
and himself, cornea on Shore to me.
He was surpris'd to fee me and the Supercargo in the
Boat, with no more than two Men, for one had been
lest to keep the Boat; and though he was glad, that we
were well, yet he was in the same Impatience with us,
to know what was doing; for the Noise continued, and
the Flame increased: I consess, it was next to an Impos-
sibility for any Men in the World to restrain their Curio-
sity of knowing what had happened, or their Concern for
the Safety os the Men. In a Word, the Captain told me,
He would go and help his Men, let what would come.
I argued with him, as I did besore with the Men, the
Safety of the Ship, and the Danger of the Voyage, the
Interest of the Owners and Merchants, &c. and told
him, I would go, and the two Men, and only fee if we
could, at a Distance, learn what was like to be the E-
vent, and come back, and tell htm.
It was all one to talk to my Nephew, as it was to talk
to the rest besore; he would go, he said, and he only
wished he had lest but ten Men in the Ship; for he
could not think of having his Men lost for- Want of
Help: He had rather, he said, lose the Ship, the Voyage,
and his Life, and ail; and so away went he.
Nor was I any more able to stay behind now, than I
was to persuade them not to go besore; so, in short,
the Captain ordered two Men to row back the Pin-
nace, and fetch twelve Men more from the Ship, leav-
ing the Long boat at an Anchor; and that when they
came back, six Men should keep the two Boats, and six
more come after us; so that he lest only sixteen Men in
the Ship; for the whole Ship's Company consisted of 6j
Men, whereof two were lost in the first Quarrel, which
brought this Mischies on.
Being now on the March, you my be sure we felt
little of the Ground we trod on; and being guided by
the Fire, we kept no Path, but went directly to the
Place of the Flame. If the i\'oise of the Guns were
surprising to us besore, the Cries of the poor People
were now quite of another Nature, and filled us with
Horror. I must consess, I never was at the sacking of
a City, or at the taking of a Town by Storm; I have
H 2 heard
heard of ORvtr Crcwwill taking Drogbeda in Ireland,
and killing Man, Woman, and Child; and I had read
of Count Tilly sacking of the City of Magdeburg, and
cutting the Th roats of 22,600 of both Sexes; but 1 never
had an Idea of the Thing itself besore; nor is it possible
to describe it, or the Horror which was upon our Minds
at hearing it.
However, we went on, and, at length, came to the
Town, though there was no entering the Streets of it
for the Fire. The first Object we met with, was the
Ruins of a Hut or House, or rather the Ashes of it,
for the House was consumed; and just besore it, plain
now to be seen by the Light of the Fire, lay four Men
and three Women killed; and, as as we thought, one or
two more lay in the Heap among the Fire. In stio/ti
these were such Instances of a Rage altogether barba-
rous, and of a Fury something beyond what was hu-
man, that we thought it impossible our Men could
be guilty of it; or, if they were the Authors of it, we
thought that every one of them ought to be put to
the worst of Deaths: But this was not all; we saw the
JFire increased forward, and the Cry went on just as
the Fire went on, so that we were in the utmost Con-
fusion. We advanced a little Way sarther; and beheld,
to our Astonishment, three Women naked, crying in a
most dreadsul Manner, and slying as if they had, in-
deed, had Wings, and after them sixteen or seventeen
Jtlen, Natives, in the same Terror and Consternation,
with three of our Enghjh Butchers (for I can call them
vo better) in the Rear; who, when they could not
overtake them, sired in among them, and one that was
killed by their Shot fell down in our Sight; when the
yest saw us, believing us to be their Enemies, and that
-we would murder them, as well as those that pursued
them, they set up a most dreadsul Shriek, especially the
.Women; and two of them fell down as if already dead
v/ith the Fright.
My very Soul shrunk within isle, and my Blood ran
chill in my Veins, when I saw this; and 1 believe, had
the three Engliso Sailors, that pursued rhem, come on,
J had made our Men kill them all. However, we took
some Ways to let the poor slying Creatures know, that
we
we would not hurt them; and immediately they came
up to us, and kneeling down, with their Hands- lifted
up, made piteous Lamentation to us to save them,
which we let them know we would do; whereupon
they kept all together in a Huddle, close behind us,
for Protection. 1 Itse my Men drawn up together, and
charged them to hurt Nobody, but, if possible, to get
. at some of our People, and fee what Devil it was pos-
sessed them, and what they intended to do; and. in a
Word, to command them off; assuring them, that if
they stayed till Day-light, they would have a hundred;
thousand Men aboBt their Ears: I fay, I lest them, and-
went among those slying People, taking only two of
our Meri with me; and there was, indeed, a piteous
Spectacle among them: Some of them had their Feet
terribly burnt with trampling and running th ough the
Fire; others their Hands burnt; one of the Women had
sallen down in the Fire, and was almost burnt to Deatta
besore she could get out again; two or three of the
Men had Cuts in their Backs and Thighs, from our
Men pursuing; and another was shot through the Body,
and died while I was there.
I would sain have learned what the Occasion of all
this was. but I could not understand one Woid they
said; though by Signs I perceived, that some of them
knew not what was the Occasion themselves. I was so
terrified in my Thoughts at this outrageous Attempt,
that I could not stay there, but went back to my own
Men ; 1 told them my Resolution, and commanded thenii
to follow me, when in the very Moment, came soar
of our Men, with the Boatswain at their Head, running
over the Heaps of Bodies they had killed, all covered
with Blood and Dust, as if they wanted more People
to massacre; when our Men halloo'd to them as loud
as they could halloo; and, with much ado, one of
them made them hear; so that they knew who we were,
and came up to us.
As soon as the Boatswain saw us, he set up a Hah
loo like a Shout of Triumph, for having, as he thought J
more Help come; and without bearing to hear me, Cap-
tain, says he, noble Captain, I am glad you are come;
we have not halfdone yet; Villains L Hell hound Dogs 1
H 3 I will
J will kill as many of them as poor Tom has Hairs upon
his Head. We have sworn to spare none of them;
we w;ll root out the very Nation of them from the Earth;
and thus he ran on, out of B-eath too with Action; and
would rot give us Leave to speak a Word.
At last, raising my Voice, that I might silence him
a lietle: Barbarous Dog! said I, What are you doing?
I won't have one Creature touch'd more, upon Pain of
Death. I charge you, upon your Life, to stop your
Hands, and stand still here, or you are a dead Man this
Minute.
Why, Sir, says he, do you know what you do, or
what they have done? If you want a Reason for whit
we have done, come hither; and with that he shewed
rr.e the poor Fellow hanging upon a Tree, with his
Throat cut.
I consess, I was urged then nfyfelf, and at another
Time, should have been forward enough; but I thought
they had carried their Rage too sar, and thought of
Jacob's Words to his Sobs Simeon and Letti. Cursedti
their Anger, for it -wat sierce; and their Wrath, sor it
was cruel. But I had now a new Ta& upon my
Hands; for when the Men I carried with me saw the
Sight, as I had done, I had as much to do to restrain
ihem, as I should have had with the others; nay, tny
J>Jephew himself fell in with them, and told me, in their
Hiring, that he was only concerned for fear of their
lVlen being overpowered; for, as to the People, he
thought not one of them ought to live; for they had
all glutted themselves with the Murder of the poor
IVJan, and that they ought to be used like Murderers:
Upon these Words, away ran eight of my Men with the
boatswain, and his Crew, to complete their bloody Work:
>Vnd I, feeing it quite out of my Power to restrain them,
came away pensive and sad; for I could not bear the
Sight, much less the horrible Noise and Cries, of the
poor Wretches that fell into their Hands.
I got nobody to come back with me but the Super-
cargo and two Men, and with these I walked back to
the Boats. It was a very great Piece of Folly in me, I
confess, to venture back, as it were alone; for, as it
began now to be almost Day, and the Alarm had run
over
ever the Country, there stood about forty Men armed
with Lances and Bows at the lode Place where the
twelve or thirteen Houses stood mentioned before; but
by Accident I mits'd the Place, and caoie directly to tiie
Sea-side; and by that Time I got to the Sea side, it
w3s broad Day; immediately I took the Pinnace, and
went aboard, and sent her back to aUitt the Men in what
might happen.
I observed that about the Time I came to the Boat-
side, the Fire was pe-.ty well out, and the Noise abated;
but in about half an Hour after I got on board, I heard
a Volley of eur Mens Fire-Arms, and saw a great Smoke;
this, as I understood afterwards, was our Men sailing
upon the forty Men, who, as I said, stood at the few
Houses on the Way; of whom they killed sixteen or se-
venteen, and set all those Houses on Fire, but did not
meddle wish the Women or Children.
By that Time the Men got to the Shore again with the
Pinnace, our Men began to appear; they came dropping
in, some and some i not in two Bodies, and in Form, as
they went out, but all in Heaps. straggling here and-- _
there, in such a Manner, that a small Force of resolute
Men might have cot them all off.
But the Dread of them was upon the whole Country;
The People were amaz'd, and surpris'd, and so frighted,
that, 1 believe, an Hundred of them would have sled at
the Sight of but five of our Men. Nor in all this terrib'e
Action was there a Man who made any considerable De-
fence; they were so surprised between the Terror of the
Fire, and thesudden Attack os our Men in the Dark, that
they knew not which Way to turn themselves; for if they
sled one Way, they were met by one Party ; if back again
by another; so that they were every where knocked-
down. Nor did any of our Men receive the least Hurt,
except one who strained his Foot, and another had one
of his Hands very much burnt.
I was very angry with my Nephew the Captain, and,
indeed, with all the Men, in my Mind, but with him in
particular; as well for his acting so out of his Duty, as
Commander of the Ship, and having the Charge of the
Voyage upon him, as in his prompting, rather than cool-
ing, the Rage of his Men, in so bloody and cruel an En-
H 4 tsrprise:
terpnze: My Nephew answered me very respectfully;
but told me, that when he saw the Body of the poor
Seaman- whom they had murdered in such a cruel and
barbarous Manner, he was no< Master of himself, neither
could he govern hi Passion: He owned, he should not
have done so, as he was Commander of the Ship; but,
a9 be was a Man, and Nature moved him, he could not
bear it. As for the rest of the Men, they were not sub-
ject to me at all ; and they knew it well enough, so they
took no Notice of my Dislike.
The next Day we set sail; so we never heard any
jnore of it. Our Men differed in the Account of the
tirnber they killed ; some saidone thing. some another:
f3*t, according to the best of their Accounts put all to-
„nther, they killed, or destroyed, about 150 People, Men,
^omen, and Children, and lest not a House standing in
ttte Town.
>\s for the poor Fellow Tbomai Jrfrys, as he was quite
^lg-ad, for his Throat was so cut, that his Head was half
crff, it would do him no Service to bring him away; so
they left n'm where they sound him, only took him down
frorn the Tree where he was hang'd by one Hand.
J-Jowever just our Men thought this Action to be, I
rfJs against them in it; and I always, after that Time,
them, God would blast the Voyage; for I look'd
* rioi> ,ne Blood they soed that Night, to be Murder in
he1X1: ^or tnouEn is trce' tnat l^e)' killed Thomas Jes-
',S yet it was as true, that Jfffryi was the Aggressor, had
-/,rol4en the Truce, and ha J violated or debauched ayoung
fVf orr1an of theirs, who came to our Camp innocently, and
the Faith of their Capitulation.
£ir>'X*lie Boatswain desended this Quarrel when we were
forwards on board. He said, It was true, that we
J ^'d to break the Truce, but really had not; and that
War was begun the Night besore, by the Natives
*f'en1selves, who had shot at us, and killed one of our
i^cn without any just Provocation; so that, as we were
- 3 Capacity to fight them, we might also be in a Capa-
;ty to do ourselves Justice upon them, in an extiaordina-
c. 'rylanner; that though the poor Man had taken Liberty
r^;£h a Wench, he ought not to have been murder'd, and
*^ac' jn suel1 a villainous Manner: And that they did no-
_ thing
thing but what was just, and that the Laws of God al-
lowed to be done to Murderers.
One would think this should have been enough'to
have warned us against going on Shore among Heathens
and Barbarians; but it is impossible to make Mankind
wife, but at their own Experience; and their Experi-
ence seems to be always of most Use to them, when it i*
dearest bought.
We were now bound to the Gulph of Perjia, and from-
tbence to the Coast of Coromandel, only (b touch at Surat;
but the chies of the Supercargo's Design lay at the Day
of Bengal, where, if he missed of the Business outward-
bound, he was to go up to China, and return to the Coast
as he came Home.
The first Disaster that besel us, was in the Gulph of
Persia, where five of our Men, venturing on Shore, on.
the Arabian Side of the Gulphi were surrounded by
the Arabs, and either all killed, or carried away into
Slavery; the rest of the Boats Crew were not able to-
rescue tnem, and had but just Time to get off their
Boat: I began to upbraid them with the just Retribution,
of Heaven in this Cafe; bat the Boatswain very warmly
told'fne, he though: I went sarther in my Censures, than
r could shew any Warrant for in Scripture, and- reserred
to the thirteenth of St. Lukt, Ver. 4. where oar Saviour
intimates, that those Men, on whom the Tower of Siloam
fell, were not Sinners arxive all the Galileans; but that
which, indeed, put me to Silence in this Cafe, was that
none of these five Men, who were now lost, were of the
Number of those who went on Shore to the Massacre of
Madagastar (so I always called it, though our Men could:
not bear the Word Majfacre with- any Patience): And,-
indeed, this last Circumstance, as I have said, put me to;
Silence for the present.
But my frequent Preaching to them on this Subject;-
had worse. Conlequences than I.expected; and the Boat-
swain, who had been the Head of the Attempt, came
up boldly to n.e one Time, and told me, He found that
I- continually brought that Affair upon the Stage; that
I made unjust- Reslections upon it, and had used the
Men very ill on that Account, and himself in particu-
lar;; that a» I Wiis but a Passenger, and had no- Com-
M j. mandi
;mand in the Ship, or Concern in the Voyage, they
-were not obliged to bear it; that they did not know
but I might have some ill Design in my Head, and,
perhaps, to call them to an Account for it, when they
came to England; and that theresore, unless I would
resolve to have done with it, and also not to concern
xnyself sarther with him, or any of his Affairs, he would
Jeave the Ship; for he did not think it was safe to sail
%vith me among them.
I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and
then told hiin, That I did consess I had all along op-
posed the Massacre of Madagascar, for such I would al-
ways call it; and that 1 had on all Occasions spoken
sny Mind freely about if, though not more upon him
than any of the rest; that as to my having no Command
in the Ship, that was true, nor did I exercise any Au-
thority, only took the Liberty of speaking my Mind in
things which publickly concerned us all; as to what
Concern I had in the Voyage, that was none of his
Business; I was a considerable Owner of the Ship; and
in that Claim I conceived I had a Right to speak, even
-farther than I had yet done, and would not be account-
able to him, or any one else; and began to be a little
vvarm with him: He made but little Reply to me at
»hat Time, and I thought that Affair had been over.
-VVe were at this Time in the Road to Bengal; and,
being willing to fee lh>: Place, I went on Shore with
the Supercargo, in the Ship's Boat, to divert myself; a»d
towards Evening, was preparing to .go on board, when
0ne of the Men came to me, and told me, he would
noi have me trouble myself to come down to the Boat,
for they had Orders not to carry me on board. Any
Ooe may guess what a Surprise I was in at so insolent
g Message; and I asked the Man, Who bade him deliver
that Errand to me? He told me the Cockswain. I said
no more to the Fellow, but bid him let them know he
jiad delivered his Message, and that I had given him no
Answer to it.
I immediately went, and found cut the Supercargo,
and told him the Story, adding what I presently fore-
saw, viz. That there would certainly be a Mutiny in
the Ship; and intreated hitjt to go immediately on
2 board
board the Ship in an Indian Boat, and acquaint the
Captain of it: But I might have spar'd this Intelligence,
for, besore I had spoken to him on Shore, the Matter
was esfected on board: The Boatswain, the Gunner,
the Carpenter, and in a Word, all the inserior Officers,
as soon as I was gone off in the Boat, came up to the
Quarter-deck, and desired to speak with the Captain;
and there the Boatswain, making a long Harangue (for
the Fellow talked very well), and repeating all he had
said to me, told the Captain in a few Words, that as I
was now gone peaceably on Shore, they were loth to
use any Violence with me; which, if I had not gone
on Shore, they would otherwise have done, to oblige;
me to have gone. They theresore thought fit to tell-
him, that as they shipped themselves to serve in the:
Ship, under his Command, they would perform it:
saithsully: But if I would not quit the Ship, or the
Captain oblige me to quit it, they would all leave the
Ship, and sail no sarther with him : And at that Word.
ALL, he turned his Face about towards the Main-mast,
which was, it seems, the Signal agreed on between
them; at which all the Seamen being got together, they.;
cried out, One and ALL, One and ALL.
My Nephew the Captain was a Man of Spirit; and,
of great Presence of Mind; and though he was sur-
prised, you may be sure, at the thing, yet he told them,
calmly, he would consider of the Matter; bat that he
could do nothing in it till he had spoken to. me about
it: He used some Arguments with them, to shew them-
the Unreasonableness and Injustice of the thing; but it.
was all in vain; they swore, and shook Hands round,
besore his Face, that they would go all on Shore, unless 1 -
he would engage to them, not to suffer me. to come on
board the Ship.
This was an hard Article Opon him, who knew his
Obligation to me, and did. not know- how I might-
take it; so he began to talk cavalierly to. them;. told;
them, That I was a very considerable Owner of the
Ship, and that in Justice he could not put me cut of
my own House; that this was next Door to serving
me, as the samous Pirate Kid had done, who made the.
Mutiny in the Ship, set the Captain on Shore in an unin-
H.6.. habited^
j So The L ife and AQVZUTURES 0/
Jinbited Island, and ran away with the Ship; that let
them go into what Ship they would, if ever they came
to England again, it would cost them dear; that the
Sh'P was mine, and that he would not put me out of
jc; and that he would rather lose the Ship, and the
Voyage too, than disoblige me so much; so they might
30 as they pleased. However, he would go on Shore,
and talk with me there; and invited the Boatswain to
go with him, and, perhaps, they might accommodate
the Matter with me.
But they all rejected the Proposal; and said, They
^ould have nothing to do with me any more, neither
&ri board, nor on Shore; and is I came on board, they
^vouid go on Shore. Well, said the Captain, if you are
ssl1 of this Mind, let me go on Shore, and talk with
tiirn; so away h« came to me with this Account, a little
slfter the Message had been brought to me from the
Cockswain.
J was very glad to fee my Nephew, I must consess;
for I was not without Apprehensions, that they would
eonsine flini by Violence, set sail, and run away with
t he Ship; and then I had been stript naked in a remote
Country, and nothing to help myself: In short, I had
l^gtln in a worse Case, than when I was all alone in the
island-
put they had not came that Length, it seems, to my
reat Satissaction; and when my Nephew told me what
*y,ey bad 10 j1i10! ancl bow they had sworn, and
sfrook Hands, that they would me and all leave the
<h'Pt ^ ' was suffered to come on board, I told him,
tle ^oul^ non be concerned at it at all, for 1 would
a ay on Shore: I only ilesir»d he would take Care and
/Lad me all my necessary things on Shore, and leave me
sufficient Sum of Money, and I would find my Way to
%r/pla"d as well as I could.
1'his was a heavy Piece of News to my Nephew; but
t\\Ce was n0 Way to help it, but to comply with it.
g0 in short, he went on board the Ship again, and satis-
^eCl the Men, that his Uncle had yielded to their Ira-
—ortunity, and had sent for his Goods from on board
Ship. So the Matter was over in a very few
Hoars i
Hours; the Men returned to their Duty, and I begun to
consider what Course I should steer.
I was now alone in the remotest Part of the World,
as I think I' may call it; for I was near three thousand
Leagues, by Sea, sarther off from England, than I was
at my Island; only, it is true, I might travel here by
Land over the Great {Mogul's Country to Surat, might
go from thence to BaJJora by Sea, up the Gulph of
Persia, and from thence might take the Way of the Ca-
ravans, over the Desarts of Arabia to Aleppo and Scan-
demon; from thence by Sea again to Italy, and so over
Land into France; and this, put together, might be, at
least, a sull Diameter of the Globe; but, if it were to
be measured, I suppose it would appear to be a gieat
deal more.
I had another Way besore me, which was to wait
for some Englijh Ships, which were coming to "Bengal,
from Acbin, on the Island of Sumatra, and get Passage
on board them for England: But as I came hither with-
out any Concern with the Englijh East-India Company,
so it would be dissicult to go from hence without their
Licence, unless with great Favour of the Captains of
the Ships, or of the Company's Factors; and to both
I was an utter Stranger.
Here I had the particular Pleasure, speaking by Con-
traries, to fee the Ship set sail without me; a Treat-
ment, I think, a Man in my Circumstances scarce ever
met with, except from Pirates running away with a
Ship, and setting those that would not agree With their
Villainy, oh Shore: Indeed, this was the next Door to
it, both Ways: However, my Nephew lest me two Ser-
vants, or rather, one Companion, and one Servant;
the first was Clerk to the Purser, whom he engaged to
go with me; and the other was his own Servant: I
took me also a good Lodging in the House of an Eng-
lish Woman, where several Merchants lodged, some
French, two Italians, or rather Jews, and one Englijh-
man. Here I was handsomely enough entertain'd; and,
that I might not be said to run rashly upon any thing, I
stayed here above nine Months, considering what Course
to take, and how to manage myself: I had some Englijh
Goods with me, of Value, and a considerable Sum of
Money,.
Money, my Nephew surnishing me with a thousand
Pieces of Eight, and a Letter of Credit for more, if I
jsad Occasion, that I might not be streightened, whatever
,riight happen.
I quickly disposed of my Goods, and to Advantage
too i ana\ as I originally intended, I bought here some
v«ry good Diamonds, which, of all other things, was
the most proper for me, in my Circumstances, because
J might always carry my whole Estate about me.
After a long Stay here, and many Proposals made for
Return to England, but none salling to my Mind,
£;ie Englijh Merchant, who lodged with me, and with
^boffl I had contracted an intimate Acquaintance, came
to rne one Morning; Countryman, says he, 1 have a
j>roject to communicate to you, which, as it suits with
sy;y Thoughts, may, for aught I know, suit with yours
aIfot when you shall have thoroughly considered it.
flere we are posted, says he, you by Accident, and
-j £>y my own Choice, in a Part of the World very re-
0te from our own Country; but it is in a Country,
lLhefet by us, who understand Trade and Business, a
rea.t deal of Money is to be got: If you will put a
JL0usand Pounds to my thousand Pounds, we will hire
1 5hip here, the first we can get to our Minds; you
JL-ll be Captain, I'll be Merchant; and we will go a
-ding Voyage to China; for what should we stand
for? The whole World is in Motion, rolling round
d round '. a" 'he Creatures of God, heavenly Bodies,
ancl earthly, are busy and diligent: Why should we be
? There are no Drones, says he, living in the World
* t Men: Why should we be of that Number?
tiuj liked this Proposal very well, and the more, because
reetned to be expressed with so much good Will, and-
i£ r0 friendly a Manner: I will not say but that I might,
*n J»y '00'e an(* unni8ged Circumstances, be the fitter
by eJT1brace a Proposal for Trade, and, indeed, for any
*°. „ else; or, otherwise, Trade was none of my Eler
t; However, I might, perhaps, say, with some.
f^f^tYi, That if Trade was not my Element, Rambling
rs . and no Proposal for seeing any Part os the World
^hicb 1 had never seen hesore, could possibly come a-
It was, however, some Time besore we could get a
Ship to our Mind; and when we got a Vessel, it was not
easy to get Englijh Sailors; that is to say, so many as
were necessary to govern the Voyage, and manage the
Sailors which we should pick up there: After some Time
we got a Mate, a Boatswain, and a Gunner, Englijh; a
Dutch Carpenter, and three Portuguese Foremast Men; with
these, we found, we could do well enough, having Indian
Seamen, such as they are, to make up.
There are so many Travellers, who have written the
History of their Voyages and Travels this Way, that it
would be but very little Diversion to any Body, to give
a long Account of the Places we went to, and the People
who inhabit there: Those things I leave to others, and
reser the Reader to those Journals and Travels of En-
glijhmen, many of which, I find, are published, and more
promised every Day: It is enough for me to tell you,
That we made the Voyage to Achin, in the Island of
Sumatra, first; and from thence to Siam, where we exT
changed some of our Wares for Opium, and for some
Arrack; the first, a Commodity which bears a great
Price among the Chinese, and which, at that Time, was
very much wanted there: In a Word, we went up to
Sujham, made a very great Voyage, were eight Months
out, and returned to Bengal; and I was very well satis-
fied with my Adventure. I observe that our People in
England often admire how the Officers, which the Com-
pany fend into India, and the Merchants which generally
stay there, get such very great Estates as they do, and
sometimes come Home worth sixty, to seventy, and an
hundred thousand Pounds at a Time.
But it is no Wonder, or, at least, we shall see so much
sarther into it, when we consider the innumerable Ports
and Places where they have a free Commerce, that it
will then be no Wonder; and much less will it be so,
when we consider, that at all those Places and Ports
where the Englijh Ships come, there is so much, and such
constant Demand for the Growth of all other Countries,
that there is a certain Vent for the Return, as well as a
Market abroad for the Goods carried out.
In short, we made a very good Voyage, and I got so
much Money by the first Adventure, and such an Insight
into
into the Method of getting more, that, had I been twenty
VearS younger, I should have been tempted to have stayed
here, and sought no sarther for making my Fortune: Btt
what was all this to a Man on the wrong Side of Three-
fcore; that was rich enough, and came Abroad more in
obedience to a restless Desire of seeing the World, than
a covetous Desire of getting in it? And, indeed, I think,
|t is with great Justice that I now call it a restless Desire;
/or it was io; when I was at Home, I was restless to go
y^broad; and now I was Abroad, I was restless to be at
j4owe: I say, What was this Gain tome? I was rich
enough al:eady; nor had I any uneasy Desires about
_etting more Money; and theresore, the Profits of the
Voyage to me, were things of no great Force to me; for
tjie prompting me forward to sarther Undertakings: Hence
j thought, that by this Voyage I had made no Progress
at all; because I was come back, as I might call it, to
tY%e Place from whence I came, as to an Home; whereas,
Eye, which, like that which Solomon speaks of, snst
-tf/grsatissied uotth seeing, was still more desirous iof wan-
<Ier'n8 an^ feeinS- I was come into a Part of the World
jiich I never was in before; and that Part in particular
jiich I had heard mnch of; and was resolved to see as
nch of as 1 could; and then I thought, I might say,
7*seen all the World that was worth seeing.
put my-Fellow-Traveller and I had different Notions;
do not name this, to insist upon my own, for I ac-
J 0vv!edge his was most just, and the most suited to
g find of a Merchant's Life; who, when he is Abroad
*k otl Adventures, it is his Wisdom to stick to that, as the .
"Pjj thing- far him, which he is like to get the most Money
ke .. IVly new Friend kept himself to the Nature of the
^^pg, and would have been content to have gone like a
&\ rrser's Horse, always to the fame Ihn, backward and
^Bvvar^F provided he could, as "-e called it, find his Ac-
f°s nt in it: On the other Hand, mine, as old as I was,
c0^ the Notion of a mad rambling Boy, that never cares
^(ee a thing twice over
fjjut this was rot al; I had a-Kind of Impatience
on we to be rearer H, me, and yet the most unsettled
folution imagin K which Way'o go: In the Inter-
\ of tBeic bOi;-B. . », uiy Fi;end, who was always
f upoa.
upon the Search for Business, proposed another Voyage to
me, -viz. among the Spice-Islands; and to bring Home a
Load of Cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts; Places
where, indeed, the Dutth do trade ; but the Islands belong
partly to the Spaniards; though we went not so sar, but to
some other, where they have not the whole Power as they
have at Batayia, Ceykn, &c. We were not long in pre-
paring for this Voyage ; the chies Dissiculty was, in bring-
ing me to come into it; however, at last, nothing else of-
fering, and finding that really stirring about, and Trading,
the Profit being so great, and, as I may say, certain, had
more Pleasure in it, and more Satissaction to the Mind,
than sitting still; which, to me especially, was the un-
happiest Part of Life, I resolved on this Voyage too;
which we made very successsully, touching at Borneo,
and several Islands, whose Names I do not remember,
and came Home in about five Months: We sold our
Spice, which was chiesly Cloves, and some Nutmegs,
to the Persian Merchants, who carried them away for the
Gulph; and, making near five of one, we really got a
great deal of Money.
My Friend, when we made up this Account, smiled
at me: Well now, said he, with a Sort of an agreeable
Insult upon my indolent Temper, is not this better than
walking about here, like a Man os nothing to do, and
spending our Time in staring at the Nonsense and Ig-
I think it is; and I begin to be a Convert to the Princi-
ples of Merchandizing; but I must tell you, said I, by
the Way, you do not know what I am a doing; for if
once I conquer my Backwardness, and imbark heartily,
as old as I am, I shall harrass you up and down the
World till I tire you; for I shall pursue it so eagerly, I
shall never let you lie still.
But to be short with my Speculations: A little while
after this, there came in a Dutth Ship from Batwvia;
Ihe was a Coaster, not an European Trader, and of about
two hundred Tons Burden: The Men, as they pretended,
having been so sickly, that the Captain, had not Men
enough to go to Sea with, he lay by at Bengal -r and, as
if having got Money enough, or being willing, for other
Reasons, to go for Europe, he gave publick Notice, that
norance of the Pi

he
jie would sell his Ship: This came to my Ears besore my
jt-ew Partner heaTd of it; and I had a great Mind to buy it:
So I went Home to him, and told him of it: He considers
awhile, for he was no rash Man neither; but, musing
fbme Time, he replied, She is a little too big; but, how-
ever, we will have her. Accordingly we bought the Ship;
and, agreeing with the Master, we paid for her, and took
possession : When we had done so, we resolved to enter-
tain the Men, if we could, to join them with those we
frad. for the pursuing our Business; but on a sudden,
they having not received their Wages, but their Share of
the Money, as we afterwards learnt, not one of them was
to be found. We inquired much about them, and at length
^vere told, That they were all gone together, by Land,
to ^gra. the grea£ City of the Mogul's Residence; and
from thence were to travel to Surat, and so by Sea, to
jhe Gulph of Persia.
Nothing had so heartily troubled me a good while,
^s that I missed the Opportunity of going with them;
f0X such a Ramble, I thought, and in such Company
as would both have guarded me, and diverted me,
^rould have suited mightily with my great Design; and
j should both have seen the World, and gone home-
wards too: But I was much better satisfied a few Days
-fter, when I came to know what Sort of Fellows they
-jietti for, in fliort, their History was, that this Man

Ytcy were auacKea on onore by lome or me mmummi,
'ho had killed the Captain, and three of his Men; and
l,at after the Captain was killed, these Men, eleven in
jsjornber, had resolved to run away with the Ship, which
they did; and had brought her in at the Bay of Bengal,
• _aving the Mate and five Men more on Shore; of whom
'e shall hear sarther.
Well; let them come by the Ship how they would,
came honestly by her, as we thought; though we
^lid "ot, I consess, examine into things so exactly as
ooght; for we never inquired any thing of the
gearnen, who, if we had examined, would certainly
jiave saultered in their Accounts, contradicted one ano-
ther, and, perhaps, contradicted themselves; or, one
how
how or other, we should have seen Reason to have sus-
pected them; but the Man mewed us a Bill of Sale for
the Ship, to one Emanuel Closterjho-ven, or some such Name
(for I suppose it was all a Forgery), and called himself by
that Name ; and we could not contradict him ; and, being
withal a little too unwary, or, at least, having no Suspicion
of the thing, we went through with our Bargain.
However, we picked up some Englijh Sezmzn hereafter
this, and some Dutth; and we now resolved for a second
Voyage to the South-east, for Cloves, £5V. that is to say,
among the Philippine and Malacca Isles; and, in shoit, not
to fill this Part of my Story with Trisles, when what is
yet to come is so remarkable, I spent, from first to last,
fix Years in this Country, tracing from Port to Port,
backward and forward, and with very good Success;
and was now the last Year with my Partner, going in
the Ship above mentioned, on a Voyage to China; but
designing first to Siem, to buy Rice.
In this Voyage, being, by contrary Winds, obliged to
beat up and down a great while in the Streights of Ma-
lacca, and among the Islands, we were no sooner got clear
of those dissicult Seas, but we found our Ship had sprung
a Leak, and we were not able, by all our Industry, to find
out where it was. This forc'd us to make for some Port;
and roy Partner, who knew the Country better than I did,
directed the Captain to put into the River of Cambodia;
for I had made the Englijh Mate, one Mr. Thompson, Cap.
tain, not being willing totakeithe Charge of the Ship up-
on myself: This River lies on the North-side of the great
Bay or Gulph, which goes up to Siam.
While we were here, and going often on Shore for
Resreshment, there comes to me one Day an Englijhman,
and he was,- it seems, a Gunner's Mate on board an
Englijh East-India Shjp, which rode in the same River,
up at, or near the City of Cambodia; what brought him
hither we knew not; but he comes up to me, and,
speaking Englijh, Sir, says he, you are a Stranger to me,
and I to you; but I have something to tell you, that very
nearly concerns you.
I looked steadily at him a good while, and he thought
at first I had known him, but I did not: If it very nearly
concerns me, said I, and not yourselfj what moves you
to
to tell it me? I am moved, says he, by the imminent
I^anger you are in; and, for aught I fee, you have no
jCnowledge of-it: I know no Danger I am in, said I, but
-that my Ship is leaky, and I cannot find it out; but I
propose to lay her aground To-morrow, to see if .I can
find it. But, Sir, says he, leaky, or not leaky, find it,
of not find it, you will be wiser than to lay your Ship
0n Shore To morrow, when you hear what I have to say
t£> you: Do you know, Sir, said he, the Town of Cam-
bodi<* lies about fifteen Leagues up this River? and there
are two large Englijh Ships about five Leagues on this Side,
and three Dutch. Well, said I, and what is that to me!
-yt^hy. Sir, says he, is it for a Man that is upon sur/h Ad-
ventures as you are, to come into a Port, and not examine
first what Ships there are there, and whether he is able to
<Ieal with them? I suppose you do not think you are a
j^Jatch for them. I was amused very much at his Dis-
c0urse, but not amazed- at it; for I courd not conceive
v^hat he meant; and I turned short upon him, and said,
glr, I wish you would explain yourself; I cannot imagine
— liat Reason I have to be afraid of any of the Company's
chip*' or Dutch Ships; I am no Interloper; what can
tuey nave to say to me?
lie looked like a Man half angry, half-pleased;
9nd, pausing a while, but smiling, Well, Sir, says he, if
Oo think yourself secure, you must take your Chance;
j am sorry your Fate should blind you against good
y\dvice t but assure yourself, if you do not put to
gea immediately, you will the very next Tide, be
ttacked by five Long-boats sull of Men; and, per-
jja,ps, if you are taken, you will be hanged for a Pi-
rate. anc^ the Particulars be examined into afterwards: I
j,0ught, Sir, added he", I sliould have met with a bet-
ter Reception than this, for doing you a Piece of Ser-
vice °f ^ucl1 Importance. I can ne^er be ungratesul,
It for anv Service, or to any Man that offers me
atJy Kindness; but it is past my Comprehension, said
what they should have such a Design upon me for:
however, since you say there is no Time to be lost,
^nd that there is some villainous Design in hand against
jtie, } will go on board this Minute, and put to Sea im-
mediately, if my Men can stop the Leak, or if we can
swim
swim without stopping it: But, Sir, said I, shall I go
away ignorant of the Reason of all this? Can you give
me no sarther Light into it?
I can tell you but Part of the Story, Sir, says he;
but I have a Dutch Seaman here with me, and, I be-
lieve, I could persuade him to tell you the rest; but
there is scarce Time for it: But the short of the Story
is this, the first Part of which, I suppose, you know
well enough, 'viz. that you were with this Ship at Su-
matra; that there your Captain was murdered by the
Ma lac cum, with three of his Men i and that you, or some
of those that were on board with you, ran away with
the Ship, and are since turned PIRATES. This is the
Sum of the Story, and you will be all seized as Pirates,
I can assure you, and executed with very little Ceremony;
for you know Merchants Ships shew but little Law to
Pirates, if they get them in their Power.
Now you speak plain Englijh, said I, and I thank
you; and though I know nothing that we have done,
like what you talk of, tut I am sure we came honestly
and sairly by the Ship, yet, seeing such Work is a do-
ing, as you say, and that you seem to mean honestly,
I will be upon my Guard. Nay, Sir, says he, do not
talk of being upon your Guard ; the best Desence is to be
out of the Danger; if you have any Regard to your
Life, and the Lives of all your Men, put out to Sea
without sail at High-water; and as you have a whole
Tide besore you, 'you will be gone too sar out besore
they can come down; for they will come away at
High-water; and as they have twenty Miles to come,
you get near two Hours of them, by the Difference
of the Tide, not reckoning the Length of the Way:
Besides, as they are only Boats, and not Ships, they
will not venture to follow you sar out to Sea, especially
if it blows.
Well, said I, you have been very kind in this: What
{hall I do for you, to make you Amends? Sir, says he,
you may not be so willing 10 make menAmendf, be-
cause you may not be convinced of the Truth of it: I
will make an Offer to you; I have nineteen Months Pay
due to me on board the Ship , which 1 came out
of England in; and the Dutchman, that is with me, has
seven
The Gurmer had in the mean Time, Orders to bring
-two Guns to bear fore and aft, out of the Steerage, to
clear the Deck, and load them with Musquet-bullets,
and "small Pieces of old Iron, and what next came to
Hand ; and thus we made ready for Fight; but all this
while kept out to Sea, with Wind enough, and could
fee the Boats at a Distance, being five large Long-boats
following us, with all the Sail they could make.
- Two of these Boats, which, by our Glasses, we
could fee, were Englijh, had outsailed the rest, were
Bear two Leagues ahead of them, and gained upon us
f: considerably; so that we sound they would come up
with us; upon which we fired a Gun without a Shot,
to intimate that they should bring to; and we put out a
Flag of Truce, as a Signal for Parley; but they kept
crowding after us, till they came within Shot: Upon
this we took in our white Flag, they having made no
Answer to it, hung out the red Flag, and fired at them
with Shot: Notwithstanding this, they came on till
they were near enough to call to them with a speaking
Trumpet, which we had on board; so we called to them,
and bade them keep off at their Peril.
It was all one, they crowded after us, and endeavoured
to come under our Stern, so to board us on our Quar-
ter: Upon which, seeing they were resolute for Mischief,
and depended upon the Strength that followed them, I
ordered to bring the Ship to, so that they lay upon our
Broadside, when immediately we fired five Guns at them;
one of which had been levelled so true as to carry away
the Stern of the hindermost Boat, and bring them to the
Necessity of taking down their Sail, and running all to
the Head of the Boat to keep her from sinking; so she
lay by, and had enough of it; but, seeing the foremost
Boat still crowd on after us, we made ready to fire at her
in particular.
While this was doing, one of the three Boats that
was behind, being forwarder than the other two, made
up to the Boat which we had disabled, to relieve her, and
we could afterwards fee her take out the Men: We called
again to the foremost Boat, and offered a Truce to par-
ley again, and to know what was her Business with us^
b.t had no Answer; only she cwwded close under our
Stern.
Srem. Upon this our Gunner, who was a very dex-
trous Fellow, run out his two Chace Guns, and fired
ac her; but the Shot missing, the Men in the Boat
shouted, waved their Caps, and came on; but the
CJunner, getting quickly ready again, fired among
them a second Time; one Shot of which, though it
missed the Boat itself, yet fell in among the Men, and
vve could easily see, had done a great deal of Mischies
a mong them; but we, taking no Notice of that, weared
the Ship again, and brought our Quarter to bear upon
them; and, firing three Guns more, we found the Boat
tvas split almost to Pieces; in particular, her Rudder,
and a Piece of her Stern, was shot quite away; so they
handed their Sail immediately, and were in great Dis-
order; but, to complete their Misfortune, our Gunner
Jet sly two Guns at them again; where he hit them we
could not tell, but we found the Boat was sinking, and
some of the Men already in the Water: Upon this I
immediately manned out our Pinnace, which we had
lcept close by our Side, with Orders to pick up some
of the Men, if they could, and save them from drown-
ing, and immediately to come on board with them;
because we saw the rest of the Boats began to
come up. Our Men in the Pinnace, followed their
Orders, and took up three Men; one of which was
;ust drowning, and it was a good while before we cou'd
recover him. As soon as they were on board, we
crowded all the Sail we could make, and stood farther
oUt to Sea; and we found, that when the other three
jloats came up to the first two, they gave over their
Being thus delivered from a Danger, which, though
j knew not the R.ason of it, yet seemed to be much
„reater than 1 apprehended; 1 took Care, that we would
change our Course, ar.d not let any one imagine whi-
ther we were going; so we stood out to Sea Eastward,
ruire out of the Course of all European Ships, whether
they were bound to China, or any where else, within the
^Jommerce of the European Nations.
When we were now at Sea, we began to consult
^vith the two Seamen, and enquire first, What the
shearing of all this should be i The Dutchman let us
into
into the Secret of it at once; telling us, That the Fel-
low that fold us the Ship, as we said, was no more than
a Thief, that had run away with her. Then he toid us
how the Captain, whose Name too be mentioned, though
I do not remember it now, was treacherously murdered
by the Natives on the Coast of Malacca, with three of his
Men; and that he, this Dutchman, and four more, got in-
to the Woods, where they wandered about a great while;
till at length, he in particular, in a miraculous Manner,
made his Efiape, and swam off to a Dutch Ship, which
sailing near the Shore, in its Way from China, had sent
their Boat on Shore for fresh Water; that he durst not
come to that Part of the Shore where the Boat was, but
made shift in the Night, to take in the Water sarther off,
and, swimming a great while, at last the Ship's Boat took
him up.
He then told us, That he went to Batavia, where two
of the Seamen, belonging to the Ship, had arrived, hav-
ing deserted the rest in their Travels; and gave an Ac-
count, That the Fellow who had run away with the Ship,
fold her at Bengal to a Set of Pirates, which neri gone a
cruising in her; and that they had already taken a:i Englijh
Ship, and two Dutch Ships, very richly laden.
This latter Part we found to concern us directly, and
though we knew it to bi salse, yet, as my Partner said
very well, if we had sallen into their Hands, and thsy
had had such a Prepossession against us besorehand, it had
been in vain for us to have defended ourselves, or to hope
for any good Quarters at their Hands; especially consider-
ing that our Accusers had been our Judges, and that we
could have expected nothing from them but what Rage
would have dictated, and ungoverned Passion have exe-
cuted: And theresore it was his Opinion, we should go
directly back to Bengal, from whence we came, without
putting in at any Port whatever; because there we could
give an Account of ourselves, and could prove where we
were when the Ship put in, whom we bought her of- arts
the like; and which was more than all the rest, if we
were put to the Neceslity of bringing it besore the prouqr
Judges, we should be sure to have some justic.'; a:id a t
Le hanged first, and judged afterward.
Vol. II. I I wa;
I was sometime of my Partner's Opinion; but after
a little more serious thinking, I told him, I thought it
viras a very great Hazard for us to attempt returning to
Jiengal, for' that we were on the wrong Side of the
..Streights of Malacca; and that if the Alarm was given,
xve should be sure to be way-laid on every Side, as well
t>y the Dutch of Batavia, as the Englijh elsewhere; that
if we (hould be taken, as it were, running away, we
/hould even condemn ourselves, and there would want
*io more Evidence to destroy us. I also asked the Englijb
Sailor's Opinion, who said, He was of my Mind, and
that we should certainly be taken.
Th s Danger a little startled my Partner, and all the
Ship's Company; and we immediately resolved to go
away to the Coast oSTonquin, and so on to China; and
from thence pursuing the first Design, as to Trade, find
^otne Way or other to dispose of the Ship, and come
back in some of the Vessels of the Country, such as we
could get. This was approved of as the best Method
/or our Security; and accordingly we steered away
.jvL N. E. keeping above fifty Leagues off from the usual
sourse to the Eastward.
This, hov -er, put us to some Inconveniencies; for
/lrft, the VVi s, when we came to that Distance from
t\ie Shore, seei. ed to be more steadily against us, blow-
ing almost Trade, as we call it, from the East, and
j£„ N. E. so that we were a long while upon our Voy-
age; and we were but ill provided with Victuals for so
Jong a ^un , an^t which was still worse, there was sorr.e
j}anger, that those Englijh and Dutch Ships, whose Boats
.pursued us, whereof some were bound that Way, might
foe got in besore us; and if not, some other Ship, bound
_0 China, might have Insormation of us from them, and
.pursue us with the same Vigour.
* I must consess, I was now very uneasy, and thought
^yself, including the late Escape from the Long boats,
%0 have been in the most dangerous Condition that ever
j vvas in through all my past Life; for, whatever rll Cir-
cumstances I had been in, I was never pursued for a
»j"bies before; nor had I ever done any thing that
merited the Name of dishonest, or fraudulent, much
less thievish. I had chiesly been mine own Enemy;
or,
or, as I may rightly fay, I had been nobody's Enemy
but my own. But now I was embarrassed in the worst
Condition imaginable; for though I was perfectly in-
nocent, I was in no Condition to make that Innocence
appear. And if I had been taken, it had been ,undcr a
supposed Guilt of the worst Kind; at least, a prime
esteemed so among the People I had to do with.
This made me very anxious to make an Escape, though
which Way to do it, I knew not; or what Port or Place
we mould go to. My Partner, seeing me thus dejictecL,
though he was the moll concerned at first, began to en-
courage me; and describing to me the several Ports of
that Coast, told me. He would put in on the Coast of
Cochinchina, or the Bay of Tonquin i intending to go after-
wards to Macao, a Town once in the Possession of the Por-
tuguese, and where still a great many European Families re-
sided, and particularly the Missionary Priests usually went
thither, in order to their going forward to China.
Hither then we resolved to go; and accordingly,
though aster a tedious and irregular Course, and very
much streightened for Provisions, we came within Sight
.of the Coast very early in the Morning; and, upon Re-
slection upon the past Circumstances we were in, and the
Danger, if we had not escaped, we resolved to pn into
a small River, which, however, had Depth enough of
Water for us, and to fee if we could, either over Land,
or by the Ship's Pinnace, come to know what Ships were
in any Port thereabouts. This.happy Step was., indeed,
our Deliverance; for though we did not immediately fee
any European Ships in the Bay of Tonquin, yet, the next
Morning, there came into the Bay two Dutth Ships, and
a ;third without any Colours spread out, but which we
believed to be a Dutchman, passed by at about two
Leagues Distance, steering for the Coast of China i and
in the Afternoon went by $wo En^lljli Ships, steering the
same Course.v^ad^.thus.^ye thought, we saw ourleives
beset with Energies, bott one Way and the other. The
Place we were in was wild and barbarous, the Peop'e
Thieves, even by Occupation or Profession; and though,
it is true, we had not much to feck of them, and, ex-
cept getting a few Provisions, cared not how little we
had to do with them, yet it was with much Dissiculty
I 2 that
chat we kept ourselves from being insulted by them
feveral Ways.
We were in a small River of this Country, within a
f.w Leagues of its utmost Limits Northward i and by
-cir Boat we coasted North east to the Point of Land
which opens to the great Bay of Tonquin; and it was in
this beating-up along the Shore, that we discovered as
above, that in a Word, we were surrounded with Ene-
snies. The People we were among were the most bar-
barous of all the Inhabitants of the Coast; having no
Correspondence with any other Nation, and dealing
only in Fish, and Oil, and such gross Commodities; and
it may be particularly seen, that they are, as I said, the
rnost barbarous of any of the Inhabitants; viz. that
among other Customs they have this one, That if a»y
Vessel-have the Misfortune to be shipwrecked upon their
Coast, they presently make the Men all Prisoners; that
ls to say, Slaves: And it was not long besore we found
a Spice of their Kindness this Way, on the Occasion
following.
I have observed above, that our Ship sprung a Leak
ot Sea, and that we could not find it out; and however
it happened, that, as I have said, it was stopped unex-
pectedly, in the happy Minute of our being to be seized,
by the Dutch and Englifi Ships, near the Bay of Siam;
yet, as we did not find the Ship so perfectly tight and
found as we desired, we resolved, wh le we were in this
i'l'ace, to lay her on Shore, take out what heavy things
-vve had on board, which were not many, and to walh
and clean her Bottom; and, if possible, to find ou:
where the Leaks were.
Accordingly, having lightened the Ship, and brought
all our Guns, and other moveable things, to one Side,
we tried to bring her down, that we might come at her
Bottom; for, on second Thoughts, we did not care to
lay her dry aground, neither could we find out a proper
Place for ir.
The Inhabitants,-who had never been acquainted with
such a Sight, came wondering down to the Shore, to
Jook at us; and seeing the Ship lie down on one Side
in such a Manner, and heeling towards the Shore, and
not /eeing our Men, who were at work on her Bo*-
- . tonif
torn, with Stages, and with their Boats on the Off-side,
they presently concluded, that the Ship was cast away,
and lay so very sast on the Ground.
On this Supposition they came all about us in two or
three Hours Time, with ten or twelve large Boats, having
some of them eight, some ten Men in a Boat, intending,
no doubt, to have come on board, and plundered the
Ship, and if they had found us there, to have carried us*
away for Slaves to their King, or whatever they call him,
for we knew nothing who was their Governor.
When they came up to the Ship, and began to row
round her, they discovered us all hard at Work, on the
Outside of the Ship's Bottom and Side, washing, and
graving, and stopping, as every Seasaring Man knows
how.
They stood for awhile gazing at us, and we, who
were a little surprised, could not imagine what their
Design was; but, being willing to be sure, we, took
this Opportunity to get some of us into the Ship, and
others to hand down Arms and Ammunition, to, those
that were at Work, to desend themselves with, if there
should be Occasion; and it was no more- than Need}
for, in less than a Quarter of an Hour's Consultation,
they agreed, it seems, that the Ship was really a Wreck;
that we were all at Work, endeavouring to save her, or
to save our Lives by the Help of our Boats; and when?
we handed our Arms into the Boats, they concluded,
by that Motion, that we were endeavouing to save
some of our Goods. Upon this they took it for granted
they all belonged to them ; and away they came di-
rectly upon our Men, as if it had been in a Line of
Battle.
Our Men, feeing so many of them, began to bff
frighted; for we lay but in an ill Posture to fight, and
cried out to us to know what they should do. I im-
mediately called to the Men who worked upon the
Stages, to slip them down, and get up the Side into
the Ship; and bade those in the Boat to row round, and
come on board; and those few of us who were on
board, worked with all the Strength and Hands we
had, to bring the Ship to rights; but, however, neither
the Men upon the Stage, nor those in the Boats, could
do as they were ordered, before tlie Cochinchlnese were W! «n
upon them; and, with two of their Boats boarded our'
Long-boat, and began to lay hold of the Men as their j toll
Prisoners."' '« kit;
The first Man they laid hold of was an Englifo Seaman, J "ally
a stout strong Fellow, who having a Mufquet in his Hand, I i pwi
never offered to fire it, but laid it down in the Boat, like j ttrei
a Fool, as I thought. But he understood his Business bef- { ft t!
ter than I could teach him; for he grappled the Pagan, '^« 1!
and dragged him by main Force out of their own Boat . 'ti for
into ours; where, taking him by the two Ears, he beat lheWi
his Head so against the Boat's Gunnel, that the FeJJoIv j '«tH
died instantly in his Hands; and in the mean Time, a j Iw;
Dutchman, who stood next, took up the Mufquet, and i Ml on
with the But-end of it, so laid about him, that he knocked f Duge
down five of them, who attempted to enter the Boat; but ijwit!
this was little towards resisting thirty or forty Men, who ;Wlei
fearless, because ignorant of their Danger, began to throw mueh
themselves into the Long boat, where we had but five ;fovagi
ftlen to desend it: But one Accident gave our Men a 1 Wi
complete Victory, which deserved our Laughter rather adki
than any thing else; and that was this: j j*tam
Our Carpenter being prepared to grave the Outside :a %
of the Ship, as well as to pay the Seams where he had 'tuft)
caulked her, to stop the Leaks, had got two Kettles just ] tares
Iet do^n into the Boat; one filled with boiling Pitch, j«d 1
flnd the other with Rosin, Tallow, and Oil, and such j l»0ll
Stuff as the Shipwrights use for that Work; and the;
Jv'lan that tended the Carpenter, had a great Iron La- j kao«
die in his Hand, with which he supplied the Men that j they
ivere at Work with that hot Stuff; two of the Enemy's 1 Bc
Jvlen entered the Boat just where this Fellow stood, 1 ii^
being in the Foremeets ; he immediately saluted thea* ( On ^
vvith a Ladlesul of the Stuff, boiling hot, which so J ilm0
burnt and scalded them, being half-naked, that they theit
i oared out like two Bulls, and enraged with the Fire, Boat
leaped both into the Sea. The Carpenter saw it, and tliClt
cried put, Weil done, Jack, give them some more of fcr t
it; when stepping forward himself, he takes one of out
.heir Mops, and dipping it in the Pitch-pot, he and his oui
[Wan threw it among them so plentisully, that, in short, ;Ene
il all the Men in three Boats, there was not one that
was
was not scalded and burnt with it in a most frightsul
pitisul Manner, and made such an Howling and Crying,
that I never heard a worse Noise, and, indeed, nothing
like it; for it is worth observing, That though Pair) na-
turally makes all People cry out, yet every Nation- have
a particular Way of Exclamation, and make Noises as.
different from one another as their Speech. I cannot
give the Noise these Creatures made, a better Name
than Howling, nor a Name more proper to the Tone of
it; for I never heard any thing more like the Noise of
the Wolves, which, as I have said, I heard howl in the
Forest on the Frontiers of Languedoc.
I was never pleased with a Victory better in my Life;
not only as it was a perfect Surprise to me, and that our
Danger was imminent besore; but as we got this Victo-
ry without any Bloodshed, except of that Man the Fel-
low killed with his naked Hands, and which I was ve'ry
much concerned at; for I was sick of killing such poor
Savage Wretches, even tho' it was in my own Desence,
knowing they came on Errands which they thought just,
and knew no better; and that tho' it may be a just thing,
because necessary, for there is no necessary Wickedness
in Nature; yet I thought it was a sad Life, when we
must be always obliged to be killing our Fellow-crea-
tures to preserve ourselves; and, indeed, I think so still;
and 1 would, even now, suffer a great deal, rather than
I would takeaway the Life even of the worst Person in-
juring me. I believe also, all considering People, who
know the Value of Life, would be of my Opinion, if
they entered seriously into the Consideration of it.
But to return to my Story: All the while this was do-
ing, my Partner and I, who managed the rest of the Mere
on board, had, with great Dexterity, brought the Ship
almost to rights; and, having gotten their Guns into
their Places again, the Gunner called to me, to bid our
Boat get out of the Way, for he would let sly among
them. I called back again to him, and bid him not of-
fer to fire, for the Carpenter would do the Work with-
out him; but bade him heat another Pitch-kettle; which-
our Cook, who was on board, took care of. But the
Enemy was so terrified with what they met with in their
first Attack, that they would not come on again; and
-- , 'I 4 some
fome of them, that were sarthest off', seeing the Ship-
itvim, a s it were, upright, began, as we supposed, to-
fee their Mistake, and gave over the Enterprize, finding
ic was not as they expected. Thus we got clear of this
xrierry Fight; and, having gotten some Rice, and some
Hoots, and Bread; with about sixteen good big Hogs on
board, two Days besore, we resolved to stay here no
longc. but go forward, whatever came of it; for we
made no doubt but we should be surrounded the next
J Jay with Rogues enough, perhaps more than our Pitch-
liCtile would dispose of for bj.
» We, theresore, got all our things on board the same
jr.vening, and the next Morning were ready to sail. In
the mean Time, lying at an Anchor some Distance from
the Shore, we were not so much concerned, being now
;n a fighting Posture, as well as in a sailing Posture, if
any Enemy had presented. The next Day, having finish-
ed ocr Work within board, and finding our Ship was
_erfcctly healed of all her Leak:, we set sail; we would
}iave gone int0 'he Bay os Tcnjuin, for we wanted to in-
form ourselves of what was to be known concerning the
j)utcb Ships that had been there; but we durst not stand
j'n there, because we had seen several Ships go in, as we
opposed, but a little besore; so we kept on N. E. to-
wards the lile os Formosa, as much afraid of being seen by
p-Mcb or Englijh Merchant Ship, as a Dutch or Englijh
-jyIeichant Ship in the Mediterranean is of an Algerine
-jvlan of War. '.
VVhen we were thus got to Sea, we kept on N. E. as
- f \\e would go to the Manillas or the Philippine Islands;
* st<3 this we did, that we might not sall into the Way of
any of the European Ships; and then we steered North
0 ain, till we came to the Latitude of zz Deg. 20 Min.
f*^ >vhich means we made the. Island of Formosa directly,
\cre we came to an Anchor, in order tq get Water and
^efh Provisions, which the Peopte there, who'are very
oUrteous and civil in their Manners, supplied us with
*,;j!ingly, and dealt very sairly and punctually with us in
l; their Agreements and Bargains; which is what we did
siot sind among other People; and may be owing to the
ji.tmains of Christianity, which was once planted here
fry a Dutch Missionary of Protestants, and is a Testimony
of
of what I have often observed; viz. That the Christian
Religion always civilizes the People, aiid resorms their
Manners, where',it is received, whether it works saving
Effects tappn t|em or nti. ",'
Frpm^ehce' we sailed stiy .North, keeping the Coast
of China at an "equal Distance. till we k'tTew we were
beyor^afall the Ports of China,' where our Euros edn Ships
usually' come ;. being Resolved, if possible,. net to sall into
any of their Hands, especially in this Country, where,
as our Circumstances were, *[e could not sail qf being
intireiy ruined; nay, so great was my Fear in particular,
as to my being taken by then?, that I believe firmly, I
would much rather have chosen to sall into JhY Hands of
the Spanijh Inquijition.
Being now come to the Latitude of 30 Degrees, we
resolved to put into the first trading Port we should
come at; and, standing in for the Shore, a Boat came
off two Leagues to us, with an old Portuguese Pilot on
board, who, knowing us to be an European Ship, came
to offer jiis Service, which, indeed, we were very glad
of, and took him on board : Upon which, without ask-
ing us whither we would go, he dismissed the Boat he
(.ame in, and sent it back.
I thought it was now so much in our Choice, to make
the old Man carry us whither we would, that I began to
talk with him about carrying of us to the Gulphof Nan-
quin, which is the most Northern Part of the Coast -of
China. The old Man said he knew the Gulph of Nan-
quiit very well; but, smiling, asked us, what we would
do there.
I told him we would fell our Cargo, and purchase
China Wares, Callicoes, raw Silks, Tea, wrought Silks,
£3V. and so would return by the same Course we came.
He told us our best Port had been to have put in at Ma-
cao,' whetk we could not sail of a Market for our Opium,
to our satissaction, and might, for our Money, have
purchased all Sorts of China Goods,' as cheap-as we could
at Nanquin.
Not being able to put'the old Man out of his Talk,
of which he was very opiniated\ or conceited, I told
him, we were Gentlemen, as well as Merchants; and
that we had a Mind to go and fee the great City of
I 5 Pehin,
kin, and the samous Court- of the Monarch of China.
V' liy then, says the old Man, you should go to Ninifo,
/here, by the River which runs into the Sea there, you
tuy g" up within five Leagues of the Great Canal. This
jantl is a navigable made Stream, which goes througli
he Heart of all that vast Empire of China, crosses all the
-Overs, passes some considerable Hills, by the Help of
;;uicts and Gates, and goes Op to the City of Ptkin,
;uing ln Length near 270 Leagues.
Weil, sa:d I, Seignior Portuguese, but that is not our
3ul:ness now: The great Question is, If you can carry
ii up to the City of Nanquin, fiom whence we can travel
0 fekin afterwards? Yes, he said, he could do so very
ivell, and there was a great Dutch Ship gone up that
V-Vay just besore. 1 his gave me a little Shock; a Dutch
l,hip was now our Terror, and we had much rather
i, ave met the Devil, at least it" he had not come in too
trightsul a Figure: We depended upon-it, that a Dutch
sh:p would be our Destruction, for we were in no Con-
dition to fight them; all the Ships they trade with in
. fro fe Parts being of great Burden, and of much greater
yiotxe than we were.
The old Man found me a little consused, and under
lorrri Concern, when he named a Dutch Ship; and said
.0 me* Sir, you need be under no Apprehension of the
putch, I suppose they ate not now at War with your Na-
- ion- No, said I, that's true; but I know not whae
^iberties Men may take, when they are out of the Reach
f the Laws of their own Country. Why, said he, you
aI-e no Pirates, what need you fear? They will not med-
with peaceable Merchants sure.
If I had any BJood in my Body that did not sly up in-
to W *'ace at l'iat Word, it was hindered by some Stop
in tne Vessels appointed by Nature to circulate it; for
put me into the greatest Disorder and Consusion ima-
iI5able; nor was it possible for me to conceal it so, but
jD»t the old Man easily perceived it.'
Sir, said he, I find you are in some Disorder in your
Thoughts at my Talk; pray be - pleased to go which
y/ay you think fit; and, depend upon it, I'll do you all
the Service I can. Why, Seignior, said I, it is true, I
isui a little unsettled in my Resolution at this Time,
whither
whither to go in particular; and I am something more
so, for what you said about Pirates; I hope there are no
Pirates in these Seas'; we are but in an ill Condition to
meet with them i for you fee we have but a small Force,
and but very weakly-manned.
O, Sir, said he, do not be\ concerned, I;do not know,
that there have been any Pirates in these Seas these fif-
teen Years, except one, which was seen, as I hear, in the
Bay of Siam, about a Month since; but you may be as-
sured she is gone to the Southward; ncr was she a Ship
of any great Force, or fit for the Work; she was not
built for a Privateer, but was run away with by a repro-
bate Crew that were on board, after the Captain and
some of his Men had been murdered by the Malaccans, at
or near the T/land of Sumatra.
. What I said I, seeming to know nothing of the Mat-
ter, Did they murder the Captain? No, laid he, I do
not understand that they murdered him; but, as they
afterwards ran away with the Ship, it is generally be-
lieved they betrayed him into the Hands of the Malaccans,
who did murder him; and, perhaps, they procured them
to qo it. Why then, said I, they deserve Death, as much
as if they had done it themselves. Nay, said the old
Man, they do de.scrve it; and they will-certainly have it,
if they light upon any Englijh or Dutch Ship; for they
have all agreed together, that, if they meet that Rogue,
they will give him no Quarter.
But, said 1 to him, you say the Pirate is gone out of
these Seas: How can they meet with him then f Why,
.that is true, said he, they do say so; but he was, as I-
tell ycu, in the Bay of Siam, in the River Cambodia, and
was discovered there by some Dutthmen who belonged to
the Sh;p, and who were lest on Shore when they run away
with her j and some Englijh and Dutth Traders being ii
the River, they were within at little of. taking- him. Nay,
sa.d hi, if {he foremost Bpats had'been well seconded by
the rest, they had certainly taken him; but he, finding
only two Boats within Reach of him, tack'd about, and
fir'd at these two, and disabled them, besore the other
came up; and then standing off to Sea, the other were'
not able to follow him, and so he got away. But they
have all so exact a Description of the- Ship, that they
16 Will
will be sure to know him; and where-ever they find
l,itrt, tri<7 have vowed to give po Quarter to either the
CaP'?!\-or 'k? Seamen,- but to h'Wng them all up at the
\V na^'^siW I, will they execute them right or wrongi-
j;aivg %herh "first, and judge them afterwards? O, Sir!
^aid tB* P'^ Pilot, there is no need to make a formal-

1 renewal ;bad my
couM ^o nje no Harm i so that I turned short upon him;
W'c.Dr nowi Se-'gnior, said I, and this is the very Reason
sty I would have you carry us to Nanquik, and not to
ut k-ck t0 Maeea, Or 10 any other Part of the Coun-
trie .*vr,ere tne E*gHfi or ZWri Ships come; for, be it
j. ^tjvkh to yon, Seignior, those Captains of the Englijh
nSI i/a/,i, Ships, are a Parcel of raw, proud, insolent
i7c1Jgiws, that neither know what belongs to Justice, or
. ovv to behave themselves, as the Laws of Godand!Na-
re Jircct; but, being proud of their Offices, and not
^ptieistanding their Power, they would act the Murder-
,f's to punish Robbers; would take upon them to insult
faJfly accused, and determine them guilty without
\iue' Istluiry; and perhaps, I may live to call some of
heP1 to an Account fot-h, where they may be taught
j-o\v. lcfl.ice is t0 be executed; and that no Man ought
'be treated as a Criminal, rill sonje Evidence may be
*D ^ of the Crime, and that he is the MaSt"
W'ith this 1 told him, that this was the very Ship they
j attacked -r and gave him a sull Account of the Skir-
'iw wc ^ w;fb their Boats, and how foolishly and
*^oVvard-like they had behaved. 1 told him all the Story
r our buying the- Ship, and how the Dtiftbwe* served
I told him the Reasons I had to believe, that this
*t*'0ry of killing the Master, by the Malayans, was not
rUe; as also the running away with the Ship; bnt that
*t v^as all a Fictjoh'of their own, to suggest that the Men
^vere iturned Pirates'; and they ought to have been sure
jt vi/as so, besore they Jvad ventured to attack us by Sur-
Fnie> and oblige us to resist them; adding, that they
would have the Blood of those Men, who were killed
there, in our just Desence, to answer for.
The old Man was amazed at this Relation; and told
us, We were very much in the Right to go away to the
North; and that if he might advise us, it should be to
sell the Ship in China, which we might very well do, and
buy or build another in the Country: And, said he, tho'
you will not get so good a Ship, yet you may get one
able enough to carry you and all your Goods back again
to Bengal, or any where else.
I told him, I would take his Advice, when I came to
any Port where I could find a Ship for my Turn, or get
any Customer to buy this. He replied, I should meet
with Customers enough for the Ship at Nanquin, and that
a Chinese Junk would serve me very well to go back again;
and that he would procure me People both to buy one,
and sell the other,; "... \ . -
WelU but, Seignior, says I, as you' fay they know the
Ship so well, I may, perhaps, if I follow your Mea-
sures, be instrumental to bring some honest innocent Men
into a terrible Broil, and, perhaps, be murdered in cold
BIcod; for where-ever they find the Ship, they will prove
the Guilt upon the Men, by proving this was the Ship;
and so innocent Men may probably be overpowered and
murdered. Why, said the old Man, I'll find out a Way
to prevent that also; for as I know all those Commanders
you speak of very well, and shall see them all as" they
pass-by, I will be sure to set them to rights in the thing,
and let them know, that they had been so much in the
Wrong, that though the People who were on board at
first, might run away with the Ship, yet it was not true,
that they bad turned Pirates; and that in particular, those
were not the Men that first went off with the Ship, but
innocently- bought- her for their Trade; and I am per-
suaded they will so sar believe me, as, at least, to act
more cautioussy for the Time to come. Well, said I,
and will you deliver one Mefag? t0 them from me? Yes,
I will, fays -he,-.if you will give it under your Hand, in
Writing, that I jn«y be able to prove it came from you,
and not ou|#f,m,y own Head. I answered, That I would
readily give it Jiirn- under my Hand. So I took a Pen,
and Ink, and Paper, and wrote at large the Story of
assaulting
for I do not particularly remember it, having lost this
together with the Names of many other Places set down
in a little Pocket-book, which was spoiled by the Water,
on an Accident which I shall relate in its Order; but this
I remember, that the Chinese or Japanese Merchants we
correspond with, call it by a different Name from that
which our Portuguese Pilot gave it, and pronounced it as
above, Shtinchang.
As we were unanimous in our Resolutions to go to
this Place, we weighed the next Day, having only gone
twice on Shore, where we were to get sieih Water; on
boih which Occasions, the People of the Country were
very civil to us, and brought us Abundance of things to
fell to us ; I mean of Provisions, Plants, Roots, Tea, Rice,
and some Fowls; but nothing without Money.
We came to the other Port (the Wind being contrary)
not till live Days; but it was very much to our Satissac-
tion; and, 1 was joysul, and, I may say, thanksul,
when I set my Foot safe on Shore; resolving, and roy
Partner too, that if it was possible to dispose of ourselves
and Effects any other way, though not every way to our
Satissaction, we would never set one Foot on board that
unhappy Vessel more; and, indeed, 1 must acknowledge,
that of all the Circumstances of Life, that ever I had
any Experience of, nothing makes Mankind so complete-
ly miserable, as that of being in constant Fear. Well
does the Scripture say, The Fear os Man brings a Snare; it is
a Life of Death; and the Mind is so entirely suppressed
by it, that it is capable of no Relies; the animal Spirits
sink, and all the Vigour of Nature, which usually sup-
ports Men under other Afflictions, and is present to them
in the greatest Exigencies, sails them here.
Nor did it sail of its usual Operations upon the Fancy,
by heightening every Danger; representing the Englijh
and Dutch Captains to be Men uncapable of hearing
Reason,or diiiinguishing between honest Men and Rogues;
or between a Story calculated for our own Turn, made
out of nothing, on purpose to deceive, and a true ge-
nuine Account of our whole Voyage, Progress, and De-
sign; for we might many Ways have convinced any
reasonable Creature, that we were not Pirates; the
Goods we had on board, the Course we steered, out
srftnkjy
~rankly shewing ourselves, and entering into such and
"ucl> Ports; even our very Manne/,- the Force we had,
be dumber of Men, tbe:^^rms, jit^LAmrnunition,
jiort Provisions;. all these would. have ^erved^-convince
my Ma*, that we were no Pirates. ^TheyQp^u'm, and
)Lher Goods, fe had .ph board, wpusld make it appear
be Ship had been at Bengal; th^^uttiaien; wfhp, -it was
a.-d, bad the Names of all the Men that Weie in the
>bipi might easily fee, that we were a Mixture of Eng-
Portuguese, and Indians, and but twp.. Dutibiuen on
,oard. These, and many other particular. CircUiipstances,
n ,'ght have made it evident to the Understanding of any
jofimander, whose Hands we.might sall into, that we
vere no Pirates. .;isn' -" n -
EUt Fear, that blind, useless Passion, worked another
jy&y, and threw us into the Vapours; it bewiidered our
_jnderstandihgs, and set the Imagination at Work, to
0sfn a thousand terrible Things, that, perhaps, night
iever happen; we first supposed, as, indeed, every body
,ad related to us, that the Seamen on board the Enghjb
Dutch Ships, but especially the Dutch, were so en-
tered at the Name of a Pirate, and especially at our
ating of their Boats, and escaping, that they would not
:VC themselves leave to inquire, whether we were Pirates
^r tio i but would execute us off-hand, as we call it,
">.lthout giving us any room for a Desence. We reslect-
*j that there was really so much apparent Evidence
'e'fort them, that they would scarce inquire after any
3 ore; as, first* That the. Ship was certainly- the fame,
11 <j that some of the Seamen among them knew her,
j had been on board her; ar.d, secondly, That when
in . _i T_..n: .u- D: /*. I.J:- .U..
e had Intelligence at the River Camlodia,. that they
ete coming down to examine us, we fought their Boals,
fled; so that we made no Doubt but they were as
filly satisfied of our being Pirates, as we were satisfied
f the contrary; and I often said, I knew not but I
Z 0uld have been apt to have taken the like Circumstan-
eS for Evidence, if the Tables were turned, and my
^afe was theirs; and have made no Scruple of cutting
iil the Crew to Pieces, without believing, or, perhaps
;Ctn fleering, what they might have to ofler is their De-
fence-
But
But'let that be how it will, those were our Appre-
hensions; aud both my Partner and I too, scarce slept a
Night without dreaming of Halters, and' Yard-arms;
that is to say, Gibbets; of Fighting, and being taken;
of Killing, and being killed; and one Night I was in
such a Fury in my Dream, sancying the Dutchmen had
boarded us, arid I was knocking one of their Seamen
down, that I struck my double Fist against the Side of
the Cabin I lay in, with such a Force as wounded my
Hand most grievously, broke my Knuckles, and cut and
bruised the Flesh; (& that it not only waked me out of
my Sleep, but I was once afraid 1 should have lost two
of my Fingers. - '.
Another Apprehension I had, was, of the cruel Usage
we should meet with from them, if we fell into their
Hands: Then the Story of Jmbcyna came into my
Head, and how the Dutch might, perhaps, torture us,
as they did oar Countrymen there; and make some of
our Men, by Extremity of Torture, consess those Crimes
they never were guilty of; own themselves, and all of
us, to be Pirates; and so they would put us to Death,
with a formal Appearance of Justice; and that they
might be tempted to do this, for the Gain of our Ship
and Cargo, which was worth four or five thousand
Pounds, put all together. '"'i", )-:i'-
These things tormented me, and my Partner too, Night
and Day; nor did we consider, that the Captains of
Ships have no Authority to act thus; and if we had sur-
rendered Prisoners to them, they could not answer the
destroying us, or torturing us, but would be accountable
for it when they came into their own Country. This, I
say, gave me no Satissaction; for, if they will act thus
with us, what Advantage would it be to us, that they would
be called to an Account for it; or, if we were first to be
murdered, what Satissaction would it be to us, to have
them punished when they came Horn*? .-
I cannot resrain taking Notice here, what Reslections
I now had, upon the past Variety of my particular Cir-
bumstances; how hard I thought it was, that I, who had
spent forty Years in a Life of continued Dissiculties, and
was, at last, come, as it were, at the Port or] Haven
which all Men drive at, viz. to have Rest and Plenty,
mould
should be a Volunteer in new Sorrows, by my own un-
hiappy Choice; and that I, who had escaped so many
Paogers ;n my Youth, would now .come to be hanged in
rny old Age, and in so remote a Place, for a Crime I
^as not in the least inclined to, much less guilty of; and
n a Place and Circumstance, where Innocence was not
[ike to be any Protection at all to me.
After these Thoughts, something of Religion would
;ome in; and I would be considering, that this seemed
:o tne to be a Disposition of immediate Providence; and
[ ought to look upon it, and submit to it, as such;
tiiat although 1 was innocent as to Men, I was sar from
-,eing innocent as to my Maker; and I ought to look
and examine what other Crimes in my Life were most
-,fc>vious to me, and for which Providence might justly
I n fiict this Punishment as a Retribution; and that I ought
t<f submit to this, just as I would to a Shipwreck, if it
pleased God to have brought such a Disaster upon
, . . .
fn its Turn, natural Courage would sometimes take
[ts Place; and then I would be talking myself up to vi-
rf>rous Resolutions, that I would not be taken, to be
?arbarously used by a Parcel of merciless Wretches in
-old Blood; that it was much better to have sallen into
Hands of the Savages, who were Men-eaters, and
\j\iO, I was sure, would feast upon me, when they had
aken me, than by those, who would perhaps, glut their
|i3ge upon me, by inhuman Tortures and Barbarities;
;^gt, in the Case of the Savages, I always resolved to
Jie fignt*ng> t0 tne last Gasp; and why mould I not do
ro feeing it was much more dreadsul, to me at least,
'0 think of salling into these Men's Hands, than ever it
._-s to think of being eaten by Men: For the Savages,
lve them their Due, would not eat a Man till he was
|ead; and killed him first, as we do a Bullock; but
Jhat these Men had many Arts beyond the Cruelty of
pcath. Whenever these Thoughts prevailed, I was sure
0 put myself into a kind of Fever, with the Agitations
yf a supposed Fight; my Blood would boil, and my Eyes
sparkle, as if I was engaged; and I always resolved,
hat I would take no Quarter at their Hands; but even
iX I*1*' l{ I could resist no longer, I would blow up the
Ship,
Ship, and all that was in her, and leave them but little
Booty to boast of.orlw <i - [
But how'mucfnhe greater Weight the Anxieties and
Perplexities of these things were to ourThoughts while
we were at Sea', By so much' the: greater'^was our Satis-
saction, when we saw ourselves on Shore Vand my Part-
ner told me, he dreamed, That he had a very heavy
Load upon his Back, which he was to carry up an Hill,
and found that he was not able to stand long under it;
but the Portuguese Pilot came, and took it off his Back,
and the Hill disappeared, the Ground before him shewing
all smooth and plain: And truly it was so; we were all
fike Men who had a Load taken off their Backs.
For my Part, I had a Weight taken off from my
Heart, that I was not able any longer to bear; and, as
I said above, we resolved'to go no more to Sea in that
Ship. When we came on Shore, the old Pilot, who was
now our Friend, got us a Lodging, and a Warehouse
for our Goods, which, by the way, was much the same;
it was a little House or Hut, with a large House joining
to it, all built with Canes, and palisadoed round with
'large Canes, to keep out pilfering Thieves, of which it
seems there were not a few in the Country. However,
the Magistrates allowed us also a little Guard, and we
had a Soldier with a kind of Halbert, or Half-pike, who
stood Centinel at our Door; to whom we allowed a Pint
of Rice, and a little Piece of Money, about the Value
of three Pence per Day, so that our Goods were kept
very safe.
The Fair or Mart, usually kept in this Place, had been
over some Time; however, we sound that there were
three or sour Junks in the River, and two Japaners, I
mean, Ships from Japan, with Goods which they had
'bought in China, and were not gone away, haying Ja-
panese Merchants on Shore.
The first thing our old Portuguese Pilot did for us, was,
to bring us acquainted wkh three Missionary Romijh Priests,
"who were in the Town, and who had been there some
Time, converting the People to Christianity; but we
thought they made but poor Work of it; and made them
but sorry Christians when they had done. However,
that was not our Business. One of these was a French-
many
, i a The L i f e and A d v r to o R e s «/" J
r^ff, whom they called Father Simon; he was a jolly j biiirdI
-conditioned Man, very free in his Conversation, 1 *ithdifs:
iOt seeming so serious and grave as the other two did; one Opinion
,f tffhora was a Portuguese, and the other a Gcnoeje; but Couise (
rather Simon was courteous, easy in his Manner, and very tkem.
Lgi-«ciable Company; the other two were more reserved, Bulfii
itemed rigid and austere, and applied seriously to^ the I with hi
/fork they came about, -viz. to talk with, and insinuate J shewed I
hemselves among the Inhabitants, where ever they had i pressed i
opportunity: We often eat and drank with those Men: aanyP-
e±nd tho' I must consess, the Conversion, as they call it, my Pai
7f the Chinese to Christianity, is so saf from the 1true outh;
Conversion required, to bring Heathen People to the J us, nor
paith of Christ, that it seems to amount to little more fyslie
.han letting them know the Name of Christ, say some my Bui
pi-ayiCs to the Virgin Mary, and her Son, in a Tongue bail n
^hic" they understand not, and to cross themselves, and so you
the like' J'et ** mu^ De cotisessed, tbat these Religious, j blefotn
^hom we call Miossinaries, have a firm Behes that these of g0(
peopse ^a!l be saved, and that they are the Instrument Count
f lt; and, on this Account, they undergo not only j ate in
,he Fatigue of the Voyage, and Hazards of living in Uayt
ruCb Places, but oftentimes Death itself, with the most Gent!
-0Ient Tortures, for the sake of this Work; and it t,iy;
0gld be a great Want of Charity in us, whatever Opi- ,ety-
ion we have of she Work itself, and the Manner of ^.j
[Lelr doing it, if we mould not have a good Opinion of nott
elr Zeal, who undertake it with so many Hazards, and }at(i
'h0 have no Prospect of the least temporal Advantage of i',a.
Hemselv"- -strict
1 put to return to my Story: This French Priest, Father ( ^
r -ffloty was appointed, it seems, by Order of the Chies tt|J(:
e tbe Mission, to go up to Pekin, the Royal Seat of the p
°r.hifese Emperor; and waited only for another Priest, - (ol:
"ho was ordered to come to him from Macao, to go along
^;sh him; and we scarce ever met together, but he wa*
vlting me to go that Journey with him, telling me,. ^
Lj-0w he would shew me all the glorious things of that ^
Eighty Empire; and among the rest, the greatest City Wi
the World; a City, said he, that your London, and ^
yar Paris, put together, cannot be equal to. This was J y-
.hg City of Pekin, which, I consess,- is very great, and ^
infinitely
u
tlse
OQi
infinitely sull of People; but, as I lookedon those things
with different Eyes from other Men, so I shall give my
Opinion of them in few Wordsi^.when I come, in the
Course of my Travels, to speak more particularly of
them. -v .
But first, I come to my Friar, or Missionary: Dining
with him one Day, and being very merry together, I
shewed some little Inclination to go with him; and he
pressed me and my -Partner very hard, and with a great
many Persuasions to consent. Why, Father Simon, says
my Partner, whyr-:should you desire our Company so
much.' You know we are Heretics, and you do not love
us, nor can keep us Company with any Pleasure. O!
says he, you may, perhaps, be good Catholics in.Time;
tny Business here is to convert Heathens; and who knows
but I may convert you too? Very well, Father, said s,
so you will preach to us all the Way. I won't be trou-
blesome to you, said he; our Religion does not divest us
of good Manners; besides, said he, we are here like
Countrymen; and so we are, compared to the Place we
are in; and if you are Hugonots, and I a Catholic, we
may be all Christians at last; at least, said he, we are all
Gentlemen, and we may converse so, without being un-
easy to one another. I liked that Part of his Discourse
very well, and it began to put me in mind of my Priest
that 1 had lest in the Brasili; but this Father Simon did
not come up to his Character by a great deal; for tho'
Father Simon had no Appearance of a criminal Levity in
him neither, yet he had not that Fund of Christian Zeal,
strict Piety, and sincere Affection to Religion, that my
other good Ecclesiastic had, of whom 1 have said so
much. , -
But to leave him a little, though he never lest us, nor
soliciting us to go with him, but we had something
-else besore us at that Time; for we had, all this while,
our Ship and bur Merchandize to dispose of; and we
began to be very doubtsul what we should do, for we
were now in a Place of very little Business; and once I
was about to venture to sail for the River of Kilam, and
the City of Nanquin: But Providence seemed now more
visibly, as I thought, than ever, to concern itself in our
Affairs; a-nd I was encouraged from this very Time to
think,
chink, I should, one Way or other, get out of this entan-
oled Circumstance, and be brought Home to my own
(Jo untry again; though I had not the least View of the
j^anncr; and when I began sometimes to think of it,
cou!d not imagine by what Method it was to be done.
j>, evidence, I say, began here to clear up our Way a
Jitcle; and the first thing that offered was, that our old
Portuguese Pilot brought a Japan Merchant to us, who
j^.gan to enquire what Goods we had; and, in the first
j,}ace. he bought all our Opium, and gave us a very
cDod Price for it, paying us in Gold by Weight, some in
T^aM Pieces of their own Coin, and some in small Wedges,
0f about ten or eleven Ounces each. While we were
^Igaling with him for our Opium, it cane into my Head,
i,at he might, perhaps, deal with us for the Ship too;
^0<1 I ordered the Interpreter to propose it to him. He
shrunk up his Shoulders at it, when it was first proposed
_ him i but, in a few Days after, he came to me, with
'o6 of the missionary Priests for his Interpreter, and told
Cf He had a Proposal to make to me, and that was
tsis: He had bought a great Quantity of Goods of us
* hei ^e k*d no Thoughts (or Proposals made to him)
f buying the Ship; and that, theresore, he had not
5^j0ney enough to pay for the Ship; but if I would let
Y_ fame Men who were in the Ship navigate her, he
* Oold hire the Ship to go to Japan, and would fend
from thence to the Philippine Islands with another
* a<Jing, which he would pay the Freight of, besore
*iey went from Japan; and that, at their Return, he
1* old buy the Ship. I began to listen to this Proposal,
& j so eager did my Head still run upon Rambling, that
.should not hut begin to entertain a Notion myself of
* lng with him, and so to sail from the Philippine
islands away to the South Seat; and accordingly I
slce<3 the JaPamse Merchant, if he would not hire us
tlie Philippine Islands, and discharge us there. He
*°.£j) No, he could not do that; for then he could not
-j^ye the Return of his Cargo; but he would discharge
s in Japan, he said, at the Ship's Return. Well, still
? was for taking him at that Proposal, and going my-
vLjf; but my Partner, wiser than myself, persuaded me
fioXP lli representing the Dangers, as well of the Seas,
as of the Japaneje, who are a salse, cruel, and treache-
rous People; and then of the Spaniards at the Philippines;
more sa'fe, morecrual, more treacherous, than they.
But to bring this long Turn of our Affairs to a Con-
clusion; the first thing we had to do, was, to consult
with the Captain of the Ship, and with the Men, and
know if they were willing to go to Japan; and, while
J was doing this, the young Man, whom, as I said, my
Nephew had lest with me as my Companion for my
Travels, came to me, and told me, that he thought that
Voyage promised very sair, and that there was a great
Prospect of Advantage, and he would be very glad if I
undertook it; but that if I would not, and would give
him Leave, he would go as a Merchant, or how I pleased
to order him; that if ever he came to England, and I
was there, and alive, he would render me a saithsul Ac-
count of his Success, and it should be as much mine as
I pleased.
: I was really loth to part with him; but, considering
the Prospect of Advantage, which was really considerable,
and that he was a young Fellow as likely to do well in
it as any I knew, I inclined to let him go; but, first, I
told him I would consult my Partner, and give him an
Answer the next Day. My Partner and I discoursed
about it; and my Partner made a most generous Offer:
He told me, You know it has been an unlucky Ship,
and we bo-.h resolve not to go to Sea in it again if
your Steward (so lie called my Man) will ventuie the
Voyage, I'll leave my Share of the Vesl'el to him, and
let him make the best of it; and if we live to meet in
England, and he meets with Success Abroad, he ihall ac-
count for one half of the Profits of the Ship's Freight to
us, the other shall be his own.
If my Partner, who was no Way concerned with my
young Man, made him such an Offer, I could do no
less than offer him the same; and all the Ship's Com-
pany being willing to go with him, we made over half
the Ship to him in Property, and took a Writing from
him, obliging him to account for the other; and away
he went to Japan. The Japan Merchant proved a very
punctual honest Man to him, protected him at Japan,
and get him a Licence to come on Shore, which the
Europeans
Europeans in general have not lately obtained; paid him
Jiis Freight very pundually, sent him to the Philippines,
loaded with Japan and ClAna Wares, and a Supercargo of
their own, who trassicking with the Spaniards, brought
tack European Goods again, and a great Quantity of
Cloves, and other Spice; and there he was not only paid
jus Freight very well, and at a very good Price, but,
being not willing to fell the Ship then, the Merchant
furnished him with Goods on his own Account; that,
for some Money, and some Spices of his own, which
lie brought with him, he went back to the Manillas, to
the Spaniards, where he sold his Cargo very well.
Here, having gotten a good Acquaintance it, Manilla,
jie got his Ship made a free Ship; and the Governor
0{ Manilla hired him to go to Acapulco in America, on
the Coast of Mexico ;- and gave him a Licence to land
there, and travel to Mexico; and to pass in any Spamjh
Ship to Europe, with all his Men.
He made the Voyage to Acapulco very happily, and
there he sold his Ship; and having there also obtained
allowance to travel by land to Porto Bella, he found
lVleans, some how or other, to go to Jamaica with all
jiis Treasure; and, about eight Years after, came to
j?ngland exceeding rich; of which I shall take Notice in
lts Place; in the mean Time, I return to our particular
^ fairs.
Being now to part with the Ship, and Ship's Com-
Danv, it came besore us, of course, to consider what
j^ecompence we should give to the two Men, that
c3ve us such timely Notice of the Design against us in
she River of Cambodia. The Truth was, they had done
vS a considerable Service, and deserved well at our
j-fands; though, by the Way, they were a Couple of
o0gue5 too; for, as they believed the Story of our be-
-ng Pirates, and that we had really run away with the
Ship, they came down to us, not only to betray the
jjesign that was formed against us, but to go to Sea
^y;th us as Pirates; and one of them conscsled afur-
%vards, that nothing else but the Hopes of going a
seguing, brought him to do it. However, the Ser-
vice they did us was not the less; and theresore, as I
j,ad promised to be gratesul to them, I first ordered the
Money
ban:..)' o v1 tes :.va'l , . - --
..a(V.\v;V\ in .".'i 'n "i' T't. v
og lJ 'i"i, , - »«s v . i. * 'n
.e • -'tup 'Jig 6 bfli. ,P' .>!. ooi. i - '. iJo-
;ti.i .a0Jiq - i Va7 *. ;- .. tdgi3i ?irf
. -. .i'- c:»A . ,o ;.id no ii.i.v i.i-I ban!'-,...'
'. :t./ o eirf to. lasiqS .si i . "-- , .n-.
3 -v.. O bed :rr: or. . r< rl;; -Wguoid .,.
-V s'l «JjVJ> «'ifl 'bTr" rf - uift^ .
;•c.rr»'it. . i ,A iiojiog gaivirf
r- ;1Li; ,i ql »i iog
. -.^".i^ siV -.-.,v.V
% l..'. .yf .... - .. . . .'i^ O iS
i.';../ rv ",f -'- -'? ."it;
. ./ . s .: - \,i - f; 1, / .; .' w -ii .-i
-/ -. -- -i . oi-.'d 3 .., -
i'i - v.sr - ;f.
. . tu. .». . jsl: !(> js;!''/! -- » - .'. .: .
.i-l. i,. i s* uf.V . .'i -V.4-V. - .1 -
ii 1 -£ 'M;o ,..ioi>ii t .
Jl-.i • v. \ ;! ', /: , .
,n 3 -' '-'ii'! !i e* .ic!
-f'lv/ -;b vb l:. -- . ki bu if Jib f .8.ii-.
A. vf.tuj 3) vi-iO ic t nws. sms: yc
. 1 O' f K'C - t.HC. :£W J4(l
.. bu'is^'.noo -: ano hfic 2 £. 1 tn
- 1 >H .'d ;ud 0',
iPf .1 L- - .- .i
T ' y ail
.Money to be paid to them, which they said was due
to them on board their respective Ships t th«t is to
fay, the Englijhman niceteen Months Pay, and to the
Dutchman seven; and, over and above that, I gave each
of them a small Sum of Money in Gold, which con-
tented them very well; then I made the Englijhman Gun-
ner in the Ship, the Gunner being now made Second
Mate and Purser; the Dutchman I made Boatswain;
so they were both very well pleased, and proved very
serviceable, being both able Seamen, and very flout
Fellows.
We were now on Shore in China. If I thoaght myself
banished, and remote from my own Country, at Bengal,
where I had many Ways to get Home for my Money,
what could I think of myself now, when I was gotten
about a thousand Leagues sarther off from Home,
and perfectly destitute of all Manner of Prospect of
Return f
All we had for it was this; that in about four
Months Time there was to be another Fair at that
Place wher"e we were, and then we might be able to
purchase all Sorts of the Manusactures of the Country,
and withal might possibly find some Chinese Junks or
Vessels from Nanquin, that would be to be fold, and
would carry us and oar Goods whither we pleased. This
I liked very well, and resolved to wait; beiides, as our
particular Persons were not obnoxious, so if any Englijh
or Dutth Ships came thither, perhaps we might have an
Opportunity toJoad our Goods, a id get Passage to some
other Place it) India nearer Home.
Upon these Hopes we resolved to continue here;
but, to divert ourselves, we took two or three Jour-
-nies into the Country; first we went ten Days Jouri
sney lo fee the City of Nanquin, a City well worth
seeing indeed; they say it has a Million of People in
it; which, however, I do not believe; it is regularly
built, the Streets all exactly strait, and cross one ar.o-
.ther in direct Lines, which gives the Figure of it great
Advantage.
But when I came to compare the miserable People
of these Countries with ours; their Fabrics, their Man-
ner of Living, their Government, their Religion, their
V o l. H. K.' Wealth,
Wealth, and their Glory (as some call it) [mult con*
ress, I do not so much as think it worth naming, or
.vorth my while to write of, or any that shall come after
Oie to read.
It is very observable, that we wonder at the Gran-
deur, the Riches, the Pomp,,*be Ceremonies, the Co-
/emment, the Manusactures, the Commerce, and the
Conduct of these People; not that it is to be wondered
gt, or indeed, in the least to be regarded; but because,
saving first a Notion of the Barbarity of those Coun-
ties, the Rudeness, and the Ignorance that prevail
there, we do not expect to find any such things so
rar off.
Otherwise, what are their Buildings to the Palaces
and Royal Buildings of Europe? What their Trade, to
[he universal Commerce of England, Holland, Francs,
and Spain? What their Cities to ours, for Wealth,
Strength, Gaiety of Apparel, rich Furniture, and an in-
finite Variety? What are their Ports, supplied with a
few Junks and Barks, to our Navigation, our Mer-
chants Fleets, our large and powersul Navies? Our
£ity of London has more Trade than all their mighty
Ijmpire. One Englijb, or Dutth, or Frenth Man of
\Var of 80 Guns, would fight with, and destroy all
the Shipping of China. But the Greatness of their
y^ealth, their Trade, the Power of their Government,
^nd Strength of their Armies, is surprising to us, be-
cause, as 1 have said, considering them as a barbarous
jsfation of Pagans, little better than Savages, we did
«ot expect such things among them; and this, indeed,
-ts the Advantage with which all their Greatness and
power is represented to us; otherwise it is in itself
g;otbing at all; for, as I have said of their Ships, so it
* ay be laid of their Armies and Troops; all the Forces
0f their Empire, though they were to bring two Milli-
ons of Men into the Field together, would be able to
£0 nothing but ruin the Country, and starve themselves,
if they were to besiege a strong Town in Flanders, or
to fig*1t a disciplined Army, one Line of German Cur-
t»&ers, or of French Cavalry, would overthrow all the
fjorfe of China; a Million of their Foot could not
tl&nd before one embattled Body of our Insantry, posted
so as not to be surrounded, though they were not to
be one to twenty in Number; nay, I do not boast, if I
say, that 30,000 German or Englijh Foot, and 10,000
French Horse, would sairly beat all the Forces of China.
And so of our fortified Towns, and of the Art of our
Engineers, in assaulting and desending Towns; there is
not a fortified Town in China could hold out one Month
against the Batteries and Attacks of an European Army;
and at the same Time, all the Armies of China could.
never take such a Town as Dunkirk, provided it was
not starved; no, not in ten Years Siege. They have
Fire-arms, it is true; but they are aukward, clumsy,
and uncertain in going off; they have Powder, but ic
is of no Strength; they have neither Discipline in the
Field, Exercise to their Arms, Skill to attack, or Tem-
per to retreat; and theresore I must consess, it seemed
strange to me, when I came Home, and heard oar Peo-
ple say such fine things of the Power, Riches, Glory,
Magnificence, and Trade of the Chinese, because I saw
and knew, that they were a contemptible Herd or
Croud of ignorant sordid Slaves, subjected to a Go-
vernment qualified only to rule such a People; and, in
a Word, for I am now launched quite beside my Design,
I say, in a Word, were not its Distance inconceivably
great from Muscovy, and were not the Muscovite Em-
pire almost a rude, impotent, and ill governed a Croud
of Slaves as they, the Czar of Muscovy might, with-
much Ease, drive tIiem all out of their Country, and
conquer them in one Campaign; and had the Czar,
who I since hear is a growing Prince, and begins to
appear formidable in the World, sallen this Way, instead
of attacking the warlike Swedes. in which Attempt none
of the Powers of Europe would have envied or inter-
rupted him; he might, by this Time, have been Em-
peror of China, instead of being beaten by the King
of Sweden at Narva, when the latter was not one to six
in Number. As their Strength and their Grandeur,
so their Navigation, Commerce, and Husbandry, is im-
perfect and impotent, compared to the same things in
Europe; also, in their Knowledge, their Learnirg, ihcir
Skill in the Sciences, they have Globes a^d Spheres,
and a Smatch of the Knowledge of th.e Mathematics;
K z but
f>ot when you come to enqure ;nto their Knowledge,
Jiiw short-sighted are the wisest os their Students!
they know nothing of tlie Motion of the heavenly Bo-
dies; and so grosly, absurdly ignorant, that when the
£>i*n is eclipsed, they think it is a great Dragon has as-
saulted and run away with it, and they sall a clatter-
ing with all the Drums and Kettles in the Country, to
/'right the Monster away, just as we do to hive a Swarm
cf Bees.
As this is the only Excursion of this Kind which I
jia^e made in all the Account I have given of my
I*ravels, so I shall make no more Descriptions of Coun-
tries and People; it is none of my Buiines, or any Part
g^i my Design; but, giving an Account of my own Ad-
.ventures, through a Life of inimitable Wanderings, and
^ long Variety of Changes, which, perhaps, few have
Jieard the like of, I shall say nothing of the mighty
J'laces, desert Countries, and numerous People, I have
yet to pal's through, more than relates to my own
gtory, and which my Concern among them will make
yiecessary. I was now, as near as I can compute, in
<bc Heart of China, about the Latitude of thirty De-
crees North of the Line, for we were returned from
fianquin; 1 had indeed a Mind to fee the City of Pi-
jcin, whith I had heard so much of, and Father Simon
^piportuned me daily to do it i at length his Time of
«,oing away being set, and the other Missionary, who
^vas to go with him, being arrived from Macao, it
,yas necessary, that we should resolve either to go, or
^ot to go; so I reserred him to my Partner, and left
iC wholly to his Choice; who, at length, resolved it
jri the Assirmative; and we prepared for our Journey.
-yf/e set out With very good Advantage, as to finding
the Way; for we got Leave to travel in the Retinue of
o0e of their Mandarins, a Kind of Viceroy, or principal
lylagistrate, in the Province where they reside, and who
take great State upon them, travelling with great At-
t^ndance, and with great Homage from the Pcoplf,
y^ho f re sometimes greatly impoverished by them, be-
csuse all the Countries they pass through are obliged to
fa n sl'. Provisions for them, and all their Attendants,
-^'iiat winch I particularly observed, as to our travelling
With
wMi his Baggage, was this; that though we received
sussicient Provisions, both for ourselves and our Horsei,
from the Country, as belonging to the Mandarin, yet
we were obliged to pay for every thing we had, after
the Market price of the Country, and the Mandarin's
Steward, or Commissary of the Provisions, coilected it .
duly from us, so that our travelling in the Retinue 'of
the Mandarin, though it was a very great Kindness to
us, was not such a mighty Favour in him, but was,
indeed, a great Advantage to him, considering there
were about thirty other People travelled in the same
Manner besides us, under the Protection of his Reti-
nue, or, as we may call it, under his Convoy. This,
I say, was a great Advantage to him, for the Country
surnished all the Provisions for nothing. and he took all
our Money for them.
We were five and-twenty Days travelling to Pekin,
through a Country infinitely populous, but miserably
cultivated, the Husbandry, Oeconoroy, and the Way
of Living, all very miserable, though they boast so
much of the Industry of the People; I say, miserable;
and so it is, if we, who understand how to live, we:e
to endure it, or to compare it with our own, but not
so to these poor Wretches, who know no other. The
Pride of these People is insinitely great, and exceeded by
nothing but their Poverty, which adds to that which
1 call their Misery. I must needs think the naked Sa-
vages of America live much more happy, because, as they
have nothing, so they desire nothing; whereas these are
proud and insolent, and, in the main, are mere Beggars
and Drudges; their Ostentation is inexpressible, and is
chiesly shewed in their Cloatbs and Buildings, and in the
keeping Multitudes of Servants or Slaves, and, whichjs
to the last Degree ridiculous, their Contempt of all the
World but themselves.
I must consess, I travelled more pleasantly afterwards
in the Deserts and vast Wildernesses of Grand Tartars,
than here; and yet the Roads here are well paved, and
well kept, and very convenient for Travellers; but no-
thing was more aukward to me, than to fee such an
haughty, imperious, insolent People, in the Midst of
the grossest Simplicity and Ignorance; for all their samed
K 3 Ingenuity
R(
Ingenuity is no more. My Friend, Father Simon, and I,
used to be very merry tfpon these Occasions, to fee the
beggarly Pride of those People; for Example, coming
by the House of a Country Gentleman, as Father Simn
called him, about ten Leagues off from the City of Nan-
*nin, we had, first of all, the Honour to ride with the
Waster cf the House, about two Miles; the State he
*«de in, was a perfect Don Quixotism, being a Mixture
W Pomp and Poverty.
The Habit of this greasy Don was very proper for a
Scaramouch, or Merry-Andrew; being a dirty Callico,
With all the tawdry Trappings of a Fool's Coat, such as
Hanging-Sleeves, Taffety, and Cuts and Slashes almost
on every Side; it covered a rich Taffety Vest, as greasy
as a Butcher, and which testified, that his Honour must
sieeds be a most exquisite Sloven.
His Horse was a poor, lean, starved, hobbling Crea-
ture, such as in England might fell for about thirty or
forty Shillings; and he had two Slaves followed him on
foot, to drive the poor Creature along; he had a Whip
in his Hand, and he belaboured the Beast as fast about the
_*Head as his Slaves did about the Tail; and thus he rode
i>y us with about ten or twelve Servants, and we were
fi>ld be was going from the City to his Country-Star,
^bout half a League besore us. We travelled on gently,
but this Figure of a Gentlemen rode away besore us;
^rid as we stopped at a Village about an Hour to resresh
sss, when we came by the Country-Seat of this great
jVlan, we saw him in a little Place besore his Door,
gating his Repast; it was a Kind of a Garden, but he
^,as easy to be seen, and we were given to understand,
trlat the more we looked on him, the better he would
pleased.
He sat under a Tree, something like the Palmetto-
,j'ree, which effectually shaded him over the Head, and
0o the South-side; but under the Tree also was placed
a large Umbrella, which made that Part look well
enough; he sat lolling back in a great Elbow-Chair,
being a heavy corpulent Man, and his Meat being
brought him by two Women Slaves; he had two more,
ivhose Office, I think, few Gentlemen in Europe would
accept of their Service in, «/'«. one fed the 'Squire
with
with i Spc
Hand, and
Hip's Bear-
lie great (
own Hani
and Mona
lie elms;
I took i
them to
that ill nj
H leav
looking
*e reall
Journey:
•o infor:
ltd to ]
lie Hor
•bat jn
lad bee
J great
{'een F
forneth
jnd tal
•small
ihisvv;
attend
*asse
roatst
As
*as t
G*nt
fab,
fcen
«d
Tn
fell
Ik
Pt
11
with a Spoon, and the other held the Dish with one
Hand, and scraped off what he let sall npon his Wor-
ship's Beard, and Taffety Vest, with the other; while
the great sat Brute thought it below him to employ his
own Hands in any of those familiar Ossices, which King*
and Monarchs would rather do, than be troubled whht
the clumsy Fingers of their Servants.
I took this Time to think what Pain Men's Pride puts-
them to; and how troublesome a haughty Temper,
thus ill managed, most be to a Man of common Sense;
and, leaving the poor Wretch to please himself with our
looking at him, as if we admired his Pomp, whereas
we really pitied and contemned him, we pursued our
Journey; only Father Simon had the Curiosity to stay
to insorm himself what Dainties the Country Justice
had to feed on, in all his State; which he said he had
the Honour to taste of, and which was, I think, a Dose
that an Englijh Hound would scarce have eaten, if it
had been offered him, viz. a Mess of boiled Rice, with
a great Piece of Garlick in it, and a little Bag filled with
green Pepper, and another Plant which they have there,
something like our Ginger, but smelling like Mnfe,
and tasting like Mustard; all this was put together, and
a small Lump or Piece of lean Mutton boiled in it; and
this was his Worship's Repast, four or five servants more
attending at a Distance. If he fed them meaner than he
was fed himself, the Spice excepted, they must sare ver/
coarsely indeed.
As for our Mandarin, with^ whom we travelled, he
was respected like a King; surrounded always with hi»
Gentlemen, and attended in all his Appearances with
Arch Pomp, that I saw little of him but at a Distance;
but this I observed, that there was not a Horse in his
Retinue, but that our Carriers Pack-Horses in England
seem to me to look much better; but they were so cover-
ed with Equipage, Mantles, Trappings, and such like
Trumpery, that you cannot see whether they are sat or
lean. In a Word, we could scarce see any thing but
their Feet and their Heads.
I was now light-hearted, and all my Trouble and
Perplexity that I have given an Account of being over,
I had ao anxious Thoughts about me; which made this
K 4 Journey
Journey much the pleasan'er to me 5 nor had I any ill
Occident attended me, only in the passing or fording a
fxr all River, my Horse fell, and made me free of the
Country, as they call it; that is to say, threw me in; the'
.p I ace was not deep, but it wetied me all over: I mention
jr, because it spoiled my Pocket-book, wherein I had sen
jown the Names of several People and Places which I had
^>ccasion to remember, and which not taking due Care of,
l^e Leaves rotted, and the Words were never after to be
fea<li to rny great Loss, as to the Names of some Places
^hich I touched at in this Voyage.
.At length we arrived at Pekin; I had nobody with
but the Youth, whom my Nephew the Captain had
;ve-n me to attend me as a Servant, and who proved
v^ry" trusty and diligent; and my Partner had nobody
^lib him but one Servant, who was a Kinsman. As
fof £ke ^areuSur/e Pilot, he being desirous to fee the
£^<j*,rt, we 8ave ^im nis Passage, that is to say, bore
-s Charges for his Company; and to use him as an
^ terpreter, for he understood the Language of the
z~.0ontry, and spoke good Frenth. and a little English;
d. indeed, this old Man was a most usesul Implement to
30 every-where; for we had not been above a Week at
fan, when he came laughing: Ah, Seignior hglese,
*e-A he, I have something to tell you, will make your
£V',,artglad. My Heart glad! said I: What can that
^-^7 I don't know any thing in this Country can ei-
^e r give me Joy or Grief, to any great Degree. Yes i
&e said the old Man, in broken Englijb, make you
.f A, n>e sorrow; sorry he would have said. This
^li*cle me more inquisitive. Why, said I, will it make
**** so.'ry? Because, said he, you have brought me here
y°°nty.five Days Journey, and will leave me to go back

iled Money; being 1
odance to make us merry with.
jn short, he told us there was a great Caravan of
. ftgritt and Pclijh Merchants in the City, and they
pP*^e preparing to set out on their Journey, by Land, to
- ^o'vyt within sour or five Weeks, and he was sure
^^^ould take the Opportunity to go with them, and
vJe leave
leave him behind to go back all alone. I consess, I
was surprised with this News; a secret Joy spread it-
self over my whole Soul, which I cannot describe, and
never felt besore or since; and I had no Power, fora
good while, to speak a Word to the old Man; but at
last I turned to him: How do you know this f said 1:
Are you sure it is true? Yes, said he, I met this Morn-
ing, in the Street, an old Acquaintance of mine, an Ar-
menian, or one you call a Grecian, who is among them;
he came last from Astracan, and was designing to go
to Tonquiv, where 1 formerly knew hiro, but has al-
tered his Mind, and is now resolved to go back with
the Caravan to Mnscmv, and so down the River of
Wolga to JJlracan. Well, Seignior, said 1, tlo not be
uneasy about being lest to go back alone; if this be
a Method for my Return to England, it shall be your
Fault, if you go back to Macao at all. We then went to
consulting together what was to be done, and alked my
Paitner what he thought tif the Pilot's News, and whe-
ther it would suit with his Affairs? He told me he
would do just as I would; for he had settled all his Af-
sairs so well at Bengal, and lest his Effects in such good
Hands, that as we had made a good Voyage here, if he
could vest it in China Silks, wrought and raw, such as
might be woith the Carriage, he would be content to
go to England, and then make his Voyage back to Bengal
by the Company's Ships.
Having resolved upon this, we agreed, that if our
Portuguese Pilot would go with us, we would bear his
Charges to Mo/ioiv, or to England, if he pleased; nor,
indeed, were we to be esteemed over generous in that
Part neither, if we had not rewarded him sarther; fdr
the Service he had dene us was really worth all that,
and more; for he had not-only been a Pilot to us at
Sea, but he had been also like a Broker for us on Shore;
and his procuring for us the "Japan Merchant, was some
Hundreds of Pourids in our Pockets. So we consuted
together about it; and, being willing to gratify him,
wnich was, indeed, but doing him Justice, and very
willing also to have him with us besides, for he was
a molt necessary Man on all Occasions, we agreed to
give him a Quantity of coined Gold, which, as 1 coro-
K j pate
pi»K it, came to about 175 Pounds Sterling between ur]
and to bear his Charges, both for himself and Horse,
except only a Horse to cany his Goods.
Having settled this among ourselves, we called him,
4to let him know what we had resolved ; I told him, be
jiad complained of our being like to let him go back
si lone, and I was now to tell him we were resolved he
should not go back at all: That as we had resolved to
go to Euroft with the Caravan, we resolved also he
jfrould go with us, and that we called him to know
j, ;s Mind. He shook his He-d, and said, it was a long
journey, and he had no Pecune to carry him thither,
r. or to subsist himself when he came thither. We told
Jsim, we believed it was so, and theresore we had re-
4£>Ived to do something for him, that should let him
fee how sensible we were of the Service he had done
us ; and also how agreeable he was to us: And then
j told him what we had resolved to give him here,
^hich he might lay out as we would do our own; and
t hat as ^or Charges, if he would go with us, we
^ould set him safe ashore, (Life and Casualties ex-
'cepted) either in Muscovy or England, which he would,
c our own Charge, except only the Carriage of his
£j00d6.
H« received the Proposal like a Man transported, and
)<J us, he would go with as over the whole World i
* nd so, in short, we all prepared ourselves for the Jout-
*ey. However, as it was with us, so it was with the
cy. nowever, as n was wun us, 10 11 was wuu iut
*',htr Merchants, they had many things to do; and
*£fid fomo odd Days besore all things were got toge-
. " stead of beiBg ready in five Weeks, it was four Months
, f- -Ji r. \ c _fi .
'* \t was the Beginning of February, our Style, when we
^t out from Ptkin; my Partner and the old Pilot had
Dp.e Express back to the Port where we had first pot
~> to dispose of some Goods which we had lest there;
't witst a Cbht/t Merchant, whom I had some
2^pc>wledge of at Nanquin, and who came to Ptkin on
7\-g own Afsairs, went to Nanquin, where I bought
^jpety. Pieces of fine Damaslcs, with about two hundred
pieces of other very fine Silks, of several Sorts, some
^i-sed, with Gold, and itad all those brought to Ptkin
against
against my Partner's Return ; besides this, we bought
a very large Quantity of Raw Silk, and some other
Goods; our Cargo amounting, in these Goods only,
to about three thousand five hundred Pounds Ster-
ling, which, together with Tea, and some fine Cal-
Iicoes, and three Camel-loads of Nutmegs and Cloves,
loaded in all eighteen Camels for our Share, besides
those we rode upon; which, with two or three spare
Horses, and two Horses loaded with Provisions, made
us, in short, twenty-six Camels and Horses in our Re-
tinue.
The Company was very great, and, as near as I can
remember, made between three and four hundred Horses
and Camels, and upward of an hundred and twenty
Men, very well armed, and provided for all Events.
For, as the Eastern Caravans are subject to be attacked
by the Arabs, so are these by the Tartan; but they are
not altogether so dangerous as the Arabs, nor so barba-
rous when they prevail.
The Company consisted of People of several Nations',
such as Muscovites chiesly; for there were above sixty of
them who were Merchants or Inhabitants of Moscow,-
though of them some were Livonians, and to our par-
ticular Satissaction, five of them were Scots, who appeared
also to be Men of great Experience in Business, and very
good Substance.
When we had travelled one Day's Journey, the Guides,
who were five in Number, called all the Gentlemen and
Merchants j that is to say, all the Passengers, except the
Servants, to a great Council, as they termed it. At this
great Council every one deposited a certain Quantity of
Money to a common Stock, for the necessary Expence
of buying Forage on the Way, where it was not other-
wise to be had, and for satisfying the Guides, getting
Horses, and the like. And here they constituted the
Journey, as they called it, -viz. They named Captains
and Ossicers to draw us all up, and give the Command
in Case of an Attack, and gave every one their Turn of
Command. Nor was this forming us into Order any
more than what we found needsul upon the Way, as
shall be observed in its Place.
K 6 The
The Road all on this Side es the Country is very po-'
_ulOu,, and >5 su,l of Potters, and Earth makers, that
fS co say, People that tempered the Earth for the China
.^T»re; and, as I was going along, our Portuguese Pilot,
who ^zd always something or other to say to make us
jnerry, came sneering to me, and told me, He would
me the greatest Rarity in all the Country; and that I
should have this to say of China, after all the ill-humourtd
ti»jn£s 1 ^ad said of it, that I had seen one thing which
^.as not to be seen in all the World beside. I was very
i^portunate to know what it was; at last he told me,
jc ^ as a Gentleman's House, built all with China Ware.
-yV'c'Ii said I, are not the Materials of their Building the
.j>ro*luct of their own Country; and so it is all China
-yViirCi *5 " not -' No, no, says he, I mean, it is a House
^ll ff130^ or' China Ware, such as you call so in England;
osj as it is called in our Country, Porcelain. Well, said
-j fuch a thing maybe: How big is it? Can we cary
f' jn a Box upon a Camel? If we can, we will buy
* Upon a Camel! said the old Pilot, holding up
\"0th his Hands; why there is a Family of thirty People
*l j was then curious, indeed, to fee it; and when I
sjse to it, it was nothing but this; it was a Timber
fj0t}fc, or a House built, as we call it in England, with
** tji and Planter, but all the PlaisteringVas really China
\xsare. tnat 1S 10 ^ay, >' was plaillered with the Earth that
^^.S - The Life and Adventures es
1,1 tj he Outsida, which the Sun shone hot upon, was
^ed, and looked very well, perfectly white, and paint-
s''^^ith blue Figures, as the large China Ware in England
painted, and hard, as if it had been burnt. As to
Js "inside, all the Walls, instead of Wainscot, were lined
tfre^lth hardened and painted Tiles, like the little square
V«P we call Gally-lihs in England, all made of the
'est "C^'"** anei the figures exceeding fine indeed, with
£Ptraordinary Variety of Colours, mixed with Gold,
py Tiles making but one Figure, but joined so artifi-
with Mortar being made of the same Earth, that
f^^as very hard to fee where the Tiles met. The
*rlot>rs °^ t'le Roonls were of the same Composition,
ad »s hard as the earthen Floors we have in Use in
* . several
1
several Parts of England, especially Lincoln/Lire, Notting-
hamjhire, Leicef.erjhire, &c. as hard as Stone, and smooth,
but not burnt and painted, except some smaller Rooms,
like Closets, which were all as it were paved with ths
same Tile; the Cielings, and in a Word, all the Plaister-
ing-work in the whole House, were of the same Earth;
and, after all, the Roof was covered with Tiles of the
same, but of a deep shining Black.
This was a China Warehouse, indeed, truly and lite-
rally to be called so; and, had I not been upon the
Journey, I could have stayed some Days to fee and ex-
amine the Particulars of it. They told me there were
Fountains and Fish-por.ds in the Garden, all paved at the
Bottom and Sides with the same, and fine Statues set up
in Rows on the Walks, intirely formed of the Porcelain
Earth, and burnt whole.
As this is one of the Singularities of China, so they
may be allowed to excel in it; but I am very sure they
excel in their Accounts of it ; for they told me such
incredible things of their Performance in Crockery.
Ware, for sucb it is, that I care not to relate, as know-
ing it could not be true: One told me, in particular,
of a Workman that made a Ship, with all its Tackle,
and Masts, and Sails, in Earthen-ware, big enough to
carry fifty Men. If he had told me he launched it, and
made a Voyage to Japan in it, I might have said some-
thing to it indeed; but as it was, I knew the whole
Story, which was, in short, asking Pardon for the Word,
that the Fellow ly'd; so I smiled, and said nothing
to it.
This odd Sight kept me two Hours behind the Ca-
ravan, for which the Leader of it for the Day, fined
me about the Value of three Shillings; and told me, if
it had been three Days Journey without the Wall, as
it was three Days within, he must have fined me four
Times as much, and made me ask Pardon the next
Council Day; so I promised to be more orderly; for,
indeed 1 found afterwards, the Orders made for keep-
ing all together, were absolutely necessary for our com-
mon Safety.
In two Days more we passed the great China Wall,'
made for a Fortification against the Tartan; and a very
great
LlFK <Wji AD V EKTDRE3 of
ijreat Work it is, going over Hills and Mountains in an
endless Track, where the Rocks are impassable, and the
j»recipice» such as no Enemy could possibly enter, or,
; M J ocd, climb up, or where, if they did, no Wall could
rider them. They tell us, its Length is near a thou-
sand Englijh Miles, but that the Country is five hun-
dred in a strait mearured Line, which the Wall bounds,
without measuring the Windings and Turnings it takes;
,C]S about four Fathom high, and as many thick in some
places.
J stood still an Hour, or thereabout, without tres-
_afling on our Orders, for so long the Caravan was in
^alEng the Gate; I say, I stood still an Hour to look at
fs. on every Side, near, and sar off, I mean, what was
jtbin my View; and the Guide of our Caravan, who
had Deen extolling it for the Wonder of the World,
as mighty eager to hear my Opinion of it. I told
.; it was a most excellent thing to keep off the Tar-
\rs i which he happened not to understand as I meant
f and so took it for a Compliment; but the old Pilot
j 'ugk'd i O Seignior Inglest, said he, you speak in Co-
, urs- In Colours! said I: What do you mean by
. Why you speak what looks white this Way, and
1 l ck that Way; gay one Way, and dull another Way;
^ s, tell him it is a good Wall to keep out Tar/an;
Y°' a tell me by that, it is good for nothing but to keep
y°t 'Tartars; or, it will keep out none but Tartars; I
^•^gfstand you, Seignior hglese, I understand you, said
Jp joking; but Seignior Chinese understand you his
Way.
>vV,^eH, said I, Seignior, do yon think it would stand
an Army of our Country People, with a good
ouC lP of Artillery; or our Engineers, with two Com-
J"rales of Miners? Would they not batter it down in
pat1 pays, that an Army might enter in Battalia, or blow
i&fl a into the Air, Foundation and all, that there should
it u*,0 Sign of it lest? Ay, ay, said he, I know that.
Chinese wanted mightily to know what I said,
J"*5 J gave him Leave to tell him a few Days after,
i° ,*te were then almost out of their Country, and
f°f ^ras to leave us in a little Time afterwards; but when
r'e knew what I had said, he was dumb all the rest
»e of
of the Way, and we heard no more of his fine Story of the
Chinese Power and Greatness, while he flayed.
After we had passed this mighty Nothing, called a Wall,
something like the Pi3s Wall, ib samous in Northumber-
land, and built by the Romans, we began to find the
Country thinly inhabited, and the People rather consined
to live in fortified Towns and Cities, as being subject to
the Inroads and Depredations of the Tartars, who rob in
great Armies, and theresore are not to be resisted by the
naked Inhabitants of an open Country.
And here I began to find the Necessity of keeping to-
gether in a Caravan, as we travelled; for we saw several
Troops of Tartars roving about; but when I came to fee
them distinctly, I wondered more that the Chine/e Empire
could be conquered by such contemptible Fellows ; for
they are a mere Herd or Croud of wild Fellows, keeping
no Order, and understanding no Discipline, or Manner
of Fight.
Their Horses are poor, lean, starved Creatures, taught
nothing, and are fit for nothing; and this we found
the first Day we saw them, which was after we en-
tered the wilder Part of the Country; our Leader for
the Day gave Leave for about sixteen of us to go a
hunting, as they call it; and what was this but hunt-
ing of Sheep! However, it may be called Hunting too;
for the Creatures are the wildest, and swiftest of Foot,
that ever I saw of their Kind; only they will not run a
great Way, and you are sure of Sport when you begin
the Chace; for they appear generally by thirty or forty
in a Flock, ar.d, like true Sheep, always keep together
when they sly.
In Pursuit of this odd Sort of Game, it was our Hap
to meet with about forty Tartars; whether they were
hunting Mutton as we were, er whether they looked
for another Kind of Prey, I know not; but as soon as
they saw us, one of them blew a Kind of Horn very
loud, but with a barbarous Sound that I had never
heard besore; and, by the Way, never care to hear
again. We all supposed this was to call their Friends
about them-; and so it was; for in less than half a
Quarter of aa Hour, a Troop of forty or fifty more
- - — appeared
ppeared at about a Mile Distance, but oar Work was
,ver first, as it happened.
One of the &e/i Merchants of Moscow happened to
amongst us; and as soon as he heard the Horn, he
1 d u«, in Ihort, That we had nothing to do, but to charge
immediately, without Loss of Time; and. drawing
s us i» > Line, he asked, If we were resolved? We told
irn, ^e WEre 'eady to follow him: So r,e rode directly
p to them. 1 hey stood gazing a; us l;ke a mere Crowd,
r£1vvn up in no Order, nor shewing the F;.ce of any Order
t all i but as soon as they saw us advance, they let fly
;lt--ir Arrows; which, however, misled us very happily;
c feemt thty mistook not their Aim, bu: ti.eir Distance;
or their Arrows ah fell a little short of us, but with
-j true an Aim, tdat had we been about twenty Yards
4t,arer, we must have had several Men wounded, if not
-iHed- ,
Jromediately we halted; and though it was at a
reat Distance, we fired, and sent them leaden Bullets
"g wooden Arrows, following oar Shot full Gallop,
giving to sall in among them Sword in Hand; for
£)tir bold Seot that led us directed. He was, indeed,
-^Jt a Merchant, but he behaved with that Vigour and
a 3 very on this Occasion, and yet with such a cool
.^t;rage too, that I never saw any Man in Action fit-
L'- for Command. As soon as we came up to them,
-er fired our Pistols in their Faces, and then drew;
they sled in the greatest Consusion imaginable;
2** only Stand any of them made, was on our Right,
^eie three of them stood, and, by Signs, ctl.ed the
to come back to them, having a Kind of Scymitar
'e tJjeir Hands, and their Bows hanging at their Backs.
i*1 r brave Commander, without asking any body to
^ilow hint, galloped up close to them, and with his
f° al knocked one of them off his Horses killed the
Fu nd with his Pistol, and the third ran away ; and thus
U5c^ed our Fight: But we had this Misfortune attending
'° <viz- That all our Mutton that we had in Chacs,
ir,c away. We had not a Man killed or hurt; but,
5" for Tartars, there were about five of them killed;
*oW roany were woivnde.d, we knew not; but this we
** knew,
knew, that the other Party was so frighted with the Noise
of our Guns, that they sled, and never made any At-
tempt upon us.
We were all this while in the Chinese Dominions, and
theresore the Tartars were not so bold as afterwards;
but in about five Days we entered a vast great wild De-
sert, which held us three Days and Nights March; and
we were obliged to carry our Water with us in great
Leather Bottles, and to encamp all Night, just as I have
heard they do in the Deserts of Arabia.
I asked our Guides, Whose Dominion this was in?
and they told me, this was a Kind of Border, that
might be called No Man's Land; being Part of the
Great Karakathay, or Grand Tartary; but that howe-
ver, it was reckoned to China; that there was no Care
taken here, to preserve it from the Inroads of Thieves;
and theresore it was reckoned the worst Desert in the
whole March, though we were to go over some much
larger.
In passing this Wilderness, which, I confess, was at
the first View very frightsul to me, we saw two or three
Times little Parties of the Tartars, but they seemed to fce
upon their own Affairs, and to have no Design upon
us; and so, like the Man who met the Devil, if they
had nothing to say to us, we had nothing to say to them ~,
we let them go.
Once, however, a Party of them came so near, as
to stand and gaze at us; whether it was to consider
what they should do, viz. to attack us, or not attack us,
we knew not; but when we were passed at some Dis.
tance by them, we made a Rear guard of forty Men,
and stood ready for them, letting the Caravan pass
half a Mile, or thereabouts, before us : After a while
they marched off, only we found they assaulted us with
five Arrows at their parting; one of which wounded
a Horse, so that it disabled him; and we lest him the
next Day, poor Creature, in great Need of a good Far-
rier; we suppose they might shoot more Arrows, which
might sall short of us; but we saw no more Arrows, or
Tartars, at that Time. t
We travelled near a Month after this, the Ways being
not so good as at first, though still in the Dominions of
the
Cfie Emperor of China; but lay, for the most Part, in
-Villages, some of which were fortified, because of the
Jncursions of the Tartars. When we came to one of
t hese Towns (it was about two Days and an halfs
Journey besore we were to come to the City of Naum),
5 wanted to buy a Camel, of which there are Plenty
to be fold all the Way upon that Road, and of Horses
^Ifb, such as they are, because so many Caravans com-
ing that Way, they are very often wanted. The Per-
so" that I spoke to, to get me a Camel, would have
gone and ferched it for me; but I, like a Fool, must
fye ossicious, and go myself along with him. The
-place was about two Miles out of the Village, where
jt seems, they kept the Camels and Horses feeding un-
^er a Guard.
J walked it on Foot, with my old Pilot in Comps.
sty, and a Chinese, being flefirous, forsooth, of a little
Variety. When we came to this Place, it was a^ low
js;arfhy Ground, walled round with a Stone Wall,'f iled
0P dry, without Mortar or Earth, among it, like a
j,ark, with a little Guard of Chine/e Soldiers at the Doors:
saving bought a Camel, and agreed for the Price, I
car»e away; and the Chinese Man, that went with me,
j^d the Camel, when on sudden, came up five lit'
on Horseback; two of them seized the Fellow,
^tid took^he Camel from him, while the other three
gepped up to me, and my old Pilot; seeing us, as it
^tere, unarmed, for I had no Weapon about me but
Sword, which could but ill desend me against three
Norsemen. The first that came up, stopped short upon
drawing my Sword (for they are arrant Cowards);
?Ltit a second coming upon my Left, gave me a Blow
^0 the Head, which I never felt till afterward, and
pondered, when I came to myself, what was the Mat-
ter witn ™' an^ where I was, for he laid me slat on
*j,e Ground; but my never-sailing old Pilot, the Portu-
\&s' (so Providence unlooked-for directs Deliverances
^.ctm Dangers, which to us are unsoreseen), had a Pistol
jrj W* PocKet, which I knew nothing of, nor the Tar.
faf ne»her; if they had, I suppose they would not have
attacked uS. But Cowards are alway* boldest when
9- J3+ The Life and Adventures of
The
The old Man, seeing me down, with a bold Heart
stepped up to the Fellow that had struck me, and laying
hold of his Arm with one Hand, and palling him down
by main Force a little towards him with the other, he
shot him into the Head, and laid him dead on the Spot;
he then immediately stepped up to him who had stopped
us, as I said, and besore he could come forward again
(for it was all done as it were in a Moment) made a
Blow at him with a Scymitar, which he always wore;
but, misting the Man, cut his Horse into the Side of his
Head, cat one of his Ears off by the Root, and a great
Slice down the Side of his Face. The poor Beast, en-
raged with the Wounds, was no more to be governed by
his Rider, though the Fellow sat well enough too; but
away he slew, and carried him quite out of the Pilo^...^
Reach, and at some Distance rising upon his hind Legs,
threw down the Tartar, and fell upon him.
In this Interval the poor Chinese came in, who had lost
the Camel, but he had no Weapon; however, seeing the
Tartar dovtp, and his Horse sallen upon him, he runs to
him, and, seizing upon an ugly ill savoured Weapon he
had by his'Side, something like a Pole ax, but not a
Pole ax neither, he wrenched it from him, and made
shift to knock his Tartarian Brains out with it. -But my
old Man had the third Tartar to deal with still; and,
seeing he did not sly as he expected, nor come on to
I fight him, as he apprehended, but stood stock-still, the
old Man stood still too, and salls to Work with his
Tackle to charge his Pistol again -r but as soon as the
Tartar saw the Pistol, whether he supposed it to be the
same, or another, I know not; but away he scoured, and
lest my Pilot, my Champion I called him afterwatds, a
complete Victory.
By this Time I was a little awake; for I thought,
when I first began to awake, that I had been in a sweet
Sleep; but as I said above, I wondered where I was,
how I came upon the Ground, and what was the Mat-
ter i in a Word, a few Minutes after, as Sense returned,
I felt Pain, tho' I did not know where; I clapped my
Hand to my Head, and took it away bloody; then I
felt my Head ach; and then, in another Moment, Me-
mory
RC
Vlemory returned, and every thing was present to me
I jumped up upon my Feet instantly, and got hold of
ny Sword, but no Enemies in View. I found a Tar.
6ir lie dead, and his Horse standing very quietly by him;
itid, looking sarther, I saw my Champion and Deli-
re r«r, who had been to see what the Chinese had dor.e,
:orn:ng back with his Hanger in his Hand? the old
yian, feeing me on my Feet, came running to me, and
;rnbraced me with a great deal of Joy. being afraid be-
fore, that I had been killed; and seeing me bloody,
^.ould see how I was hurt; but it was not much, only
^hat we call a broken Head ; neither did I afterwards
d fid any great Inconvenience from the Blow, other than
efie Place which was hurt, and which was well again in
[VVo or three Days.
We made no great Gain, however, by this Victory;
f0t we lost a Camel, and gained a Horse : But that which
^ as remarkable, when we came back to the Village,
cjie Man demanded to be paid for the Camel; I dis-
puted it. and it was brought to a Hearing before the
X^bin'fi Judge of the Place; that is to say, in 'Englijh,
went before a Justice of the Peace. Give him his
£>ue, he acted with a great deal of Prudence and Impar-
-aliry; and, having heard both Sides, he gravely asked
he Chinese Man that went with me to buy the Camel,
_,}iose Servant he was? I am no Servant, said he, but
_ent with the Stranger. At whose Request? said the
Vsi slice. At the Stranger's Request, said he. Why then,
y id the Justice, you were the Stranger's Servant for
TNmo. ar*A ih*» Pampl heincr delivered to his
^cr».u... .t „u„ ~ , and he must pay
Justice,
*^~e Time; and the Camel being
r „rvant, it was delivered to him,
f°f\ confess the thing was so clear, that I had not a Word
fay; but, admiring to see such iust Reasoning upon
* e Consequence, and so accurate stating the Case, 1 paid
willingly for the Camel, and sent for another but you
Consequ
"ingly foi ,
zy observe, I sent for it; I did not go to fetch it my-
self any more; I nad enough of that.
The City os Naum is a Frontier of the Chinese Eir-
ire; they call it fortified, and so it is, as Fortifications
£0 there; for this I will venture to assirm, that all the
9.
Wi in K
liou, tould
Arlows
wlCanno
ill hugh at
We wan
of thii Ci
evely Pan
Kians to!
that an un
»tll, ha:
Iond the
This w
'»tare!
|W to
tjo Day
lifon of
t3*> Tbt Life and Adventures of
boldly-
io our
Men or
the whi
"ell p,
for the
jPpeat
*ts q
III
uitle
see']
to v
&e
tiler
«a
hoi
•la
cai
so
6
- £
Tartan
Tartars in Karakatbay, which, I believe, are some Mil-
lions, could not baucr down the Walls with their Bows
and Arrows; but to call it strong, if it were attacked
with Uannon, would be to make those who understand
it, laugh at you.
We wanted, as I have said, above two Days Journey
of this City, when Messengers were sent Express to
every Part of the Road, to tell all Travellers and Ca-
ravans to halt, till they had a Guard sent to them; for
that an unusual Eody of Tartars, making ten thousand
in all, had appeared in the Way, about thirty Miles be-
yond the City.
This was very bad News to Travellers; however, it
was caresully done of the Governor. and we were very
glad to hear we should have a Guard. Accordingly
two Days after, we had 200 Soldier;, sent us from a Gar-
rison of the Chinese on our Lest, and three hundred more
from the City of Naum, and with those we advanced
boldly; the three hundred Soldiers from Naum marched
in our Front, the two hundred in our Rear, and our
Men on each Side of our Camels with our Baggage, and
the whole Caravan in the Center; in this Order, and
well prepaied for Battle, we thought ourselves a Match
for the whole ten thousand Mogul Tartars, if they had
appeared; but the next Day, when they did appear, it
was quite another thing.
It was early in the Morning, when marching from a
little well-situated Town, ca'led Changu, we had a Ri-
ver to pass, where we were obliged to ferry; and had
the Tartars had an Intelligence, then had been the Time
to have attacked us, when the Caravan being over,
the Rear-Guard was behind; but they did not appear
there.
About three Hours af:er, when we were entered up-
on a Desert of about fifteen or sixteen Miles over, be-
hold, by a Cloud of Dust they raised, we saw an Enemy
was at band; and they were at hand indeed, for they
came on upon the Spur.
The Chinese, our Guard on the Front, who had talk d
so big the Day besore, began to stagger, and the-Sol-
diers frequently looked behind them; which is a certain
Sign in a Soldier, that he isiail r^dy to run away. My
old
ol«3 ^lot wai of my Mind; and, being near me, he call-
ez^L out, Seignior Inglise, said he, those Fellows must be
encouraged, or they will ruin us all; for if the Tartars
coine on, they will never stand it. I am of your Mind,
fa.id.l- But what Course must be done? Done, said he,
lec fifty of our Men advance, and flank them on each
-Vising, and encourage them, and they will sight like
|jr^»*e Fe'low» in brave Company; but without it they
^,iJl every Man turn hit Back. Immediately I rode up
t0 our Leader, and told him, who was exactly of our
jyjind; and accordingly fifty of us marched to the right
yfi/ing, and fifty to the lest, and the rest made a Line of
-nc(erve; for so we marched, leaving the last two hun-
^t-ed Men to make another Body by themselves, and to
—^ard the Camels; only that, if Need were, they should
£ nd an hundred Men to assist the last fifty.
In a Word, the Tartars came on, and an innumerable
rf"0*nPany weret now many, we could not tell,
vTi»t ten tDOtt'an^ we bought was the least. A Party of
Yxe01 camc on nsst, *nd viewed our Posture, traversing
*. e Ground in the Front of our Line; and as we found
*. 6sn within Gun-shot, our Leader ordered the two
i ngs to advance swiftly, and give them a Salvo on each
JjXjng, with their Shot, which was done; but they went
and I suppose went back to give an Account of
°. ^Reception they were like to meet with; and, indeed,
*?-e Salute clogged their Stomachs; for they immediately
ited, stood awhile to consider of it, and, wheeling off
tlie Lest, -they gave over the Design, and said no more
*° us for that Time; which was very agreeable to our
£!?.rCumstances, which were but very indifferent for a
,tle with such a Number..
I**rj*wo Days after this we came to the City Naum, or
, nm; we thanked the Governor for his Care for us,
2*"a collected to the Value of 100 Crowns, or there-
*£0uts, which we gave to the Soldiers sent to guard us;
d here we rellecl one Day. This is a Garrison indeed,
^0(i there were nine hundred Soldiers kept here; but the
* ejfon of it was, that formerly the Muscovite Frontiers
z^y nearer to them than they do now, the Muscovites hav-
. ng abandoned that Part of the Country (which lies from
ib<s city Westt fi>» about two hundred Miles) as desolate
* and
and unfit for Use; and more especially, being so very
remote, and so dissicult to send Troops hither for its De-
fence; for we had yet above two thousand Miles to Mas.
«ny, properly so called.
After this we passed several great Rivers, and two
dreadsul Deserts, one of which we were sixteen Days
palling over, and which, as I said, was to be called No
Mans Land; and, on the 13 th of April, we came to the
Frontiers of the Muscovite Dominions. I think the first
City, or Town, or Fortress, whatever it might be called,
that belonged to the Czar of Muscovy, was called Argun%
being on the West Side of the River Argun.
I could not but discover an insinite Satissaction, that T
was now arrived in, as I called it, a Christian Country;
or, at least, in a Country governed by Christians; for
though the Muscovites do, in my Opinion, but just de-
serve the Name of Christians, yet such they pretend to
be, and are very devout in their Way. It would certain-
ly occur to any Man who travels the World as I hare
done, and who had any Power of Reslection; I say, it
would occur to him to reslect, what a Blessing it is to
be brought into the World where the Name of God,
and of a Redeemer, is known, worshipped and adored,
and not where the People, given up by Heaven to
strong Delusions, worship the Devil, and prostrate them-
selves to Stocks and Stones; worship Monsters, Ele-
ments, horrible shaped Animals, ard Statues, or Images
of Monsters. Not a Town or City we passed through
but had their Pagcds, their Idols, and their Temples,
and ignorant People worshipping even the Woiks of their
own Hands.
Now we came where, at least, a Face of the Christian
Worship appeared, where the Knee was bowed to Je-
sus; and whether ignorantly or not, yet the Christian
Religion was owned, and the Name of the true God
was called upon, and adored; and it made the very
Recesses of my Soul rejoice to fee it. I saluted the brave
Scotch Merchant I mentioned above, with my first Ac-
knowledgment of this; and, taki-.g him by the Hand,
I said to him, Blessed be God, we are once again come
among Christians. He smiled, and answered, Do not
rejoice too soon, Countryman; these Musovites are
iut an odd Sort of Christians; and but for the Name of
r, you may fee very little of the Substance for some
/lonths sarther of our Journey.
Well, said I, but still 'tis better than Paganism, and
worshipping of Devils. Why, I'll tell you, said he;
accept the Ruffian Soldiers in Garrisons, and a few of the
inhabitants of the Cities upon the Road, all the rest of
his Country, for above a thousand Miles sarther, is in-
- abited by the worst, and most ignorant of Pagans; and
0 indeed we found it.
We were row launched into the greatest Piece of
olid Earth, if I understand any thing of the Sursace of
}ie Globe, that is to be found itr any Part of the
jVorld : .We had at least twelve hundred Miles to the
;ea, Eastward; we had at least two thousand to the
3ottom of the Baltic Sea, Westward; and almost three
housand Miles, if we lest that Sea, and went on West to
]ie Britijh and French Channels; we had sull five thou-
and Miles to the Indian or Persian Sea, South; and
sbout eight hundred Miles to the Frozen Sea, North:
Vay, if Tome People may be believed, there might be
;o Sea North-East, till we came round the Pole, and
-onsequently into the North-West, and so had a Conti-
nent of Land into America, no Mortal knows where;
hough I could give some Reasons why 1 believe that to
,c a Mistake too.
As we entered into the Muscovite Dominions, a good
vhile besore we came to any considerable Town, we
iad nothing to observe there but this; first, that all the
iivers run to the East. As I understood by the Charts
vhich some of our Caravans had with them, it was
,1ain, that all those Rivers ran into the greats River
''amour, or Gammour. This River, by the natural
joursc of it, must run into the East Sea, or Chimse
jeean. The Story they tell us, that the Mouth of this
Liver is choaked up with Bulrusties of a monstrous
jrowth, viz. three Feet about, and twenty or thirty
eethigh, I must be allowed to say, I believe nothing
f; but as its Navigation is of no Use, because there
: no Trade that Way, the Tartars, to whom alone it
elongs, dealing in nothing but Cattle , so nobody
iat ever I heard of, has been curious enough, either to
6o
H°wn io
*t Month
R« runt
taiiies a v;
finds an (
Jre fate of
Some L
several coi
N«h as i
'"join the
fof'0mth
«k the
5? who,
Ms,°t? me
These
l« other
deji, tha
on that S
le«ft to ,
wit» 4*
"moicatit
Otean ,
Ration
*.« this
l"ta by
*jibiy;
rareP<
h the
?i*. so:
J"'erev!
fo-re p
Z.;
*>> Ib
go down to the Mouth of it in Boats. or come up from
the Mouth of it in Ships; but this is certain. that this
River running due East, in the Latitude of 60 Degrees.
carries a vast Concourse of Rivers along with it.
finds an Ocean to empty itself in that Latitude; so ^vve
are sure of Sea there.
Some Leagues to the North of this River there are
several considerable Rivers, whose Streams run as duo
North as the Yamour runs East; and these are all found
to join their Waters with the great River Tartarus, named
so from the northermost Nations of the Mogul "Tartars,
who, the Chinese say, were the first Tartars in the World;
and who, as our Geographers alledge, are the Gog and
Magtig mentioned in sacred Story.
These Rivers running all northward, as well as all
the other Rivers I am yet to speak of, make it evi-
dent, that the Northern Ocean bounds the Land also
on that Side; so that it does not seem rational in the
least to think, that the Land can extend itself to join
with America on that Side, or that there is not a Com-
munication between the Northern^ and the Eastern
Ocean; but of this I shall say no more; it was my Ob-
servation at that Time, and theresore I take Notice of
it in this Place. We now advanced from the River Jr-
guna by easy and moderate Journies, and were very
visibly obliged to the Care the Q7.1X of Muscovy has
taken, to have Cities and Towns built in as many Places
as are poslible to place them, where his Soldiers keep
Garrison something like the stationary Soldiers placed
by the Romans in the remotest Countries of their Em-
pire, some of which I had read were particularly pheed
in Britain for the Security of Commerce, and for- the
Lodging of Travellers; and thus it was hee; for
wherever we came, though at these Towns and Stations,
the Garrisons and Governor were Ruffians', and professed
mre Pagans, sacrificing to Idols, and worshipping th.2
Sun, Moon, and Stars, or all the Host of Heaven; and
not only so, but were of all the Healb:ns and Pagans
that ever I met with, the most barbarous, except only
that they did not eat Man's Flesli, as our Savages of
America did.
Vol. II.
L
Some
Some Instances of this we met with in the Country
tttween drguna, where we enter the Muscovite Domi-
nions, and a City of Tartars and Ruffians together,
galled Nortzinjkay i in which Space is a continued De-
fert or Forest, which cost us twenty Days to travel over
ic. In a Village near the last of those Places I had the
furiosity to go and fee their Way of Living; which is
jiiost brutish and unsuslvrable; they had, I suppose, a
^rreat Sacrifice that Day; for there stood out upon-an
0ld Stump of a Tree, an Idol made of Wood, fright-
ful a* tne Devil; at least as any thing we can think of
(O represent the Devil, can be made; it had an Head
ceti^\n\y not so much as resembling any Creature that
trie World ever saw; Ears as big as Goats Horns, and
^.s high; Eyes as big as a Crown Piece; a Nosc'likea
crcoked Ram's Horn, and a Mouth extended four-cor-
nered, like that of a Lion, with horrible Teeth, hooked
j,ke a Parrot's under Bill; it was dresled up in the
^Ithiest Manner that you can suppose; its upper Gar-
ment was of Sheep-skins, with the Wool outward; a
<rreat Tartar Bonnet on the Head, with two Horns
growing through it; it was about eight Feet high,
(yet had no Feet or Legs, or any other Proportion of
j^rts.
This Scarecrow was set up at the Out-side of the
-pillage; and when I came near to it, there were six-
tt;en or seventeen Creatures, whether Men or Women
j could not tell, for they make no Distinction by their
j^abits, either of Body or Head; these lay all slat on the
ground, round this formidable Block of shapeless Wood.
j saw no Motion among them any more than if they
J, ad been Logs of Wood like their Idol; at first I really
thought they had been so; but when I came a little
r,earer, they started up upon their Feet; and raised an
fowling Cry, as if it had been so many deep-mouthed
founds, and walked away as if they were displeased at
0nr disturbing them. A little Way off from this Mon-
ger, and at the Door of a Tent or Hut, made all of
5 he^p-ftins and Cow-skins, dried, stood three Butchers:
j thought they were such i for when I came nearer
ta them. I found they had long Knives in their Hands,
^tid in the Middle of the Tent appeared three Sheep kill'd,
z and
and one young Bullock, or Steer. These, it seems, were
Sacrifices to that fenselese Log of an Idol ; and these three
Men, Priests belonging to it; and the seventeen prostrated
Wretches were the People who brought the Offering, and
were making their Prayers to that Stock.
I consess I was more moved at their Stupidity, and
this brutish Worship of an Hobgoblin, than ever I was
at any thing in my Life; to fee God's most glorious
ard best Creature, to whom he had granted so many
Advantages, even by Creation, above the rest of the
Works of his Hands, vested with a reasonable Soul, and
that Soul adorned with Faculties and Capacities adapted
both to honour his Maker, and be honoured by him;
I say, to fee it sunk and degenerated to a Degree so
more than stupid, as to prostrate itself to a frightsul
Nothing, a mere imaginary Object, dressed up by them-
selves, and made terrible to themselves by their own Con-
trivance, adorned only with Clouts and Rags; and that
this should be the Effect of mere Ignorance, wrought up
into hellish Devotion by the Devil himself; who, envy-
ing to his Maker, the Homage and Adoration of his
Creatures, had deluded them into such gross, surfeiting,
sordid, and brutish things, as one would think should
shock Nature itself.
But what signified all the Astonishment and Reslection
of Thoughts? Thus it was, and I saw ir besore my
Eyes; and there was no Room to wonder at it, or think
it impossible; all my Admiration turned to Rage; and
I rode up to the Image or Monster, call it wnat you
will, and with my Sword cut the Bonnet that was on
its Head in two, in the Middle, so that it hung down
by one of the Horns; and one of our Men that was
with me took hold of the Sheep-skin that covered it,
and pulled at it, when, behold, a most hideous Outcry
and Howling ran through the Village, and two or three
hundred People came about my Ears, so that I was
glad to scour for it; for we saw some had Bows and
Arrows; but I resolved from that Moment to visit them
again.
Our Caravan rested three Nights at the Town,
which was about four Miles r,ff. in order to provide
some Horses, which they wanted, several of the Horsts
L z having
saving been lamed and jaded with the Badness of the
.VVay. a»d our long Match over the last Desert; so we
Jiad some Leisure hereto put my Design in Execution.
J communicated my Project to the Scots Merchant of
Jtfastcni; of whose Courage I had had sussicient Testi-
^riony, as above. I told him what I had seen, and
^vith what Indignation 1 had since thought, that human
- jslature could be so degenerate. I told him, I was re-
folded, if I could get but four or five Men well armed,
to go with me, to go and destroy that vile, abomina-
ble Idol; to let them fee, that it had no Power to help
^tself, and consequently could not be an Object of Wor-
fhip, or to be prayed to, much less help them that offered
^jerifiecs to it.
He laughed at me; Said he, Your Zeal may be good;
t>Ot what do you propose to yourself by it? Propose!
^*aid [; to vindicate the Honour of God, which is in-
fulted by this Devi!-Worship. But how will it vindi-
cate the Honour of God? said he, while the People
vVi!l not be.able to know what you mean by it, un-
lefs you could f;-eak to them too, and tell them so; and
thcn they will right you too, I will assure you; for
t1iey are desperate Fellows, and that especially in De-
fence of their Idolatry. Can we not, said I, do it in
tbe Night, and then leave them the Reasons in Writ-
ing, in their own Language? Writing! said he, why
. here is not in five Nations of them, one Man that
IjdOWS any thing of a Letrer, or how to read a Word
;rl any Language, or in their own. Wretched Igno-
r«nce! said I to him; however, I have a great Mind
to do it; perhaps Nature may draw Inferences from
ls to them, to let them fee how brutish they are, to
frorfhip such horrid things. Lot.k you, Sir, said he,
-f your Zeal prompts you to it so warii ly, you mull
t'o it; but, in isle next Place, I would have ycu consi-
der, these wild Nations cf People are subjected, by
j-'orce, to the Czar of Mufctvj't L'ominiofis; and if you
c'o this, Ms ten to ore tut they will come by Thou-
sands to the Govcrror of Nertxiitjkay, and complain.
a:id demand Satissaction 9 and if he cannot gi-e them
satisfaction, 'tis ten to one but they revolt; and it will
occasion
occasion a new War with all the Tartars in the Coun-
ty-
This, I consess, put new Thoughts into my Head
for a while; but I harped upon the same String still;
and all that Day I was uneasy to put my Pioject in'
Execution. Towards the Evening the Stots Merchant
met me by Accident in our Wallc about- the Town,
and desired to speak with me: I believe, said he, I
have put you off of your good Design; I have been a
little concerned about it since; for I abhor the Idol ard
Idolatry, as much as you can do. Truly, said I, you
have put it off a little as to the Execution of it, but
you have not put it all out of my Thoughts; and. I
believe, I shall co it still besore I quit this Place, tho'
1 were to be delivered up to them for Satisfaction. No,
no, said he; God forbid they should deliver you up to
such a Crew of Monsters! they shall not do that nei-
ther; tbat would be murdering you indeed. Why,
said I, how would they use me? Use ycu! said he; I'll
tell you how they served a poor Ruffian, who affronted
them in their Worship just as ;ou did, and whom they
took Piisoner; after they had lamed him with an Ar-
row, that he could not run away, they took him, and
stripped him stark naked, and set him upon the Top
of the Idol-Monster, and stood all round him, and shot
as many Arrows into him as would stick over his whole
Body; and then they burnt him, and all the Arrows
sticking in him, as a Sacrifice to the Idol. And was this
the same Idol? said I. Yes, sad he, the very same.
Well, said I, I will tell ;oi a Story: So I related the
Story of our Men at Madagascar, and how they burnt and
sacked the Village there, and killed Man, Woman, and
Child, for their murdeiirg one of our Men, just as it Is
related besoie; and when I had done, I added, that I
thought we ought to do so to this Village.
He listened very attentively to the Story; but when
I talked of doing so to that Village, said he, You mis-
take very much; it was not this Village, it was almost
a hundred Miles from this Place; but it was the same
Idol, for they carry him about in ProcesHon all over
the Country. Well, said I, then that Idol ought to be
L 3 punished
j-»niQi«d for it; and it shall, said I, if I live tlvs Night
in a Word, finding me resolute, he liked the Design,
ar-d told me I should not go alone, but he would go
.v^-ith me; but he would go first, and bring a stout Fel-
Jci'vV, one of his Countrymen, to go also with us; and
one, fesd he, as samous for his Zeal as you can desire
sv:iy orre to be, against such devilish things as these,
j n a Word, he brought me his Comrade, a Stotsman,
^ horn he called Captain Richardson; and I gave him a
full Account of what I had seen, and also of what I
^ctccadzd; and he told me, readily he would go with
sTie. if it cost him his Life. So we agreed to go, only
three. I had, indeed, proposed it to my Parlner;
|sut he declined it. He said, He was ready to asist me
to utm0'^, and upon all Occasions, for my Desence;
. UC that this was an Adventure quite out of his Way:
go, I say, we resolved upon our Work, only we three,
^t\d my Man-servant, and to put it in Execution that
;^ht about Midnight, with all the Secrecy imagin-
Jjowever, upon second Thoughts, we were willing
delay it till the next Night, because the Caravan be-
f^tr to set forward in the Morning, we supposed the
^^vernor could not pretend to give them any Satis-
~r <5tion upon us when we were out of his Power; the
\i£0tt Merchant, as steady in his Resolution to enterprize
~ as bold in executing, brought me a Tartars Robe or
J^T^wn of Sheepskins, and a Bonnet, with a Bow and
~jfrrovvs, and had provided the same for himself and his
^^untryman, that the People, if they saw us, should not
able to determine who we were.
the first Night we spent in mixing up some combu-
.t,le Matter with Aqua-vita, Gunpowder, and such other
^jaterials as we could get; and, having a good Quantity
*f Tar in a little Pot, about an Hour after Night we set
tac uPon our Expedition
o
We came to the Place about eleven o'CIock at Night,
-nd sound that the People had not the least jealousy of
-p>iir)ger attending their Idol; the Night was cloudy;
et the Moon gave us Light enough to fee, that the
Idol stood just in the same Posture and Place that it
did
did besore. The People seemed to be all at their Rest?
only. that in the great Hut, or Tent, as we called it,
where we saw the three Priests, whom we mistook fcr
Butchers, we saw a Light, and, going up close to the
Door, we heard People talking, as if there were five
or six of them; we concluded theresore, that if we
set Wildfire to the Idol, these Men would come out
immediately, and run up to the Place to rescue it from
the Destruction that we intended for it; aud what to-
do with them we knew not. Once we thought of
carrying it away, and setting Fire to it at a Distance j
but when we came to handle it, we found it too bulky
for our Carriage; so we were at a Loss again. The
second Scotsman was for setting Fire to thi Tent or
Hut, and knocking the Creatures that were there en
the Head, when they came out; but I could not join
with that; I was against killing them, if it was possible
to be avoided. Weil then, said the Scots Merchant, I
will tell you what we will do; we will try to take thera
Prisoners, tie their Hands, and mak^them stand and fee
their Idol destroyed. »
As it happened, we had Twine or Packthread enough
about us, which we used to tie our fire-works toge-
ther with; so we resolved to attack these People first,
and with as little Noise as we could. The first thing
we did, we knocked at the Door, when one of the
Priests coming to the Door, we immediately seized upon
him, stopped his Mouth, and tied his Hands behind him,
and led him to the Idol, where we gagged him, that he
might not make a Noise; tied his Feet also together, and
lest him on the Ground.
Two of us then waited at the Door, expecting that
another would come out to fee what the Matter was;
but we waited so long till the third Man came back to
us; and then, nobody coming out, we knocked 2gain
gently, and immediately out came two more, and we
served them just in the same manner, but were obliged
to go all with them, and lay them down by the Idol
some Distance from one another; when, going back,
we found two more were come out to the Door, and
a third stood behind them within the Door. We
seized the two, and immediately tied them, when the
L 4 third
cfrird stepping back, and crying out, my Scots Merchant
;24.8 The Lire W Adventures
j, a.d made, that would only smoke and stink, he set
f-'i-re toit. ar.d threw it in among them ; by that Time
gliC other Stotsman, and my Man taking Charge of the
tvV-o already bound, and tied together also by the
j±t&, led them away to the Idol, and lest them there,
t'0 fec if their Idol would relieve them, making haste
v,3ck to us.
VVhen the Furze we had thrown in had filled the Hut
^lth fo "luch Smoke, that they were almost suffocated,
6 then threw in a small Leather Bag of another Kind,
I-iich slamed like a Candle, and, following it in, we
/ViU^cI thire were but four People lest, who, it seems,
^; titwo Men and two Women, and, as we supposed,
j been about seme of their diabolic Sacrifices. They
„,p e-ired. in stiort, frighted to Death, at least so as to
trembling and stupid, and not able 10 speak neither,
*i r c he Smoke.
i° jsi a Word, we took them, bound them as we had
cither, ar.d all without any Noise. I should have
* . we brought them out of the House, or Hut, first;
s*1' indeed, we were not able to bear the Smoke any
f^'ye than they were. When we had done this, we
f\eA them all together to the Idol; when we came
c*r - we fell to work with him; and first we daubed
all over, and his Robes also, with Tar, and such
fe'f^-r Stuff as we had, which was Tallow mixed with
ot** _flotie; then we stopped his Eyes, and Ears, and
J3r:i {b full of Gunpowder; then we wrapped up a
P•la c Piece of Wilcfire in his Bonnet; and then slick-
g n-'**'^;! the Combullioles we had brought with us upon
irr0 vve looked ibout to fee if we could find any thing
)i'li''to help to burn him; when my Scotsman remem-
t \(c \ f that by the Tent, or Hit, where che Men weie,
l>*tr' Jay a Heap of dry Forage, w hether Straw or Rustles
tli**'' not remember; away he and the other Scotsman
J ^° and fetched their Arms sull of that. When we
f'-* fV 3olle t^>iS, we t0ok all our Prisoners, and brought
Jiahaving untied their Feet, and ungagged their
, t iis, and made them stand up, and set them just
'.' besore
before their monstrous Idol, and then set Fire to the
Whole.
We stayed by it a Quarter of an Hoar, or thereabouts,
till the Powder in the Eyes, and Mouth, and Ears of" the
Idol blew up, and. as we could perceive, had split and
desormed the Shape of it; and, in a Word, till we saw
it burn into a mere Block or Log of Wood; and then
setting the dry Forage to 'it, we found it would bo soon
quite consumed, so we began to think of going away;
but the Scotsman said-: No, we must rot go; for these
poor deluded Wretches will all throw themselves into
the Fire, and burn themselves with the Idol i so we re-
solved to stay till the Forage was burnt down too, and
then we came away, and lest them.
In the Morning we appeared among our Fellow
Travellers, exceeding busy in getting ready for our
Journey; nor could any Man suggest, that we had been
any where but in our Beds, as Travellers might be sun-
poled to be, to sit themselves for the Fatigues of that
Day's Joorney.
But it did not end so; for the next Day came a great
Multitude of the Country-People, not only of this
Village, but of an Hundred more, for aught [ know, lo
the Town Gates; and, in a moll outrageous Mannc,
demanded Satisfaction of the Ruffian Governor, for the
insulting their Priests, and burning their great Cbam-
Chi fhawigu, such an hard Name they gave the mon-
strous Creature they worshipped; the People of Nert-
xinjiay were at first in a great Conllernation; for, they
said, the Tar.'rxs were no less than thirty Thousand, and
that in a few Da} s more, they would be one hundred
Thousand strong.
The Ruffian Governor sent out Messengers to appeaso
t^em, and gave them all the good Wo:ds imaginable.
He assured them he knew nothing of it, and that there
had not a Soul of his Garrison been abioad; that it
could not be from any body there; and if t ey would
let him know who it was, they stnuld be exemplarily
punished. They returneJ, haughtily. That all the
Country reverenced the great Cbam-Chi-Thauvgu, who
dwelt in the Sun, and no Mortal would have dartd
tts^SfFcr Violence to his Image, but some Christian Mif-
L 5 cream;
crcanti so they called them, it seems; and they there-
to r< denounced War against him, and all the Ruffians,
^vJno, they said, were Miscreants and Christians..
The Governor, still patient, and unwilling to make
^ Breach, or to have any Cause of War alledged to be
jven by him, the Czar having straightly charged him
^5° ™* Life a»J Adventures of
-vi I 6ave tnem stiH a" tne good Words he could; at
js^it he told them, there was a Caravan gone towards
J£f*JPa tnat Morning, and, perhaps, it was lome of them,
^sf%o had done them this Injury; and that, if they would
^e satisfied with that, he would fend after them, to in-
^ire into it. This seemed to appease them a little;
accoidingly the Governor sent after us, and gave
^9 a particular Account how the thing was; intimating
^ysthal, that if any in our Caravan had done it, they
^^uld make their Escape; but that, whether they had
j0rie it, or no, we should make all the Haste forward
fy&t was possible; and that in the mean Time, he would
V,^eP them in Play as long as he could.
This was very friendly in the Governor. How-
veJ'. when it came to the Caravan, there was nobody
ft rvew any thing of the Matter; and, as for us that were
^silty, we were the least of all suspected; none so
p gcl« asked us the Question; however, the Captain
f the Caravan, for the Time, took the Hint that the
^^jvernor gave us, and we marched or travelled two
S^^ys and two Nights without any considerable Stop,
^6 tnen we lay at a Village called Plothus; nor did we
* ^(ce any long Stop here, but hastened on towards
st^^1''™' another of the Czar of Mufie-v/a Colonies,
J £ where we expected we should be safe; but it is
41 f' £>e observed, that here we began, for two or three
*5J«vs March, to enier npon a vast nameless Desert, of
J^ich I'shall say more in its Place; and which if we
r.ow been upon it, it is more than probable, we
been all destroyed. It was the second Day's March
5 Plothus, that, by the Clouds of Dust behind us at
great Distance, some of our People began to be fen-
?t,i<= we were pursued; we had entered the Desert, and
£3d pasied by a great Lake, called Sthanks Osier, when
_ perceived a very great Body of Horse appear on
; the
the other Side of the Lake to the North, we travelling
West. We observed they went away West, as we did;
but had supposed we should have taken ^that Side of
the Lake, whereas we very happily took the South
Side; and in two Days more we saw them not, for they,
believing we were still besore them, pushed on, till they
came to the River Udda; this is a very great River when
it passes sarther North; but when we came to it, we
found it narrow and fordable.
The third Day they either found their Mistake, or
had Intelligence of us, and came pouring in upon us,
towards the Dusk of the Evening. We had, to our
great Satissaction, just pitched upon a Place for our
Camp, which was very convenient for the Night; for
as we were upon a Desert, though but at the Begin-
ning of it, that was above five hundred Miles over, we
had no Towns to lodge at, and, indeed, expected none
but the City Jarau'ena, which we had yet two Days
March to; the Desert, however, had some few Woods
in it on this Side, and little Rivers, which ran all into
the great River Udda. It was in a narrow Streight be-
tween two small, but very thick Woods, that we pitched
our little Camp for that Night, expecting to be attacked
in the Night,
Nobody knew but ourselves, what we were pursued
for; but as it was usual for the Mogul Tartars to go
about in Troops in that Desert, so the Caravans always
fortify themselves every Night against them, as against
Armies of Robbers; and it was theresore no new thing
to be pursued.
But we had this Night, of all the Nights of ous
Travels, a most advantageous Camp; for we lay be-
tween two Woods, with a little Rivulet running just
besore our Front; so that we could not be surrounded
or attacked any Way, but in our Front or Rear'; we
took Care also to make our Front as strong as we coold,
by placing our Packs, with our Camels and Horses, all
in a Line on the Inside of the River, and we felled
some Trees in our Rear.
In this Posture we encamped for the Night; but the
Enemy was upon as besore we had finished our Situa-
tion: They did not come on us like Thieves, as we
L £i expected}
e3Cp'ifle(l, but sent three Messengers to us, to demand
x j^e Men 10 &e delivered to them, that had abused their
j>riest. and burnt their God Cham-Cbi-Tbautigu, that
,l-i«y might burn them with Fire; and, upon this, they
& * would go away, and do us no sarther Harm,
tii<;iwise they would burn us all with Fire. Oar
?^en looked very blank at this Message, and began
il are 2t ore another, to fee who looked with most
* u \\ t in their Faces; but, nobody was the Word, nobody
it. The Leader of the Caravan sent Word, he was
c\\ assured it was not done by any of our Camp; that
-vv'ere peaceable Merchants travelling on our Business;
c we had done no Harm to them, or to any one else;
t^^j theresore they must look sarther for their Enemies,
3l> ^ had injured them, for we were not the People; so
1*(irG& them not to dillurb us; for if they did, we mould
<3e f^tid ourselves.
<3e^j--v-.ey were sar from being satisfied with this for an
f'vv*r, arid a great Crowd of them came down in
A11 JVlorning, by Break of Day, to our Camp; but,
us in such an advantageous Situation, they durst
f<se* ^ no sarther than the Brook in our Front, where
cO** flood, and Ihevved us such a Number, as, indeed,
t£>efiftt:d us very much; for those that spoke least of
ter* -f spoke of ten Thousand. Here they stood, and
tfr^i^ed at us awhile, and then setting up a great Howl,
\c° let sly a Cloud of Arrows among us; but we were
enough fortified for that, for we were sheltered under
-j^aggage; and I do not remember that one Man of
°ur.2s hurt.
us v sne Time after this, we saw them move a little to
~* jlight, and expected them on the Rear, when a
0ar ;ng Fellow, a Cojsmk. as they call them, cf Jara-
Cti*1**,' in the Pay of the Mustovites, calling to the Lead-
the Caravan, said to him, I will go send all these
er ° \c away to Sibeilka; this was a City four or five
Journey, at least, to the South, and rather behind
So he takes his Bow and Arrows; and, getting
n5- jj0rscback, he rides away from our Rear directly,
o*1 -t were, back to Ntrtzinjkay; after this, he takes
»s f&at Circuit about, and comes to.the Army of the
a. S /ars, as if fee had been feat Express to tell them
T<*r* a long
a long Story, that the People who had burnt their Cham-
ChiTbaungu, were gone to Sibeilka, with a Caravan of
Miscreants, as he called them; that is to say, Chris-
tians; and that they were resolved to burn the God
Schal-J/ar belonging to the Tongufes.
As this Fellow was a mere Tartar, and perfectly spoke
their Language; he.counterfeited so well, that they all
took it from him, and away they drove, in a most vio-
lent Hurry, to Sibeilka, which, it seems, was five Days
Journey to the South, and in less than three Hours they
were intirely out of our Sight, and we never heard any
more of them, nor ever knew whether they went to that
other Place called Sibeilka, or no.
, So we pasted safely on to the City of Jarasuena,
where there was a Garrison of Muscovites ; and there we
rested five Days, the Caravan being exceedingly satigued
with the last Day's March, and with Want of Rest in the
Night.
From this City we had a frightsul Desert, which held
us three-and-twenty Days March. We surnished our-
selves with some Tents here, for the better accommodat-
ing ourselves in the Night; and the Leader of the Ca-
ravan procured sixteen Carriages, or Waggons, of the
Country, for carrying our Water and Provisions; and
these Carriages were our Desence every Night round our
little Camp; so that had the Tartars appeared, unless
they had been very numerous indeed, they would not
have been able to hurt us.
We may well be supposed to want Rest again after
this long Journey; for, in this Desert, we saw neither
House or Tree, or scarce a Bush; we saw, indeed, abun-
dance of the Sable hunters, as they called them ; these are
all Tartars of the Mogul Tartary, of which this Country
is a Part i and they frequently attack small Caravans;
but we saw no Numbers of them together. I was cu-
rious to fee the Sable-skins they catched; but I could
never speak with any of them; for they durst not come
near us, neither durst we straggle from our Company to
go near them.
After we had passed this Desert, we came into a
Country pretty well inhabited; that is to say, we found
Towns and Castles settled by the Czar of Muscovy, with
Garrisons
<5arfMs of stationary Soldiers to protect the Caravans,
and defend the Country against the Tartars, who would
z.Yxer\\\(t make it very dangerous travelling -r and his
^ijr arish Majesty has given such strict Orders for the well
— ua-rding the Caravans and Merchants, that if there are
^r*y Tartan heard of in the Country, Detachments of
_Y\e Garrison are always sent to see Travellers safe from
tion to Station-
^nd thus the Governor of Adinjkoy, whom I had an
£-jpp>ortunity_to make a Visit to, by means of the Stotch
^j^rchant who was acquainted with him, offered us a
U £>rd of fifty Men, if we thought there was any Dan-
&rr to the next Station.
i thought long before this, that as we came nearer to
-pur-0pet we should find the Country better peopled, and
-c Feople more civilized; but I found myself mistaken
f fcioth, for we had yet the Nation of the Tottguefes
%tx pass through; where we saw the same Tokens of
fia.nifm and Barbarity, or worse, than besore; only
t*bey were conquered by the Muscovites, and intirely
*S£IlJced, they were not so dangerous; but, for Rude-
te of Manners, Idolatry, and Polytheism, no People
O* tyve World ever went beyond them. They are cloath-
i*\ g\\ in Skins of Beasts, and their Houses are built of
* fame. You know not a Man from a Woman, neither
tfr45 the Ruggedness of their Countenances, or their
fc>y aths; and in the Winter, when the Ground is
Cfcd with Snow, they live under Ground in Houses
c°^e Vaults, which have Cavities or Caves going from
I'*6- to another.
0**?ftbe Tartars had their Cham-Chi Tbaungu for a wholt
.-Jj^ge, or Country, these had Idols in every Hut, and
ViJ y Cave; besides, they worship the Stars, the Sun,
"\Vater, the Snow; and, in a Word, every thing
tbe tbey do not understand, and they understand but
tl>^ little; so that almost every Element, every unconv
v*r-^ thing, sets them a sacrificing.
sJ'g,,! I am no more to describe People than Countries,
farther than my own Story comes to be concerned
^rl^j1em. I met with nothing peculiar to myself in all
>*V Country, which, I reckon, was from the Desert
ft*Lici* 1 sPoke of iasti at least, sour hundred Miles, half
of
of it being another Desert, which took us up twelve
Days severe travelling, without House, Tree or Bush;
but were obliged again to carry our own Provisions, as
well Water as Bread. After we were out of this Desers,
and had travelled two Days, we came to Janeaay, a
Muscovite City or Station, on the great River Janezay.
This River, they told us, parted Europe from Asia, tho'
our Map-Makers, as I am told, do not agree to it;
however, it is certainly the Eastern Boundary of the an-
tient Siberia, which now makes a Province only of the
vast Muscovite Empire, but is itself equal in Bigness to
the whole Empire of Germany.
And yet here I observed Ignorance and Paganism stil}
prevailed, except in the Muscovite Garrisons; all the
Country between the River Oby, and the River Janezay,
is as intirely Pagan, and the People as barbarous, as the
remotest of the Tartars, nay, as any Nation, for aught
1 know, in Jsia or America. I also found, which I ob-
served to the Muscovite Governors, whom I had Oppor-
tunity to converse with, that the Pagans are not much
the wiser, or the nearer Christianity, for being under the
Museovite Government; which they acknowledged was
true enough, but, they said, it was none of their Busi-
ness: That if the Czar expected to convert his Siberian,
ottTonguese, or Tartar Subjects, it mould be done by send-
ing Clergymen among them not Soldiers; and they add-
ed, with more Sincerity than I expected, that they found
it was not so much the Concern of their Monarch, to
make the People Christians, as it was to make them
Subjects.
From this River, to the great River Oby, we crossed a
wild uncultivated Country; I cannot say 'tis a barbarous
Soil; 'tis only barren of People, and good Manage-
ment; otherwise it is in itself a molt pleasant, fruitsul,
and agreeable Country. What Inhabitants we found in
it are all Pagans, except such as are sent among them
from Russia 5 for this is the Country I mean on both
Sides the River Oby, whither the Muscovite Criminals,
that are not put to Death, are banished, and from
whence it is next to impossible they should ever corns
away.
v I have
X have nothing material to say of my particular As-
^-ajri, 'till I came to Toboljki, the capital of Siberia,
'^jsere I continued some Time on the following Occa-
^°\Ve had been now almost seven Months on our
^ rney, and Winter began to come on apace; where-
J Oo my Partner and I called a Council about our par-
^^uJar Affairs, in which we found it proper, consider-
** that we were bound for England, and not for Mas-
***** to consider how to dispose of ourselves. They
us of Sledges and Rein-Deer to carry us over the
'"^ slv« in 'he Winter-time; and, indeed, they have such
j* irjSS, as ic w0Uld oe incredible to relate the Par-
. c lslars ori which means the "Rvjstani travel more
tJ cjie Winter than they can in Summers because in
*V_efc Sledges they are able to run Night and Day; the
I*1 being frozen, is one universal Covering to Na-
by which the Hills, the Vales, the Rivers, the
tt,rl<es, are all smooth, and hard as aS;ou.-; and they
tipon the Sursace, without any Regard to what is
r^^rneath.
Uf1^sst I had no Occasion to pulh at a Winter Journey of
. Jcind; I was bound to England, not to Moscow, and
|Iji5 Jtoute lay two Ways; either I must go on as the
^tran went, till I came to JariJIasv, and then go off
for Nar•ua, and the Gulph of Finland, and so ei-
by Sea or Land to Dantz.Uk, where I might possibly
tJ»* stiy China Cargo to good Advantage, or I mult leave
se>* £)aravan at a little Town on the Dwina, from
tbe y;ce I had but six Days by Water to Jtrth-Angel,
*vfr? from thence might be sure of Shipping, either to
sand* Holland, or Hamburgh.
JZrt&fitff/ to go any of these Journies in the Winter,
]cl have been preposterous; for as to Dantziek, :he
-vuaf £k would be frozen up, and 1 could not get Pal-
st***'. and to go by Land in those Countries, was far
{0.'t,e 'safe than among the Mogul Tartars; likewise to
\efs » Jigd mOclober, all the Ships would be gone
thence, and even the Merchants, who dwell there
ft° gammer. retire South to Moscow in the Winter,
Lrj. — the Ships are gone; so that I stiould have no-
thing
tiling but Extremity of Cold to encounter, with a Scar-
city of Provisions, and must lie there in an empty Town
ail the Winter: So that, upon the whole, I thought it
much my better Way to let the Caravan go, and to
make Provision to winter where I was, .viz. at ToboIJki
in Siberia, in the Latitude of sixty Degrees, where I
was sure of three things to wear out a cold Winter
with, viz. Plenty of Provision, such as the Country af-
forded, a warm House, with Fuel enough, and excellent
Company; of all which I shall give a sull Account in its
Place.
I was now in a quite different Climate from my
beloved Island, where I never felt Cold, except when
I had my Ague; on the contrary, I had much to do
to bear my Cloaths on my Back, and never made any
Fire but without Doors, and for my Necessity, in dress-
ing my Food, &c. Now I made me three good Vests^
with large Robes or Gowns over them to hang down
to the Feet, and button close to the Wriils, and all
these lined with Furs, to make them sussiciently
warm.
As to a warm House, I must consess, I greatly- dis-
like our Way in England, of making Fires in every
Room in the House, in open Chimneys, which, when
the Fire was out, always kept the Air in the Room
cold as the Climate. But taking an Apartment in a.
good House in the Town, I ordered a Chimney to be
built like a Furnace, in the Centre- of six. several Rooms,
like a Stove, the Funnel to carry the Smoke went up,
one Way, the Door to come at the Fir? went -in ano-
ther, and all the Rooms were kept equally warm,
but no Fire seen; like as they heat the Bagnios in
England.
By this Means we had always the same Climate in all
th Rooms, and an equal Heat was preserved; and how
cold soever it was without, it was always warm within;
and yet we saw no Fire, nor were ever incommoded with
any Smoke.
The most wondersul thing of all was, that it mould
be possible to meet with good Company here, in a
Country sq barbarous a; that of the most Northerly
Parts
fa.rts of Europe, near the frozen Ocean, and within but
^ very sew Degrees of Nova Zembla.
But this being the Country where the State Criminals
f Muscovy, as i observed besore, are all banished; this
^iry was sull of Noblemen, Princes, Gentlemen, Colo-
nel 1st and, in short, all Degrees of the Nobility, Gentry,
^jpldiery, and Courtiers of Muscovy. Here were the sa-
Xftous ^"nce Galilfken, or Galoffkcn, and his Son, the old
c neral Robofiijky, and several other Persons of Note, and
so**** Ladies-
* _|3y means of my Sfo/cÆ Merchant, whom, neverthe-
less, I parted with here, I made an Acquaintance with
^v^ral of these Gentlemen, and some of them of the
V^-ft Rank ; and from these, in the long Winter-Nights
. vfc'hich I staid here, I received several agreeable Vi-
Vcs» It was talking one Night with a certain Prince,
r^e of tne banished Ministers of State belonging to the
fL^arof Muscovy, that my Talk of my particular Cafe
^C ^ '3een te"inS me abundance of fine
of' tne Greatness, the Magnificence, and Do-
* jssions, and the absolute Power of the Emperor of
**V. RujJiaMt. I interrupted him, and told him, I wa*
*** rcater and more powersul Prince than ever the Czar
*^flfuscovy was, though my Dominions were not so large,
People so many. The Russian Grandee looked a
Osc\e surprised, and, fixing his Eyes steadily upon me,
J** tf3n to wonder what I meant.

.J*1*** person disaffected to my Government or to my
0*1 (0ti, in all my Dominions. He shook his Head
fetty. at, and said, There, indeed, I outdid the Czar of
/sD•vy- 1 told him, That al! the Lands in my King-
*vcre mY own, and all my Subjects were not only
£0** 'Tenants, but Tenants at Will: That they would
sigh* for me to the last Drop; and that never Ty-
* ac, *or sucn 1 acknowledged myself -to be, was ever
*/. ariiversa"y beloved, and yet so horribly feared, by
*°. subjects.
After
Aster amusing them with these Riddles in Govern-
ment for a while, I opened the Cafe, and told them
the Story at large of my living in the Island, and how
I managed both myself and the People there that were
under me, just as I have since minuted it down. They
were exceedingly taken with the Story, and especially
the Prince, who told me with a Sigh,- that the true
Greatness of Life was to be Master of ourselves; that
he would not have exchanged such a Srate of Life as
mine, to have been Czar of Mujccvy; and that he found
more Felicity in the Retirement he seemed to be ba-
nished to there, than ever he found in the highest Au-
thority he enjoyed in the Court of his Master the Czar:
That the Height of human Wisdom was to bring our
Tempers down to our Circumstances, and to make a
Calm within, under the Weight of the greatest Storm
without. When he came first hither, he said, he used
to tear the Hair from his Head, and the Cloaths from
his Back, as others had done besore him; but a little
Time and Consideration had made him look into him-
self, as well as round himself, to things without:
That he found the Mind of Man, if it was but once
brought to reflect upon the State of universal Life,' and
how little this World was concerned in its true Feli-
city, was perfectly capable of making a Felicity for
itself, sully satisfying to itself, and suitable to its own
best Ends and Desires, with but very little Assistance
from the World. That Air to breathe in, Food to
sustain Life, Cloaths for Warmth, and Liberty for Exer-
cise, in order to Health, compleated in his Opinion, all
that the World could do for us; and though the Great-
ness, the Authority, the Riches, and the Pleasures,
which some enjoyed in the World, and which he had
enjoyed his Share of, had much in them that was agree-
able to us, yet he observed, that all those things chiesly
gratified the coarsest of our Affections; such as our
Ambition, our particular Pride, our Avarice, our Va-
nity, and our Sensuality; all which were, indeed, the
mere Product of the worst Part of Man, were in them-
selves Crimes, and had in them the Seeds of all man-
ner of Crimes; but neither were related to, or con-
cerned with, any of those Virtues that constituted us
%vfe Men, or of those Graces which distinguished us as
^7hristians: That being now deprived of all the sancy'd
f^Ucity, which he enjoyed in the sull Exercise of all
those Vices, he said, he was at Leisure to look upon the
jjark Side of them, where he found all manner of De-
formity ; and was now convinced, that Virtue only makes
_ TVJan truly wife, rich, and great, and perserves him in
Way to a superior Happiness in a suture State; and
Jr» tn"t he ^id, they were more happy in their Banish-
^,e?nt, than all their Enemies were, who had the sull
/session of all the Wealth and Power that they (the
^^ritied) had lest behind them.
;T,Jor, Sir, said he, do I bring my Mind to this poli-
-^a-'ly. by the Necessity of my Circumstances, which
y-^fTCiecall miserable; but if I know any thing of my-
\-e\f> ' woold "Ot go back, no, not though my Master,
\yC Czar, should call me, and offer to reinstate me in
\\ mY former Grandeur; I say, I would no more go
^_C^ t0 *l, than I believe my Soul, when it shall be
*?e|ivered from this Prison of the Body, and has had
alle of the glorious State beyond Life, would come
f^^clc to the Goal of Flesh and Blood it is now inclosed
*-7 and leave Heaven to deal in the Dirt and Grime of
J1 jfcie spoke this with so much Warmth in his Temper,-
siiuch Earnestness and Motion of his Spirits^ which
*c' re apparent in his Countenance, that it was evident It
%V the true Sense of his Soul. And, indeed, there was
room to doubt his Sincerity.
flC>f told him, I once thought myself a kind of a Mo-
s-ch in my old Station, of which I had given him ah
f*0 coont, but that I thought he was rot a Monarch-
-A Iy, but a great Conqueror; for that he that has got
c,fi-^/i story over his own exorbitant Desires, and has the
^ /£,lute Dominion over himself, and whose Reason
«**->ireJy governs his Will, is certainly greater than he
i*1 c conquers a City. But, my Lord, said I, shall I
* ifC the Liberty to ask you a Question ? With all my
V-rei*rf' *le- ^tne Door of your Liberty was open'd,
*y-.A L would not you take hold of it to deliver yourself
J^this Exile?
Hold,
Hold, said he, your Question is subtle, and requires
fame serious just Distinctions, to give it a sincere An-
swer; and I'll give it you from the Bottom of my
Heart. Nothing that I know of in this World would
move me to deliver myself from this State of Banish-
ment, except these, two: First, The Enjoyment of my
Relations; ana, Secondly, A little warmer Climate;
but I protest to you, that to go back to the Pomp of
the Court, the Giory, the Power, the Hurry of a Mi-
nister of State; the Wealth, the Gaiety, and the Plea-
sures, that is to fay, Follies of a Courtier; if my Mas-
ter mould send me Word this Moment, that he restores
me to all he banished me from; I protest, if I know
myself at all, 1 would not leave this Wilderness, these
Deserts, and these frozen Lakes, for the Palace of
Moscow.
But, my Lord, said I, perhaps you not only are ba-
nished from the Pleasures of the Court, and from the
Power, and Authority, and Wealth, you enjoyed be-
fore; but you may be absent too from some of the
Conveniencies of Life; your Estate, perhaps, confis-
cated, and your Effects plundered; and the Supplies
lest you here may not be suitable to the ordinary De-
mands of Life.
Ay, said he, that is as you suppose me to be a Lord,
or a Prince, Isfc. So, indeed, I am; but you are now
to consider me only as a Man, an human Creature, not
at all distinguished from another; and so I can suffer no
Want, unless I should be visited with Sickness and Dis-
tempers. However, to put the Quellion out of Dis-
pute i you see our Manner; we are in this Place rive
Persons of Rank; we live perfectly retired, as suited to
a State of Banishment; we have something rescued from
the Shipwreck of our FortuneSj which keeps us f:om
the mere Necessity of hunting for our Food, but the
poor Soldiers who are here, without that Help, live in
as much Plenty as we. They go into the Woods, and
catch Sables and Foxes; the Labour of a Month will
maintain them a Year; and as the Way of Living is
not expensive, To it is not hard to get sussicient to our-
selves: So that Objection is out ot Doors.
I have
I have not Room to give a sull Account of the most
ag'K'W' Conversation I had with this truly great
JVJ-*1'; in a11 which he shewed, that his Mind was so
io*Pired witn a superior Knowledge of things, so sup-
ported by Religion, as well as by a vast Shaie of Wis-
-Jjc>ni. that his Contempt of the World was really as
uch ai he had expressed, and that he was always the
/-^.riic to the last, as will appear in the Story I am going
t.° tel1-
J had been here eight Months, and a dark dreadful
.^Z'inter I thought it to be; the Cold was so intense,
tyi^-t I could not so much as look abroad, without be-
. wrapt in Furs, and a Mask of Fur besore my Face,
* r s-ather a Hood, with only an Hole for Breath, and two
f0r Sight. The little Day-light we had, was, as we
eCJconed, for three Mouths, not above five Hours a
'-j3y, and fix at most; only that the Snow lying on
Ground continua'ly, and the Weather clear, it was
v-er qu:te dark. Our Horses were kept (or rather
^^s-ved) under Ground ; and, as for our Servants (for we
* -r^d Servants here to look after our Horses and Selves),
« had every now and-then their Fingers and Toes to
and take care of, lest they mould mortify and sall
tTir
C*^jc is true, within Doors we were warm, the Houses
inlg close, the Walls thick, the Lights small, and the
b^.^ss all double. Out Food was chiesly the Flesh of
& ef, dry'd and cur'd in the Season; good Bread enough,
t baked as Biscuits; dried Filli of several Sorts, and
t>° e Flesh of Mutton, and of the Buffaloes, which is
f° tty good Bees. A" the Stores of Provision for the
'prf- nt« are laid up in the Summer, and well cured; our
"V*' l nli was Water mixed with Aqua •vitœ instead of Bran-
J^r . and, for a Treat, Mead instead of Wine; which
<Iy v^ever, they have excellent good. The Hunters, who
ti°* t„re abroad all Weathers, frequently brought us in
*'6 ft* "Venison, very sat and good; and sometimes Bears
ffc but we did not much care for the last. We had a
Stock of Tea, with which we treated our Friends
f5° jibo1'6 t a"d, in a Word, we lived very chearsully and
aSll^ all things considered.
It
It was now March, and the Days grown consider-
ably longer, and the Weather at least tolerable; so other
Travellers began to prepare Sledges to carry them over
the Snow, and to get things ready to be going; but
my Measures being fixed, as I have said, for Arch-
angel, and not for Muscovy or the Baltick, I made no
Motion, knowing very well, that the Ships from the
South do not set out for that Part of the World till
May or June; and that if I was there at the Beginning
of August, it would be as soon as any Ships would be
ready to go away; and theresore, I say, I made no
Haste to be gone, as others did; in a Word, I saw a
great many People, nay, all the Travellers, go away
besore me. It seems, every Year they go from thence
to Mostow for Trade; -viz. to carry Furs, and buy
Necessaries with them, which they bring back to sur-
nish their Shops; also others went on the same Errand
to Arch-Angel; but then they also, being to come back
again above eight hundred Miles, went all out beso:e
me.
In short, about the latter End of May, 1 began to
make all ready to pack up; and as I was doing this, it
occurred to me, that seeing all these People were ba-
pished by the Czar of Muscovy to Siberia, and yet, when
they came there, were at Liberty to go whither they
would; why did they not then go away to any Part of
the World where-ever they thought fit? And I began to
examine what should hinder them from making such an
Attempt.
But my Wonder was over, when I entered upon
that Subject with the Person I have mentioned, who
answered me thus: Consider, first, Sir, said he, the
Place where we are; and, secondly, the Condition we
are in; especially, said he, the Generality of the Peop'e
who are banished hither. We are surrounded, said he,
with stronger things than Bars and Bolts; on the
North Side is an unnavigable Ocean, where Ship never
sailed, and Boat never sWarn; neither, if we had both,
could we know whither to go with them. Every other
Way, said he, we have above a thousand Miles to pass
through the Czar's own Dominions, and By-ways ut-
terly impassable, except by the Roads made by the Go-
vernment,
>rnment, and through the Towns garrisoned by his
«X~foops; so that we could neither pass undiscovered by
Road, or subsist any other Way; so that it is in vain
c<7 attempt it.
I was silenced, indeed, at once, and found that they
^v-ere in a Prison, every Jot as secure, as if they had
tfeen locked up in the Castle of Moscow, however, it
ca.mz into my Thoughts, that I might certainly be
xxys.dt an Instrument to procure the Escape of this ex-
c& llent Person, and that it was very easy for me to
c»ny him away, there being no Guard over him in
tJ-je Country; and as I was not going to Moscow, but to
^ifr-ch-Angel, and that I went in the Nature of a Ca'ra-
^-^.n, by which I was not obliged to lie in the stationary
rj~owns in the Desert, but could encamp every Night
^rliere I would, we might easily pass uninterrupted to
y^fd' -Angel, where I would immediately secure him on
j^ctard an Etiglijh or Dutch Ship, and carry him off safe
^\ovg with me; and, as to his Subsistence, and other
jy^rticulars, that should be my Care, till he should better
f^pp'-y himself.
He heard me very attentively, and looked earnestly
— me alI the while I spoke; nay, I could see in his
^ery Face, that what I said put his Spirits into an ex-
ceeding Ferment; his Colour frequently changed, his
-fjyes looked red, and his Heart sluttered, that it might
e even perceived in his Countenance; cor could he im-
,ediately answer me, when I had done, and, as it were,
^scpt&ed what he would say to it; and after he had
aus'd a little, he embraced me, and said, How onhap-
J^y are we! unguided Creatures as we are, that even our
*,re£jteli Ads of Friendship are made Snares to us, and
%.c a:e mnde Tempters of one another! My dear
j-fiend, said he, your Ofler is so sincere, has such
r ingress in it, is so disinterested in itself, and is so
afcut_»ted for my Advantage, that I must have very
%v-rjend, said he, your Oft'er is so sincere, has such
so disinterested in itself, and is so
idvanrage, that I must have very
he World, if I did not both won-
.er «- . , o„u ntiv.juvi'iedge the Obligation I have upon
M'hat I have so often said to you of my Contempt
of the World? Did you believe I spoke my very Soul
to yoa, and tnat I had really maintained that Degree
of
; "tie Knowledge of the World, if
^r at it, and acknowledge the O
e to you for it: But did you believe I was sincere
of Felicity here, that had placed me above all that ^the
World could give me, or do for me? Did you believe I
was sincere, when I told you I would not go back- if I
was recalled even to be all that once I was in the Court,
and with the Favour of the Czar my Master? Did you
believe me, my Friend, to be an honeli Man, or did you
think me to be a boasting Hypocrite? Here he stopped,
as if he would hear what I would fay; butt, indeed, I
soon after perceived, that lie stopp d because his Spirits
were in Motion; his Heart was suj. of Struggles, and
lie could not go on. I was. I confess, astonished at
the thing, a' well as at the Man, and I used some Ar-
guments with him to urge him to fe; h mself free: That
he ought to look upon this as a Door opened by Hea-
ven sor his Dcliv ..ance, and a Summons by Provi-
dence, who has the Care and good Disposition of all
Events, io do himself good, and to render himself use-
ful in the World' -
He had by 'his Time recovered himself: How do
you know, Sir,' said he, warmly, but that instead of a
Summons from Heaven, it may be a Feint of another
Instrument, representing, in all the alluring Colours, to
me, the Shew of Felicity as a Deliverance, which may
in itself be my Snare, and tend directly to my Ruin?
Here I am free from the Temptation of returning to
my former miserable Greatness; there I am not sure,
but that all the Seeds of Pride, Ambition, Avarice, and
Luxury, which I know remain in my Nature, may revive
and take Root, and, in a Word, again overwhelm me;
and then the happy Prisoner, whom you see now Mas-
ter of his Soul's Liberty, shall be the miserable Slave of
his own Senses, in the sull of all personal Liberty. Dear
Sir, let me remain in this blessed Consinement, banished
from the Crimes of Life, rather than purchase a Shew
of Freedom, at the Ex^ ence of the Liberty of my Rea-
son, and at the Expence of the suture Happiness which
now I have in my View, but shall then, I fear, quickly
lose Sight of; for I am but Flesh, a Man, a mere Man,
have Passions and Affections as likely to possess and over-
throw me as any Man: O be not my Friend and my
Tempter both together!
Vol. II. M
If I was surprised besore, I was quite dumb now,
nd stood silent, looking at bim; and, indeed, admired
. bit I saw; the Struggle in his Soul was so great,
l!at though the Weather was extremely cold, it put him
n to a most violent Sweat, and I found he wanted to
r £ ve Vent to bis Mind; so I said a Word or two, that
would leave him to consider of it, and wait on
.»01 again; and then I withdrew to my own Apart-
ment.
About two Hours after, I heard somebody at or near
Y^c Door of the Room, and I was going to open the
yoor; but he had opened it, and came in: My dear
T riend, said he, you had almost overset me, but I am
^.covered: Do not take it ill that I do not close with
,our Offer; I assure you, it is not for want of a Sense
_ f the Kindness of it in you; and I came to make the
_f-»ost sincere Acknowledgement of it to you; bat, I
lC,pe,. I have got the Victory over myself.
My Lord, said I, I hope you are sully satisfied, that
0u do not resist the Call of Heaven. Sir, said he, if it
^.d been from Heaven, the same Power would have in-
^uenced me to accept it; but, I hope, and am sully
satisfied, that it is from Heaven that I decline it; and
f have an insinite Satissaction in the Parting, that you
^ 3.11 leave me an honest Man still, though not a free
J had nothing to do but to acquiesce, and make Pro-
-^/Jions to him of my having no End in it, but a sincere
t-^gsire to serve him. He embraced me very paslion-
stfJy, and assured me, he was sensible of that, and
^L0uld always acknowledge it; and with that he offered
* e a very fine Present of Sables, too much, indeed,
me to accept from a Man in his Circumstances; and
\ ^vould have avoided them, but he would not be re-
The next Morning I sent my Servant to his Lord-
with a small Present of Tea, two Pieces of China
jpamafc, and four little Wedges of Japan Gold, which
^l;d not all weigh above six Ounces, or thereabouts; but
^,ere sar short of the Value of his Sables, which, in-
geed, ,vllen ' came to England, I found worth near two
liUndred Pounds. He accepted the Tea, and one Piece
of
of the Damask, and one of the Pieces of Gold, which
had a sine Stamp upon it, of the Japan Coinage. which
I found he took for the Rarity of it, bat would not taks
any more; and sent Word by my Servant, that he de-
fired to speak with me.
When I came to him, he told me, I knew wh«
had passed between us, and hoped I would not move
him any more in that Affair; but that, since I made
such a generous Offer to him, he asked me, if I had
Kindness enough to offer the same to another Person
that he would name to me, in whom he had a great
Share of Concern. I told him, That I could not lay I
inclined to do so much for any one but himself, for
whom I had a particular Value, and should have been-
glad to have been the Instrument of his Deliverance;
however, if he would please to name the Person to me,
I would give him my Answer, and hoped he would
cot be dilpleased with me, if he was with my Answer.
He told me, it was only his Son, who, though 1 had
not seen, yet was in the same Condition with himself,
and above two hundred Miles from him, on the other
Side the Oly \ but that, if I consented, he would send
for him.
I made no Hesitation, but told him I would do it:
I made some Ceremony in letting him understand, that
it was wholly on his Account; and that feeing I could
not prevail on him, Iwould shew my Resr^edt to him,-
by my Concern for his Son: But t^ese things are too
tedious to repeat here. He sent away the next Day
for his Son, and in about twenty Days he ca;ne back
with the Messenger, bringing six or seven Horses, loaded
with very rich Furs, and which, in the whole, amount-
ed to a very great Value.
His Servants brought the Horses into the Town, but
lest the young Lord at a Distance till Night, when he
came incognito into our Apartment, and his Father pre-
sented him to me; and, in short, we concerted there the
Manner of our Travelling, and every thing proper for
the Journey.
I had bought a considerable Quantity of Sables, black
Fox-skins, fine Ermins, and such other Furs that are
very rich; I say, I had bought them in that City for
M 2 Exchange
j£_ xchange for some of the Goods brought from China; in
— articular, for the Cloves and Nutmegs, of which I fold
the greatest Part here , and the rest afterwards at Anh-
j-fng'h for a much better Price than I could have done at
; and my Partner, who was sensible of the Profit,
ptid whose Business more particularly than mine, was
i^jerchandize, was mightly pleased with our Stay, on
j\ creount of the Trassic we made here.
It was the Beginning of June, when I lest this remote
.pj#ce, a City, 1 believe, little heard of in the World;
„d, indeed, it is so sar out of the Road of Commerce,
t,&t I know not how it should be much talked of.
-yji/4: were now come to a very small Caravan, being
^Iy thirty-two Horses and Camels in all, and all of
Clltin passed for mine, though my new Guest was Pro-
rjc:torof eleven of them. It was most natural also,
'P at I should take more Servants with me than I had be-
* re, and the young Lord passed for my Steward; what
'£'eat Man I passed for myself, I know not, neither did
fS concem me to irquire. We had here the worst and
1lf» largest Desert to pass over that we met with in all
tV'e Journey; indeed I call it the worst, because the
x^rT0,y was very deep in some Places, and very uneven
y others; the best we had to say for it, was, that we
***0 tight we had no Troops of tartars and Robbers tp
*and that they never came on this Side the River
fe', yt or at least but very seldom; but we found it other-
*V,lyJy young Lord had with him a saithsul Mufiivite
vant, or rather a Siberian Servant, who was per-
S^.-jjy acquainted with the Country; and who led us
fc^ private Roads, that we avoided coming into the
fciy. ^cipal Towns and Cities, upon the great Road, such
PT* <sumtn, Soloy Kamojkoy, and several others; because
*j5 frh/ewite Garrisons which are kept there, are very
tl'0-lOas. and strict in their Observation upon Travellers,
a searching lest any of the banished Persons of Note
u]d make their Escape that Way into iMnscmiy; but
/J""*7 this Means, as we were kept out of the Cities, so
hole Journey was a Desert, and we were obliged
oa ePcamp and lie in our Tents, when we might have
d Sood Accommodation in the Cities on the Way:
h^ This
This the young Lord was so sensible of, that he would
not allow us to lie abroad, when we came to several
Cities on the Way; but lay abroad himielf, with his
Servant, in the Woods, and met us always at the ap-
pointed Places.
We were just entered Europe, having passed the River
Kama, which, in these Parts, is the Boundary between
Europe and Ajia; and the first City on the European Side
was called Soloy-Kamojkoy, which is as much as to say,
the great City on the River Kama; and here we thought
to have seen some evident Alteration in the People, their
Manners, their Habit, their Religion, and their Busi-
ness; but we were miitaken; for as we had a vast De-
sert to pass, which, by Relation, is near seven hundred
Miles long in some Places, but not above two hundred
Miles over where we passed it; so, till we came pall
that horrible Place, we sound very little Difference be-
tween that Country, and the Mogul Tartary; the People
mostly Pagans, and little better than the Savages of Ame-
rica; their Houses and Towns sull of Idols, and their
Way of Living wholly barbarous, except in the Cities
ai above, and the Villages near them; where they are
Christians, as they call themselves, of the Greek Church;
but even these have their Religion mingled with so
man) Reliques of Supestition, that it is scarce to be
knovvi. in iome Places for mere Sorcery and Witch-
craft.
In paUng this Forest, I thought, indeed, we must,
after all o* Dangers were, in our Imagination, escaped,
as besore, >ave been plundered and robbed, and per-
haps murder^ by a Troop of Thieves; of what Coun-
try they were,whether the roving Bands of the Oftia-
M, a kind of \rtari, or wild People on the Banks of
the Oby, had rr,gec| thus fir; or whether they were
the Sable-hunteK 0f Siberia, I am yet at a Lose to
know; but they wre ali on Horseback, carried Bows-
and Arrows, and ^re at first aoout five.and-forty in
Number; they camA so Bear t0 USi as wlthin about
two Musquet-shot; a\l, asking no Questions, they sur-
rounded us with their jorfe, and }00ked very earnestly
upon us twice; at lei.,n they placed themselves just;
in our Way; upon whu we drew up in a little Line
\ M j beforft
\?cfore Pur Camels, being not above sixteen Men in all;
m n<i being drawn up thus, we halted, and sent out the
£i£"rian Servant, who aitended his Lord, to fee how they
^/«re, his Master was the more willing to let him go,
because he was riot a little apprehensive, that they \vtre
^ Siberian Troop sent out after him. The Man came up
^«s£ir them with a Flag of Truce, and called to them;
j-,tit though he spoke several of their Languages, orDia-
jc-*£*s oi languages rather, he could not understand a
-y^-'ord they said; however, after some Signs to him, not
cc» come nearer to them at his Peril; so he said he un-
^erW them to mean, offering to shoot at him if he
^,-jvancedi the Fellow came back no wiser than he
^^nt, only that by their Dress, he said, he believed them
rCy be some Tartars of Kalmutk, or of the CirtaJJian Hords;
3tl<J that there must be more of them on the great Desert,
v,c»ugh he never heard, that ever any of them were seen
{o far North besore.
This was small Comfort to us; however, we had no
„ emvdy: There was on our Lest Hand, at about a
^uarter of a Mile's Distance, a little Grove or Clump
f Trees, which stood close together, and very pear
^vi^ Road; I immediately resolved we would advance
v' those Trees, and fortify ourselves as well as we
'^tild there; for, first, I considered that the Trees would
Jls 0. great Measure cover us from their Arrows; and, in
next Place, they could not come to charge us in a
%Sody' It was, indeed, my old Portuguese ri'ot who
-*^r<pposed it; and who had this Excellent attending
J*jffi, namely, that he was always readiest-n<i most apt
19 direct and encourage us, in Cafes of he most Dan-
* er- We advanced immediately with -vhat Speed we
j^^uld, and gained that little Wood the Tartars or
^^.frieves, for we knew not what tr call them, keep.
* a ^eir Stand, and not attending to hinder us.
l^hen we came thither, we found to our great Satis-
faction, that it was a swampy sprgy Piece of Ground,
'nd. on the other Side, a very/eat Spring of Water,
^fcich, running out in a littl RiU or Brook, was a
j ; t tie sarther joined by anothe"^ the like Bigness, and
^asi in short, the Head ori0urce of a considerable
jtiver, called afterwards iheWirt/ka ', the Trees which
grew
grew about this Spring, were not in all above two hun-
dred, but were very large, and stood pretty thick; so
that as soon as we got in, we saw ourselves perfectly safe
from the Enemy, unless they alighted and attacked us
on Foot.
But to make this more dissicult, pur Portuguese, with
indesatigable Application, cut down great Arms of the
Trees, and laid them hanging, not cut quite off, from
one Tree to another; so that he made a continued Fence,
almost round us.
We staid here, waiting the Motion of the Enemy
some Hours, without perceiving they made any Offer to
stir; when, about two Hours besore Night, they came
down directly upon us; and, though we had not per-
ceived it, we found they had been joined by some more
of the same, so that they were near fourscore Horse,
whereof, however, we sancy'd some were Women.
They came on till they were within half a Shot of our
little Wood, when we fired one Musquet without Ball,
and called to them in the Ruffian Tongue, to know what
they wanted, and bid them keep off; but, as if they
knew nothing of what we said, they came on with a
double Fury directly up to the Wood-side, not imagining
we were so barricado'd, that they could not break in:
Our old Pilot was our Captain, as well as he had been
our Engineer; and desired of us, not to sire upon them
till they came within Pistol-shot, that we might be sore
to kill; and that when we did fire, we should be sure to
take good Aim. We bade him give the Word of Com-
mand; which he delayed so long, that they were, some
of them, within two Pikes Length of us when we
fired.
We aimed so true (or Providence directed our Shot so
sore) that we killed fourteen of them at the first Volley,
and wounded several others, as also several of their Horses;
for we had all of us loaded our Pieces with two or three
Bullets apiece, at least.
They were terribly surprised with our Fire, and re-
treated immediately about one hundred Rods from us;
in which Time we loaded our Pieces again, and, seeing
them keep that Distance, we sallied out, and caught
four or five of their Horses, whose Riders, we sup-
posed,
pose^i were killed; and, coming up to the Dead, we
,-ould easily perceive they were Tartars, but knew not
from what Country, or how they came to make an Ex-
^.yrfion such an unusual Length.
.About an Hour after, they made a Motion to attack
again, and rode round our little Wood, to see where
Cfl fe they ntlght break in; but finding us always ready to
f^crc them, they went off again, and we resolved not to
£ijr f'om tne Place for that Night.
\Ve slept a Iittle, you may be sure; but spent the most
jy^rt of the Night in strengthening our Situation, and
j^sst-ri"doing the Entrances into the Wood; and, keep-
'r*& a ^ri^ Watcn, we waited for Day-light, and, when
-t came, it gave us a very unwelcome Discovery indeed;
f0r the Enemy, who we thought were discouraged wilh
'yyC Reception they had met with, were now .increased to
1 0 less than three hundred, and had set up eleven or
*1vvrdve Huts and Tents, as if they were resolved to besiege
c s ; and this little Camp they had pitched, was upon-the
"^—en Plain, at about three Quarters of a Mile from us.
were, indeed, surprised at this Discovery; and now,
T consess, I gave myself over for lost, and all that 1 had.
p^-Jse Loss of my Effects did not lie so near me (tho'
Yt&y were very considerable) as the Thoughts of sall-
* <r into the Hands of such Barbarians, at the latter
\fj of my Journey, after so many Dissiculties and Ha-
*^rds as I had gone through; and even in Sight of our
tt where we expected Safety and Deliverance. As
- roy Partner, he was raging: He declared, that to
0(c his Goods would be his Ruin; and he would rather
Vle than be starved; and he was for fighting to the last
*^ 'X'he young Lord, as gallant as ever Flesh shewed it-
If, was for fighting to the last also; and my old Pilot
* fls of the Opinion we were able to resist them all, in
Situation we then were in; and thus we spent the
tpny in Debates of what we should do; but, towards
Evening, we found that the Number of our Enemies
still increased: Perhaps, as they were abroad in several
j,arties sor Prey, the first had sent out Scouts to call for
y£el v, and to acquaint them of the Booty; and we did
pat know but by the Morning they might still be a greater
2 Number ;,
Number; so I began to enquire of those People we had
brought from Toboljki, if there was no other, or more pri-
vate Ways, by which we might avoid them in the Night,
and, perhaps, either retreat to some Town, or get Help
to guard us over the Desert.
The Siberian, who was a Servant to the young Lord,
told us, if we designed to avoid them, and not fight, he
would engage to carry us off in the Night to a Way that
went North towards the River Petraz, by which he made
no question but we might get away, and the Tartars
never the wiser; but he said, his Lord had told him he
would not return, but would rather chuse to fight. I told
him, he mistook his Lord; for that he was too wife a Man
to love fighting for the Sake 0/ it; that I knew his Lord
was brave enough, by what he had shewed already; but
that his Lord knew better, than to desire to have seven-
teen or eighteen Men fight five hundred, unless an un-
avoidable Necessity forced them to it; and that if he
thought it possible for us to escape in the Night, we had
nothing else to do but to attempt it. He answered, if his
Lord gave him such Order, he would lose his Life, if he
did not perform it. We soon brought his Lord to give
that Order, though privately, and we immediately pre-
pared for the putting it in Practice.
And first, as soon as it began to be dark, we kindled
a Fire in our little Camp, wbich w« kept burning, anil
prepared so as to make it burn all Night, that the Tar.
tars might conclude we were still there; but, as soon as
it was dark, that is to say, so as we could fee the Stars
(for our Guide would not stir besore) having all our
Horses and Camels ready loaden, we follwed our new
Guide, who, I soon found, steered himself by the Pole,
or North Star, all the Country being level for a long
Way.
After we had travelled two Hours very hard, it began
to be lighter still, not that it was quite dark all Night,
but the Moon began to rife, so that, in short, it was ra-
ther lighter than we wished it to be; but by fix o'Clocl?
next Morning, we were gotten near forty Miles, though
the Truth is, we almost spoiled our Horses. Here we
found a Ruffian Village, named Kirmazinstoy, where we
rested, and heard nothing of the Calmud Tartars that
I?ay. About two Hours before Night we set out again,
3.rtci travelled till eight the next Morning, though not
q uite so hastily as besore; and about seven o'Clock we
passed a little River, called Kiriza, and came to a good
la.rge Town inhabited by Ruffians, and very populous,
^gilled Oxomys: There we heard, that several Troops or
j-Ioxds of Calmuckt had been abroad upon the Desert, but
cl-jac we were now completely out of Danger of them,
^ bich was to ourgreatSatissaction, you may be sure. Here
^ e were obliged to get some fresh Horses, and, having
gy ceii enough of Rest, we staid five Days; and my Part-
22 er and I agreed to give the honest Siberian, who brought
ps thither, the Value of ten Pistoles for his conducting
In five Days more we came to Vtuffima, upon the Ri-
ygr Witxogia, which running into the River Dtuina, we
^/cre there very happily near the End of our Travels by
j^,and, that River being navigable in seven Days Passage
tCf Jrch-Angel: From hence we came to Laivrenjkoy, where
_Y\C River joins, the third of July ; and provided ourselves
v J th two Luggage-boats and a Barge, for our Convenience;
embarked the seventh, and arrived all Safe at Arch-
jgrtgd the eighteenth, having been a Year, five Months,
nd three Days, on the Journey, including our Stay of
:ght Months and odd Days at Toboljki.
We were obliged to stay at this Place six Weeks for
tjye Arrival of the Ships, and must have tarried longer,
- 0-6 not a Hamburgher come in above a Month sooner
*j, an any of the Englijh Ships; when, after some Conss-
l-
agration, that the City of Hamburgh might happen to be
0_s good a Market for our Goods as London, we all took
*rreight with him; and, having put our Goods on board,
-c was most natural for me to put my Steward on board
*0 take care of them; by which Means my young Lord
jja<3 a sussicient Opportunity to conceal himself, never
£0i)iing on Shore again, in all the Time we staid there;
0fld this he did, that he might not be seen in the City,
^ here some of the Moscow Merchants would certainly have
feen and discovered him.
We sailed from Arch-Angel the twentieth of August the
faiiie Year; and, after no extraordinary bad Voyage,
arrived
arrived in the Elbe, the thirteenth of September: Here my
Partner and I sound a very good Sale for our Goods, as
well those of China, as the Sables, €ff c. of Siberia; and
dividing the Produce of our Effects, my Share amounted
to 3475/- 17s. 3•/. notwithstanding so many Losses we
had sustained, and Charges we had been at; only remem-
bring that 1 had included, in this, about 600/. worth of
Diamonds, which I had purchased at Bengal.
Here the young Lord took his Leave of us, and went
up the Elbe, in order to go to the Court of Vienna, where
he resolved to seek Protection, and where he could corre-
spond with those of his Father's Friends who were lest alive.
He did not part without all the Testimonies he could give,
of Gratitude for the Service I had done him, and his Sense
of my Kindness to the Prince his Father.
To conclude, having staid near four Months in Ham-
burgh, I came from thence, over Land to the Hague, where
I embarked in the Packet, and arrived in London, the 10th
of January, 1705, having been gone from England lea
Years and .nine Months.
And here, resolving to harrass myself no more, I am
preparing for a longer Journey th.an all these, having lived
seventy-two Years a Life of infinite Variety, and learned
sussiciently to know the Value of Retirement, and the
Blessing of ending our Days in Peace.
FINIS.
