THE
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
Of York, Mariner.
ILLUSTRATED WITH
ONE HUNDRED AND TEN WOOD ENGRAVINGS.

WARD, LOCK AND CO.
LONDON: WARWICK HOUSE. SALISBURY SQUARE, E.C.
NEW YORK : 10, BOND STREET.
0cu
C0NTENT8.
SECTION I.
MM
Robinson's Family, Ac—Bis Elopement from his Parents 1
SECTION II.
First Adventures at Sea, and Experience of a Maritime Life.—Voyage to
Guinea.
SECTION III.
Robinson's Captivity at Bailee.—Escape with Xury.—Arrival at the Urazils. 11
SECTION IV.
lie settles in the Brazils as a Planter.—Hakes another Voyage, and is Ship-
wrecked ..mi, i—— 28
SECTION V.
Robinson finds himself in a Desolate Island.—Procures a Stock of Articles
from the Wreck.—Constructs his Habitation „ SI
SECTION VI.
Carries all his Riches, Provisions, 4c. into his Habitation,—Dreariness of
Solitude.—Consolatory Reflections 40
SECTION VII.
Robinson's Mode of Reckoning Time.—Difficulties arising from want of
Toole.—He arranges his Habitation . i3
SECTION VIII.
Robinson's Journal....Details of his Domestio Economy and Contrivances.
—Shock of an Earthau&ke
SECTION IX.
Robinson obtains more Articles from the Wreck.—His Illness and Affliction S3
SECTION X.
His Recovery .—His Comfort in Reading the Scriptures.—Makes an Excur-
sion into the Interior of the Island.—Forms his " Bower" -' ».. 57
IV CONTESTS.
SECTION XI.
Eubinson makes a Tour to Explore his Island - » 65
SECTION XII.
Be returns to Iris Care.—His Agricultural Labours and Success................ 69
SECTION XIII.
Mis Manufacture of Potter;, and Contrivance for baking Bread. 74
SECTION XIV.
Hi-tlitatcs his Escape from the Island.—Builds a Canoe.—Failure of his
Sdieme.—Resignation to his Condition.—Makes himself a new Dress 78
SECTION XV.
He makes a smaller Cauoe, iu which he attempts to cruise round the Island.
- ills perilous situation at Sea.—He returns home - 84
SECTION XVI.
He rears a Flock of Goats.—His Diary.—His Domestic habits and Style of
Living.—Increasing Prosperity 80
SECTION XVl,.
Unexpected Alarm and Cause for Apprehension.- He Fortifies his Abode>— 93
SECTION XVIII.
Precautions against Surprise.—Robinson discovers that his Island has been
visited by Cannibals ....„.......» 99
SECTION XIX.
Eo'..iiison discovers a Cave which serves him as a Retreat against the
Savages «.....- 103
SECTION XX.
Another visit of the Savages.—Robinson sees them 'lancing.—Perceives the
Wreck of a Vessel 106
SECTION XXI.
l!n visits the Wreck and obtains many Stores from it.—Again thinks of
quilting the Island.—Has a remarkable Dream 118
STCTION XXII.
Roinnsou rescues one of their Captives from the Savages, whom he names
Friday, and makes his Servant 113
SECTION XXIII.
RoMnson instructs snd civilizes his man Friday—Endeavours to give him
an Idea of Christianity 124
OOKTINTS. T
SECTION XXIV.
PI 01
Robinson and Friday build a Canoe to carry them to Friday's Country.—
Their Scheme prevented by the arrival or a Party of Savages 131
SECTION XXV.
Robinson releases a Spaniard.—Friday discovers his Father.—Accommoda-
tion provided for these new Guosts—who are afterwards sent to liberate
the other Spaniards.—Arrival of an English Vessel „ 137
SECTION XXVI.
Robinson discovers himself to the English Captain.—Assists him in reducing
his mutinous Crew,—who submit to him ;62
SECTION XXVII.
Atkins entreats the Captain to spare his Life.—The latter recovers his Vessel
from the Mutineers.—And Robinson leaves the Island 163
SECTION XXVIII.
Robinson goes to Lisbon, where he finds the Portuguese Captain, who renders
him an Account of his Property in the Brazils.—Sets out on his Return to
England by Laud „ 171
SECTION XXIX.
Friday's Encounter with a Hear.—Robinson and his fellow Travellers
attacked by a Flock of Wolves.— His Arrangement of his Affairs, and
Marriage after his Return to England 179
SECTION XXX.
He is seized with a Desire to revisit his Island.—Loses his Wife—is tempted
to go to Sea again.—Takes out a Cargo for his Colony 187
SECTION XXXI.
Robinson's Ship relieves the Crew of a French Vessel that bad caught Fire... 190
SECTION XXXII.
Believes the Crew of a Bristol Ship, who are starving.—Arrives at his
Island ..„...... ...„„.. 193
SECTION XXXIII.
Robinson and Friday go ashore.—The latter meets with his Father.—Account
of what pawed on the Island after Robinson's quitting it ....................,». 199
SECTION XXXIV.
The Account continued.—Quarrels between the Englishmen.—A Battle
between two Parties of Savages who visit the Island.—Fresh Mutiny
among the Settlers ..- „..- „ 2,j£
SECTION XXXV.
FAS!
The mutinous Englishmen are dismissed from the Island.—Return with
several captive Savages.—Take the FchmIwi m Wives „...—...„......... 223
SECTION XXXVI.
Several Savages killed; the Remainder leave the Island.—A Fleet of them
afterwards arrive.—A general Battle.—The Savages are overcome, and
tranquillity restored .....,...........„............, 233
SECTION XXXVII.
Robinson learns from the Spaniards the Difficulties they had to encounter.—
He furnishes the People with Tools, Ac—The French Ecclesiastic 248
SECTION XXXVIII.
Encounter with Savages at Sea.—Friday's Death.—Robinson finds his former
Partner in the Brazils.—Sails for the East Indies ................................... 2U
SECTION XXXIX.
The Vessel touehes at Madagascar.—Affray with the Natives,—who are mas-
sacred by the Crew.—The Sailors afterwards refuse to sail with Robinson,
who is left by his Nephew, the Captain, in Bengal - 250
SECTION XL.
Meets with an English Merchant with whom he makes some trading
Voyages.—They are mistaken for Pirates.—Vanquish their Pursuers.—
Voyage to China.—Recoutre with the Cochin-Chiiieso.—Island of Formosa.
—Gulf of Nanquin —Apprehension of falling into the Hands of the Dutch. 26S
SECTION XLI.
Journey to Pekin.—Robinson joins a Caravan proceeding to Moscow.—Ren-
contres with the Tartars 2 1
SECTION XLII.
Route through Muscovy.—Robinson and a Scots Merchant destroy an Idol.
—The whole Caravan in great Peril from the Pursuit of the Pagans.—
ToboUki.—Departure from Tobolsk!.—Encounter with a Troop of Robbers
In the Desert.—Robinson reaches Archangel, and finally arrives In England H)S
BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE
OF THE
AUTHOR OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
Daniel Depoe, the author of numerous works of fiction, among
which the "History of the Plague" has attained a certain popularity,
and " Robinson Crusoe" a lasting and world-wide renown, was boru
in the parish of St. Giles, Cripplegate, in the city of London, in the
year 1661. He was educated at a dissenting school at Newington
Green; his father, a strict dissenter, intending him for the priesthood.
But this project seems to have been abandoned, for some unknown
reason, and young Daniel became a tradesman, like his father. Some-
thing of the roving, restless nature, so admirably described in
"Kobinson Crusoe," seems to have been inherent in Defoe himself;
for his life is full of strange vicissitudes, and he appears continually
involved in trouble on one account or another. We find him taking.
part in the most ill-considered and unfortunate enterprise of his
time, the Rebellion of Monmouth, and narrowly escaping what the
cynical spirit of the time dubbed "a merry go-round at rope fair,"
namely, death by strangulation, for the oflence. In after-life he
was hotly embroiled in the political quarrels of his age. At one
time he was compelled to stand in the pillory, as a punishment for
writing a well-timed and thoughtful pamphlet on "The shortest wav
with the Dissenters." The populace, sympathizing with and ad-
miring him, crowned the pillory with flowers, and converted his
penance into a trinmph; but this could not relieve him from the
burden of the heavy fine he was compelled to pay, and which ham-
pered him for years afterwards. At another time he suffered a long
imprisonment, obtaining his release after two years by the interven-
tion of Harley, Earl of Oxford. But he had not the art of advancing
his fortunes, though his evident merit procured him employment in
several matters of consequence; and, at the end of his long life, he
was in poverty and neglect. He died in his native parish of St.
Giles, Cripplegate, April 24, 1731, at the age of seventy, and was
interred in Bunbili Fields burial-ground.
The political works of Defoe are numerous, and had a sensible
effect on the times in which he lived. A thorough Englishman, out-
spoken, vehement, and uncompromising, he shouted out lustily
against abuses and wrong-doing wherever he fonnd them; and in many
respects his ideas were greatly in advance of his time. Some of his
schemes may have been visionary and impracticable; but it is pleasant
to hear his sturdy voice raised, and to see his nervous pen wielded so
unflinchingly in advocacy of his principles, and to mark how unvaryingly
those principles point to moderation, merev and the law of kindness.
His llevicw, which he conducted for nine years, may certainly be
considered as the pioneer of the Spectator, Taller, Quardian, ana
other collections of essays which enriched the literature of the first
half of the eighteenth century.
His political writings, however, have mostly passed away with the
troublous times which gave them birth, and to which their interest
was confined. It was as a writer of fiction that Defoe was to
achieve more lasting fame. Two, at least, of his works have a value
and a significance quite irrespective of time and place,—the one as a
record of a national calamity, the other as a wonderful piece of ima-
ginary autobiographv. These two books are the "History of the
Plague of 1665," an5 the "Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
At the time when the scourge was decimating London, Daniel
Defoe was only four years old. It could not, therefore, be from
memory that he so vividly described its incidents; though, doubtless,
in his youth he heard many an anecdote about the pestilence and its
ravages, from men of maturer years, on whose memories it must have
made an indelible impression. But his chief talent lay in the
management of detail and accurate description; and it is difficult to
imagine, as we read the graphic record of the state of the terror-
stricken, desolate city, that we have not before us the real daily
notes of an actual indweller in the city of the plague. In Robinson
Crusoe the same marvellous power is shown, but in a much higher
degree. With matchless skill, the doubts and sorrows, the shifts
and expedients, the little domestic trinmphs and disappointments of
the ship-wrecked mariner in his solitary home are put before the
reader in the very form most caleulated to enlist his interest and
sympathies. So thoroughly has the author identified himself with the
hero of his romance, that Defoe disappears, and it is Robinson Crusoe
himself who becomes a living personality, and moves and speaks
before the reader, and becomes as clearly and distinctly personified
as any hero of real life.
The first edition of Robinson Crusoe was published in 1719. In
the century and a half that has since elapsed, hundreds of edi-
tions have appeared in all European languages. Everywhere the
book has worked its way; and as for the German version, "Robinson
de Jungcre" is chronicled as one of the greatest successes of the
eminent Hamburgh firm of Campc and Co.
In the present volume, the original text, slightly shortened, has
been adhered to. The operation of modernizing the language, ne-
cessary, perhaps, in a scientific work, would have taken away one of
the chief charms from the narrative of the simple sailor, who is
therefore left to te." his tale in )iis own rough, pathetie, old-fashioned
way. The drawings are from an eminent German pencil, and apart
from their artistic ralue, serve the purpose of thorovghly illustrating
the text.

SECTION I.
ROBINSON's FAMILY, ETC.—HIS ELOFEMENT FROM HIS FABENTS.
I was bor n in the year 1632, in the city of York, of a good family,
though not of that country, my father being a foreigner of Bremen,
named Kreutznaer, who settled first at Hull. He got a good estate
by merchandise, and leaving off his trade, lived afterwards at York;
from whence he had married my mother, whose relations were named
Robinson, a very good family in that country, and after whom I was
so called, that is to say, Kobinson Kreutznaer; but, by the usual
corruption of words in England, we are now called, nay, we call
ourselves, and write our name, Crusoe; and so my companions always
called me.
I had two elder brothers, one of whom was lieutenant-colonel to an
English regiment of foot in Elanders, formerly commanded by the
famous Colonel Lockhart, and was killed at the battle near Dunkirk
against the Spaniards. What became of my second brother, I never
knew, any more than my father and mother did know what was
become of me.
Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any trade, my
head began to be filled very early with rambling thoughts. My
father, who was very aged, had given me a competent share of
learning, as far as house education and a country free school generally
go, and designed me for the law; but I would be satished with
nothing but going to sea; and my inclination to this led me so
strongly against the will, nay, the commands of my father, and
Against all the entreaties and persuasions of my mother and other
friends, that there seemed to be something fatal in that propension of
nature, tending directly to the life of misery which was to befall me.
2 ADVENTURES OP ROBINSON CHUSOE.
My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and excellent
counsel against what he foresaw was my design. He called me one
morning into his chamber, where he was confined by the gout, and
expostulated very warmly with me upon this subject; he asked me
what reasons, more than a mere wandeiing inclination, I had for
leaving his house, and my native country, where I might be well
introduced, and had a prospect of raising my fortune, by application
and industry, with a life of ease and pleasure. He told me it was
men of desperate fortunes, on one hand, or of superior fortunes, on
the other, who went abroad upon adventures, aspiring to rise by
enterprise, and make themselves famous in undertakings of nature
out of the common road; that these things were all either too far
above me, or too far below me; that mine was the middle state, or
what might be called the upper station of low life, which he had
found, by long experience, was the best state in the world, the most
suited to human happiness; not exposed to the miseries and hard-
ships, the labour and sufferings, of the mechanic part of mankind,
and not embarrassed with the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of
the upper part of mankind: he told me, I might judge of the happi
uess of this state by one thing, viz., that this was the state of life
which all other people envied; that kings have frequently lamented
the miserable consequences of being born to great things, and wished
they had been placed in the middle of two extremes, between the
mean and the great; lliat the wise man gave his testimony to this
as the just standard of true felicity, when he prayed to have "neither
poverty nor riches."
He bade me observe it, and I skould always find, that the calami
ties of life were shared among the upper and lower part of mankind;
but that the middle station had the fewest disasters, and was not
exposed to so many vicissitudes as the higher or lower part of man-
kind; nay, they were not subjected to so many distempers and
uneasinesses, either of body or mind, as those were, who, by vicious
living, luxury, and extravagancies, on one hand, or, by hard labour,
want of necessaries, and mean and insufficient diet, on the other hand,
bring distempers upon themselves by the natural consequences of
their way of living; that the middle station of life was caleulated for
all kind of virtues, and all kind of enjoyments; that peace and
plenty were the handmaids of a middle fortune; that temperance,
moderation, quietness, health, society, all agreeable diversions, and
all desirable pleasures were the blessings attending the middle
station of life; that this way men went silently and smoothly through
the world, and comfortably out of it, not embarrassed with the
labours of the hands o.r. of the head, not sold tu the life of slavery
for daily bread, or harassed with perplexed circumstances, which rob
the soul of peace, and the body of rest; not enraged with the passion
of envy, or secret burning last of ambitino for great things; but, in
easy circumstances, sliding gently through the world, .ind sensibly
ADV2OTTOXS 07 ROBINS0N CBUSOI. 3
tasting the sweets of living, without the bitter; feeling that they are
happy, and learning by every day'S experience, to Know it more
sensibly.
After this he pressed me earnestly, and in the most affectionate
manner, not to play the young man, nor to precipitate myself into
miseries which nature, and the station of life I was born w seemed
to have provided against; that I was under no necessity of seeking
my bread ; that he would do well for me, and endeavour to enter me
fairly into the station of life which he had been just recommending
to me; and that if I was not very easy and happy in the world, it
must be my mere fate, or fault, that must hinder it; and that he
should have nothing to answer for, having thus discharged his duty
in warning me against measures which he lcnew would be to my hurt;
in a word, that he would do very kind things for me if I would
stay a.jd settle at home as he directed; he told me I had my elder
brother for an example, who had run into the army, where he was
killed during the Low Country wars; that if I did take this foolish
step, God would not bless me; and I would have leisure, hereafter,
to reflect upon having neglected his counsel, when there might be
none to assist in my recovery.
I observed the tears run down his face very plentifully, especially
when he spoke of my brother who was killed; and that, when he
spoke of my having leisure to repent, and none to assist me, he was
so moved, that ho broke off the discourse, and told me his heart was
so full, he could say no more to me.
1 was sincerely affected with this discourse; as, indeed, who
could be otherwise ? and I resolved not to think of going abroad any
more, but to settle at home, according to my father's desire. But
alas! a few days wore it all off: and, in snort, to prevent any of
my father's further importunities, in a few weeks after I resolved
to run quite away from him. However, 1 did not act so hastily,
neither, as my first heat of resolution prompted; but I took my
mother, at a time when I thought her a little pleasanter than ordinary,
and told her that my thoughts were so entirely bent upon seeing
the world, that I should never settle to anything with resolution
enough to go through with it, and my father had better give me Iiis
consent than force me to go without it; that I was now eighteen
years old, which was too late to go apprentice to a trade, or clerk to
an attorney; that I was sure, if I did, snould never serve out
my time, and I should certainly run away from my master befo'j my
time was out, and go to sea; and if she would speak to my father to
let me make but one voyage abroad, it I came home again, anil did
not like it, I would go no more; and 1 would promise by a double
diligence, to recover the time I had lost.
This put my mother in a great passion: she told me she knew it
would be to no purpose to speak to my father upon any such a sub-
ject ; that he knew too well what was my interest to give his consent
4 ADVENTflBES 01 EQUlNSOtf CB.1/SOE.
to anything so much for my hurt; and that she wondered how I
could think of any such thing, after such a discourse as I had from
my father, and such kind and tender expressions as she knew my
father had used: that for her part, she would not have so much hand in
my destruction; and I should never have it to say, that my mother
was willing when my father was not.
Though my mother refused to move it to my father, yet, as 1 have
heard afterwards, she reported all the discourse to him; and that
my father, after showing a great concern at it, said to her with a sigh:
"That boy might be happy if he would stay at home; but if he goes
abroad, he will be the most miserable wretch that ever was born;
I cannot give consent to it."

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose; though
in the meantime I continued obstinately deaf to all proposals of
settling to business, and frequently expostulating with my father
and mother about their being so positively determined against what
they kuew my inclinations prompted me to. But being one day at
Hull, whether I went casually, and without any purpose of making
an elopement at that time, and one of my companions then going
to London by sea in his father's ship, and prompting me to go with
them by the common allurement of seafaring men, viz., that it should
cost me nothing for my passage, I consulted neither fattier nor
mother any more, nor so much as sent them word of it; but left
them to hear of it as they might, without asking God's blessing,
or my father's, without any consideration of circumstances or conse-
quences, and in an ill hour, God knows.
SECTION II.
FIRST ADVENTURES AT SEA, AND EXPERIENCE OF A MARITIME LIFE.
VOYAGE TO GUINEA.
On the 1st September, 1651, I went on board a ship bound for
London. Never any young adventurer's misfortunes, I believe,
began sooner, or continued longer, than mine. The ship had no
sooner got out of the Humber, than the wind began to blow, and the
waves to rise, in a most frightful manner; and as I had never been
at sea before, I was most inexpressibly sick in body, and terrified in
mind; I began now seriously to reflect upon what I had done, and
how justly I was overtaken by the judgment of Heaven, for wickedly
leaving my father's house. AH the good counsels of my parents, my
father's tears, and my mother's entreaties, came now fresh to my
mind; and my conscience, which was not yet come to the pitch of
hardness to which it has been since, reproached me with the con-
tempt of advice, and the abandonment of my duty.
All this while the storm increased, and the sea, which I had
never been upon before, went very high, though nothing like what
I have seen many times since; no, nor what I saw a few days after;
but, such as it was, enough to affect me then, who was but a young
sailor, and had never known anything of the matter. I expected
every wave would have swallowed us up, and that every time the
ship fell down, as I thought in the trough or hollow of the sea, we
should never rise more; and in this agony of mind I made many
vows and resolutions, that if it would please God to spare my life
this voyage, if ever I got my foot once on dry land, I would go
directly home to my father, and never set it into a ship again while
I lived; that I would take his advice, and never run myself into
such miseries as these any more. Now I saw plainly the goodness
of his observations about the middle station of life; how easy, how
comfortable, he had lived all his days, and never had been exposed
to tempests at sea or troubles on shore; and I resolved that I would,
like a true repenting prodigal, go home to my father.
These wise and sober thoughts continued during the storm, and
indeed sometime after; but the next day as the wind was abated,
and the sea calmer, I began to be a little inured to it. However, I
was very grave that day, being also a little sea-sick still; but towards
night the weather cleared up, the wind was quite over, and a charm-
ing fine evening followed: the sun went down perfectly clear, and
rose so the next morning; and having little or no wind, and a smooth
sea, the sun shining upon it, the sight was, as I thought, the most
delightful that I ever saw.
Inad slept well in the night, and was now no more sea-sick, but
very cheerful, looking with wonder upon the sea that was so rough
and terrible the day before, and could be so calm and pleasant in a
little time after.

And now, lest my good resolutions should continue, my companion.
who had indeed enticed me away, came to me, and said, " Well, Bob,"
clapping me on the shoulder, "how do you do after it? I warrant
you you were frightened, wa'n't you, last night, when it blew a cap-
lull of wind ?"—" A cap-full, do you call it?" said I; "'twas a terrible
storm."—" A storm you fool?" replies he, " do you call that a storm!
Why, it was nothing at all; give us but a good ship, and sea-room,'
and we think nothing of such a squall of wind as that; you are but
a fresh water sailor, Bob; come, let us make a bowl of punch, and
we'll forget all that. D'ye see what charming weather 'tis now?"
To make short this sad part of my story, we went the way of all
sailors; the punch was made, and I was made drunk with it ;* and in
one night's wickedness I drowned all my repentance, all my reflec-
tions upon my past conduct, and all my resolutions for the future.
In a word as the sea was returned to its smoothness of surface and
settled calmness by the abatement of the storm, so the hurry of
my thoughts being over, my fears and apprehensions of being
swallowed up by the sea forgotten, and the current of my former
desires returned, I entirely forgot the vows and promises I had
made in my distress.
The sixth day of our being at sea we came into Yarmouth Roads;
the wind having been contrary and the weather calm, we had
matle but little way since the storm. Here we were obliged to
come to an anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing contrary,
viz. at south-west, for seven or eight days, during which lime a great
many ships from Neweastle came into the same roads, as a common
harbour where the ships might wait for a wind for the river Thames.
We had not, however, rid here so long, but we should have tided up
the river, but that the wind blew too fresh; and, after we had lain
four or five days, blew very hard. However, the roads being reckoned
as good as a harbour, the anchorage good, and our ground tackle
very strong, our men were unconcerned, and not in the least appre-
hensive of danger, but spent the time in rest and mirth, after the
manner of the sea. But the eighth day, in the morning, the wind
increased, and we had all hands at work to strike our topmasts, and
make everything snug and close, that the ship might ride as easy as
possible. By noon the sea went very high indeed, and our ship rode
forecastle in, shipped several seas, and we thought, once or twice our
anchor had come home; upon which our master ordered out the sheet
anchor; so that we rode with two anchors ahead, and cables veered
out to the better end.
By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now I began to
see terror and amazement in the faces of even the seamen themselves.
The master was vigilant in the business of preserving the ship; but,
as he went in and out of his cabin by me, I could hear him softly
say to himself several times, "Lord, be merciful to us! we shall be
alt lost; we shall be all undone;" and the like.
The storm was so violent, that I saw what is not often seen, the
master, the boatswain, and some others, more sensible than the rest,
at their prayers, and expecting every moment the ship would go to
the botton.. In the middle of the night, and under all the rest of
our distresses, one of the men, that had been down on purpose to see,
cried out, "We have sprung a leak!" another man said " there was
four foot water in the hold." Then all hands were called to the
pump. At that very word my heart as I thought, died within me,
and I fell backwards upon the side of my bed, where I sat in the
cabin. However, the men roused me, aud told me that I, who was
able to do nothing before, was as well able to pump as another; at
which I stirred up and went to the pump, and worked very heartily.
While this was doing, the master seeing some light colliers, who,
not able to ride out the storm, were obliged to slip and run away to
sea, and would not come near us, ordered us to fire a gun as a signal
of distress. I, who knew nothing what that meant, was ao surprised,
that I thought the ship had broke, or some dreadful thing happened.
In a word, I was so surprised, that I fell down in a swoon. As this
was a time when everybody had his own life to thiDk of, no one
minded me, or what was become of me; but another man stepped
up to the pump, and thrusting me aside with his foot, let me Tie,
thinking I had been dead; and it was a great while before I came to
myself.
We worked on; but the water increasing in the hold, it was
apparent that the ship would founder; and though the storm began
to abate a little, yet as it was not possible she could swim till we
might run into a port;—so the master continued firing guns for help;
and a light ship, who had rid it out just ahead of us, ventured a boat
out to help us. It was with the utmost hazard the boat came near
us, but it was impossible for us to get on board, or for the boat
lie near the ship s side; till at last the men rowing very heartily,
and venturing their lives to save ours, our men cast them a rope
over our stern with a buoy to it, and then veered it out a great
length, which they, after great labour and hazard, took hold of, ana
we hauled them close under our stern, and got all into the boat.
It was to no purpose for them or us, after we were in the boat, to
think of reaching their own ship; so all agreed to let her drive, and
ouly to pull her in towards shore as much as we could; and our
master promised them, that if the boat were staved upon shore, he
would make it good to their master; so partly rowing and partly
driving, our boat went away to the northward, sloping towards the
shore almost as far as Winterton-Ness.
We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of our ship
when we saw her sink; and then I understood, for the first time,
what was meant by a ship foundering in the sea. I must acknow-
ledge, I had hardly eyes to look up when the seamen told me she was
sinking; for, from that moment, they rather put me into the boat
than that 1 might be said to go in.. My heart was, as it were, deaa
within me, partly with fright, partly with horror of mind, and the
thoughts of what was yet before me.
While we were in this condition, the men yet labouring at the oar
to bring the boat near the shore, we could. see (when, our boat
mounting the waves, we were able to see the shore) a great many
Deople running along the strand, to assist us when we should come
near; but we made out slow way towards the shore; nor were we
able to reach it, till being past the lighthouse at Winterton, the
shore falls off to the westward, towards Cromer, and so the land
broke off a little the violence of the wind. Here we got in, and,
though not without much difficulty, got all safe on shore, and walked
afterwards on foot to Yarmouth; where, as unfortunate men, we were
used with great humanity, as well by the magistrates of the town, who
assigned us good quarters, as by the "^rticvlfc- »acrchants and owners
of ships; and had money given us sufficient to carry us either to
London or back to Hull, as we thought fit.
Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull, and have
gone home, I had been happy: and my father, an emblem of our

blessed Saviour's parable, had even killed the fatted calf for me; for,
hearing the ship I went in was cast away in Yarmouth Roads, it was
a great while before he had any assurance that I was not drowned.
My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and who was
the master's son, was now less forward than I; the first time he spoke
to me after we were at Yarmouth, which was not till two or three
days, for we were separated in the town to several quarters ; I say the
first time he saw me, it appeared his tone was altered, and, looking
very melancholy, and shaking his head, he asked me how I did,
telling his father who I was, and how I had come this voyage only
for a trial, in order to go farther abroad. His father talked very
gravely to me ; exhorted me to go back to my father, and not tempt
Providence to my ruin; told me, I might see a visible hand of
Heaven against me; 'and, young man," said he, "depend upon it, if
yon do not go back, wherever you go, you will meet with nothing but
disasters and disappointme»ts, till your father's words are fulfilled
upon you."
We parted soon after, for I made him little answer, and I saw him
no more; which way he went, I know not; as for me, having some
money in my pocket, I travelled to London by land; and there, as
well iis on the road, had many struggles with myself what course of
life I should take, and whether I should go home or go to sea. As
to going home, shame opposed the best motions that offered to my
Iii ADVt.Vi-UKLS UF 110MASON CKliSOB.
thoughts ; and it immediately occurred to me how I should be laughed
at among the neighbours, and should be ashamed to see, not my
father and mother only, but even everybody else. From whence I
have often observed, how incongruous and irrational the common
temper of mankind is, especially of youth, to that reason which
ought to guide them in such cases, viz., that they are not ashamed to
sin, and yet arc ashamed to repent; not ashamed of the action fo
which they ought justly to be esteemed fools; but are ashamed ol
the returning, which only can make them be esteemed wise men.
I went on board a vessel bound to the coast of Africa; or as the
sailors vulgarly call it, a voyage to Guinea.
It was my lot, first of all, to fall into pretty good company in Lon-
don; I became acquainted with the master of a ship, who had been
on the coast of Guinea, and who having had very good success there,
was resolved to go again. He, taking a fancv to my conversation,
which was not at all disagreeable at that time, and hearing me say I
had a mind to see the world, told me, that if I would go that voyage
with him, I should be at no expense; I should be his messmate and
his companion; and if I could carry anything with me, I should have
all the advantage of it the trade would admit, and perhaps I might
meet with some encouragement. I embraced the offer, and, entering
into strict friendship with this captain, who was an honest and plain-
dealing man, I went the voyage with him, and carried a small adventure
with me; which, by the disinterested honesty of my friend the cap-
tain, I increased very considerably; for I carried about forty pounds
in such toys and trifles as the captain directed me to buy. This
forty pounds I mustered together by the assistance of some of my
relations whom I corresponded with; and who I believe, got my
father, or at least, my mother, to contribute so much as that to my
first adventure. This was the only voyage which I may say was
successful in all my adventures, and which I owe to the integrity and
honesty of my friend the captain; under whom also I got a
competent knowledge of mathematies and the rules of navigation,
learned how to keep an account of the ship's course, take an observa
tion, and, in short, to undci stand some things that were needful to
be understood by a sailor; for, as he took delight to instruct me, I
took delight to learn; and, in a word, this voyage made me both a
sailor and a merchant; for I brought home five pounds nine ounces
of gold dust for my adventure, which yielded me in London, on
my return, almost tnrce hundred pounds, and this filled me with
those aspiring thoughts which have since so completed my ruin. Yet
even in this voyage I had my misfortunes, too; particularly, that I
was continually sick, being thrown into a violent calenture by the ex-
cessive heat of the climate; our principal trading being upon the coast
from the latitude of fifteen degrees north, even to the line itself
SECTION III.
kobinson's captivity at sallee—ESCAFE with XURY—AHR1VAL
AT THE BRAZLLS.
I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my friend, to my great
misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I resolved to go the same
voyage again; and I embarked in the same vessel with one who was
his mate in the former voyage, and had now got the command of the
ship. This was the unhappiest voyage that ever man made; for
though I did not carry quite a hundred pounds of my new-gained
wealth, so that I had two hundred pounds left, and which I lodged
with my friend's widow, who was very just to me, yet I fell into
terrible misfortunes in this voyage; and the first was this, viz.—our
ship, making her course towards the Canary Islands, or rather
between those Islands and the African shore, was surprised, in the
grey of the morning, by a Turkish rover, of Sallee, who gave chase
to us, with all the sail she could make. We crowded also as much
canvass as oiir yards would spread, or our masts carry, to get clear;
but finding the pirate gained upon us, and would certainly come
up with us in a few hours, we prepared to fight, our ship having
twelve guns and the rover eighteen. About three in the afternoon
he came up with us; and bringing to, by mistake, just athwart our
quarter, instead of athwart our stern, as he intended, we brought
eight of our guns to bear on that side, and poured in a broadside
upon him, which made him sheer off again, after returning our fire,
and pouring in also his small shot from near two hundred men
whom he had on board. However, we had not a man touched, all
our men keeping close. He prepared to attack us again, and we tl
defend ourselves; but laying us on board the next time upon our
other quarter, he entered sixty men upon our decks, who immediately
fell to cutting and hacking the sails and rigging. We plied them
with small shot, half-pikea, powder-chests, and such like, and cleared
our decks of them twice. However, to cut short this melancholy
part of our story, our ship being disabled, and three of our men
killed, and eight wounded, we were obliged to yield, and were
carried all prisoners into Sallee, a port belonging to the Moors.
The usage I had there was not so dreadfui as at first I appre-
hended; nor was I carried up the country to the emperor's court,
as the rest of our men were, but was kept by the captain of the
rover as his proper prize and made his slave, being young and nimble,
and fit for his business. At this surprising change of my circum-
stances, from a merchant to a miserable slave, 1 was perfectly over-
whelmed; and now looked back upon my father's prophetic discourse
to me, that I should be miserable, and have none to relieve me;
which I thought was now so effectuallv brought to pass, that it could
not be worse; that now the hand of Heaven had overtaken me, and
I was undone, without redemption. But, alas! this was but a taste
of the misery I was to go through, as will appear in the sequel of
this story.
As my new patron, or master, had taken me home to his house,
so I was in hopes he would take me with him when he went to sea
again, believing that it would, some time or other, be his fate to be
taken by a Spanish or Portuguese man of war, and that then I
should be set at liberty. But this hope of mine was soon taken
away, for when he went to sea he left me on shore to look after his
little garden, and do the common drudgery of slaves about his house;
and when he came home again from his cruise, he ordered me to lie
in the cabin, to look after the ship.
Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what method I
might take to effect it, but found no way that had the least proba-
bility in it. Nothing presented to make the supposition of it rational;
for 1 had nobody to communicate it to that would embark with me;
no fellow-slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotchman there but
mysell; so that for two years, though I often pleased myself with
the imagination, yet I never had the least encouraging prospect of
putting it in practice.
After about two years, an odd circumstance presented itself,
which put the old thought of making some attempt for my liberty
again into my head. My patron lying at home longer than usual,
without fitting out his ship, which, as I heard, was for want of
money, he used constantly, once or twice a week, sometimes oftener,
if the weather was fair, to take the ship's pinnacle, and go out into
the road a fishing; and as he always took me and a young Moresco
with him to row the boat, we made him very merry, and I proved
13
very dexterous in catching fish,.insomuch that sometimes he would
send me with a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the youth, the
Moresco, as they called him, to catch a dish of fish for him.
It happened one time, that going a fishing in a stark calm
morning, a fog rose so thick, that though we were not half a league
from the shore, we lost sight of it; and rowing, we knew not
whither, or which way, we laboured all day, and all the next night,
and when the morning came, we found we had pulled off to sea,

instead of pulling in for the shore, and that we were at least two
leagues from the shore; however, we got well in again, though with
a great deal of lahour, and some danger, for the wind began to blow
pretty fresh in the morning; but particularly we were all very
hungry.
But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take more
care of himself for the future; and having lying by him the long-
boat of our English ship he had taken, he resolved he would not go
a fishing any more without a compass and some provision; so he
ordered the carpenter of the ship, who was an English slave, to
build a little state-room or cabin in the middle of the longboat, like
that of a barge, with a place to stand behind it, to steer and haul
home the main sheet, and room before for a hand or two to stand
and work the sails. She sailed with what we called a leg-of-mutton
sail, and the boom jibbed over the top of the cabin, which lay very
snug and low, and had in it room for him to lie, with a slave or two,
and a table to eat on, with some small lockers to put in some bottles
of such liquor as he thought fit to drink, and particularly his bread,
rice, and coffee.
We went frequently out with this boat a fishing, and as I was
most dexterous to catch fish for him, he never went without me.
It happened that he had appointed to go out in this boat, either
for pleasure or for fish, with two or three Moors of some distinction
in that place, aud for whom he had provided extraordinarily, and
had therefore sent on board the boat, overnight, a larger store of
provisions than ordinary, and had ordered me to get ready three
fusees, with powder and shot, which were on board his ship, for that
they designed some sport of fowling as well as fishing,
i I got all things ready as he directed, and waited the next morning
with the boat washed clean, her ensign and pendants out, and every-
thing to accommodate his guests: when, by and by, my patron came

on board alone, and told me his guests had put off going, upon some
business that fell out, and ordered me, with a man and boy, as
usual, to go out with the boat, and catch them some fish, for that
his friends were to sup at his house; and commanded, that as soon
as I had got some fish, I should bring it home to his house; all
which I prepared to do.
This moment my former notions of deliverance darted into my
thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a little ship at my
command; and my master being gone, I prepared to furnish myself,
not for a fishing business, but for a voyage; though I knew not,
neither did I so much as consider, whither I should steer; for any
where, to get out of that place, was my way,
My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak to this Moor,
to get something for our subsistence on board; for I told him we
must not presume to eat of our patron's bread; he said, that was
true; so he brought a large basket of rusk or biscuit, of their kind,
and three jars with fresh water, into the boat. I knew where my
patron's case of bottles stood, which it was evident, by the make,
were taken out of some English prize, and I conveyed them into the
boat while the Moor was on shore, as if they had been there before
.or our master. I conveyed also a great lump of bees-wax into the
boat, which weighed above half a hundred-weight, with a parcel of
twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all which were of
great use to us afterwards, especially the wax, to make candles.
Another trick I tried upon him, which he innocently came into also;
his name was Ishmacl, whom they call Muley, or Moley; so I called to
him; "Moley," said I, *' our patron's guns are on board the boat, can
you not get a little powder and shot? It may be we may kill some
aleamies (fowls like our curlews)for ourselyes.and I know he keeps the
gunner's stores in the ship."—" Yes," says he, " I will bring some;"
and accordingly he brought a great leathern pouch, which held about
a pound and a half of powder, or rather more, and another with shot,
that had five or six pounds, with some bullets, and put all into
the boat; at the same time I found some powder of my master's in
the great cabin, with which I filled one of the large bottles in the
case, which was almost empty, pouring what was in it into another;
and thus furnished with every thing needful, we sailed out of port to
fish. The castle, which is at the entrance of the port, knew who we
were, and took no notice of us; and we were not above a mile out
of the port, when we hauled in our sail, and set us down to fish.
The wind blew from NN. E., which was contrary to my desire; for,
had it blown southerly, I had been sure to have made the coast of
Spain, and at last reached to the bay of Cadiz; but my resolutions
were, blow which way it would, I would be gone from the horrid
place where I was, and leave the rest to fate.
After we had fished some time and caught nothing, for wnen I
nad fish on my hook I would not pull them up, that he might not see
them, I said to the Moor: "This will not do; our master will not be
thus served; we must stand further off." He, thinking no harm,
agreed; and being at the head of the boat, set the sails ; and as I
had the helm, I run the boat near a league farther, and then brought
to, as if 1 would fish. Then giving the boy the helm, I stepped tor-
ward to where the Moor was, and I took him by surprise, with my
arm under his waist, and tossed him clean overboard into the sea.
He rose immediately, for he swam like a cork, and called to me,
begged to be taken in, and told me he would go all the world over
with me. He swam so strong after the boat, that he would have
reached me very quickly, there being but little wind; upon which
I stepped into the cabin, and fetchmg one of the fowliug-pieces,
I presented it at him, and told him, I had done him no hurt, and
if he would be quiet, I would do him none. "But," said I, "you
swim well enough to reach the shore, and the sea is calm; make the
best of your way to shore, and I will do you no harm; but if you
come near the boat, I will shoot you through the head; for I am
resolved to have my liberty." So he turned himself about, and swam
for the shore; and I make no doubt but he reached it with ease, for
he was an excellent swimmer.
13
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
I could have been content to have taken this Moor with me and
have drowned the boy, but there was no venturing to trust him.
When he was gone, 1 turned to the boy, whom they called Xury,
and said to him, "Xury, if you will be faithful to me I will make you
a great man; but if you will not stroke your face to be true to me
(that is, swear by Mahomet and his father's beard), I must throw you
into the sea too.' The boy smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently,
that 1 could not mistrust him; and swore to be faithful to me, and
go all over the world with inc.

While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming, I stood out
directly to sea with the boat, rather stretching to windward, that
they might think me gone towards the Straits' mouth (as indeed any
one that had been in their wits must have been supposed to do); for
who would have supposed we were sailing on to the southward, to the
truly Barbarian coast, where whole nations of negroes were sure to
surround us with their canoes, and destroy us; where we could never
once go on shore but we should be devoured by savage beasts, oi
more merciless savages of human kind?
But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed my course,
and steered directly south and by east, bending my course a little
towards the cast, that I might keep in with the shore ; and having a
fair fresh gale of wind, and a smooth quiet sea, I made such sail,
that I believe by the next day, at three o'clock in the afternoon,
v hen 1 made the land, I could not be less thau one hundred and
fifty miles south of Sallee, quite beyond the Emperor of Morocco's
dominions, or indeed of any other king thereabout; for we saw no
people.
Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, and the dread'ul
apprehensions I had of falling into their hands, that I would not stop,
or go on shore, or come to an anchor, the wind continuing fair, till I
had sailed in that manner five days; and then the wind shifting to
the southward, I concluded also that if any of our vessels were in
chase of me, they also would now give over; so I ventured to make
to the coast, and came to an anchor in the mouth of a little river;
1 knew not what or where, neither what latitude, what country,
what nation, or what river. I neither saw, nor desired to see, any
people; the principal thing I wanted was fresh water. We came
into this creek in the evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon
as it was dark, and discover the country; but as soon as it was
quite dark, we heard such dreadful noises of the barking, roaring,
and howling of wild creatures, of we knew not what kinds, that the
poor boy was ready to die with fear, and begged of me not to go on
shore till day. "Well, Xury," said I, "then Twill not; but it may be
we shall see men by day, who will be as bad to us as those lions."
"Then we may give them the shoot-gun," says Xury, laughing, " make
them run away. Such English Xury spoke by conversing among
ns slaves. However, I was glad to see the hoy so cheerful, and 1
gave him a dram out of our patron's case of bottles to cheer him up.
After all, Xury's advice was good, and I took it. We droppejl our
little anchor, and lay still all night; I say still, for we slept none; for in
two or three hours we Saw vast creatures (we knew not what to call
them), of many sorts, come down to the sea-shore, and run into the
water, wallowing and washing themselves, for the pleasure of cooling
themselves; and they made such bowlings and yellings, that I never
indeed heard the like.
Xury was ireadfully frightened, and indeed so was I too; but we
were both more frightened when we heard one of these creatures
swimming towards our boat; and we could hear by his blowing that
lie was a monstrous^ huge and furious beast. Poor Zury cried to mo
to weigh the anchor and row away. "No," says I, "Xury, we can slip
our cable with a buoy to it, and go off to sea; they cannot follow us
far." I had no sooner said so, but I perceived the creature within two
oars' length, which surprised me; however, I immediately stepped
to the cabin door, and taking up my gun, fired at him; upon
which he immediately turned about, and swam to the shore
again.
It is impossible to describe the horrible noises, and hideous cries
ana bowlings that were raised, as well upon the edge of the shore as
higher within the country, upon the noise or report of the gun ; a
thing, I believe, those creatures had never heard before. This con-
vinced me there was no going on shore for us in the night upon that
coast; and how to venture on shore-in the day, was another question
too; for to have fallen into the hands of any of the savages, had
been as bad as to have fallen into the paws of lions and tigers; at
least, we were equally apprehensive of the danger of it.
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore somewhere or
other for water, for we had not a pint left in the boat ; when and
where to get it was the point. Xury said, if I would let him go on
shore with one of the jars, he would find if there was any water, and
bring some to me. I asked him why he would go; why I should
not go, and he stay in the boat- The bov answered with so much

affection, that he made me love him ever after. Says he, "If wild
mans come, they eat me, you go away.—" Well, Xury," said I, " we
will both go ; and if the wild mans come, we will kill them; they shall
cat neither of us." So I gave Xury a piece of rusk bread to cat, and
a dram out of our patron's case of bottles, which I mentioned before;
and we hauled in the boat as near the shore as we thought was
proper, and so waded to shore, carrying nothing but our arms, and
two jars for water.
I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing the coming
of canoes with savages down the river; but the boy, seeing a low
place about a mile up the country, rambled to it; and, by and by,
I saw him come running towards me. I thought he was pursued by
some savage, or frightened by some wild beast, and I therefore ran
forwards to help him; but when I came nearer to him, I saw some-
thing hanging over his shoulders, which was a craature that he had
shot, like a hare, but different in colour and longer legs; however,
we were very glad of it, and it was very good meat; but the great
joy that poor Xury came with, was to tell me he had found good
water, ana seen no wild mans.
A* I had been one voyage to this coast before, I knew very well
that the islands of the Canaries, and the Cape de Vcrd Islands also,
lay not far from the coast. But as I had no instruments to take an
observation, to find what latitude we were in, and did not exactly
know, or at least remember, what latitude they were in, I knew not
where to look for them, or when to stand off to sea towards them,
otherwise I might now have easily found some of these islands. But
my hope was that if I stood alou^ this coast till I came to the part
where the English traded, I should find some of their vessels upon
their usual design of trade, that would relievo and take us in.
By the best of. my caleulation, the place where I now was, must
be that country which, lying between the Emperor of Morocco's
dominions and the Negroes, lies waste, and uninhabited, except by
wild beasts; the Negroes having abandoned it, and gone farther
south, for fear of the Moors, and the M 'ors not thinking it worth
inhabiting, by reason of its barrenness; nd, indeed both forsaking
it because of the prodigious numbers of tigers, lions, leopards, and
other furious creatures which harbour there; so that the Moors use
it for their hunting only, where thev go like an army, two or three
thousand men at a time; and, indeed for near a hundred miles
together upon this coast, we saw nothing but a waste, uninhabited
country by day, and heard nothing but bowlings and roaring of
wild beasts by night.
Once or twice, in the day-time, I thought I saw the Pico of
Teneriffe, being the top of the mountain Teneriffe, in the Canaries,
and had a great mind to venture out, in hopes of reaching thither;
but having tried twice, I was forced in again by contrary winds; the
sea also going too high for my little vessel; so I resolved to pursue
my first assign, and keep along the shore.
After this stop we made ou to the southward continually, for ten
or twelve days, living very sparingly on our provisions, which began
to abate very much, and going no oftener into shore than we were
obliged to for fresh watei. My design in this, was to make the
river Gambia, or Senegal; that is to say, anywhere about the Cape
dc Verd, where I was in hopes to meet some European ship; and if
I did not, 1 knew not what course I had to take, but to seek for the
islands or perish among the Negroes. I knew that all the ships from
Europe, which sailed either to the coast of Guinea, or to Brazil, or
to the East Indies, made this Cape, or those islands; and in a word
I put the whole of my fortune upon this single point, cither that I
must meet some ship, or perish.
When I had pursued this resolution about ten days longer,
I began to see that the land was inhabited; and in two or three
places, as we sailed by, we saw people stand upon the shore to
look at us; we could also perceive they were quite black and stark
naked. I was once inclined to have gone on shore to thein; but
Xury was my better counsellor, and said to me, "No go, no go." How-
20
ADVENTURES OF liUBINSON CBUSOE.
ever, I hauled in nearer the shore, that I might talk to them; and 1
found they ran along the shore by me a good way. I observed
they had no weapons in their hands, except one, who had a Ions
slender stick, which Xury said was a lance, and that they would
throw them a great way with good aim; so I kept at a distance, but
talked to them by signs, as well as I could, and particularly made
signs for something to eat. They beckoned to me to stop my boat,
and they would fetch me some meat; upon this I lowered the top of
my sail, and lay by, and two of them ran up into the country; and
in less than half an hour came back, and brought with them two
pieces of dry flesh and some corn, such as the produce of their
country; but we neither knew what the one or the other was; how-
ever, we were willing to accept it. But how to come at it was our
next dispute, for I was not for venturing on shore to them, and
they were as much afraid of us; but they took a safe way for us all,
for they brought it to the shore, and laid it down, and went and
stood a great way off till we fetched it on board, and then came
close to us again.
We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to make
them amends; but an opportunity offered that very instant to oblige
them wonderfully; for while we were lying by the shore, came two
mighty creatures, one pursuing the other (as we took it) with great
fury, from the mountains towards the sea; whether it was the male
pursuing the female, or whether they were in sport or in rage, we
could not tell, any more than we could tell whether it was usual or
strange; but I believe it was the latter, because, in the first place,
these ravenous creatures seldom appear but in the night; and, in the
second place we found the people terribly frightened, especially the
women. The man that had the lance, or dart, did not fly from them,
but the rest did; however, as the two creatures ran directly into the
water, they did not seem to offer to fall upon any of the Negroes,
but plunged themselves into the sea, and swam about, as if they had
come for their diversion; at last, one of them began to coinc nearer
our boat than I at first expected; but I lay ready for him, for I had
loaded my gun with all possible expedition, and bade Xury load both
the others. As soon as he came fairly within my reach, I fired, and
shot him directly in the head; immediately he sunk down into the
water, but rose instantly, and plunged up and down, as if he was
straggling for life, and so indeed he was; he immediately made to
the shore; but between the wound which was his mortal hurt, and the
strangling of the water, he died just before he reached the shore.
It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor crea-
tures, at the noise and fire of my gun; some of them were even
ready to die for fear, and fell down as dead with the very tewor;
but when they saw the creature dead, and sunk ip the water, and
fiat I made signs for them to come to the shore, they took heart
>ad came to the shore, and began to search for the creature. I
found him by his blood staining the water; and by the help of a
rope, which I slung round him, and gave the Negroes to haul, they
dragged him on shore, and found that it was a most curious leopara,
spotted, and fine to an admirable degree; and the Negroes held up
their hands with admiration, to think what it was I had killed him
with.
The other creature, frightened with the flash of fire, and the noise
of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up directly to the mountains
from whence they came; nor could I, at that distance, know what
it was. I found quickly the Negroes were for eating the flesh of this

creature, so I was willing to have them take it as a favour from me;
which, when I made signs to them that they might take him, they
were very thankful for. Immediately they fell to work with him;
and though they had no knife, yet with a sharpened piece of wood,
they took off his skin as readily, and much more readilv, than we
could have done with a knife. They offered me some of the flesh,
which I declined, making as if I would give it them, but made
signs for the skin, which they gave me very freely, and brought me a
great deal more of their provisions, which, though 1 did not under-
stand, yet I accepted. I then made signs to them for some water,
and held out one of my jars to them, turning it bottom upwards, to
show that it was empty, and that I wanted to have it filled. They
called immediately to some of their friends, and there came two
women, and brought a great vessel made of earth, and burnt, as I
suppose, in the sun; this they set down to me, as before, and 1 sent
Xury on shore with my jars, and filled them all three.
I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it was, and
water; and leaving my friendly Negroes, I made forward for eleven
days more, 'without offering to go near the shore, till I saw the land
run a great length into the sea, at about the distance of four
or five leagues before me; and the sea being very calm, I kept a
large offing, to make this point. At length, doubling the point, at
about two leagues from the land, I saw plainly land on the other
side, to "seaward; then I concluded, as it was most certain indeed,
that this was the Cape do Verd, and those the islands, called, from
thence, Cape de Vera Islands. However, they were at a great dis-
tance, and I could not well tell what I Lad best to do; for if I
should be taken with a gale of wind, I might reach neither.
In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped into the cabin
and sat me down, Xury having the helm; when, on a sudden, the
ooy cried out, "Master, master, a ship with a sail!" and the foolish
boy was frightened out of his wits, thinking it must needs be some
of his master's ships sent to pursue us, when I knew we were
gotten far enough out of their reach. I jumped out of the cabin,
and immediately saw, not only the ship, but what she was, viz. that
it was a Portuguese ship, and, as 1 thought, was bound to the
Coast of Guinea, for Negroes.
With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be able to
come in their way; but after I had crowded to the utmost,
and began to despair, they, it seems, saw me, by the help nf their
perspective glasses, and that it was some European boat, which, they
supposed, must belong to some ship that was lost; so they shortened
sail; and in about three hours' time I came up with them.
They asked me what I was iD Portvguese, and hi Spanish, and in
French; but I understood none of them; but, at last, a Scotch
sailor who was on board, called to me, and I answered him, and told
him I was an Englishman, that I had made my escape out of slavery
from the Moors, at Sallcc; they then bade me come on board, ana
very kindly took me in, and all my goods.
It was an inexpressible joy to me, which any one will believe, that
I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a miserable, and
almost hopeless condition as I was in; and I immediately offered all
I had to the captain of the ship, as a return for my deliverance; but
he generously told roe, he would take nothing from me, but that all
I had should be delivered safe to me, when I came to tic Brazils.
[ will carry you thither in charity, and these things will I f.lp to buy
your subsistence there, and your passage home again.

SECTION IV.
ni SETTLES IN THE BRAZILS AS A FLANTER—MAKES ANOTHER
VOYAGE, AND IS SHIFWRECKED.
As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was just in the perform-
ance, to a tittle : for he ordered the seamen, that none should offer
to touch anything I had.- then he took everything into his own
possession, and gave me back an exact inventory of them, that I
might have them, even so much as my three earthen jars.
We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and arrived ili the Bay
ds Todos los Santos, or all Saints' Bay, in about twenty-two days
after. And now I was once more delivered from the most miserable
of all conditions of life; and what to do next with myself, I was now
to consider.
The generous treatment the captain gave me, I can never enough
remember : he would take nothing of me for my passage, gave me
twenty ducats for the leopard's skin, and forty for the lion's skin,
which I had in my boat, and caused everything I had in the ship to
be punctually debvered to me; and what I was willing to sell, he
bought of me ; such as the case of bottles, two of my guns, and a
piece of the lump of bees-wax,—for I had made candles of the rest;
in a word, I made about two hundred and twenty pieces of eight of
all my cargo; and with this stock, I went on shore in the Brazils.
I had not been long here, before I was recommended to the house
of a good honest man, like himself, who had an ingenio as they call
it (that is, a plantation and a sugar-house.) I lived with him some
time, and acquainted myself, by that means, with the manner of
planting and of making sugar; and seeing how well the planters
jved, and how they got rich suddenly, I resolved, if I could get x
license to settle there, I would turn planter among them: endeav-
ouring, in the meantime, to find out some way to get my money,
which I bad left in London, remitted to me. To this purpose,
getting a kind of letter of naturalization, I purchased as much land
I hat was uncured as my money would reach, and formed a plan for
my plantation and settlement; such a one as might be suitable to
the stock which I proposed to myself to receive from England.
I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born of English
farcnts, whose name was Wells, and in much such circumstances as
was. I call him my neighbour, because his plantation lay next to
mine, and we went on very sociably together. My stock was but
low, as well as his; and we rather planted for food than anything
else, for about two years. However, we began to increase, and our
land began to come into order; so that the third year we planted
some tobacco, and made each of us a large piece of giound ready for
planting canes the next year.-
I was, in some degree, settled in my measure for carrying on the
plantation, before my kind friend, the captain of the ship that took
me up at sea, went back ; for the ship remained there, in providing
his landing, and preparing for his voyage, near three months; when
telling him what little stock I had left behind me in London, he
gave me this friendly and sincere advice: " Senhor Inglez," says he
(for so he always called me,) "if you will give me letters, and a pro-
curation here in form to me, with orders to the person who had your
money in London, to send your effects to Lisbon, to such persons
as I shall direct, and in such goods as are proper for this country, I
will bring you the produce of them, God willing, at my return: but
since human affairs are all subject to changes and disasters, I
would have you give orders for but one hundred pounds sterling,
which, you say, is half your stock, and let the hazard be run for the
first, so that if it come safe, you may order the rest the same way;
and, if it miscarry, you may have the other half to have recourse to
for your supply." This was so wholesome advice, and looked so
friendly, that I could not but be convinced it was the best course I
could take; so I accordingly prepared letters to the gentlewoman
with whom I left my money, and a procuration to the Portuguese
captain, as he desired me.
I wrote the English captain's widow a full account of all my
adventures; whereupon she not only delivered the money, but, out
of her own pocket, sent the Portuguese captain a very handsome
present for his humanity and charity to me.
The merchant in London, vesting this hundred pounds in English
f;oods, such as the captain had written for, sent them directly tc
liin at Lisbon, and he brought them all safe to me at the Brazils: I
found means to sell them to a very great advantage; so that I
might say, 1 had more than four times the value of my first cargo
Z&
and was now infinitely beyond my poor neighbour, I mean in the
advancement of my plantation; for the first thing I did, I bought
me a Negro slave, and a European servant also , 1 mean another
besides one whom the captain brought me from Lisbon.
Having lived almost four years in the Brazils, and beginning to
thrive and prosper very well upon my plantation, T had not only
learned the language, but had contracted an acquaintance and
friendship among my fellow-planters, as well as among the mer-
chants at St. Salvador, which was our port; and that, in my dis-
courses among them, I had frequently given them an account of mv
two voyages to the coast of Guinea, the manner of trading with
the Negroes there, and how easy it was to purchase on the coast for
trifles—such as beads, toys, knives, scissars, hatchets, bits of glass,
and the like—not only gold dust, Guinea grains, elephants' teeth,
Ac., but Negroes, for the service of the Brazils, in great numbers.

They listened always very attentively to my discourses on these
heads, but especially to that part which related to the buying
Negroes; whicn was a trade, at that time, not only not far entered
into, but, as far as it was, had been carried on by the assientos, or
permission of the kings of Spain and Portugal, and engrossed from
the public; so that few Negroes were bought, and those excessively
dear.
It happened, being in company with some merchants and planters
of my acquaintance, and talking of those things very earnestly, three
of them came to me the next morning, and told me they had been
musing very much upon what I had discoursed with them of the
last night, and they came to make a secret proposal to me: and,
after enjoining me to secrecy, they told me that they had a mind to
fit out a ship to go to Guinea; that they had all plantations as well
as I, and were straitened for nothing so much as servants; that at
it was a trade that could not be carried on, because they could not
publicly sell the Negroes when they came home, so they desired to
make but one voyage, to bring the Negroes on shore privately, and
divide them among their own plantations; and, in a wordj the
question was, whether I would go as their supercargo in the ship, to
manage the trading part upon the coast of Guinea; and they offered
me that I should have an equal share of the Negroes, without pro-
viding any part of the stock.
1, that was born to be my own destroyer, could no more resist the
offer, than I could restrain mv first rambling designs. In a word, I
told them I would go with all my heart, if they would undertake to
look after my plantation in my absence, and would dispose of it as I
should direct, if I miscarried. This they all engaged to do, and en-
tered into writings or covenants to do so, iu case of my death;
making the captain of the ship that had saved my life, as before, my
universal heir; but obliging him to dispose of my effects as I had
directed in my will; one-half of the produce being to himself, and the
other to be shipped to England.
The ship being fitted out, and the cargo furnished, and all things
done as by agreement, by partners in the voyage, I went on board in
an evil hour again, the first of September, 1659, being the same day
eight years that I went from my parents at Hull, in order to act the
rebel to their authority, and the fool to my own interest.
We passed the Line in about twelve days' time, and were, by our
last observation, in seven degrees twenty-two minutes northern lati-
tude, when a violent tornado, 'or hurricane, took us quite out of our
knowledge; it began from the south-east, came about to the north-
west, and then settled in the north-east ; from whence it blew in
26 ADVXNTU&ES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
nothing but drive, and, scudding away before it, let it carry it
whithersoever fate and the fury of the winds directed; and, during
these twelve days, I need not say that I expected every day to be
swallowed up; nor, indeed, did any in the ship expect to save theii
lives.
About the twelfth day, the weather abating a little, the maste;
made an observation as well as he could. He fouud that he had got
upon the coast of Guiana, or the north part of Brazil, beyond the
river Amazon, toward that of the Oronoco, commonly called the
Great Biver; and as the ship was leaky and very much disabled he
was for going back to the coast of Brazil.
I was positively against that; and looking over the charts of the
isea-coast of America with him, we concluded there was no inhabited
country for us to have recourse to, till we came within the circle of
the Carribee islands, and therefore resolved to stand away for Barba
does; which by keeping off to sea, to avoid the indraft of the bay or
gulf of Mexico, we might easily perform, as we hoped, in about
fifteen days' sail; whereas we could not possibly make our voyage to
the coast of Africa without some assistance, both to our ship and
ourselves.
With this design, we changed our course, and steered away N. W.
by W. in order to reach some of our English islands, where I hoped
for relief; but our voyage was otherwise determined; for in the
latitude of twelve degrees eighteen minutes a second storm came
upon us, which carried us away with the same impetuosity westward,
and drove us so out of the very way of all human commerce, that
had all our lives been saved, as to the sea, we stood a greater chance
of being devoured by savages than ever returning to our owu
country.
In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one of our men
early in the morning, cried out," Land!" and we had no sooner run out
of the cabin to look out, in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the world
we were, than the ship struck upon a sand, and in a moment, her
motion being so stopped, the sea woke over her in such a mannir,
that we expected we should all have perished immediately; and we
were immediately driven into our close quarters, to shelter us from
the very foam and spray of the sea.
The ship having thus struck upon fne sand, and sticking too fast
for us to expect lier getting off, we were in a dreadful condition
indeed, and had nothing to do, but to think of saving out lives as
well as we could. We had a boat at our stern just before the storm,
but she was first staved by dashing against the ship's rudder, and, in the
next place, she broke away, and either sunk, or was driven off to
sea; so there was no hope from her; we had another boat on board,
but how to get her off into the sea was a doubtful thing; however,
there was no room to debate, for we fancied the ship would break in
pieces every minute, and some told us she was actually broken
already.
In this distress, the mate of our vessel laid hold of the boat, and
with the help of the rest of the men, they got her flung over the
ship's side; and getting all into h«, we let go, and committed our-
selves, being eleven in number, to God's mercy, and the wild sea;
for though the storm was abated considerably, yet the sea went
dreadfully high upon the shore, and might be well called den wild
zee, as the Butch call the sea in a storm.
After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league and a half,
as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-like, came rolling aster*
af us, and plainly bade us expect the covp de grace. In a word, h.
took us with such fury, that it overset the boat at once; and separa-
ting us, as well from the boat as from one another, gave us tint*
hardly to say, "0 God!" for we wer; all swallowed up in a
moment.
Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt, when
I sunk into the water; for though I swam very well, yet I could not
deliver myself from the waves so as to draw my breath, till that
wave having driven me, or rather carried me, a vast way on towards
the shore, and having spent itself, went back, and left me upon the
land almost dry, but half dead with the water I took in. I had so
much presence of mind, as well as breath left, that seeing myself
nearer the maiii land than I expected, I got upon my feet, and
endeavoured to make on towards the land as fast as I could, before
another wave should return and take me up again; but I soon found
it was impossible to avoid it; for I saw the sea come after me as
lii^h as a great hill, and as furious as an enemy which I had no
'.(C.'Jis or strength to contend with; my business was to hold my
hrcalh, and raise myself upon the water, if I could; aud so, by swim-
ming, to preserve my breathing, and pilot myself towards the shore, if
possible ; my greatest concern now being, that the wave, as it would
carry me a great way towards the shore when it came on, might not
earry me back again with it when it gave back towards the sea.
The wave that came upon me again buried me at onec twenty or
thirty feet deep in its own body; and I could feel myself carried
with a mighty force and swiftness towards the shore, a very great
way; but 1 held my breath, aud assisted myself to swim still forward
with all my might. I was ready to burst with holding my breath,
when, as I felt myself rising up, so, to my immediate relief, I found
i-iy head and hands shoot out above the surface of the water; and
though it was not two seconds of time that 1 could keep myself so,
yet it relieved me greatly, gave me breath and new courage. I was
covered again with water a good while, but not so long but I held it
out; and finding the water had spent itself, and began to return, I
struck forward against the return of the waves, and felt ground
again with my feet. I stood still a lew moments, to recover breath,
and till the water went from me, and tLen U><»k to my heels, and ran
with what strength I had farther towards tue shore. But neither
would this deliver me from the fury of the sea, which came pouring
in after me again; and twice more I was lifted up by the waves and
carried forwards as before, the shore being very flat.
The hist time of these two had well nigh been fatal to me ; for the
sea, having hurried me along, as before, landed me, or rather dashed
me, against a piece of rock, and that with such force, that it left me
senseless, and indeed helpless, as to my own deliverance; for the
blow, taking my side and breast, beat the breath, as it were, Quite
out of my body; and had it returned again immediately, I must nave
been strangled in the water; but I recovered a little before the
return of the waves; and, seeing I should again be covered with the
water, I resolved to hold fust by a piece of rock, and so to hold my
breath, if possible, till the wave went back. Now .as the waves wera
not so high as the first, being nearer land, I held my hold till th«
20
wave abated, and then fetched another run, which brought me so
near the shore, that the next wave, though it went over Die, yet did
not so swallow me up as to carry me away ; and the next run I took,
I got to the main land! where, to my great comfort, I clambered up
the cliffs of the shore, and sat me down upon the grass, free from
danger, and quite out of the reach of the water.
I was now landed, and safe on shore; and began to look up and
thank God that my life vras saved, in a case wherein there was,
some minutes before, scarcely any room to hope. I believe it is im-
possible to express, to the lile, what the eestasies and transports of
the soul are, when it is so saved, as I may say, out of the grave ; and

I did not wonder now at the custom, viz., that when a malefactor,
who has the halter about his neck, is tied up, and just going to be
turned off, and has a reprieve brought to him—I say, I do not
wonder that they bring a surgeon with it, to let blood that ve>y
moment they tell him of it, that the surprise may not drive the
animal spirits from the heart, and overwhelm him.
For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first.
I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands, and my whole
being, as I may say, wrapped up in the contemplation of my deliver-
ance ; making a thousand gestures and motions, which I cannot des-
cribe; reflecting upon my comrades that were drowned, and that
there should not be one soul saved but myself; for, as for them, I
never saw them afterwards, or any sign of them, except three of
their hats, one cap, and two shoes that were not fellows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel—when the breach and froth
of the sea being so big I could hardly see it, it lay so far off—and
"considered, Lord ! how was it possible I could get on shore ?",

I began to look around me to see what kind of a place I was
in, and what was next to be done; and I soon found my comforts
abate, and that, in a word, I had a dreadful deliverance ; for I was
wet, had no clothes to shift me, nor anything either to eat or drink,
to comfort me; neither did I see any prospect before me, but that
of perishing with hunger, or being devourea by wild beasts; and that
which was particularly afflicting to me was, that I had no weapon
either to hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance, or to defend
myself against any other creatures that might desire to kill me for
theirs. In a word, I had nothing about me but a knife, a tobaeco-
ipe, and a little tobacco. Night coming upon me, I began, with a
eavy heart, to consider what would be my lot if there were any
ravenous beasts in that country.
All the remedy that offered to my thoughts, was, to get up into a
thick bushy tree. I walked about a furlong from the shore, to see
if I could find any fresh water; which I did, to my great joy; and
having drunk, and put a little tobacco into my mouth to prevent
hunger, I went to the tree, and getting up into it, endeavoured to
place myself so as that, if I should fall asleep, 1 might not fall; and
having cut me a stick, for my defence, I took up my lodging; and
having been excessively fatigued, I fell asleep, and slept as com-
fortable as, I believe, few could have done in my condition; and
found myself much refreshed.
P
li<
SECTION V.
ROBINSON FINDS HIMSELF IN A DESOLATE ISLAND—FROCURES A
STOCK OF ARTICLES FROM THE WRECK — CONSTRUCTS HIS
HABITATION.
When I woke it was broad day, the weather clear, and the storm
abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell as before; but that
which surprised me most was, that the ship was lifted off in the
night from the sand where she lay, by the swelling of the tide, and
was driven up almost as far as the rock which I at first mentioned,
where I had been so bruised by the wave dashing me against it.
This being within about a mile from the shore where I was, and the
ship seeming to stand upright still, I wished myself on board, that
at least I might save some necessary things for my use.
When I came down from my apartment in the tree, I looked about
me again, and the first thing I found was the boat; which lay, as
the wind and sea had tossed Tier up, upon the land, about two miles
on my right hand. I walked as far as I could upon the shore to
have got to her; but found a neck, or inlet, of water, between me
and the boat, which was about half a mile broad; so I came back
for the present, being more intent upon getting at the ship, where I
hoped to find something for my present subsistence.
A little after noon, I found the sea very calm, and the tide ebbed
so far out, that I could come within a quarter of a mile of the ship:
and here I found a fresh renewing of my grief; for I saw evidently,
that if we had kept on board, we had been all safe; that is to say,
we had all got safe on shore, and had not been so miserable as to be
left entirely destitute of all comfort and company, as I now was.
This forced tears from my eyes again; but as there was little relief
in that, I resolved, if possible, to get to the ship: so I pulled off
my clothes, for the weather was hot to extremity, and took the
water: but when I came to the ship, my difficulty was still greater
to know how to get on board: for as she lay aground, and high out
of the water, there was nothing in my reach "to lay hold of. I swam
round her twice, and the second time I spied a small piece of rope,
which I wondered I did not see at first, hang down bv the fore-
chains so low, as that with great difficulty I got hold of it, and by
the help of that rope got into the forecastle of the ship. Here I
found that the ship was bilged, and had a great deal of water in her
hold ; but that she lay so on the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather
earth, that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head low,
almost to the water. By this means all her quarter was free, nnd
all that was in that part was dry; for you may be sure my first work
was to search and to see what was spoiled and what was free: and,
first, I found that all the ship's provisions were dry and untouched
oy the water; and being very well disposed to eat, I went to the
bread-room, and filled my pockets with biscuit, and ate it as I went
about other things, for I had no time to lose. I also found some
rum in the great cabin, of which I took a large dram, and which I
had indeed need enough of, to spirit me for what was before me.
Now 1 wanted nothing but a boat, to furnish myself with many
things which I foresaw would be very necessary to me.
It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be had,
and this extremity roused my application: we had several spare
yards, and two or three large spars of wood, and a spare topmast or
two in the ship; I resolved to fall to work with these, and flung as
many overboard as I could manage for their weight, tying every one
with a rope, that they might not drive away. When this was done,
I went down the ship's side, and pulling them to me, I tied four of
them fast together at both ends, as well as I could, in the form of a
raft, and laying two or three short pieces of plank upon them, cross-
ways, I found I could walk upon it very well, but that it was not
able to bear any great weight, the pieces being too light: so I went
to work, and with the carpenter's saw I cut a spare topmast into
three lengths, and added them to my raft, with a great deal of labour
and pains. But the hope of furnishing myself with necessaries,
encouraged me to go beyond what 1 should have been able to have
done upon another occasion.
My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable weight.
My next care was what to load it with, and how to preserve what I
laid upon it from the surf of the sea; but I was not long considering
this. I first laid all the planks or boards upon it that I could get,
and having considered well what I most wanted, I got three of the
seamen's chests, which I had broken open and emptied, and lowered
them down upon my raft; these I filled with provisions, viz. bread,
rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried goats' flesh (which we
lived much upon), and a little remainder of European corn, which
had been laid Dy for some fowls which we had brought to sea with
us, but the fowls were killed. There had been some barley and
wheat together, but, to my great disappointment, I found afterwards
that the rats had eaten or spoiled it all. As for liquors, I found
several cases of bottles belonging to our skipper, in which were
some cordial waters; and, in all, hve or six gallons of rack. These
I stowed by themselves, there being no need to put them into the
chests, nor any room for them. While I was doing this, I found
the tide began to flow, though very calm; and I had the mortifica-
tion to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left on shore,
upon the sand, swim away; as for my breeches, which were only
linen, and open-kneed, I swam on board in them, and my stockings.
However, this put me upon rummaging for clot hes, of which I found
enough, but took no more than I wanted for present use, for I had
other things which my eye was more upon; as, first, tools to work .
with on shore: and it was after long searching that I found the
carpenter's chest, which was indeed a very useful prize to me, and
much more valuable than a ship-lading of gold would have been
at that time. I got it down to my raft, even whole as it was,
without losing time to look into it, for I knew in general what it
contained.
My next care was for some ammunition and arms. There were
two very good fowling-pieces in the great cabin, and two pistols;
these 1 secured first, with some powder-horns and a small bag of
shot, and two old rusty swords. I knew there were three barrels of
powder in the ship, but knew not where our gunner had stowed
them; but with much search I found them, two of them dry and
good, the third had taken water. Those two I got to my raft, with
the arms. And now I thought myself pretty well freighted, and
began to think how I should get to shore with them, having neither
sail, oar, nor rndder; and the least capful of wind would have over-
set all my navigation. I hoped to find some creek or river winch 1
might make use of as a port to get to land with my cargo.
As I imagined, so it was; there appeared before me a little
opening of the land, and I found a strong current of the tide set
into it; so I guided my raft, as well as I could, to get into the
middle of the stream. But here I had like to have suffered a second
shipwreck, which, if 1 had, I think it verily would have broken my
heart; for, knowing nothing of the coast, my raft ran aground at
one end of it upon a shoal, and, not being aground at the other end,
it wanled but a little that all my cargo bad slipped off towards the
end that was afloat, and so fallen into the water. I did my utmost,
by setting my back against the chests, to keep them in their places,
but could not thrust off the raft with all my strength; neither durst
I stir from the posture I was in, but holding np the chests with all
my might, I stood in that manner near half an hour, in which time
the rising of the water brought me a little more upon a level; and
a little after, the water still rising, my raft floated again, and I
thrust her off with the oar I had into the channel, and then driving
up higher, I at length found myself in the mouth of a little river,
with land on both sides, and a strong current or tide running up.
I looked on both sides for a proper place to get to shore, for I was
not willing to be driven too high up the river; hoping, in time, to
see some ship at sea, and therefore resolved to place myself as near
the coast as I could.
At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the creek, to
which, with great pain and difficulty, I guided my raft, and at last
got so near, as that, reaching ground with my oar, I could thrust
her directly in; but here I had like to have dipped all my cargo into
the sea again; for that shore lying pretty steep, that is to say,
sloping, there was no place to land, out where one end of my float,
if it ran on shore, wouJd lie so high, and the other sink lower, as
before, that it would endanger my cargo again. All that I could do
was to wait till the tide was at the highest, keeping the raft with my
oar like an anchor, to hold the side of it fast to the shore, near a
flat piece cf ground, which I expected the water would flow over;
and so it did. As soon as I found water enough, for my raft drew
about a foot of water, I thrust her upon that flat piece of ground,
and there fastened or moored her, by sticking my two brokeu oars
into the ground, one on one side, near one end, and one on the other
side, near the other end: and thus I lay till the water ebbed away,
and left my raft and all my cargo safe on shore.
My next work was to view the country, and seek a proper place
for my habitation, and where to stow my goods, to secure them from
whatever might happen. Where I was I yet knew not; whether
on the continent, or on an island; whether inhabited, or not in-
habited; whether in danger of wild beasts, or not. There was a
hill, not above a mile from me, which rose up very steep and high,
and which seemed to overtop some other hills, which lay as in a
ridge from it, northward. I took out one of the fowling-pieces, and
one of the pistols, and a horn of powder; and thus armed, I travelled
for discovery up to the top of that hill; where, after I had, with
great labour and difficulty, got up to the top, I saw my fate, to my
great affliction, viz. that I was in an island, environed in every way
with the sea, no laud to be seen, except some rocks, which lay a
grout Way off, and two small islands, less than this, which lay about
three leagues to the west.
I found also that the island I was in was barren, and, as I saw
good reason to believe, uninhabited, except by wild beasts, of whom,
however, I saw none; yet I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not
their kinds; neither, when I killed them, could I tell what was fit
for food, and what not. At my coming back, I shot at a great bird,
which I saw sitting upon a tree, on the side of a great wood. I
believe it was the first gun that had been fired there since the
creation of the world: I nad no sooner fired, but from all parts of
the wood there arose an innumerable number of fowls, of many
sorts, making a confused screaming, and crying, every one according
to his usual note; but not one of them of any kind that I knew.
As for the creature I killed, I took it to be a kind of a hawk, its
colour and beak resembling it, but it had no talons or claws more
than common. Its flesh was carrion, and fit for nothing.
I now began to consider that I might yet get a great many things
out of the ship, which would be useful to me, and particularly some
of the rigging and sails, and such other things as might come to
land; and I resolved to make another voyage on board the vessel,
if possible. And as I knew that the first storm that blew must
necessarily break her all in pieces, I resolved to set all other things
apart, till I got everything out of the ship that I could get. Then
I called a council, that is to say, in my thoughts, whether I should
take back the raft; but this appeared impracticable: so I resolved
to go as before, when the tide was down; and I did so, only that I
stripped before I went from my hut; having nothing on but a
chequered shirt, a pair of linen drawers, and a pair of pumps on my
feet.
I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second raft;
and having had experience of the first, I neither made this so un-
wieldy, nor loaded it so hard, but yet I brought away several things
very useful to me; as, first, in the carpenter's stores, I found two
or three bags of nails and spikes, a great screw-jack, a dozen or two
of hatchets; and, above all, that most useful thing called a grind-
stone. All these I secured together, with several things belonging
to the gunner; particularly, two or three iron crows, and two barrels
of musket bullets, seven muskets, and another fowling-piece, with
lome small quantity of powder more; a large bag full of small shot,
and a great roll of sheet lead; but this la3t was so heavy, I could
not hoist it up to get it over the ship's side. Besides these things,
I took all the men's clothes that I could find, and a spare fore-top-
sail, a hammock, and some bedding; and with this I loaded my
second raft, and brought them all safe on shore, to my very great
comfort.
Having got my second cargo on shore—though I was fain to open
the barrels of powder, and bring them by parcels, for they were too
heavy, being large casks—I went to work to make a little tent, with
the sails, and some poles which I cut for that purpose; and into
30
ADVENTURES OF BOBINSON CRUSOE.
this tent I brought every tiiing that I knew would spoil either with
rain or sun; and I piled all the empty chests and casks up in a circle
round the tent, to fortify it from any sudden attempt either from
man or beast.
When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent with
some boards within, and an empty chest set up on end without;
and spreading one of the beds upon the ground, laying my two pistols
just at my head, and my gun at length by me, I went to bed lor the
lirst time, and slept very quietly all night, for I was very weary and
heavy; for the night before I had slept little, and had laboured very
hard all day, as well to fetch all those things from the ship, as to get
them on shore.

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever was laid
up, I believe, for one man: but I was not satisfied still; for while
the ship sat upright in that posture, I thought I ought to get every
thing out of her that I could; so every day, at low water, I went
on board, and brought away something or other: but particularlv
the third time I went, I brought away as much of the rigging as 1
could, as also all the small ropes and rope-twine I could get, with a
piece of spare canvass, which was to mend the sails upon occasion,
and the barrel of wet gunpowder. In a word, I brought away all
the sails first and last; onlv that I was fain to cut them in pieces,
and bring as much at a time as I could; for they were no more
useful to be sails, but as mere canvass only.
But that which comforted me still more was, that, last of all, after
I had made five or six such voyages as these, and thought I had
nothing more to expect from the ship that was worth my meddling
with; I say, after all this, I found a great hogshead of bread, and
three large runlets of rum or spirits, and a box of sugar, and a barrel
of fine flour; this was surprising to me, because I had given over
expecting any more provisions, except what was spoiled by the
water. I soon emptied the hogshead of that bread, and wrapped it
up, parcel by parcel, in pieces of the sails, which I cut out; and, in
a word, I got all this safe on shore also.
The next day I made another voyage, and now having plundered
the ship of what was portable and fit to hand out, I began with the
cables, and cutting the great cable into pieces such as I could move,
I got two cables and a hawser on shore, with all the iron work 1
could get; and having cut down the spritsail-yard, and the mizen-
yard, and everything I could, to make a large raft, I loaded it with
all those heavy goods, and came away: but my good luck began now
to leave me; for this raft was so unwieldy, and so overladen, that
after I was entered the little cove, where I had landed the rest of
my goods, not being able to guide it so handily as I did the other, it
overset, and threw me and all my cargo into the water; as for
myself, it was no great harm, for I was near the shore; but as to
my cargo, it was a great part of it lost, especially the iron, which 1
expected would have been of great use to me: however, when the
tide was out, I got most of the pieces of cable ashore, and some of
the iron, though with infinite labour; for I was fain to go for it into
the water, a work which fatigued me very much. After this 1 went
every day on board, and brought away what I could get.
I had been now thirteen days ashore, and had been eleven times
on board the ship; in which time I had brought away all that one
>tair of hands covdd well be supposed capable to bring; though I
believe verily, had the calm weather hela, I should have brought
away the whole ship, piece by piece, but preparing the twelfth time,
to go on board, I tound the wind began to rise: however, at low
water, I went on board; and though I thought I had rummaged the
cabin so effectually, as that nothing could be found, yet I discovered
a locker with drawers in it, in one of which I found two or three
razors, and one pair of large scissars, with some ten or a dozen of
good knives and forks; in another I found about thirty-six pounds
in money, some European coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight,
some gold, and some silver.
I smiled to myself at the sight of this money; "0 drug!" I ex-
claimed, " what art thou good for? Thou art not worth to me, no,
not the taking off the ground; one of those knives is worth all this
heap: I have no manner of use for thee; e'en remain where thou
art, and go to the bottom, as a creature whose life is not worth
saving." However, upon second thoughts, I took it away; and
wrapping all this in a piece of eauvass, I bogan to think of making
another raft; but while I was preparing this, I found the sky over-
cast, and the wind began to rise, and in a quarter of an hour it blew
a fresh gale from the shore. It presently occurred to me, that it
was in vain to pretend to make a raft with the wind off shore; and
that it was my ousiness to be gone before the tide of flood began, or
otherwise I might not be able to reach the shore at all. Accordingly
I let myself down into the water, and swam across the channel
which lay between the ship and the sands, and even that with
difficulty enough, partly with the weight of the things I had about
me, and partly the roughness of the water; for the wind rose very
hastily, and before it was quite high water it blew a storm.

But I was got home to my little tent, where I lay, with all my
wealth about me very secure. It blew very hard all that night, and
in the morning, when I looked out, behold no more ship was to be
seen! I was a little surprised, but recovered myself with this
satisfactory reflection, viz., that I had lost no time, nor abated no
diligence, to get everything out of her, that could be useful to me,
and that, indeed, there was little left in her that I was able to bring
away, if I had had more time.
I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of anything
out of her, except what might drive on shore, from her wreck; as,
indeed, divers pieces of her afterwards did; but those things were
of small use to me.
My thoughts were now wholly employed about securing myself
against cither savages, if any should appear, or wild beasts, if any
were in the island; and I had many thoughts of the methed how to
do this, and what kind of dwelling to make, whether I should make
a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth; aud, in short, I resolved
upon both; the manner and description of which, it may not be
improper to give an account of.
I soon found the place I was in was not for my settlement, par-
ticularly because it was upon a lowv moorish ground, near the sea,
and I believed it w «dd not be wholesome; and more particularly
because there was n > fresh water near it: so I resolved to find a
more healthy and con lenient spot of ground.
I consulted severa, things in my situation, which I found would
be proper for me; firs t, air and fresh water, I just now mentioned:
secondly, shelter fron. the heat of the sun: thirdly, security from
ravenous creatures, w aether men or beasts: fourthly, a view to the
sea, that if God sent any ship in sight, I might not lose any advan-
tage for my deliverer ce, of which 1 was not willing to banish all my
expectation yet.
in search for a pi ice proper for this, I found a little plain on the
side of a rising hill, whose front towards this little plain was steep
as a house-side, so that nothing could come down upon me from the
top. On the side of this rock, there was a hollow place, worn a
little way in, like the entrance or door of a cave; but there was not
really any cave, or way into the rock, at all.
On the flat of the green, just before this hollow place, I resolved
to pitch my tent. This plain was not above one hundred yards
broad, and about twice as long, and lay like a green before my door;
and, at the end of it, descended irregularly every way down into the
low ground by the seaside. It was on the N.N.W. side of the hill;
so that it was sheltered from the heat every day, till it came to a
W. and by S. sun or thereabouts, which, in those countries, is near
the setting.
Before I set up my tent, I drew a half-circle before the hollow
place, which took in about ten yards in its semi-diameter from
the rock, and twenty yards in its diameter, from its beginning and
ending.
In this half-circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes, driving
them into the ground till they stood very firm like piles, the biggest
end being out of the ground, about five feet and a half, and
sharpened on the top. The two rows did not stand above six inches
from one another.
Then I took the pieces of cable which I cut in the ship, and laid
them in rows, one upon another, within the circle, between these
two rows of stakes, up to the top, placing other stakes in the inside,
leaning against them, about two feet and a half high, like a spur to
a post; and this fence was so strong, that neither man nor beast
could get into it or over it. This cost me a great deal of time and
labour, especially to cut the piles in the woods, bring them to the
place, ana drive them into the earth.
The entrance into this place I made to be not by a door, but by a
short ladder to go over the top; which ladder, when I was in, I
lifted over after me; and so I was completely fenced in and fortified,
as I thought, from all the world, and consequently slept secure in
the night, which otherwise I could not have done; though, as it
appeared afterwards, there was no need of all this caution against
the enemies that I apprehended danger from.
SECTION VI.
CAHRIES ALL HIS RICHES, FROVISIONS, ETC. INTO HIS HABITATION—
DREARINESS OF SOLITUDE—CONSOLATORY REFLECTIONS.
Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite labour, I carried all my
riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and stores, of which you have
the account above; and I made a large tent, which, to preserve me
from the rains, that in one part of the year are verv violent there, I
made double, viz., one smaller tent within, and one larger tent above
it, and covered the uppermost with a large tarpaulin, which 1 had
saved among the sails.
And now I lay no more for a while in the bed which I had brought
on shore, but in a hammock, which was indeed a very good one, and
belonged to the mate of the ship.
Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and eventhing that
would spoil by the wet; and having thus enclosed all my goods, I
made up the entranee, which till now I had left open, and so passed
and repassed, as I said, by a short ladder.
When I had done this I began to work my way into the rock, and
bringing all the earth and stones that I dug down out through my
tent, I laid them up within my fence in the nature of a terrace, so
that it raised the ground within about a foot and a half; and thus I
made me a cave, just behind my tent, which served me like a cellar
to my house. It cost me much labour and many days, before all
ROlilNSON CRCSOE. 41
these things were brought to perfection; and therefore, I must go
back to some other things which took up some of my thoughts. At
the same time it happened, after I had laid my scheme for the
setting up of my tent, and making the cave, that a storm of rain
falling from a thick, dark cloud, a sudden flash of lightning happened,
and after that, a great clap of thunder, as is naturally the effect of
it. 1 was not so much surprised with the lightning as I was with
a thought which darted into my mind as swift as the lightning
itself: O my powder! My very heart sunk within me when I thought,
that at one blast all my powder might be destroyed; on which not
my defence only, but the providing me food, as I thought, entirely
depended. I was nothing near so anxious about my own danger,
though, had the powder taken fire, I should never have known who
had hurt me.
Such impressions did this make upon me, that after the storm was
over, I laid aside all my works, my building and fortifying, and
applied myself to make bags and boxes to separate the powder, and
to keep it a little and a little in a parcel, in hope that whatever
might come, it might not all take fire at once; and to keep it so
apart, that it should not be possible to make one part fire another.
I finished this work in about a fortnight; and I think my powder,
which in all was about two hundred and forty pounds weight, was
divided into not less than a hundred parcels. As to the barrel that
had been wet, I did not apprehend any danger from that; so I placed
it in my new cave, which, i n my fancy, I called my kitchen, and the
rest I hid up and down in holes among the rocks, so that no wet
might come to it, marking very carefully where I laid it.
In the interval of time while this was doing, I went out at least
once every day with my gun. One day I killed a she-goat, which
had a little kid by her, which she gave suck to, which grieved me
heartily; but when the old one fell, the kid stood stock still by her,
till I came and took her up; and not only so, but when I carried the
old one with me, upon my shoulders, the kid followed me quite to
my enclosure; upon which I laid down the dam, and took the kid
in my arms, and carried it over my pale, in hopes to have bred it up
tame; but it would not eat; so I was forced to kill it, and eat it
myself. These two supplied me with flesh a great while, for I eat
sparingly, and preserved my provisions (my bread especially) as
much as possibly I could.
And now being about to enter into a melancholy relation of a
scene of silent life, such perhaps, as was never heard of in the world
before, I shall take it from its beginning, and continue it in its
order. It was, by my account, the 30th of September, when, in the
manner as above said, I first set foot upon this horrid island; whep
the sun being to us in its autumnal equinox, was almost just over
my head: for I reckoned myself, by observation, to be in the latitud*
of nine degrees twenty-two minutes north of the Line.
SECTION VII.
ROBINSON S MODE OF RECKONING TIME—DIFFICULTIES ARISING FROM
WANT OF TOOLS—ILE ARRANGES HIS HABITATION.
'After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came into my
thoughts that I should lose my reckoning of time for want of books,
and pen and ink, and should even forget the Sabbath days from the
working days: but, to prevent this, I cut it with my knife into a
large post, in capital letters; and making it into a great cross, I set
it up on the shore where I first landed, viz., "I came on shore here
on the 30th of September, 1G59." Upon the sides of this square
post I cut every day a notch with my knife, and every seventh notch
was as long again as the rest, and every first day of the month as
long again as that long one: and thus I kept my calendar, or weekly,
monthly, and yearly reckoning of time.
But it happened, that among the many things which I brought out
of the ship, in the several voyages which, as above mentioned, I
made to it, I got several things of less value, but not at all less
useful to me, which I found some time after, in rummaging the chests:
as in particular, pens, ink, and paper; several parcels in the captain's,
mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's keeping; three or four compasses,
some mathematical instruments, dials, perspectives, charts, and books
of navigation; all of which I huddled together, whether I might
want them or no; also I found three very good Bibles, which came to
me in my cargo from England, and which* I had packed up among my
things; some Portuguese books also, and, among them, two or three
popish prayer-books, and several other books, all which I carefully
secured. And I must not forget, that we had in the ship a dog, and
two cats, of whose eminent history I may have occasion to say some-
thing, in its place; for I carried both the cats with 'me; and as for
the dog he jumped out of the ship himself, and swam on shore the
day after I went on shore with my first cargo, and was a trusty ser-
vant to me for many years: I wanted nothing that he could fetch
me, nor any company that he could make up to me, 1 only wanted
to have him talk to me, but that he could not do. As I observed
before, 1 found pens, ink, and paper, and I husbanded them to the
utmost; and I snail show that wnile my ink lasted, I kept things
very exact, but after that was gone I could not; for I could not
make any ink by any means that I could devise.
And this put me in mind that I wanted many things, notwithstand-
ing all that I had amassed together; and of these, this of ink was
one; as also a spade, pickaxe, and shovel, to dig or remove the
earth; needles, pins, andf thread; as for linen, I soon learned to want
that without much difficulty.
This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily: and it
was nearly a whole year before I nad entirely finished my little pale,
or surrounded my habitation. The piles or stakes, which were as
heavy as 1 could well lift, were a long time in cutting and preparing
in the woods, and more by far in bringing home; so that I spent
sometimes two days in cutting and bringing home one of those posts,
and a third in driving it into the ground; for which purpose, I got a
heavy peace of wood at first, but at last bethought me of one of the
iron crows; which, however, though I found it answer, made driving
these posts or piles very laborious and tedious work. But what
need I have been concerned at the tediousnesS of anything I had
to do, seeing I had time enough to do it in; nor had I any other
employment, if that had been over, at least that I could foresee,
except the ranging the island to seek for food; which I did more or
less, every day.
I have already described my habitation, which was a tent under
the side of a rock, surrounded with a strong pale of posts and cables;
but I might now rather call it a wall, for I raised a kind of wall
against it of turfs, about two feet thick on the outside: and after
some time (I think it was a year and a half) I raised rafters from it,
leaning to the rock, and thatched or covered it with boughs of trees,
and such things as I could get, to keep out the rain; which I found,
at some times of the year, very violent.
I have already observed how I brought all my goods into this pale,
and into the cave which I had made behind me. But I must ob-
serve, too, that at first this was a confused heap of goods, which, as
they lay in no order, so they took up all my place; I had no room to
turn myself: so I set myself to enlarge my cave, and work further
'a
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
into the earth; for it was a loose sandy rock, which yielded easily to
the labour I bestowed upon it; and when I found I was pretty
s;il'e as to the beasts of prey, I worked sideways, to the right hand,

into the rock, and then turning to the right again, worked quite
out, and made me a door to come out in the outside of my pale or
fortification.
This gave me not only egress and regress, as it were, a back way
to my tent and to my storehouse, but gave me room to stow my
goods.
And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary things as
I found I most wanted, particularly a chair and a table; for without
these I was not able to enjoy the few comforts I had in the world;
I could not write, or eat, or do several things with so much pleasure,
without a table; so I went to work. And here I must need ob-
serve, that as reason is the substance and original of mathematies,
so that by stating and squaring everything by reason, and by making
the most rational judgment of things, every man may be, in time,
master of every mechanic art. I had never handled a tool in my
life; and yet. in time, by labour, application, and contrivance I found
at last, that I wanted nothing but I could have made, especially if I
had had tools. However, I made abundance of things, even without
tools; and some with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet, which
perhaps vrere never made that way before, and that with infinite
labour. For example, if I wanted a board, I had no other way but
to cut down a tree, set it on an edge before me, and hew it flat on
cither side with my axe, till I had brought it to be as thin as a plank,
and thcn dub it smooth with my adze. It is true, by this method, I
could make but one board of a whole tree; but this I had no remedy
for but patience, any more than I had for a prodigious deal of time
and labour which it took me up to make a plank or board: but my
;ime or labour was little worth, and so it was as well employed one
way as another.
I made me a table and a chair, in the first place; and this Idid
out of the short piecct of boards that I brought on my raft from the
ship. But when I wro Jght out some boards, as above, 1 made large
shelves, of the breadth of a foot and a half, one over another, all
along one side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails. and iron work
on; and, in a word, 1o separate every thing at large in their
places, that I might easily come at them. I knocked pieces into
the wall of the rock, to hang my guns, and all tiiings that would
hang up; so that had my cave been seen, it looked like a general
magazine of all necessary things; and I had every thing so readv
at my hand, that it was a great pleasure to me to see all my good's
in such order, and especially to find my stock of all necessaries so
great.
And now it was that I began to keep a journal of every day's em-
ployment; for, indeed, at first, I was in too much hurry, and not
only as to labour, but in much discomposure of mind; and my
journal would, too, have been full of many dull things.
Some days after this, and after I had been on board the ship and
got al that I could out of her, I could not forbear getting up to the
top of a little mountain, and looking out to sea, in hopes of seeing a
ship: then fancy that, at a vast distance, I spied a sail, please my-
self with the hopes of it, and, after looking steadily, till I was almost
blind, lose it quite, and sit down and weep like a child, and thus
increase my misery by my folly.
But having got over these things in some measure, and having
settled my household stuff and habitation, made me a table and a
chair, and all about me as handsome as I could, I began to keep my
journal: of which I shall here give you the copy (though in it will be
told all these particulars over again) as long as it lasted; for, having
no more ink, I was forced to leave it off.

SECTION VIII.
Robinson's journal—details of ins domestic economy and
CONTRIVANCES—SHOCK OF AN EARTHQUAKE.
THE JOURNAL.
September 30th, 1659. I, poor miserable Robinson Crusoe, being
shipwrecked, during a dreadful storm, in the offing, came on shore
on this dismal unfortunate island, which I called the Island op
Despair; all the rest of the ship's company being drowned, and
myself almost dead.
October 1. In the morning I saw, to my great surprise, the ship
had floated with the high tide, and was driven on shore again much
nearer the island. I hoped, if the wind abated, I might get on
board, and get some food and necessaries out of her for my relief.
I spent great part of this day in pc^ilexing myself on these things;
but, at length, seeing the ship almost dry, I went upon the sand as
near as I could, and then swam on board. This day also it continued
raining, though with no wind at all.
From the 1st of October to the 24th. All these days entirely
spent in many several voyages to get all I could out of the ship;
which I brought on shore, every tide of flood, upon rafts. Much rain
also in these days, though with some intervals of fair weather: but
it seems this was the rainy season.
Oct. 25. It rained all night and all day, with some gusts of
wind; during which time the ship broke in pieces (the wind mowing
a little harder than before) and was no more to be seen, except the
wreck of her, and that only at low water. I spent this day in
covering and securing the goods which I had saved, that the rain
might not spoil them.
From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in carrying all my
goods to my habitation, though some part of the time it rained ex-
ceedingly hard.
The 31st, in the morning, I went out into the island with my gun,
to see^for some food, and discover the country; when I killed a she-
goat, and her kid followed me home, which I afterwards killed also,
because it would not feed.
November 1. I set up my tent under a rock, and lay there for
the first night; making it as large as I could, with stakes driven in
to swing my hammock upon.
Nov. 4. This morning I began to order my times of work, of
going out with my gun, time of sleep, and time of diversion; viz.,
every morning I walked out with my gun for two or three hours, if
it did not rain; then employed myself to work till about eleven
o'clock; then eat what I had to live on; and from twelve to two I
lay down to sleep, the weather being excessively hot; and then, in
the evening, to work again. The working part of this day and the
next was wholly employed in making my table, for I was yet but
a very sorry workman: though time and necessity made me a
complete natural mechanic soon after, as I believe they would any
one else.
Nov. 13. This day it rained; which refreshed me exceedingly,
and cooled the earth: but it was accompanied with terrible thunder
and lightning, which frightened me dreadfully, for fear of my
powder. As soon as it was over I resolved to separate my stock
of powder into as many little parcels as possible, that it might not
be in danger.
Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent, into the rock,
to make room for my further convenience.
Note. Three things I wanted exceedingly for this work, vix., a
pickaxe, a shovel, and a wheelbarrow, or basket: so I desisted from
my work and began to consider how to supply these wants, and make
me some tools. As for pickaxe, I made use of the iron crows, which
were proper enough, though heavy: but the next thing was a
shovel or spade; this was so absolutely necessary, that, indeed, I
could do nothing effectually without it; but what kind ol one to
make I knew not.
Nov. 18. The next day, in searching the woods, I found a tree of
48
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
that wood, or like it, which, in the Brazils, they call 1he iron tree,
from its exceeding hardness: of this, with great labour, and almost
spoiling my axe, I cut a piece; and brought it home, too, with diffi-
culty enough, for it was exceeding heavy. The excessive hardness
of the wood, and my having no other way, made me a long while
upon this machine: "for I worked it effectually by little and little,
into the form of a shovel or spade; the handle exactly shaped
like ours in England, only that the broad part having no iron shod
upon it at the bottom, it would not last me so long; however, it
served well enough for the uses which I had occasion to put it to;
but never was a shovel, 1 believe, made after that fashion, or so long
in making.

Nov. 23. My other work having now stood still, because of my
making these tools, when they were finished I went on; and working
every day, as my strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen days
entirely i n widening and deepening my cave, that it might hold my
goods commodiously.
December 10. I began now to think my cave or vault finished;
when on a sudden (it seems I had made it too large) a great quantity
of earth fell down from the top and one side; so much, that, in short,
it frightened me, and not without reason too; for if I had been under
it, I should never have wanted a grave-digger. Upon this disaster,
I had a great deal of work to do over again, for I had the loose
earth to carry out; and, which was of more importance, I had
the ceiling to prop up, so that I might be sure no more would come
down.
Dec. 11. This day I went to work with it accordingly; and got
Iwo shores or posts pitched upright to the top, with two pieces of
board across over each post: this I finished the next day; and
setting more posts up with boards, in about a week more I had the
roof secured; and the posts standing in rows, served me for parti-
tions to part off my house.
Dec. 17. From this day to the 20th, I placed shelves, and knocked
up nails on the posts, to hang everything up that could be hung up:
and now I began to be in some order within doors.
Dec. 20. I carried everything into the cave, and began to furnish
my house, and set up some pieces of boards, like a dresser, to order
my victuals upon; but boards began to be very scarce with me; also
I made me another table.
Dec. 28, 29, 30, 81. Great heats and no breeze; so that there
was no stirring abroad, except in the evening, for food; this time I
spent in putting all my things in order within doors.

January 1. Very hot still; but I went abroad early and late with
my gun, and lay still in the middle of the day. This evening, going
further into the valleys which lay towards the centre of the island,
I found there were plenty of goats, though exceedingly shy, and hard
to come at; however, I re«olved to try if I could not bring my dog
to hunt them down. Accordingly, the next day, I went out with my
dog, and set him upon the goats: but I was mistaken, for they all
faced about upon the dog: and he knew his danger too well, for he
would not come near them.
Jan. 3. I began my fence or wall; which, being still jealous of
my being attacked by somebody, I resolved to make very thick and
strong.
During this time, I made my rounds in the woods for game every
day when the rain permitted me, and made frequent discoveries, in
these walks, of something or other to my advantage; particularly, I
found a kkid of wild pigeons, who build, not as wood-pigeons, in a
tree, but rather as house-pigeons, in the holes of the rocks: and,
taking some young ones, I endeavoured to breed them up tame, and
did so; but when they grew older, they flew all away; which, per-
haps, was, at first, for want of feeding them, for I had nothing to
give them; however, I frequently found their nests, and got their
young ones, which were very good meat. In the middle of all my
labours it happened, that in rummaging my things, I found a little
bag; which, as I hinted before, haa been filled with corn, for the
feeding of poultry; not for this voyage, but before, as I suppose,
when the ship came from Lisbon. What little remainder of corn
had been in the bag was all devoured by the rats, and I saw nothing
in the bag but husks and dust: and being willing to have the bag
for some other use (I think it was to put powder in, when I divided
it for fear of the lightning, or some such use), I shook the husks of
corn out of it, on one side of my fortification, under the rock.
It was a little before the great rain now mentioned, that I threw
this stuff away; taking no notice of anything, and not so much .as
remembering that I had thrown anything there: when, about a month
after, I saw some few stalks of something green shooting out of the
ground, which I fancied might be some plant I had not seen; but I
was surprised, and perfectly astonished, when, after a longer time, I
saw about ten or twelve cars come out, which were perfect green
barley, of the same kind as our European, nay, as our English
barlej.
I at first thought these the pure productions of Providence for my
support; and, not doubting that there was more in the place, I went
over all that part of the island where I had been before, searching in
every corner, and under every rock, for more of it; but I could not
find any. At last it occurred to my thoughts, that I had shaken out
a bag of chicken's-meat in that place, and then the wonder began to
cease; and I must confess, my religious thankfulness to God's
providence began to abate, too, upon the discovering that all this
was nothing but what was common; though I ought to have been
as thankful for so strange and unforeseen a providence, as if it had
been miraculous: for it was really the work of Providence, as to me,
that should order or appoint that ten or twelve grains of corn should
remain unspoiled, when the rats had destroyed all the rest, as if it
had been dropped from heaven; as also, that I should throw it
out in that particular place, where, it being in the shade of a
high rock, it sprang up immediately; whereas, if I had thrown
it anywhere else, at that time, it would have been burned up and
destroyed.
I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may '.e sure, in their
season, which was about the end of June; and, laying up every corn,
I resolved to sow them all again; hoping, in time, to have soma
quantity sufficient to supply me with bread. But it was not till ths
ADVEKTVBES 01 BOBIltsOi. «BU»OI. II
fourth year that I could allow myself the least grain ot this corn
to eat, and even then but sparingly, as I shall show afterwards in its
order; for I lost all that I sowed the first season, by not observing
the proper time; as I sowed just before the dry season, so that it
never cume up at all, at least not as it would nave done: of which
ill its place.
Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or thirty stalks
of rice, which I preserved with the same care; ana whose use was
of the same kind, or to the same purpose, viz., to make me bread,
or r»ther food; for I found ways to cook it up without baking,
though I did that also after some time.—But to return to my Journal.
I worked excessively hard these three or four months, to get my
wall done; and the 14th of April I closed it up; contriving to get
into it, not by a door, but over the wall, by a ladder, that there
might be no sign on the outside of my habitation.
Aphil 16. I finished the ladder; so I went up with the ladder
to the top, and then pulled it up after me, and let it down in the
inside: this was a complete enclosure to me; for within I had room
enough, and nothing could come at me from without, unless it could
first mount my wall.
The very next day after this wall was finished, I had almost all
my labour overthrown at once, and myself killed; the case was
thus:—As I was busy in the inside of it, behind my tent, just at the
entrance into my cave, I was terribly frightened by a shock of an
earthquake!
I was so much amazed with the thing itself (having never felt the
like, nor discoursed with any one that had) that I was like one dead
or stupified; and the motion of the earth made my stomach sick, like
one that was tossed at sea: but the noise of the falling of the rock
awaked me, as it were, and rousing me from the stupifled condition
I was in, filled me with horror, ana I thought of nothing but the hill
falling upon my tent and my household goods, and burying all at
once; this sunk ray very soul within me a second time.
After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some time,
I began to take courage; yet I had not heart enough to go over uij
wall again, for fear of being buried alive; but sat still upon the
ground greatly cast down and disconsolate, not knowing what to do.
All this while I had not the least serioun religious thought; nothing
but the common " Lord, have mercy on me! and when it was over
that went away too.
This set me thinking about what I had best do; conclud
ing, that if the island was subject to earthquakes, there would be
no living for me in a cave, but I must consider of building me some
little hut in an open place, which I might surround with a wall, as 1
had done here, and so make myself secure from wild beasts or men;
for if I staid where I was, I should certainly, one time or other, be
buried alive,
With these thoughts, I resolved to remove my tent from the place
where it now stood, being just under the hanging precipice of the
hill, and which, if it should be shaken again, would certainly fall
upon my tent. I spent the next two days, being the 19th and 20th
of April, in contriving where and how to remove my habitation. I
resolved that I would go to work with all speed to "build me a wall
with piles and cables, &c. in a circle as before, and set my tent in it
when it was finished; but that I would venture to stay where I was
till it was readv, and fit to remove to. This was the 21st.
April 22. The next morning 1 began to consider of means to put
this measure into execution; and 1 was at a great loss about the

tools. I had three large axes, and abundance of hatchets (for we
carried the hatchets for traffic with the Indians); but with much
chopping and cutting knotty hard wood, they were all full of notches,
and dull: and though I had a grindstone, I could nor turn it and
grind my tools too. This caused me as much thought as a states-
man would have bestowed upon a grand point of polities, or a judge
upon the life and death of a man. At length I contrived a wheel
with a string, to turn it with my foot, that I might have both my
hands at liberty.
April 28, 29. These two whole days I took up in grinding my
tools, my machine for turning my grindstone performing very well.
April 30. Having perceived that my bread had been low a great
while, I now took a survey of it, and reduced myself to one biscuit-
cake a day, which made my heart very heavy.
SECTION IX.
ROBINSON OBTAINS MORE ARTICLES FROM THE WRECK.—
ILLNESS AND AFFLICTION.
May 1. In the morning, looking towards the sea-side, the tide
being low, I saw something lie on the shore bigger than ordinary,
and it looked like a cask; when I came to it I found a small barrel,
and two or three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were driven
on shore by the late hurricane ; and looking towards the wreck itself,
I thought it seemed to lie higher out of the water than it used to do.
I examined the barrel that was driven on shore, and soon found it
was a barrel of gunpowder; but it had taken water, and the powder
was caked as hard as a stone; however, I rolled it farther on the
shore for the present, and went on upon the sands, as near as I could
to the wreck of the ship, to look for more.
When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely removed.
The forecastle, which lay buried in the sand, was heaved up at least
six feet; and the stern (which was broke to pieces, and parted from
the rest, by the force of the sea, soon after I had left rummaging her)
was tossed, as it were, up, and cast on one side: and the sand was
thrown so high on that side next her stern, that I could now walk
quite up to her when the tide was out.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of removing my
habitation; and I busied myself mightily, that day especially, in
searching whether I could make any way into the ship; but I iound
nothing was to be expected of that kind, for all the inside of the ship
was choked up with sand. However, as I had learned not to despair
of anything, I resolved to pull everything to pieces that I could of
the ship, concluding that everything I could get from her would be
of some use or other to me.
54 ADvnrruras o* hobihson crusob.
Mat 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of abeam through,
which I thought held some of the upper part or quarter-deck to-
gether; and when I had cut it through, I cleared away the sand as well
as I could from the side which lay highest; but the tide coming in, I
was obliged to give over for that time.
May I. I went a fishing, but caught not one fish that I durst eat
of, till I was weary of my sport; when just going to leave off, I
caught a young dolphin. I had made a lone line of some rope-yarn,
but I had no hooks; yet I frequently caught fish enough, as much
as I cared to cat; all of which I dried in the sun, and ate them dry.
May 5 to 24. Every day, to this day, I worked on the wreck;
and with hard labour I loosened some things so much, with the crow,
that the first blowing tide several casks floated out, and two of the
seamen's chests; but the wind blowing from shore, nothing came to
land that day but pieces of timber, ana a hogshead, which had some
Brazil pork in it. I continued this work every day to the 15th of
June, except the time necessary to get food; which I always
appointed, during this part of my employment to be when the tide
was up, that I might be ready when it was ebbed out; and by this
time I had gotten timber, and plank, and iron work, enough to have
built a good boat, if I had known how; and I also got, at several
times, and in several pieces, near one hundred weight of the sheet-
lead.
June 16. Going down to the seaside, I found a large tortoise, or
turtle. This was the first I had seen; which, it seems, was only to
my misfortune, not any defect of the place or scarcity; for had I
happened to be on the other side of the island, I might have had
hundreds of them every day, as I found afterwards; but perhaps had
paid dear enough for them.
June 17. I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in her three-
score eggs; and her flesh was to me, at that time, the most savoury
and pleasant that I ever tasted in my life; having had no flesh, but
of goats and fowls, since I landed in this horrid place.
June 18. Rained all day, and I stayed within. I thought at
this time, the rain felt cold, and I was somewhat chilly; which I
knew was not usual in that latitude.
June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather had been
cold.
June 20. No rest all night; violent pains in my head, and feverish.
June 21. Very ill; frightened almost to death with the apprehen-
sions of my sad condition, to be sick, and no help; prayed to God,
for the first time since the storm off Hull; but scarce knew what I
said, or why, my thoughts being all confused.
June 28. A little better; but under dreadful apprehensions of
sickness.
June 83. Very bad again; cold and shivering, and Lhen a violent
headache.
June 24. Much bettor.
June 85. An ague very violent; the fit held mo seven hours;
cold tit, and hot, with faint sweats after it.
June 26. Better; and having no vituals to eat, took my gun, but
found myself very weak ; however, I killed a she-goat, and with
much difficulty got it home, and broiled some of it, and ate. I
would fain have stewed it, and made some broth, but had no pot.
June 27. The ague again so violently that I lay a-bed all day,
and neither ate nor drank. I was ready to perish for thirst; but so
weak, I had not the strength to stand up, or get myself any watei
to drink. Prayed to God again, but was light-headed; and when 1
was not, I was so ignorant that I knew not what to say; only lay
and cried, "Lord, look upon me! Lord, pity me! Lord, have mercy
upon me!" I suppose I did nothing else for two or three hours; till
the fit wearing off, I fell asleep, ana did not wake till far in the night.
When I awoke, I found myself much refreshed, but weak, and
exceeding thirsty; however, as I had no water in my whole habita-
tion, 1 was forced to lie till morning.
I had, alas! no divine knowledge: what I had received by the
good instruction of my father was then worn out, by an uninterrupted
series, for eight years, of seafaring wickedness, and a constant
conversation with none but such as were, like myself, ^wicked and
?irofane to the last degree. I do not Remember that I had, in all
hat time, one thought that so much as tended either to looking
upward towards God, or inward towards a reflection upon my owe
ways; but a certain stupidity of soul, without desire of good, or
consciousness of evil, had entirely overwhelmed me; and I was all
that the most hardened, unthinking, wicked creature among our
common sailors, can be supposed to be; not having the least sense,
either of the fear of God, in danger, or of thankfulness to him, in
deliverances.
It is true, when I first got on shore here, and found all my ship's
crcv drowned, awl myself spared, I was surprised with a kind of
eestacy, and some transports of soul, which, had the grace of God
assisted, might have come up to true thankfulness; but it ended
where it b«gan, in a mere common flight of joy, or, as I may say,
being glad I was alive, without the least reflection upon the distin-
guished goodness of the hand which had preserved me, and had
singled me out to be preserved when all the rest were destroyed, or
an inquiry why providence had been thus merciful to me; just the
same common sort of joy which seamen have, after they are got safe
ashore from a shipwreck; which they drown all in the next bowl of
punch, and forget almost as soon as it is over; and all the rest of my
life was like it, Even when I was, afterwards, on due consideration,
made sensible of my condition,—how 1 was cast off on this dreadful
place, out of the reach of human kind, o<it of all hope of relief, or
prospeot of redemption, —as soon as I saw but a prospect of living,
50
ADVENTUIUSS OF ROBINSON CHUSOE.
and that I should not starve and perish for hunger, all the sense of
affliction wore off, and I became to be very easy, applied myself to
the works proper for my preservation and supply, and was far enough
from being afflicted at my condition, as a judgment from heaven, or
as the hand of God against me; these were thoughts which very
seldom entered into my head.

But now, when I began to be sick, and a leisure view of the
miseries of death came to place itself before me; when my spirits
began to sink under the burden of a strong distemper, and nature
was exhausted with the violence of the fever; conscience, that had
slept so long, began to awake; and I reproached myself with my
past life, in which I had so evidently, by uncommon wickedness,
provoked the justice of God to lay me under uncommon strokes, and
to deal with me in so vindictive a manner.
"Now," said I, aloud, " my dear father's words are come to pass;
God's justice has overtaken me, and I have none to help or hear me.
I rejected the voice of Providence, which had mercifully put me in a
station of life wherein I might have been happy and easy; but I
would neither see it myself, nor learn from my parents the blessing
of it. I left them to mourn over my folly; and now I am left to
mourn under the consequences of it." Then I cried out," Lord, be nvy
help, for I am in great distress." This was the first prayer, if I may
call it so, that I had made for tnauy years. But I return to my
Journal.
SECTION X.
HIS RECOVERY—HIS COMFORT IN READING THE SCRIFTURES—
MAKES AN EXCURSION INTO THE INTERIOR OF THE ISLAND—
FORMS HIS "BOWER."
June 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with the sleep I had
had, and the fit being entirely off, I got up, and considered now
was my time to get something to refresh and support myself
when I should be ill. The first thing I did was to fill a large
case-bottle with water, and set it upon my table, in reach of my bed;
and to take off the chill or aguish disposition of the water, I put
about a quarter of a pint of rum into it, and mixed them together.
Then I got me a piece of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals,
but could eat very little. I walked about, but was very weak, and
withal very sad and heavy-hearted in the sense of my miserable con-
dition, dreading the return of my distemper the next day.
Now, as the apprehension of the return of my distemper terrified
me very much, it occurred to my thought, that the Brazilians take
no physic but their tobacco for almost all distempers; and I had a
piece of a roll of tobacco in one of the chests, which was quite
cured; and some also that was green, and not quite cured.
I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt: for in this chest I found a
cure both for soul and body. I opened the chest, and found what I
looked for, viz., the tobacco; and as the few books I had saved hiy
there too, I took out one of the Bibles which I mentioned before,
and which, to this time, I had not found leisure or so much as
inclination, to look into. I say, I took it out, and brought both
that and the tobacco with me to the table. What use to make of
the tobacco I knew not, as to my distemper, nor whether A was
good for it or not; but I tried several experiments with it, as if 1
was resolved it should hit one way or other. I first took a piece of
a leaf, and chewed it in my mouth; which, indeed, at first, almost
st unified my brain; the tobacco being green and strong, and such
as I had not been much used to. Then I took some and steeped it
an hour or two in some rum, and resolved to take a dose of it when
I lay down: and lastly, I burnt some upon a pan of coals, and held
my nose close over the smoke of it as long as I could bear it; as
well for the heat, as almost for suffocation. In the interval of this
operation, I took up the Bible, and began to read: but my head was
too much disturbed by the tobacco to bear reading, at least at that
time; only, having opened the book casually, the first words that
occurred to me were these: "Call on me in the day of trouble, and
I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me." These words were
very apt to my case; and made some impression upon my thoughts
at the time of reading them, though not so much as they did after-
wards; for, as for being delivered, the word had no sound, as I may
say, to me; the thing was so remote, so impossible in my appre-
hension of things, that, as the children of Israel said when they
were promised flesh to eat, "Can God spread a table in the wilder-
ness?" so I began to say, "Can even God himself deliver me from
this place?" And as it was not for many years that any hopes
appeared, this prevailed very often upon my thoughts: but, however,
the words made a great impression upon me, and I mused upon
them very often. It now grew late: and the tobacco had, as I said,
dozed my head so much, that I inclined to sleep: so I left my lamp
burning in the cave, lest I should want anything in the night, and
went to bed. But before I lay down, I did what 1 never had done
in all my life: I kneeled down, and prayed to God to fulfil the
promise to me, that if I called upon him in the day of trouble, he
would deliver me. After my broken and imperfect prayer was over,
I drank the rum in which I had steeped the tobacco; which was so
strong and rank of the tobacco, that indeed I could scarce get it
down; immediately upon this I went to bed. I found presently the
mm flew up into mynead violently; but I fell into a sound sleep,
and waked no more till by the sun, it must necessarily be near three
o'clock in the afternoon the next day; nay, to this hour, I am partly
of opinion, that I slept all the next day and night, and till almost
three the day after; for otherwise, I know not how I should lose a
day out of my reckoning in the days of the week, as it appeared
some years after I had done; for if I bad lost it by crossing and
re-crossing the Line, I should have lost more than one day; but
certainly I lost a day in my account, and never knew which way.
Be that, however, one way or the other, when I awaked I found
myself exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful:
wnp.n I got up I was stranger than I was the day before, and mj
stomach better, for I was hungry: and, in short, I had no fit the
next day, but continued much altered for the better. This was the
29th.
The 30th was my well day, of course; and I went abroad with
my gun, but did not care to travel too far. I killed a seafowl or

two, something like a brand goose, and brought them home; but
was not very forward to eat them; so I ate some more of the turtle's
eggs, which were very good. This evening I renewed the medicine,
which I had supposed did me good tiie day before, viz. the tobacco
steeped in rum; only I did not take so much as before, nor did I
chew any of the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke: however, I
was not so well the next day, which was the 1st of July, as I hoped
I should have been; for I fiad a little of the cold fit, but it was not
much.
July 2 and 3. I renewed the medicine all the three ways; and
dosed myself with it as at first, and doubled the quantity which I
drank.
July 4. In the morning I took the Bible; and beginning at the
New Testament, I began seriously to read it; and imposed upon
myself to read a while every morning and every night; not binding
myself to the number of chapters, but as long as my thoughts
should engage me. It was not long after I set seriously to this
work, that I found my heart sincerely affected with the wickedness of
my past life. The words, "All these things have not brought thee to
repentance," ran seriously in my thoughts. I was earnestly begging
of God to give me repentance, when it happened providentially, the
very same day, that, reading the scripture, I came to these words,
"He is exalted a Prince and a Saviour; to give repentance and to
00
ADVENTURES OF ROBISSON CRUSOE.
give remission." I threw down the hook; and with my heart as
well as my hands lifted up to heaven, in a kind of eestasy of joy, I
cried out aloud, "Jesus, thou son of David! Jesus, thou exalted
Prince and Saviour! give me repentance." This was the first time
in all my life I could say, in the true sense of the words, that I
prayed; for now I prayed with a sense of my condition, and with a
true scripture view of hope, founded on the encouragment of the
word of God: and from this time, I may say, I began to have hope
that God would hear me.

From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly employed in
walking about with my gun in my hand, a little and a little at a
time, as a man that was gathering up his strength after a fit of sick-
ness: for it is hardly to be imagined how low I was, and to what
weakness I was reduced. The application which I made use of was
perfectly new, and perhaps what had never cured an ague before:
neither can I recommend it to any one to practise, by this experi-
ment: and though it did carry off the fit, yet it rather contributed
to weakening me; for 1 had frequent convulsion in my nerves and
limbs for some time: I learned from it also this, in particular; that
being abroad in the rainy season was the most pernicious thing to my
health that could be, especially in those rains which came attended
with storms and hurricanes of wind; for as the rain which came in
the dry season was almost always accompanied with such storms, so
I found that this rain was much more dangerous than the rain which
fell in September and October.
I had now been in this unhappy island above ten months: all
possibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to be entirely
taken from me; and I firmly believed that no human shape had ever
set foot upon that place. Having secured my habitation, as I
thought, fully to my mind, I had a great desire to make a more
perfect discovery of the Island, and to see what other production!
I might find, which I yet knew nothing of.
It was on the 15th of July that I began to take a more particular
survey of the island itself. I went up the creek first, where, as I
hinted, I brought my rafts on shore. I found, after I came about
two miles up, that the tide did not flow any higher; and that it was
no more than a little brook of running water, very fresh and good:
but this being the dry season, there was hardly any water in some
parts of it; at least, not any stream. On the Banks of this brook
1 found many pleasant savannahs or meadows, plain, smooth, anj
covered with grass; and on the rising parts of them, next to the
higher grounds (where the water, as it might be supposed, never
overflowed), I found a great deal of tobacco, green, and growing to
a very great and strong stalk: and there were divers other plants,
which I had no knowledge of, or understanding about, and that
might, perhaps, have virtues of their own, which I could not find
out. I searched for the cassava root, which the Indians, in all that
climate, make their bread of; but I could find none. I saw large
plants of aloes, but did not understand them. I saw several sugar-
canes, but wild; and, for want of cultivation, imperfect. I con-
tented myself with these discoveries for this time; and came back,
musing with myself what course I might take to know the virtue
and goodness of any of the fruits or plants which I should discover;
but could bring it to no conclusion; for, in short, I had made so
little observation while I was in the Brazils, that I knew little of the
plants in the fields; at least, very little that might serve me to any
purpose now in my distress.
Ihe next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again; and after
going something farther than I had gone the day before, I found the
brook and the savannahs begin to cease, and the country become
more woody than before. In this part I found different fruits; and
particularly I found melons upon the ground in great abundance,
and grapes upon the trees: the vines, indeed, had spread over the
trees, and the clusters of grapes were now just in their prime, very
ripe and rich. This was a surprising discovery, and I was ex-
ceedingly glad of them, but I was warned by my experience to eat
sparingly of them, remembering that when I was asiiorc in Tiarbary,
the eating of grapes killed several of our Englishmen, who were
slaves there, by tin-owing them into fluxes and fevers. I found,
however, an excellent use for these grapes; and that was to cure or
dry them in the sun, and keep them as dried grapes or raisins are
kept; which I thought would be (as indeed they were) as whole-
some and as agreeable to eat, when no grapes were to be had.
Having spent three days in this journey, I came home, so I must
now call my tent and my cave.
When I came home from this journey, I contemp,ated with great
pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley, and the plsoaantness of the
situation; the security from storms on that side; the water and the
wood; and concluded that I had pitched upon a place to fix my
abode in, which was by far the worst part of the country. Upon
the whole, I began to consider of removing my habitation, and to

look out for a place equally safe as where 1 was now situate; if
possible, in that pleasant fruitful part of the island.
I was so enamoured of this place, that I spent much of my time
there for the whole remaining' part of the month of July; and
though, upon second thoughts, 1 resolved not to remove, yet I built
uie a little kind of a bower, and surrounded it at a distance with a
strong fence, being a double hedge, as high as I could reach, well
staked, and filled between with brushwood. Here I lay very secure
sometimes two or three nights together; always troing over it with
a ladder, as before: so that I fancied now I had my couutry and
my sea-coast house. This work took me up to the beginning of
August.
About the beginning of August, I had finished my bower, and
began to enjoy myself. The 3rd of August, 1 found the grapes I
had hung up were perfectly dried, and indeed were excellent good
raisins of the sun; so I began to take them down from the trees;
and it was very happy that I did so, as the rains which followed
would have spoiled them, and I should have lost the best part of my
winter food; for I had above two bundled large bunches of them.
No sooner had I taken them all down, and carried most of them
home to my cave, but it begau to rain: and from hence, which was
the 14th of August, it rained, more or less, every day till the middle
of October; and sometimes so violently, that I could not stir out of
my cave for several days.
In this season, I was much surprised with the \ncrease of my
family. I had been concerned for the loss of one of my cats, who
ran away from me, or, as I thought, had been dead; and I heard no
more of her, till, to my astonishment, she came home with three
kittens. This was the more strange to me, because, about the end

of August, though I had killed a wild cat, as I called it, with my
gun, yet I thought it was quite a different kind from our European
cats: yet the young cats were the same kind of house-breed as the
old one; and both of my cats being females, I thought it very
strange. But from these three, I afterwards came to be so pestered
with cats that I was forced to kill them like vermin, or wild beasts,
and to drive them from my house as much as possible.
From the 14th of August to the 2Cth, incessant rain; so that I
could not stir, and was now very careful not to be much wet. In
this confinement, I began to be straitened for food, but venturing out
twice, I one day killed a goat, and the last day, which was the 24th,
found a very large tortoise, which was a treat to me. My food was
now regulated thus: I ate a bunch of raisins for my breakfast; a
piece of the goat's flesh, or of the turtle, broiled for my dinner, (for,
to my great misfortune, I had no vessel to boil or stew anything,)
and two or three of the turtle's eggs for my supper.
During this confinement in my cover from the rain, I worked daily
two or three hours at enlarging my cave; and by degrees worked it
on towards one side, till I came to the outside of the hill: and made
a door, or way out, which came beyond my fence or wall; and so I
came in and out this way. But I was not perfectly easy at lying so
open: for as I had managed myself before, I was m a perfect
enclosure; whereas now, I thought I lay exposed; and yet I could
not perceive that there was any living thing to fear, the biggest
creature that I had as yet seen upon the island being a goat.
September 30. I was now come to the unhappy anniversary of
my landing: I cast up the notches on my post, and found I "had
been on shore three hundred and sixty-five days. I kept this day as
a solemn fast! setting it apart for religious exercise, prostrating
myself on the ground with the most serious humiliation, confessing
my sins to God, acknowledging his righteous judgments upon me,
and praying to him to have mercy on me through Jesus Christ; ana
having not tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours, even till
the going down of the sun, I then ate a biscuit and a bunch of
grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day as I began it. I had all
this time observed no sabbath-day; for as at first I had no sense of
religion upon my mind, I had, after some time, omitted to distinguish
the weeks, by making a longer notch than ordinary for the sabbath-
day, and so did not really Know what any of the days were: but
now having cast up the days, as above, I found I had been there a
year; so I dividedit into weeks, and set-«part every seventh day for
a sabbath: though I found, at the end of my account, I had lost a
day or two in my reckoning. A little after this, my ink beginning
to fail me, I contented myself to use it more sparingly; and to
write down only the most remarkable events of my life.
The rainy season and the dry season began now to appear regular
to me, and I learned to divide them so as to provide for them
accordingly; but I bought all my experience before I had it.
While my corn was growing, I mado a little discovery, which was
of use to me afterwards. As soon as the rains were over, and the
weather began to settle, which was about the month of November,
I made a visit up the country to my bower; where, though I had
not been for some months, yet I found all things just as I had left
them. The circle or double hedge that I had made was not only firm
and entile, but the stakes which I had cut out of some trees that grew
thereabouts, were all shot out and grown with long branches, as
much as a willow-tree usually shoots the first year after lopping its
head; but I could not tell what tree to call it that these stakes were
cut from. I was surprised, and yet very well pleased, to see the
young trees grow; and I pruned them, and led them to grow as
much alike as I could: and it is scarce credible how beautiful a
figure they grew into in three years: so that, though the hedge
made a circle of about twenty-five yards in diameter, yet the trees,
for such I might now call them, soon covered it, and it was a com-
plete shade, sufficient to lodge under all the dry season. This made
me resolve to cut some more stakes, and make me a hedge like this, in
a semicircle round my wall (I mean that of my first dwelling), which
I did: and placing the trees or stakes in a double row, at about eight
yards distance from my fence, they grew presently; and were at
first a fine cover to my habitation, and afterwards servnd for a
^stance also; as I shall observe in its order.
THl ANNIVERSARY OF CRUBOK s LANDING.
SECTION XI.
ROBINSON MAKES A TOUR 10 EXFLORE HIS ISLAND.
I fousd now that the seasons of the year might generally be divided,
not into summer and winter as in Europe, but into the rainy seasons
and the dry seasons, which were generally thus: From the middle
of February to the middle of April, rainy; the sun being then on
or near the equinox. From the middle of April till the middle of
August, dry; the sun being then north of the Line. From the middle
August till the middle of October, rainy; the sun being then come
back to the Line. From the middle of October till the middle of
February, dry; the sun being then to the south of the Line.
The rainy seasons held sometimes longer and sometimes shorter,
as the winds happened to blow ; but this was the general observation
I made. After I had found, by experience, the ill consequences of
being abroad in the rain, I took care to furnish myself with provisions
beforehand, that I might not be obliged to go out; and I sat within
doors as much as possible during the wet months. In this time I found
much employment, and very suitable also to the time; as I found
great occasion for many things which I had no way to furnish myself
with, but by hard labour and constant application; particularly, I
tried many ways to make myself a basket; but all the twigs I could
get for the purpose proved so brittle that they would do nothing. It
proved of excellent advantage to me now, that when I was a boy, I
used to take great delight in standing at a baskot-maker's in the
town where my father lived, to see them make their wicker-ware;
CO
ADVENTURES OP BOBINSON CHUSOE.
and being, as boys usually are, very officious to help, and a great
observer of the manner how they worked those things, and sometimes
lending a hand, I had by these means full knowledge of the methods
of it, so that I wanted nothing but the materials; when it came into
my mind, that the twigs of that tree from whence I cut my stakes
that grew, might possibly be as tough as the sallows, willows, and
osiers, in England, and I resolved to try. Accordingly, the next
day, I went to my country-house, as I called it, and cutting some of
the smaller twigs, I found them to my purpose as much as I could

desire; whereupon I came the next time prepared with a hatchet to
cut down a quantity, which I soon found, for there was great plenty
of them. These I set up to dry within my circle or hedge; and
when they were fit for use, I carried them to my enve; and there,
during the next season, I employed myself in making, as well as
I could, several baskets; both to carry earth, or to carry or lay up
anything I had occasion for. Though I did not finish them very
handsomely, yet I made them sufficiently serviceable for my purpose;
and thus, afterwards, I took care never to be without them; and as
my wicker-ware decayed, I made more; especially strong deep
baskets to place my cor n in, instead of sacks, when I should come
to have any quantity of it.
I mentioned before, that I had great mind to sec the whole island;
and that I had travelled up the brook, and so on to where I had
built my bower, and where I had an opening quite to the sea, on the
other side of the island. I now resolved to travel quite across to
the sea-shore, on that side; so taking my gun, a hatchet, and my
dog, and a larger quantity of powder and shot than usual, with two
biscuit-cakes, and a great bunch of raisins in my pouch, for my store,
I began my journey. When I had passed the vale where my bower
stood, as above, I came within view of the sea, to the west; and it
being a clear day, I fairly descried land, whether an island or con-
tinent I could not tell; but it lay very high, extending from W. to W.
S.W. at a very great distance; by my guess, it could not be less
than fifteen or twenty leagues off.

I could not tell what part of the world this might be; otherwise
than that I knew it must be part of America, and as I concluded
by all my observations, must be near the Spanish dominions; and
perhaps was all inhabited by savages, where, if I should have landed,
I had been in a worse condition than I was now. I therefore ac-
quiesced in the disposition of Providence, which I began now to
own and to believe ordered everything for the best; I say, I quieted
my mind with this, and left off afflicting myself with fruitless wishes
of being there. Besides, after some reflection upon this affair,
I considered that if this land was the Spanish coast, I should certainly
one time or other, see some vessel pass or repass one way or other;
but if not, then it was a savage coast between the Spanish country
and the Brazils, whose inhabitants are indeed the worst of savages;
for they are cannibals, or men-eaters, and fail not to murder and
devour all human beings that fall into their hands.
With these considerations, walking very leisurely forward, I found
this side of the island, where I now was, much pleasanter than mine;
the open or savannah fields sweetly adorned with flowers and grass,
and full of very fine woods. I saw abundance of parrots; and fain
would have caught one, if possible, to have kept it to be tame, and
taught it to speak to me. I did, after taking some pains catch a
young parrot; for I knocked it down with a stick, and, having recov-
ered it, I brought it home; but it was some years before I could
make him spea*; however, at last I taught him to call me by my
name very familiarly.
I was exceedingly amused with this journey. 1 found in the low
grounds hares, as I thought them to be, and foxes; but they differed
greatly from all the other kinds I had met with; nor could I satisfy
myself to eat them, though I killed several. But I had no need to
be venturous; for I had no want of food, and of that which was very
good too, especially these three sorts, viz. goats, pigeons, and turtle,
or tortoise.
As soon as I came to the sca-shore, I was surprised to see that I
had taken up my lot on the worst side of the island; for here indeed
the shore was covered with innumerable turtles; whereas, on the
other side I had found but three in a year and a half. Here was
also an infinite number of fowls of many kinds; some of which I had
not seen before, and many of them very good meat, but such as I knew
not the names of, except those called penguins.
I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter than mine;
yet I had not the least inclination to remove; for as I was fixed in my
habitation, it became natural to me, and I seemed all the while I was
here to be as it were upon a journey, and from home. However, I
travelled along the seashore towards the east, I suppose about twelve
miles, and then setting up a great pole upon the seashore for a mark,
I concluded I would go home again; and that the next journey I
took should be on the other side of the island, east from my dwelling,
and so round till I came to my post again; of which in its place.
I took another way to come back than that I went, thinking I could
easily keep so much of the island in my view, that I could not miss
finding my first dwelling by viewing the country; but I found myself
mistaken; for being come about two or three miles, I found myself
descended in a very large valley, but so surrounded with hills, aud
those hills covered with wood, that I could not see which was my way
by any direction but that of the sun, nor even then, unless I knew
very well the position of the sun at that time of the day. And it
happened to my farther misfortune, that the weather proved hazy for
three or four days while I was in this valley; and not being able to
see the sun, I wandered about very uncomfortable, and at last was
obliged to find out the seaside, look for my post, aud come back the
same way I went; and then by easy journeys I turned homeward,
the weather being exceeding hot, and my gun, ammunition, hatchet,
ind "ther things very heavv

sSjSe —

CRTT80E AWD HIS GOiT.
SECTION XII.
HE RETURNS TO HIS CAVE—HIS AGRICULTURAL LABOURS ANI)
SUCCESS.
In this journey, my dog surprised a young kid and seized upon it;
and I running to take hold of it, caught it and saved it alive from
the dog. I had a great mind to bring it home if I could; for I had
often been musing whether it might not be possible to get a kid or
two, and so raise a breed of tame goats, which might supply me with
food when my powder and shot were all spent. I made a collar for
this little creature, and with a string which I had made of some rope
yarn, which I always carried about me, I led him along, though with
some difficulty, till I came to my bower, and there I enclosed him
and left him; for I was very impatient to be at home, from whence
I had been absent above a month.
I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale myself after my long
journey; during which, most of the time was taken up in the weighty
affair of making a cage for my Poll, who began now to be more do-
mestie, and to be mighty well acquainted with me. Then I began to
think of the poor kia which I had penned within my little circle, and
resolved to fetch it home, or give it some food; accordingly I went,
and found it where I left it (for indeed it could not get out,) but was
almost starved for want of food. I went and cut boughs of trees,
and branches of such shrubs as I could find, and having fed
it, I tied it as I did before, to lead it away; but it was so tame
with being hungry, that I had no need to have tied it, for it
followed me like a dog; and as I continually fed it, the creature be-
came so loving, so gentle, and so fond, that it was from that time
one of my domesties also, and would never leave we afterwards.
It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much more happy the
life I now led was, with all its miserable circumstances, than the
wicked, cursed, abominable life I led all the past part of my days;
and now having changed both my sorrows and my joys: my very
desires altered, my affections, changed and my delights were per-
fectly new from what they were at my first coming, or indeed for the
two years past. Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting,
or for viewing the country, the anguish of my soul at my condition
would break out upon me on a sudden, and my very heart would die
within me, to think of the woods, the mountains, the deserts I was
in; and how I was a prisoner, locked up with the eternal bars and
holts of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness, without redemption.
In the midst of the greatest composures of my mind this would
break out upon me like a storm, and make me wring my hands and
weep like a child: sometimes it would take me in the middle of my
work, and I would immediately sit down and sigh, and look upon the
ground for an hour or two together: and this was still worse to me;
but if I could burst into tears, or give vent to my feelings by words,
it would go off; and my grief haying exhausted itself would abate.
Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third year; and
though I have not given tha reader the trouble of so particular an
account of my works this year as the first, yet in general it may be
observed, that I was very seldom idle, having regula/ly divided my
time, according to the several daily employments that were before me;
such as, first, My duty to God, and reading the scriptures, which
I constantly set apart some time for, thrice every day: secondly,
Going abroad with my gun for food, which generally took me up three
hours every morning, when it did not rain: thirdly, The ordering,
curing, preserving, and cooking what I had killed or catched for my
supply; these took up great part of the day, when the sun was in
the zenith the violence of the heat was too great to stir out; so that
about four hours in the evening was all the time I could be supposed
to work in; with this exception, that sometimes I changed my hours
of hunting and working, and went to work in the morning, and
abroad with my gun in the afternoon.
To this short time allowed for labour, I desire may be added the
exceedingly laboriousness of my work; the many hours which, for
want of tools, want of help, and want of skill, everything I did took
up out of my time: for example, I was full two ana forty days
making me a board for a long shelf, which I wanted in my cave;
whereas, two sawyers, with their tools and a sawpit, would cut six
of them out of the same tree in half a day.
My case was this; it was a large tree that was to be cut down,
because my board was to be a broad one. This tree I was three
days cutting down, and two more in cutting off the boughs, and
reducing it to a log, or piece of timber. With inexpressible hacking
and hewing, I reduced both the sides of it into chips, till it was light
enough to move; then I tarned it, and made one side of it smooth
and flat as a board, from end to end; then turning that side down-
ward, cut the other side, till I brought the plank to be about three
inches thick, and smooth on both sides. Any one may judge the
labour of my hands in such a piece of work ; but labour and patience
carried me through that, and many other things; I only observe
this in particular, to show the rcasou why so much of my time went
away with so little work, viz. that what might be a little to be done
with help and tools, was a vast labour, and required a prodigious
time to do alone, and by hand. Notwithstanding this, with patience
and labour I went through many things; and, indeed, everything
that my circumstances made necessary for me to do, as will appear
by what follows.

I was now, in the months of November and December, expecting
my crop of barley and rice. The ground I had manured or dug up
for them was not great; for, as I observed, my seed of each was not
more than half a peck, having lost one whole crop by sowing in the
dry season : but now my crop promised very well; when, on a sudden,
I found I was in danger of losing it again by enemies of several
sorts, which it was scarce possible to keep from it; as, first, the
goats, and wild creatures which I called hares, who, tasting the
sweetness of the blade, lay in it night and day, as soon as it came
up, and ate it so close. that it could get no time to shoot up into
stalk.
I saw no jemedy for this, but by making an enclosure about it
12
ADVENTUBES OF 110BINSON CRTJSOE.
with a hedge, which I did with a great deal of toil; and the more,
because it required speed. However, as my arable land was but
small, suited to my crop, I got it tolerably well fenced in about
three weeks' time; and shooting some of the creatures in the day-
time, I set my dog to guard it at night, tying him up to a stake at
the gate, where he would stand and bark all night long; so in a
little time the enemies forsook the place, and the corn grew very
Btrong and well, and began to ripen apace.

But as the beasts ruined me before, while my cor n was in the
blade, so the birds were likely to ruin me now, when it was in the
car; for going along by the place to see how it throve, I saw my
little crop surrounded with fowls, I know not of how many sorts, who
stood, as it were, watching till I should be gone. I immediately let
fly among them, for I always had my gun with me, and killed three
of them. 1 took them up, and served them as we serve notorious
thieves in England, viz. hanged them in chains, for a terror to others.
It is impossible to imagine that this should have such an effect as it
had; for the fowls not only never came to the corn, but, in short,
they forsook all that part of the island, and I could never see a bird
near the place as long as my scarecrows hung there. This I
was very glad of, you may be sure; and about the latter end of
December, which was oar second harvest of the year, I reaped my
corn.
I was sadly put to it for a scythe or sickle to cut it down: and all
I could do was to make one as well as I could, out of one of the
broad swords, or cutlasses, which I saved among the arms out of the
ship. However as my first crop was but small, I had no great
difficulty to cut it down: in short, I reaped it my way, for I cut
nothing off but the ears, and carried it away in a great basket which
I had made, and so rubbed it out with my hands; and at the end of
all my harvesting, I found that out of my half peck of seed I had
Bear two bushels of rice, and above two bushels and a half ol
barley; that is to say, by my guess, for I had no measure.
However, this was great encouragement to me; and I foresaw
that, in time, it would please God to supply me with bread; yet here .
1 was perplexed again; for I neither Knew how to grind, or make
meal of my corn, or indeed how to clean it and part it; nor if mada
into meal, how to make bread of it; and if how to make it, yet I
knew not how to bake it; these things being added to my desire of
having a good quantity for store, and to secure a constant supply, I
resolved not to taste any of this crop, but to preserve it all for seed
against the next season; and, in the meantime, to employ all my
study and hours of working to accomplish this great work of provid-
ing myself with corn and bread.
It might be truly said, that now I worked for my bread. It is a
little wonderful, and what I believe few people have thought much
upon, viz. the strange multitude of little things necessary in the pro-
viding, producing, curing, dressing, making, and finishing this one
article of bread. I that was reduced to a mere state of nature,
found this to my daily discouragement, and was made more sensible
of it every hour, even after I had got the first handful of seed corn,
which, as I have said, came up unexpectedly, and indeed to a
surprise.
First, I had no plough to turn up the earth; no spade or shovel
to dig it; well, this I conquered by making a wooden spade, as I
observed before; but this did my work in but a wooden manner. The
corn was sown; I had no harrow, but was forced to go over it myself,
and drag a great heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch it, as it
may be called, rather than rake or harrow it. Then.I wanted a mill
to grind it, sieves to dress it; yeast and salt to make it into bread,
ana an oven to bake it; and yet all these things I did without, as
shall be observed; and the cor n was an inestimable comfort and
advantage to me; and as I resolved to use none of the corn for bread
till I had a greater quantity by me, I had the next six months to
apply myself wholly, by labour and invention, to furnish myself with
utensils proper fcr the performing all the operations necessary for
tiaking corn fit for my vse.

SECTION XIII.
HIS MANUFACTURE OF FOTTERY, AND CONTRIVANCE FOR BARING
BREAD.
But now I was to prepare more land; for I had seed enough to sow
above an acre of ground. Before I did this, I had a week's work at
least to make me a spade; which, when it was done, was but a sorry
one indeed, and very heavy, and required double labour to work with
it; however, I went through that, and sowed my seed in two large
flat pieces of grouud, as near my house as J could find them to my
mind, and fenced them in with a good hedge; the stakes of which
were all cut off that wood which I had set before, and knew it would
grow; so that, in one year's time, I knew I should have a quick or
living hedge, that would want but little repair. This work took me
up full three months ; because a great part of the time was in the wet
season, when I could not go abroad. Within doors, that is, when it
rained, and I could not go out, I found employment on the following
occasions: always observing, that while I was at work, I diverted
myself with talking to my parrot, and teaching him to speak; and I
quickly taught him to know his own name, and at last to speak it
out pretty loud, Poll; which was t he first word I ever heard spoken,
in the island by any mouth but my own. This, therefore, was not
my work, but an assistant to my work; for now, as I said, I had a
great employment upon my hands, as follows: I had long studied,
by some means or ol her, to make myself some earthen vessels, which
indeed I wanted much, but knew not where to come at them; how-
ever, considering the heat of the climate, I did not doubt but if I
could find out an; clay, I might botch up some such pot as might,
being dried in the sun, be hard and strong enough to bear handling,
and to hold anything that was dry, and required to be kept so; and
as this was necessary in preparing corn, meal, &c., which was the
thing I was upon, I resolved to make some as large as I could, and
fit only to stand like jars, to hold what should be put into them.
It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me, to tell
how many awkward ways I took to raise this paste; what odd, mis-
shapen ugly things I made; how many of them fell in, and how
many fell out, the clay not being stiff enough to bear its own weight;
how many cracked by the over violent heat of the sun, being set out
too hastily; and how many fell in pieces with only removing, as well
before as after they were dried; and, in a word, how, after having
laboured hard to find the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it
home, and work it, I could not make above two large earthern ugly
things (I cannot call them jars) in about two months' labour.
However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard, I lifted
them very gently up, and set them down again in two great wicker
baskets, which I had made on purpose for them, that they might not
break; and as betwean the pot and the basket there was a little
room to spare, I stuffed it lull of the rice and barley straw; and
these two pots being to stand always dry, I thought would hold my
dry corn, and perhaps the meal, when the corn was bruised.
Though I miscarried so much in my design for large pots, yet I
made several smaller things with better success ; such as little round
pots, flat dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, asd everything my hand turned
to; and the heat of the sun baked them very hard.
iut all this would not answer my end, which was to get an earthen
?ot to hold liquids, and bear the fire, which none of these could do.
t happened some time after, making a pretty large fire for cooking
my meat, when I went to put it out alter I had done with it, I
found a broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels in the fire,
burnt as hard as a stone, and red as a tile. I was agreeably sur-
prised to see it; and said to myself, that certainly they might be
made to burn whole, if they would burn broken.
This set me to study how to order my fire, so as to make it burn
some pots. I had no notion of a kiln, such as the potters burn in,
or of glazing them with lead, though 1 had some lead to do it with;
but I placed three large pipkins and two or three pots in a pile, one
upon another, and placed my fire-wood all round it, with a great
heap of embers under them. I plied the fire with fresh fuel round
the outside, and upon the top, till I saw the pots in the inside red-
hot quite through, and observed that they did not crack at all; when
I saw them clear red, I let them stand in that heat about five or six
hours, till I found one of them, though it did not crack, did melt or
run; for the sand which was mixed with the clay melted by the
76
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
violence of the heat, and would have run into glass, if I had gone on;
so I slacked my fire gradually, till the pots began to abate of the red
colour; and watching them all night, that I migbt not let the fire
abate too fast, in the morning I had three very good, 1 will not say
handsome, pipkins, and two other earthcrn pots, as hard burnt as
could be desired; and one of them perfectly glazed with the running
of the sand.
My next concern was to get a stone mortar to beat some cor n in;
for as to the mill, there was no thought of arriving to that perfection
of art with one pair of hands. To supply this want I was at a great
loss; for, of all trades in the world, I was as perfectly unqualified
for a stone-cutter as for any whatever; neither had I any tools to go
about it with. I spent many a day to find out a great stone big
enough to cut hollow, and make fit for a mortar; but could find none

'at all, except what was in the solid rock, and which I had no way
to dig or cut out; nor, indeed, were the rocks in the island of
sufficient hardness, as they were all of a sandy crumbling stone, which
would neither bear the weight of a heavy pestle, nor would break
the corn without filling it with sand; so, after a great deal of time
lost in looking for a stone, I gave it over, and resolved to look out
for a block of hard wood, which I found indeed much easier; and
getting one as big as I had strength to stir, I rounded and formed
it on the outside with my axe and hatchet; and then with the
help of the fire, and infinite labour, made a hollow in it, as the
Indians in Brazil make their canoes. After this, I made a great
heavy pestle, or beater, of the wood called iron-wood; and this I
prepared and laid by against I had my next crop of corn, when
I proposed to myself to grind, or rather pound, my corn into
meal, to make my bread.
The baking part was the next thing to be considered, and how I should
make bread when I came to have corn; for, first, I had no yeast;
as to that part, there was no supplying the want, so I did not con-
cern myself much about it; but for an oven I was indeed puzzled.
At length I found oat an expedient for that also, which was this: I
made some earthen vessels very broad, but not deep, that is to say,
about two feet diameter, and not above nine inches deep; these I
burned in the fire, as I had done the other, and laid them by; and
when I wanted to bake, I made a great fire upon my hearth, which
I had paved with some square tiles, of my own making and burning
also; but I should not call them square. When the firewood was
burned into embers, or live coals, I drew them forward upon the
hearth, so as to cover it all over, and there let them lie till the hearth
was very hot; then sweeping away all the embers, I set down my
loaf, or loaves, and covering them with the earthen pot, drew the
embers all round the outside of the pot, to keep in and add to the
heat; and thus, as well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my
barley loaves, and became, in a little time, a good pastrycook into
the bargain; for I made myself several cakes and puddings of the
rice; but made no pies, as I had nothing to put into them except
the flesh of fowls or goats.
And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I really wanted to
build my barns bigger; I wanted a place to lay it up in; for the
increase of the corn now yielded me so much, that I had of the
barley about twenty bushels, and of rice as much, or more, insomuch
that now I resolved to begin to use it freely; for my bread had
been quite gone a great while; I resolved also to see what quantity
would be sufficient for me a whole year, and to sow but once a
year.
Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of barley and rice
were much more than I could consume in a year; so I resolved to
bow just the same quantity every year that I sowed the last, in
hopes that such a quantity would fully provide me with bread, &c.

^v

SECTION XIV.
MEDITATES HIS ESCArE FROM TIIE ISLAND—BUILDS A CANOE—
FAILURE OF HIS SCHEME—RESIGNATION TO HIS CONDITION—|
MAKES HIMSELF A NEW DRESS.
All the while these things were doing, you may be sure my thoughts
run many times upon the prospect of land which I had seen from the
other side of the island; and I was not without some secret wishes
that I was on shore there; fancying, that seeing the main land, and
an inhabited country, I might find some way or other to convey
myself farther, and perhaps at last find some means of escape.
Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat with the
shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed above a thousand miles
on the coast of Africa; but this was in vain; then I thought I
would go and look at our ship's boat, which, as I have said, was
blown up upon the shore a great way, in the storm, when we were
first cast away. She lay nearly where she did at first, but not quite,
having turned by the force of the waves and the winds, almost
bottom upward, against a high ridge of beaohy rough sand; but no
water about her as before. If I had had hands to have refitted her,
and to have launched her into the water, the boat would have done
very well, and I might have gone back into the Brazils with her
easily enough; but I might have foreseen that I could no more turn
her and set her upright upon her bottom, than I could remove the
island; however, I went to the woods, and cut levers and rollers,
and brought them to the boat, resolving to try what I could do;
suggesting to myself, that if I could but turn her down, and repair
the damage she nad received, she would be a very good boat, and I
might venture to sea in her.
I spared no pains, indeed in this piece of fruitless toil, and spent
1 think, three or four weeks about it; at last, finding it impossible
to heave her up with my little strength, 1 fell to digging away the
sand, to undermine her, and so as to make her fall down, setting
pieces of wood to thrust and guide her right in the fall. But when
[ had done this, I was unable to stir her up again, or to get undc*
her, much less to move her forward towards the water; so I wai
forced to give it over; and yet, though I gave over the hopes of the
boat, my desire to venture over the main increased, rather than
diminished, as the means for it seemed impossible.
At length, I began to think whether it was not possible to make
myself a canoe, or periagua, such as the natives of those climates
make, even without tools, or, as I might say, without hands, of the
trunk of a great tree. This I not only thought possible, but easy,
and pleased myself extremely with the idea of making it, and with
my having much more convenience for it than any of the Negroes or
Indiana; but not at all considering the particular inconvenience
which I lay under more than the Indians did, viz. the want of hands
to move it into the water when it was made.
I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that ever man
did, who had any of his senses awake. I pleased myself with the
design, without determining whether I was able to undertake it; not
but that the difficulty of launching my boat came often into my head;
but I put a stop to my own inquiries into it, by this foolish answer:
Let us first make it; I warrant I will find some way or other to
get it along when it is done.
This was a most preposterous method; but the eagerness of my
fancy prevailed, and to work I went. I felled a cedar tree, and I
question much whether Solomon ever had such a one for the building
of the Temple at Jerusalem; it was five feet ten inches diameter at
the lower part next the stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter
at the end of twenty-two feet, where it lessened and then parted into
branches. It was not without infinite labour that I felled this tree;
I was twenty days hacking and hewing at the bottom, and fourteen
more getting the branches aild limbs, and the vast spreading head of
it, cut off; after this, it cost me a month to shape it and dub it to a
proportion, and to something like the bottom of a boat, that it might
swim upright as it ought to do. It cost me near three months more
to clear the inside, and work it out so as to make an exact boat of it;
ttiia 1 did, indeed, without fire, by mere mallet and chisel, and by
80
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CBTJSOE.
the dint of hard labour, till I had brought it to be a very hand-
some periagua, and big enough to have carried me and all my
cargo. .'
But all my devises to get it into the water failed me; though they
cost an inexpressible labour too. It lay about one hundred yards
from the water, and not more; but the first inconvenience was, it
was up hill towards the creek. Well, to take away this discourage-
ment, I resolved to dig into the surface of the earth, and so make a
declivity; this I began, and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains;
but who grudge pains that have their deliverance in view? When
this was worked through, and this difficulty managed, it was still
much the same, for I could no more stir the canoe than I could the
other boat. Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved

to cut a dock, or canal, to bring the water up to the canoe, seeing 1
could not bring the canoe down to the water. Well, I began this
work; and when I began to enter upon it, and caleulate how deep
it was to be dug, how broad, how the stuff was to be throwu out, I
found by the number of hands I had, having none but my own, that
it must have been ten or twelve years before I could have gone
through with it; for the shore lay so high, that at the upper end it
must have been at least twenty feet deep; this attempt, though with
great reluctancy, I was at length obliged to give over also.
This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though too late, the
folly of beginning a work before we count the cost, and before we
judge rightly of our own strength to go through with it.
hi the middle of this work, 1 finished my fourth year in this place,
81
and kept mv anniversary with the same devotion and with as much
comfort as before; for, by a constant study and serious application
to the word of God, and by the assistance of his grace, I gained a
different knowledge from what I had before; I entertained different
notions of things; I looked now upon the world as a thing remote,
which I had nothing to do with, no expectation frum, and indeed, no
desires about: in a word, I had nothing to do with it, nor was even
likely to have; I thought it looked, as we may perhaps look upon
it hereafter, viz. as a place I had lived in, but was come out or it
and well might I say, as father Abraham to Dives, " Between me and
thee is a great gulf fixed."

I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in representing to
myself, in the most lively colours, how I must have acted if I had
got nothing out of the ship. I could not have so much as got any
food, except fish and turtles ; and that, as it was long before I found
any of them, I must have perished, like a mere savage ; that if I had
killed a goat or a fowl, by any contrivance, I had no way to flay or
open it, or part the flesh from the skin and the bowels, or to cut it
np, but must gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it to pieces with my
claws, like a beast.
These reflections made me very sensible of the goodness of Provi-
dence to me, and very thankful for my present condition, with all its
hardships and misfortunes; and this part also I cannot but recommend
to the reflection of those who are apt, in their misery, to say, "Is
any affliction like mine?" Let them consider how much worse the
S2
ADVBNTVRES OF ROBIKSON CRUSOE.
cases of some people are, and their case would have been, if Provi-
dence had thought fit.
With these reflections I worked my mind up, not only to a resig-
nation to the will of God in the present disposition of my circum-
stances, but even to a sincere thankfulness for my condition; and
that I, who was yet a living man, ought not to complain, seeing
I had not the due punishment of my sins; that I enjoyed so many
mercies that I had no reason to have expected in that place, that 1
ought never more to repine at my condition, but to rejoice, and to
give daily thanks for that daily bread, which nothing but a crowd

of wonders could have brought; that I ought to consider I had been
fed by a miracle (even as great as that of feeding Elijah by ravens),
nay, by a long series of miracles; and that I could hardly have
named a place, in the uninhabited part of the world, where I
could have been cast more to my advantage; a place where, as I
had no society, which was my affliction on one hand, so I found no
ravenous beasts, no furious wolves or tigers, to threaten my life; no
venomous or poisonous creatures, which 1 might feed on to my hurt;
no savages to murder and devour me. In a word, as my life was a
life of sorrow one way, so it was a life of mercy another; and I
wanted nothing to make it a life of comfort, but to make myself
sensible of God's goodness to me, and care over me in this condition;
and after I did make a just improvement of these things, I went
away, and was no more sad.
My clothes now began to decay mightily; as to linen, I had
none for a great while, except some chequered shirts which 1
found in the chests of the other seamen, and which I carefully
preserved, because many times I could bear no clothes on but a
shirt, and it was a very great help to me that I had, among all
the men's clothes of the ship, almost three dozen of shirts.
I began to consider about putting the few rags I had, which I
called clothes, into some order. I had worn out all the waistcoats
I had, and my business was now to try if I could not make jackets
out of the great watch-coats that I, had by me, and with sucn other
materials as I had; so I set to work a tailoring, or rather, indeed, a
botching, for I made most piteous work of it. However, I made
shift to make two or three new waistcoats, which I hoped would
serve me a great while.
I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the creatures that
I killed, I mean four-footed ones; and I had hung them up, stretched
out with sticks, in the sun, by which means sonic of them were so
dry and hard that they were fit for little, but others I found very
useful. The first thing I made of these was a great cap for my
bead, with the hair on the outside, to shoot off the rain; and this I
performed so well, that after this I made me a suit of clothes wholly
of the skins, that is to say, a waistcoat, and breeches open at the
knees, and both loose; for they were rather wanting to keep me cool
than warm. I must not omit to acknowledge that they were
wretchedly made; for if I was a bad carpenter, I was a worse tailor
However, they were such as I made very good shift with _; and when
I was abroad, if it happened to rain, the hair of my waistcoat and
cap being uppermost, I was kept very dry.
After this, I spent a great deal of tinie and pains to make me an
umbrella. I made one and covered it with skins, the hair upwards,
so that it cast off the rain like a pent-house, and kept off the sun
so effectually, that I could walk out in the hottest of the weather
with greater advantage than I could before in the coolest; and
when I had no need of it, could close it and carry it under my
arm.
Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being entirely com-
posed by resigning to the will of God, and 'throwing myself
wholly upon the disposal of his providence. This made my life
better than sociable; for when I began to regret the want of
conversation, I would ask myself, whether thus conversing mutu-
ally with my own thoughts, and as I hope I may say with even
God himself, by ejaculations, was not better than "the utmost
enjoyment of human society in the world?

SECTION XV.
HE MAKES A SMALLER CANOE, IN WHICH HE ATTEMPTS TO CRUISE
BOUND THE ISLAND—nlS FERILOUS SITUATION AT SEA—HE
RETURNS HOME.
I cannot say that after this, for five years, any extraordinary thing
happened to me, but I lived on in the same course, in the same pos-
ture and place, just as before ; the chief things I was employed in,
besides my yearly labour of planting my barley and rice, and curing
my raisins, of both which I always kept up just enough to have suffi-
cient stock of one year's provision beforehand; I say, besides this
^yearly labour, and my daily pursuit of going out with my gun, I had
one labour, to make me a canoe, which at last I finished; so that by
digging a canal to it six feet wide, and four feet deep, I brought it
into the creek, almost half a mile.
However, though my little periagua was finished, yet the size of
it was not at all answerable to the design which I had in view when
I made the first; I mean, of venturing over to the terra firma, where
it was above forty miles broad; accordingly, the smallness of my
boat assisted to put an end to that design, and now I thought no
more of it. As I had a boat, my next design was to make a cruise
around the island; for as I had been on the other side in one place,
crossing, as I have already described it, over the land, so the dis-
coveries I made iu that little journey made me very eager to see
other parts of the coast: and now I had a boat, I thought of nothing
but sading round the island.
It was on the sixth of November, in the sixth year of my reign, or
my captivity, which you please, that I set out on this voyage, and I
found it much longer than I expected ; for though the island itseli
was not very large, yet when I came to the east side of it, I found a
great ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues into the sea, some
above water, some under it; and beyond that a shoal of sand, lying
dry half a league more, so that I was obliged to go a great way out
to sea to double the point.
When first I discovered them, I was going to give over my enter-
prise, and come back again, not knowing how far it might oblige me
to go out to sea, and above all, doubting how I should get back
again; so I came to an anchor with a piece of a broken grappling
which I got out of the ship.
Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on shore, climb-
ing up on a hill, which seemed to overlook that point, where I saw
the full extent of it, and resolved to venture.
In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, 1 perceived a
strong, and indeed a most furious current, which ran to the east, and
even came close to the point; and I took the more notice of it,
because I saw there might be some danger that, when I came into
it, I might be carried out to sea by the strength of it, and not be
able to make the island again; and, indeed, had I not got first upon
this hill, I believe it would have been so; for there was the same
current on the other side of the island, only that it set off at a farther
distance, and I saw there was a strong eddy under the shore; so I
had nothing to do but to get out of the first current, and I should
presently be in an eddy.
I lay nere, however, two days, because Mie wind blowing pretty
fresh at B. S. E., and that being just contrary to the said current,
made a great breach of the sea upon the point; so that it was not
safe for me to keep too close to the shore, Tor the breach, nor to go
too far off, because of the stream.
The third day, in the morning, the wind having abated overnight,
the sea was calm, and I ventured; but I am a warning piece again to
all rash and ignorant pilots; for no sooner was I come to the point,
when I was not even my boat's length from the sh»re, but I found
myself in a great depth of water, and a current like the sluice of a
mill; it carried my boat along with it with such violence, that all I
could do could not keep her so much as on the edge of it; but I
found it hurried me farther and farther out from the fcady, which was
on my left hand. There was no wind stirring to help me, and all I
could do with my paddles signified nothing; and now I began to give
myself over for lost; for as the current was on both sides of the
island, I knew in a few leagues' distance they must join again, and
then I was irrecoverably gone; nor did I see any possibility of avoid-
ing it; so that I had no prospect before me hut of perishing, not by
the sea, for that was calm enough, but of starving for hunger. I
Iiad indeed found a tortoise on the shore, as big almost as I could
lift, and had tossed it into the boat; and I had a great jar of fresh
water, that is to say, one of my earthen pots ; but what was all this
to being driven into the vast ocean, where there was no shore, no
main laud or island, for a thousand leagues a I least?
It is scarce possible to imagine the consternation I was now in,
being driven from my beloved island (for so it appeared to me now
to be) into the wide ocean, almost two leagues, and in the utmost
despair of ever recovering it again. However, I worked hard, till
indeed my strength was almost exhausted, and kept my boat as
much to the northward, that is, towards the side of the current
which the eddy lay on, as possibly I could; when about noon, as the
sun passed the meridian, I thought I felt a little breeze of wind in
my (ace, springing up from S.S.E. This cheered my heart a little,
and especially when, in about half an hour more, it blew a pretty
gentle gale. By this time I was got at a frightful distance from the
island, and had the least cloudy or hazy weather intervened, I had
been undone another way too; for I haa no compass on board, and
should never have known how to have steered towards the island, if
I had but once lost sight of it; but the weather continuing clear, I
applied myself to get up my mast again, and spread my sail, stand-
ing away to the north as much as possible, to get out of the
current.
Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began to stretch
away, I saw even by the clearness of the water some alteration of
the current wa» near; for where the current was so strong, the
water was foul; but perceiving the water clear, 1 found the current
abate; and presently I found to the east, at about half a mile, a
breach of the sea upon some rocks ; these rocks I found caused the
current to part again, and as the main stress of it ran away more
southerly, leaving the rocks to the north-east, so the other returned
by the repulse of the rocks, and made a strong eddy, which ran back
again to the north-west, with a very sharp stream.
They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to them
upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves just going to murder
them, or who have been in such-like extremities, may guess what
my present surprise of joy was, and how gladly I put my boat into
the stream of this eddy; and the wind also freshening, how gladly 1
spread my sail to it, running cheerfully before the wind, ana with a
strong tide or eddy under foot.
Tins eddy carried me about a league in my way back again directly
towards the island, but about two leagues more to the northward
than the current which carried me away at first; so that when 1
came near the island, I found myself open to the northern shore of
it, that is to say, the other end of the island, opposite to that which
I went out from.
When I had made som»Oiing more than a league of way by tha
S7
help of this current or eddy, I found it was spent, and served me no
farther. However, I found that being between two great currents,
viz. that on the south side, which had hurried me away, and that on
the north, which lay about a league on the other side; I say,
between these two, in the wake of the island, I found the water at
least still, and running no way; and having still a breeze of wind
fair for me, I kept on steering directly for the island, though not
making such fresh way as I did before.
About four o'clock in the evening, being then within a league of
the island, I found the point of the rocks which occasioned this dis-
aster stretching out, as is described before, to the southward, and
casting off the current more southerly, had, of course, made another

eddy to the north; and this I found very strong, but not directly
setting the way my course lay, which was due west, but almost full
north. However, having a fresh gale I stretched across this eddy,
slanting north-west; and, in about an hour, came within about a
mile of the shore, where, it being smooth water, I soon got to
land.
When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God thanks
for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside all thoughts of my deliver-
ance by my boat; and refreshing myself with such tiiings as I had, I
brought my boat close to the shore, in a little eovc that I had spied
under some trees, and laid me down to sleep, being quite spent with
the labour and fatigue of the voyage.
1 now had enough of rambling to sea for some time, and had
enough lo do for many days to sit still, and to reflect upon the
danger 1 had been in. I would have been very glad to have had my
boat again on my side of the island; but I knew not how it was
fractieable to get it about. As to the east side of the island, which
had gone round, I knew well enough there was no venturing that
way ; my very heart would shrink, and my very blood run chill, but
to think of it; and as to the other side of the island, I did not know
how it might be there; but supposing the current ran with the same
force against the shore at the east as it passed by it on the other, 1
might run the same risk of being driven down the stream, and
carried by the island, as I had been before of being carried away
from it; so, with these thoughts, I contented myself to be without
any boat, though it had been the product of so many months' labour
to make it, and of so many more to get it into the sea.
In this government of my temper I remained near a year, lived a
very sedate, retired life, as you may well suppose; and my thoughts
being very much composed, as to my condition, and fullv comforted
in resigning myself to the dispositions of Providence, I thought I
lived really very happily in all things, except that of society.
I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic exercises which
my necessities put me upon applying myself to; and I believe I could,
upon occasion, have made a very good -earpenter, especially consider-
ing how few tools I had.
Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my earthen-
ware, and contrived well enough to make them with a wheel, which
I found infinitely easier and Detter; because I made tiiings round
and sliapcable, which before were filthy things indeed to look upon.
But I think I was never more vain of my performance, or more joy-
ful for anything I found out, than for my being able to make a
tobacco-pipe: and though it was a very ugly clumsy thing when it
was done, and only burned red, like other earthenware, yet it was
hard and firm, and would draw the smoke, I was exceedingly com-
forted with it, for I had always been used to smoke.
I began now to perceive my powder abated considerably ; this was
a want which it was impossible for me to sunplv, and I began ser-
iously to consider what I must do when I should have no more
powder, that is to say, how I should do to kill any goats. I had, as
is observed, in the third year of my being here, kept a young kid,
and bred her up tame, and I was in hopes of getting a he-goat; but
I could not bv any means bring it to pass, till my kid grew an old
goat, and as I could never find in my heart to kill her, she died at
last of mere age.

SECTION XVL
HE REARS A FLOCK. OF GOATS—111s DAIRY—HIS DOMESTIC HABITS
AND STYLE OF LIVING INCREASING I'IIOSFEIIITY.
Being now in the eleventh year of my residence, and as I have said
my ammunition growing low, I set myself to study some art to trap
and snare the goats, to see whether I could not catch some of them
alive. I dug several large pits in the earth, in places where I had
observed the goats used to feed, and over those pits I placed hurdles,
of my own making too, with a great weight upon them; and several
times I put ears of barley and dry rice, without setting the trap ; and
I could easily perceive that the goats had gone in and eaten up the
corn, for I could see the marks of their feet. At length I set three
traps in one night, and going the next morning, I found them all
standing, and yet the bait eaten and gone. This was very discourag-
ing: however, I altered my traps; and one morning I found in one
of them a larg^e old he-goat, and in one of the others three kids, a
male and two females.
As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him; he was so
fierce, I durst not go into the pit to him; that is to say, to go about
to bring him away alive, which was what I wanted. I could have
killed him, but that was not my business, nor would it answer my
end: so I even let him ouf, and he ran away, as if he had been
frightened out of his wits. I went to the three kids, and taking them
one by one, I tied them with strings together, and with some difficulty
brought them all home.
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
It was a good while before they would feed; but throwing them
some sweet corn, it tempted them, and they began to be tame. And
now I found that if I expected to supply myself with goats' flesh
when I had no powder or shot left, breeding some up tame was my
only way; when, perhaps, I might have them about my house like a
flock of sheep. But then it occurred to me, that I must keep the
tame from the wild, or else they would always run wild when they
grew up; and the only way for this was, to have some enclosed piece
of ground, well fenced, either with hedge or pale, to keep them in so

effectually, that those within might not break out, or those without
break in.
But this was not all; for now I not only had goats' flesh to feed
on when I pleased, but milk too; a thing which, indeed, in the be-
ginning, I did not so much as think of, and which, when it came into
my thoughts, was really an agreeable surprise; for now I set up my
dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a day. And as
Nature, who gives supplies of food to every creature, dictates even
naturally how to make use of it, so I, that had never milked a cow,
much less a goat, or seen butter or cheese made, only when I was a
boy, after a great many essays and miscarriages, made me both butter
and cheese at last, and also salt (though I found it partly made to my
hand by the heat of the sun upon *ome of tue rocks of the sea), and
never wanted it afterwards.
cbusoe's family.
It arould have made a stoic smile to have seen me and my little
family sit down to dinner. There was my majesty, the prince and
lord of the whole island; I had the lives of all my subjects at my
absolute command; I could hang, draw, give liberty, and take it
away; and no rebels among all my subjects.
Then to see how like a lung I dined too, all alone, attended by mj
servants; Poll, as if he had Tbeen my favourite, was the only person
permitted to talk to me. My dog, who was now grown very old and
crazy, and two cats, one on one side of t he table, and one on the
other, expecting now and then a bit from my hand, as a mark of
special favour. w
My own figure was ancouth enough. I had a great high shapeless
cap, made of a goal's skin, with a flap hanging down behind, as well
to keep the sun from me as to shoot the rain off from running into
my neck; nothing being so hurtful in these climates as the rain upon
the flesh, under the clothes.
I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming down to
about the middle of the thighs, and a pair of open-kneed breeches of
the same; the breeches were made of the skin of an old he-gont,
whose hair hung down such a length on either side, that, like panta-
loons, it reached to the middle of my legs; stockings and shoes I
had none, but had made me a pair of somethings, I scarce know what
to call them, like buskins, to flap over my legs, and lace on either
side like spatterdashes, but of a most barbarous shape, as indeed
were all the rest of my clothes.
I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I drew together
with two thongs of the same, instead of buckles; and in a kind ot
frog on either side of this, instead of a sword and dagger, hung a
little saw and a hatchet; one on one side and one on the other. I
had another belt, not so broad, and fastened in the same manner,
which hung over my shoulder; and at the end of it, under my left
arm, hung two pouches, both made of goat's skin too; in one 01
which hung my powder, in the other my shot. At my back I carried
my basket, and on my shoulder my gun; and over my hkad a great
clumsy ugly goat's skin umbrella, but which, after all, was the most
necessary thing I had about me, next to my gun. As for my face,
the colour of it was not so mulatto-like as one might expect from a
man not at all careful of it, and living within nine or ten degrees ot
the equinox. My beard I had once suffered to grow till it was about
a quarter of a yard long; but as I had both scissars and razors
sufficient, I had cut it pretty short, except what grew on my upper lip,
which I had tr m i ed into a large pair of Mahometan whiskers, such
as I had seen worn by some Turks at Sallee; for the Moora did not
wear such, though the Turks did; of these mustachios or whiskers.
I will not say they were long enough to hang my hat upon them, but
they were of a length and shape monstrous enough, and such as, in
England, would have passed for frightful.
You are to understand, that now I had, as I may call it, two
plantations in the island; one my little fortification or tent with the
wall about it, under the rock, with the cave behind me, which, by
this time, I had enlarged into several apartments or caves, one within
another. One of these, which was the driest and largest, and had a
door out beyond my wall or fortification, that is to say, beyond
where my wall joined to the rock, was all filled up with the large
earthen pots, of which I have given an account, and with fourteen or
fifteen great baskets, which would hold five or sis bushels each,
where I laid up my stores of provision, especially my corn, some in
the ear, cut off short from the straw, and the other rubbed out with
my hand.
As for my wall, made, a? before, with long stakes or piles, those
piles grew all like trees, and were by this time grown so big, and
spread so very much, that there was not the least appearance, to
any one's view, of any habitation behind them.
Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther within the land,
and upon lower ground, lay my two pieces of cor n land, which I
kept duly cultivated and sowed, and which duly yielded me their
harvest in its season; and whenever I had occasion for more corn, I
had more land adjoining as fit as that.
Besides this, I had my country seat; and I had now a tolerable
plantation there also: for, first, I had my little bower, as I called it,
which I kept in repair; that is to say, I kept the hedge which
encircled it in constantly fitted up to its usual height, the ladder
standing always in the inside: I kept the trees, which at first were
no more than my stakes, but were now grown very firm and tall,
always cut so, that they might spread and grow thick and wild, and
make the more agreeable shade, which they did effectually to my
mind. In the middle of this I had my tent always standing, being a
piece of a sail spread over poles, set up for that purpose, and which
never wanted any repair or renewing; and under this I had made
me a squab or couch, with the skins of the creatures I had killed,
and with other soft things; and a blanket laid on them, such as be-
longed to our sea bedding, which I had saved, and a great watch-
coat to cover me; and here, whenever I had occasion to be absent
from my ehie: seat, I took up my country habitation.

SECTION XVII.
UNEXFECTED ALARM AND CAUSE FOR AFFREHENSION—HE FORTI-
FIES HIS ABODE.
It happened one dav, about noon, going towards my boat, I was
exceedingly surprised with the print of a man's naked foot on the
shore, which was very plain to be seen in the sand. I stood like one
thunderstruck, or as if I had seen an apparition ; I listened, I looked
round me, but I could hear nothing, nor see anything; I went up to
a rising ground, to look farther; I went up the shore and down the
shore, but it was all one ; I could see no other impression but that
one. I went to it again to see if there were any more, and to
observe if it might not be my fancy; but 'lierc was no room for
that, for there was exactly the print of a f jot, toes, heel, and every
part of a foot: how it came thither I knew not, nor could I in the
least imagine; but, after innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a
man perfectly confused and out of myself, I came home to my forti-
fication, not feeling, as we say, the ground I went on, but terrified
to the last degree; looking behind me at every two or three steps,
mistaking every bush and tree, and fancying every stump at a dis-
tance to be a man. Nor is it possible to describe how many various
shapes my affrighted imagination represented things to me in, how
many wild ideas were found every moment in my fancv, and what
strange unaccountable whimsies came into my thoughts oy the way.
When I came to my castle (for so I think I called it ever after
this), I fled into it like one pursued; whether I went over by the
ladder, as first contrived, or went in at the hole in the rock, which I
had called a door, I cannot remember; no, nor could I remember
the next morning; for never frightened hare fled to cover, or fox to
earth with more terror of mind than I to this retreat.
I presently concluded that it must be some of the savages of the
main land over against me, who had wandered out to sea in their
canoes, aud, cither driven by the currents or by contrary winds, had
made the island, and had been on shore, but were gone away again
to sea; being as loth, perhaps, to have stayed in this desolate island
as I would have been to have had them.

While these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was very
thankful in my thoughts that I was so happy as not to be thereabouts
at that time, or that they did not see my boat, by which they would
have concluded that some inhabitants had been in the place, and
perhaps have searched farther for me: then terrible thoughts racked
my imagination about their having found my boat, and that there
were people here; and that if so, I should certainly have them come
again in greater numbers, and devour me: that if it should happen
so that they should not find me, yet they would find my enclosure,
destroy all my corn, and carry away all my flock of tame goats, and
I should perish at last for mere want.
Thus my fear banished all my religious hope, all that former con-
fidence in God, which was founded upon such wonderful experience
as I had had of ifis goodness, as if He that had fed me by miracle
hitherto could not preserve. bv His power, the provision which He
had made for me by His goodness. I reproached myself with my
laziness, that would not sow any more corn one year than would
just serve me till the next season, as if no accident would intervene
to prevent my enjoying the crop that was upon the ground; and
this I thought so just a reproof, that I resolved for the future to
have two or three year's corn beforehand, so that, whatever might
come, I might not perish for want of bread.
In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and reflections,
it came into my thoughts one day, that all this might be a mere
chimera of my own, and that this foot might be the print of my
foot, when f came on shore from my boat; this cheered me up

a little too, and I began to persuade myself it was all a delusion,
that it was 'nothing else but my own foot: and why might I not
come that way from the boat, as well as I was going that way to
the boat? Again, I considered also, that I could by no means tell
for certain, where I had trod, and where I had not: and that if, at
last, this was only the print of my own foot, I had played the part
of those fools, who try to make stories of spectres and apparitions,
and then arc frightened at them more than anybody.
Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again, for I
had not stirred out of my castle for three days and nights, so that I
began to starve for provisions; for I had little or nothing within
doors but some barley cakes and water: then I knew that my goats
wanted to be milked too, which usually was my evening diversion;
and the poor creatures were in great pain and inconvenience for
want of it: and, indeed, it almost spoiled some of them and almost
dried up their milk. Encouraging myself, therefore with the belief
that this was nothing but the print of one of my own feet,
and that 1 might be truly said to start at my own shadow, I began
to go abroad again, and went to my country "house to milk my flock:
but to see with what fear I went forward, how often I looked be-
hind me, how I was ready, every now and then, to lay down my
basket, and run for my life, it would have made any one think I
was haunted with an evil conscience, or that I had been lately most
terriblv frightened; and so, indeed, I had. However, as I went
down thus two or three days, and having seen nothing, I began to
be a little bolder, and to think there was really nothing in it but
.ny own imagination; but I could not persuade myself fully of this
till I should go down to the shore again, and see this print of a foot,
and measure it by my own, and see if there was any similitude or
fitness, that I might be assured it was my own foot: but when I
came to the place, first, it appeared evidently to me, that when I
.aid up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore anywhere there-
about: secondly, when I came to measure the mark with my own
foot, I found my foot not so large by a great deal. Both these
things filled my head with new imaginations, and gave me the
vapours again to the highest degree, so that I shook with cold like
one in an ague; and I went home again, filled with the belief that
some man or men had been on shore there; or, in short, that the
island was inhabited, and I might be surprised before I was aware;
and what course to take for my security, I knew not.
O what ridiculous resolutions men take when possessed with fear!
It deprives them of the use of those means which reason offers for
their relief. The first thing I proposed to myself was, to throw
down my enclosures, and turn all my tame cattle wild into the
woods, lest the enemy should find them, and then frequent the
island in prospect of the same or like booty; then to the simple
thing of digging up my two corn fields, lest they should find such a
grain there, and still he prompted to frequent the island; then to
demolish my bower and tent, that they might not see any vestiges of
habitation, and be prompted to look farther, in order to find out the
persons inhabiting.
These were the subject of the first night's cogitations, after I was
come home again, while the apprehensions which had so overrun my
mind were fresh upon me, and my head was full of vapours, as above.
Thus fear of danger is ten thousand times more terrifying than
danger itself when apparent to the eyes; and we find the burden of
anxiety greater, by much, than the evil which we are anxious about;
and, which was worse than all this, I had not that relief in this
trouble from the resignation I used to practise, that I hoped to have
I looked, I thought, like Saul, who complained not only that the
Philistines >rere upon him, but that God had forsaken him; for I did
not now take due ways to compose my mind, by crying to God in my
distress, and resting upon his providence, as 1 had done before, for
my defence and deliverance; which, if I had done, I had at least
been more cheerfully supported under this new surprise, and perhaps
carried through it with more resolution.
This confusion of my thoughts kept me awake all night; but in
the morning I fell asleep; and having, by the amusement of my
mind, been as it were tired, and my spirits exhausted, I slept very
soundly, and waked much better composed than I had ever been
before.
Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave so large as
to bring a door through again, which door, as I said, came out be-
yond where my fortification joined to the rock: upon maturely con-
sidering this, therefore, I resolved to draw me a second fortification,
in the same manner of a semicircle, at a distance from my wall,
just where I had planted a double row of trees about twelve years
before, of which I made mention: these trees having been planted
so thick before, they wanted but few piles to be driven between
them, that they might be thicker and stronger, and my wall would
be soon finished: so that I had now a double wall; and my outer
was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and everything I
could think .of, to make it strong, having in it seven little holes,
about as big as I might put my arm out at. In the inside of this
I thickened my wall to about ten feet thick, with continually bring-
ing earth out of my cave, and laying it at the foot of the wall, and
walking upon it; and through the seven holes I contrived to plant
the muskets, of which I took notice that I had got seven on shore
out of the ship: these I planted like my cannon, and fitted them
into frames, that held them like a carriage, so that I could fire all
the seven guns in two minutes' time: this wall I was many a weary
month in finishing, and yet never thought myself safe till it was
done.
When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my wall, for
a great length every way, as full with stakes, or sticks, of the osier
like wood, which I found so apt to grow, as they could well stand
insomuch, that I believe I might set in near twenty thousand or
them, leaving a pretty large space between them and my wall, that
I might have room to see an enemy, and they might have no shelter
from the young trees, if they attempted to approach my outer wall.
Thus, in two years' time, I had a thick grove; and in five or six
years' time I had a wood before my dwelling, growing so monstrous
thick and strong, that it was indeed perfectly impassable; and no
men of what kind soever, would ever imagine that there was anything
beyond it, much less a habitation. As for the way in which I proposed
to myself to go in and out (for I left no avenue,) it was by setting
two ladders, one to a part of the rock which was low, and then
broke in, and left room to place another ladder upon that; so when
the two ladders were taken down, no man living could come down
to me without doing himself mischief; and if they had come down,
they were still on the outside of my outer wall.
98
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
Thus I took all the measures human prudence could suggest for
my own preservation; and it will be seen, at length, that they were
not altogether without just reason, though I foresaw nothing at
that time more than my mere fear suggested to me.
While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of my other
affairs; for I had a great concern for my little herd of goats; they
were not only a ready supply to me on every occasion, and began to
be sufficient for me, without the expense of powder and shot, but
also without the fatigue of hunting after the wild ones; and I was
loth to lose the advantage of them, and to have them all to nurse up
over again.
For this purpose, after long consideration, I could think of but
two ways to preserve them; one was, to find another convenient

"^f-**,
place to dig a cave under ground, and to drive them into it every
night; ana the other was, to enclose two or three little bits of land,
remote from one another, and as much concealed as 1 could, where
I might keep about half a dozen young goats in each place; so that
if any disaster happened to the flock in general, I might be able to
raise them again with little trouble and time; and this, though it
would require a great deal of time and labour, I thought was the
most rational design.
Accordingly, I spent some time to find out the most retired parts
of the island; and I pitched upon one, which was as private, indeed,
as my heart could wish for; it was a little damp.piece of ground, in
the middle of the hollow and thick woods, where as is observed, I
almost lost myself once before, eudeavourin^ to come back that way
from the eastern part of the island. Here 1 found a clear piece of
land, near three acres, so surrounded with woods, that it was almost
an enclosure by nature; at least it did not want near so much
labour to make it so as the other pieces of ground I had worked so
hard at.
section xvm.
PRECAUTIONS AGAINST SURFUISE—ROBINSON DISCOVERS THAT HIS
ISLAND HAS BEEN VISITED BY CANNIBALS.
I immediately went to work with this piece of ground, and in less
than a mouth's time I had so fenced it round, that my flock, or herd,
call it which you please, who were not so wild now as at first they
might be supposed to be, were well enough secured in it; so, with-
out any further delay, I removed ten young she-goats, and two he-
goats to this piece ; and when they were there I continued to perfect
the fence, till I had made it as secure as the other, which, however,
I did at more leisure, and it took me up more time by a great deal.
All this labour I was at the expense of purely from my apprehen sious
ou the account of the print of a man's foot which 1 had seen; for,
as yet, I never saw any numan creature come near the island; and I
had now lived two years under this uneasiness, which, indeed, made my
life much less comfortable than it was before, as may be well imagined
by any one who knows what it is to live in the constant snare of the
fear of man.
After I had thus secured one part of my little living stock, I went
about the whole island, searching for another private place to make
such another deposit; when, wandering more to the west point of
the island than I had ever done yet, and looking out to sea, I
thought I saw a boat upon the sea, at a great distance. I had
found a perspective glass or two in one of the seamen's chests,
which I saved out of our ship, bat I had it not about me; and
this was so remote, that I could not tell what to make of it, though
I looked at it till my eyes were not able to look any longer;
whether it was a boat or not, I did not know, but as I "descended
from the hill I could see no more of it, so I gave it over; only I
resolTed to go no more out without a perspective glass in my pocket.
When I was come down the hill to the end of the island, where,
indeed, I had never heen before, I was presently convinced that the
seeing the print of a man's foot was not such a strange thing in the
island as I imagined; and, but that it was a special providence that
1 was cast upon the side of the island where the savages never came,
I should easily have known that nothing was more frequent than for
the canoes from the main, when they happened to be too far out at
sea, to shoot over to that side of the island for harbour; likewise, as
they often met and fought in their canoes, the victors having taken
any prisoners, would bring them over to this shore, where, according
to their dreadful customs, being all cannibals, they would kill and
eat them; of which hereafter.
When I was come down the hill to the shore as I said above,
being the south-west point of the island, I was perfectly con-
founded and amazed; nor is it possible for me to express the
horror of my mind, at seeing the shore spread with skulls, hands,
feet, and other bones of human bodies; and, particularly, I ob-
served a place where there had been a fire made, and a circle
dug in the earth, like a cockpit, where I supposed the savage
wretches had sat down to their inhuman feastings upon the bodies
of their fellow-creatures.
I was so astonished with the sight of these things, that I enter-
tained no notions of any danger to myself from it for a long while:
all my apprehensions were buried in the thoughts of such a pitch of
inhuman brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of human
nature, which, though I had heard of it often, yet I never had so
near a view of before.
When I came a little out of that part of the island, I stood still
awhile, as amazed, and then recovering myself, I looked up with the
utmost affection of my soul, and with a flood of tears in my eyes,
gave God thanks, that had cast my first lot in a part of the world
where I was distinguished from such dreadful creatures as these;
and that, though I had esteemed my present condition very miser-
able, had yet given me so many comforts in it, that I had still more
to give thanks for than to complain of: and this, above all, that I
had, even in this miserable condition, been comforted with the
knowledge of Himself, and the hope of His blessing, which was a
felicity more than sufficiently equivalent to all the misery I had
suffered or could suffer.
I could not think of ever making any more attempts to bring the
other boat round the island to me, lest I should meet with some of
these creatures at sea: in which if I had happened to have fallen
into their hands, I knew what would have been my lot.
Time, and the satisfaction I had that I was in no danger of being
discovered by these people, began to wear off my uneasiness about
them; and I oegan to live just in the same composed manner as
before, only with this difference, that I used more caution, and kept
my eyes more about me, than I did before, lest I should happen to
be seen by any of them; and particularly, I was more cautious of
firing my gun, lojst any of them being on the island should happen
to hear it.
It would take up a larger volume than this whole work is intended
to be, to set down all the contrivances I hatched, or rather brooded
upon, in my thoughts, for the destroying these creatures, or at least
frightening them so as to prevent their coming hither any more.
Sometimes I thought of digging a hole under the place where
they made their fire, and putting in five or six pounds of gunpowder,
which, when they kindled their fire, would consequently take fire,
and blow up all that was near it; but as, in the first place, I should
be unwilling to waste so much powder upon them, my store being
now within the quantity of one barrel, so neither could I be sure
of its goin£ off at a certain time, when it might surprise them:
and, at best, that it would little more than just blow the fire about
their ears and fright them, but not sufficient to make them forsake
the place: so I laid it aside; and then proposed that I would place
myself in ambush in some convenient place, with my three guns all
double-loaded, and, in the middle of their bloody ceremony, let fly
at them, when I should be sure to kill or wound perhaps two or
three at every shot: aud then falling in upon them with my three
pisto's and my sword, I made no doubt but that if there were twenty
J should kill them all. This fancy pleased my thoughts for some
weeks; and I was so full of it, that I often dreamed of it, and
sometimes that I was just going to let fly at them in my sleep. I
went so far with it in my imagination, that I employed myself
several days to find out proper places to put myself in ambuscade,
as I said, to watch for them; and I went frequently to the place
itself, which was now grown more familiar to me: but while my
mind was thus filled with thoughts of revenge, and a putting twenty
or thirty of them to the sword as I may call it, the norror I
had at the place, and the signals of the barbarous wretches devour-
ing one another, abetted my malice. Well, at length, I found a
place in the side of the hill, where I was satisfied I might securely
wait till I saw any of their boats coming; and might then, even
before they would be ready to come on shore, convey myself, unseen,
into some thickets of trees, in one of which there was a hollow
large enough to conceal me entirely; and there I might sit and
observe all their fearful doings, and take my full aim at their heads,
when they were so close together, as that it would be next to
impossible that I should miss my shot, or that I should fail wounding
three or four of them at the first shot. In this place, then, I
resolved to fix my design; and, accordingly, I prepared two
muskets and my ordinary fowling-piece. The two muskets I loaded
with a brace of sings each, and four or five smaller bullets, about
the size of pistol-bullets; and the fowling-piece I loaded with near
a handful of swan-shot, of the largest size: I also loaded mj
pistols with four bullets each; and in this posture, well provided
with ammunition for a second and third charge, I prepared myself
for my expedition.
After I had thus laid the scheme of my design, and, in my
imagination, put it in practice, I continually made my tour every
morning up to the top of the hill, which was from my castle, as I
called it, about three miles, or more, to see if I could observe any
boats upon the sea, coming near the island, or standing over
towards it; but I began to tire of this hard duty, after I had,
for two or three months, constantly kept my watch, but came
always back without any discovery: there having not, in all that
time, been the least appearance, not only on or near the shore, but
on the whole ocean, so far as my eyes or glasses could reach every
way-
As long as I kept my daily tour to the hill to look out, so long
also I kept up the vigour of my design, and my spirits seemed to be
all the while in a suitable form for so outrageous an execution as the
killing twenty or thirty naked savages, for an offence, which I had
not at all entered into a discussion of in my thoughts, any further
than my passions were at first fired by the horror I conceived at the
unnatural custom of the people of that country; who, it seems, had
been suffered by Providence, in his wise disposition of the world, to
have no other guide than that of their own abominable and vitiated
passions; and, consequently, were left, and perhaps had been so for
some ages, to act such horrid things, and receive such dreadful cus-
toms, as nothing but nature, entirely by Heaven, and actuated by
some hellish degeneracy; could have run them into. But now, when,
as I have said, I began to be weary of the fruitless excursion, which
I had made so long and so far every morning in vain, so my opinion
of the action itself began to alter; and I began, with cooler and
calmer thought', to consider what I was going to engage in: what
authority '.t call I had to pretend to be judge and executioner
- -vmi these men as criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit, for so
many ages, to suffer, unpunished, to go on, and to be, ar it were, the
executioners of bis judgments one upon another

SECTION XIX.
ROBINSON DISCOYERS A CAVE, WHICH SERVES HIM AS A RETREAT
AGAINST THE SAVAGES.
In this disposition I continued for near a year after this. I kept
myself more retired than ever, and seldom went from my cell, except
upon my constant employment, viz. to milk my she-goats, and man-
age my little flock in the wood, which, as it was quite on the other
part of the island, was quite out of danger; for certain it is, that
these savage people, who sometimes haunted this island, never car.ie
with any thoughts of finding anything here, and consequently never
wandered off from the coast; and I doubt not but they might have
been several times on shore after my apprehensions of them had
made me cautions, as well as before.
I believe the reader of this will not think it strange if I confess
that these anxieties, these constant dangers I lived in, and the con-
cern that was now upon me, put an end to all invention, and to all
the contrivances that I had laid for my future accommodations and
conveniences. I had the care of my safety more now upon my hands
than that of my food. I cared not to drive a nail, or chop a stick
of wood now, for fear the noise I might make should be heard;
much less would I fire a gun, for the same reason: and, above all, I
was intolerably uneasy at making any fire, lest the smoke, which 1:
visible at a great distance in the day, should betray me. For this
reason, I removed that part of my business which required fire,
such as burning of pots, pipes, &c. into my new apartment in the
woods i where, after I had been some time, I found, to my unspeak-
104
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
able consolation, a mere natural cave in the earth, which went in a
vast way, and where, I dare say, no savage, had he been at the
mouth of it, would be so hardy as to venture in: nor, indeed, would
any man else, but one who, like me, wanted nothing so much as a
safe retreat.
While I was cutting down some wood here, I perceived that be-
hind a very thick branch of low brushwood, or underwood, there was
a kind of hollow place : I was curious to look in it, and getting with
difficulty into the mouth of it, I found it was pretty large: that is
to say, sufficient for me to stand upright in it, and perhaps another

with me: but I must confess to you that I made more haste out
than I did in, when, looking farther into the place, and which was
perfectly dark, I saw two broad shining eyes of some creature, which
twinkled like two stars, the dim light from the cave's mouth shining
directly in, and making the reflection. Plucking up my courage, 1
took up a firebrand, and in I rushed again, with the stick flaming in
my hand: I had not gone three steps in, but I was almost as much
frightened as I was before; for I heard a very loud sigh, like that of
a man in some pain, and it was followed by a broken noise, as of
words half expressed, and then a deep sigh again. I stepped back,
and was indeed struck with such a surprise, that it put me into a
cold sweat; and if I had had a hat on my head, I will not answer
for it, that my hair might not have lifted it off. But still plucking
up my spirits as well as I could, and encouraging myself a little with
considering that the power and presence of God was everywhere, and
was able to protect me, upon this I stepped forward again, and by
the light of the firebrand, holding it up a little over my head, I saw
lying on the ground a most monstrous, frightful old he-goat, just
making his will, as we say, and gasping for life, and dying, indeed,
of mere old age. I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out,
and he essayed to get up, but was not able to raise himself; and I
thought with myself he might even lie there; for if he had frightened
me, so he would" certainly fright any of the savages, if any of them
should be so hardy as to come in there while he had any life in him.
I was now recovered from my snrprise, and began to look round
me, when I found the cave was but very small, that is to say, it
might be about twelve feet over, but in no manner of shape, neither
round nor square, no hands having ever been employed in making it
but those of Nature. I observed also that there was a place at the
farther side of it that went in farther, but was so low that it re-
quired me to creep upon my hands and knees to go into it, and
whither it went I knew not: so having no candle, I gave it over for
that time; but resolved to come again the next day, provided with
candles and a tinder-box, which I had made of the lock of one of the
muskets, with some wild-fire in the pan.
Accordingly, the next day I came pre/vided with six large candles
of my own making (for I made very good candles now of goat's tal-
low, but was hard set for candle-wick, using sometimes rags or
rope-yarn, and sometimes the dried rind of a reed like nettles); and
going into this low place, I was obliged to creep upon all fours, as I
have said, almost ten yards; which, by the way, I thought was a
venture bold enough, considering that I knew not how far it might
jo, nor what was beyond it. "When I had got through the strait, I
ound the roof rose higher up, I believe near twenty feet; but never
was such a glorious sight seen in the island, I dare say, as it was, to
look round the sides and roof of this vault or cave; the wall reflected
a hundred thousand lights to me from my two candles. What it
was in the rock, whether diamonds, or any other precious stones, or
gold, which I rather supposed it to be, I knew not. The place I
was in was a most delightful cavity or grotto of its kind, as could
be expected, though perfectly dark; the floor was dry and level, and
had a sort of a small loose gravel upon it, so that there was no
nauseous or venomous creature to be seen, neither was there any
damp or wet on the sides or roof: the only difficulty in it was
the entrance; which, however, as it was a place of security, and
such a retreat as I wanted, I thought that was a convenience; so
that I was really rejoiced at the discovery, and resolved, without any
delay, to bring some of those things which I was most anxious about
to this place; particularly, I resolved to bring hither my magazine
of powder, and all my spare arms, viz. two fowling-pieces, for 1 had
three in all, and three muskets, for of them I had eight in all: so I
kept at my castle only five, which stood ready mounted like pieces
of cannon on my outmost fence, and were ready also to take out upon
any expedition. Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition, I
happened to open the barrel of powder which I took up out of the
sea, and which had bren wet; and I found that the water had pene
E
ADVENTURES OF HOBINSON CRUSOE.
trated about three or four inches into the powder on every side,
which caking and growing hard, had preserved the inside like a ker-
nel in the shell; so that I had near sixty pounds of very good pow-
der in the centre of the cask: this was a very agreeable discovery to
me at that time; so I carried all away thither, never keeping above
two or three pounds of powder with me in my castle, for fear of a
surprise of any kind: I also carried thither all the lead I had left for
bullets.
I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants, which were
said to live in caves and holes in the rocks, where none could come
at them; for I persuaded myself, while I was here, that if five
hundred savages were to hunt me, they could never find me out; or,
if they did, they would not venture to attack me here. The old
goat, whom I found expiring, died in the mouth of the cave next
day after I made tliis discovery: and I found it much easier to dig
a great hole there, and throw trim in and cover him with earth, than
to drag him out; so I interred him there, to prevent offence to my
nose.

I was now in the twenty-third year of my residence in this island;
and was so naturalised to the place, and the manner of living, that
could I have but enjoyed the certainty that no savages would come
to the place to disturb me, I could have been content to have capitu-
lated for spending the rest of my time there, even to the lasl
moment, till I had laid me down and died, like the old goat in the
cave. I had also arrived to some little diversions and amusements,
which made the time pass a great deal more pleasantly with me than
it did before; as, first, I had taught my Poll, as I noted before, to
speak; and he did it so familiarly, and talked so articulately and
plain, that it was very pleasant to me: for I believe no bird ever
spoke plainer; and he lived with me no less than six-and-twenty
vears: how long he might have lived afterwards I know not, though
1 know they have a notion in the Brazils that they live a hundred
years. My dog was a very pleasant and loving companion to me for
no less than sixteen years of my time, and then died of mere old
age. As for my cats, they multiplied to that degree, that I was
obliged to shoot several of them at first, to keep them from devour-
ing me and all I had; but, at length, when the two old ones I
brought with me were gone, and after some time continually driving
them from me, and letting them have no provision with me, they afl
ran wild into the woods, except two or three favourites, which I
kept tame, and whose young, when they had any, I always drowned;
and these were part of my family. Besides these, I always kept two
or three household kids about me, whom I taught to feed out of my
hand; and I had two more parrots, which talked pretty well, and
would all call Robin Crusoe, but none like my first; nor, indeed,
did I take the pains with any of them that I had done with him. 1
had also several tame sea-fowls, whose names I knew not, that I
caught upon the shore, and cut their wings; and the little stakes
which I had planted before my castle wall Deing now grown up to a
food thick grove, these fowls all lived among these low trees, and
red there, which was very agreeable [to me: so that, as I said
above, I began to be very well contented with the life I led, if I
could have been secured from the dread of the savages. But it was
otherwise directed; and it may not be amiss for all people who shall
meet with my story, to make this just observation from it, viz. How
frequently, in the course of our lives, the evil which in itself we seek
most to shun, and which, when we are fallen into, is the most dread-
ful to us, is oftentimes the very means or door of our deliverance, by
which alone we can be raised again from the affliction we are fallen
into. I could give many examples of this in the course of my un-
accountable life, but in nothing was it more particularly remarkable
than in the circumstances of my last years of solitary residence ra
this island.

SECTION XX.
ANOTHER VISIT OF TIIE SAVAGES—ROBINSON SEES TIIE1T DXNCING
FERCEIVES TIIE WRECK OF A VESSEL.
It was now the month of December, as I said above, in my twenty-
third year; and this being the southern solstice (for winter I can-
not call it), was the particular time of my harvest, and required my
being much abroad in the fields; when going out pretty early
in the morning, even before it was thorough daylight, I was
surprised with seeing a light of some fire upon the sliore, at a dis-
tance from me of about two miles, towards the end of the island
where I had observed some savages had been, as before; and lot
on the other side, but, to my great affliction, it was on my side of
the island.
I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped short
within mv grove, not daring to go out, lest I might be surprised;
and yet I liad no more peace within, from the apprehensions I
had that if these savages, in rambling over the island, should find
my corn standing or cut, or any of my works and improvements,
they would immediately conclude that there were people in the
Jace, and would then never give over till they had found me out.
11 this extremity, I went back directly to my castle, pulled up the
ladder after me, and made all things without look as wild and as
natural as I could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a posture of
I
defence: I loaded all my caunon, as I called them, that is to say,
my muskets, which were mounted upon my new fortification, and
all my pistols, and resolved to defend myself to the last gasp; not
forgetting seriously to commend myself to the divine protection,
and earnestly to pray to God to deliver me out of the hands of
the barbarians. I continued in this posture about two hours; and
began to be mighty impatient for intelligence abroad, for I had
no spies to send out. After sitting awhile longer, and musing
what I should do in this case, I was not able to bear sitting in ig-
norance any longer; so setting up my ladder to the side of the hill,
where there was a flat place, as I observed before, and then pull-
ing the ladder up after me, I set it up again, and mounted to the
top of the hill; and pulling out my perspective glass, which I had
taken on purpose, I kid me down flat on the ground, and began
to look for the place. I presently found there were no less than
nine naked savages, sitting round a small fire they had made, not
to warm them, for they had no need of that, the weather being
extremely hot, but, as I supposed, to dress some of their barbar-
ous diet of human flesh, which they had brought with them, whe-
ther alive or dead I could not tell.
They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled up upon
the shore; and as it was then tide of ebb, they seemed to me to
wait for the return of the flood tr go away again. It is not easy
to imagine what confusion this sight put me into, especially seeing
them come on my side of the island, and so near me too; but
when I considered their coming must be always with the current of
the ebb, I began, afterwards, to be more sedate in my mind, being
satisfied that I might go abroad witii safety all the time of the tide
of flood, if they were not on shore before; and having made this
observation, I went abroad" about my harvest work with the more
composure.
As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the tide made to the
westward, I saw them all take boat, and row (or paddle, as we call
it) away. I should have observed, that for an hour or more before
they went off, they went a dancing; and I could easily discern their
postures and gestures by my glass. I could not perceive, by my
nicest observation, but that they were stark naked, and had not the
least covering upon them; but whether they were men or women,
1 could not distinguish.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two guns upon
my shoulders, and two pistols in my girdle, and my great swora by
my side, without a seaboard, and with all the speed I was able to
make, went away to the hill where I had discovered the first appear-
ance of all; and as soon as I got thither, which was not in less than
two hours (for I could not go apace, being so loaden with arms as
I was), I perceived there had been three canoes more of savages at
that place; and looking out farther, I saw they were all at sea to-
gether, making over for the main. This was a dreadful sight to roe,
especially as, going down to the shore, I could see the marks of
horror, which the dismal work they had been about had left behind
it, viz. the blood, the bones, and part of the flesh, of human bodies,
eaten and devoured by those wretches with merriment and sport.
I wore out a year and three months more before I ever saw any
more of the savages.
The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen months*
interval, was very great; I slept unquiet, dreamed always fright-
ful dreams, and often started out of my sleep in the night; in the
day, great troubles overwhelmed my mind; and in the night,
I dreamed often of killing the savages, and of the reasons why I
might justify the doing of it. It was in the middle of May, on the
sixteenth day, I think, as well as my poor wooden calendar would
reckon, for I marked all upon the post still; I say, it was on the
sixteenth of May that it blew a very great storm of wind all day,
with a great deal of lightning and thunder, and a very foul night it
was after it. I knew not what was the particular occasion of it,
but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken up with very serious
thoughts about my present condition, I was surprised with the noise
of a gun, as I thouglit, fired at sea. This was, to be sure, a surprise
quite of a different nature from any I had met with before; for the
notions this put into my thoughts were quite of another kind. I
started up in the greatest haste imaginable, and, in a trice, clapped
my ladder to the middle place of the rock, and pulled it after me;
and mounting it the second time, got to the top of the hill the very
moment that a flash of fire bid me listen for a second gun, which
accordingly, in about half a minute, I heard; and, by the sound,
knew that it was from that part of the sea where I was driven down
the current in my boat. I immediately considered that this mus<.
be some ship in distress, and that they nad some comrade, or some
other ship in company, and fired these guns for signals of distress,
and to obtain help. I had the presence of mind, at that minute, to
think that thougn I could not help them, it might be they might
help me: so I brought together all the dry wood I could get at
nand, and making a good handsome pile, I set it on fire upon the
hill. The wood was dry, and blazed freely; and though the wind
blew very hard, yet it burnt fairly out: so that I was certain, if
there was any such thing as a ship, they must needs see it; and nc
doubt they did; for as soon as ever my fire blazed up I heard another
gun, and after that several others, all from the same quarter. I plied
my fire all night long, till daybreak; and when it was broad day,
asd the air cleared up, I saw something at a great distance at sea,
full east of the island, whether a sail or a hull I could not distin-
guish, no, not with my glass; the distance was so great, and the
weather still something hazv ilso; at least it was so out at sea.
I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon perceived that it
did not move; so I presently concluded that it was a ship at anchor;
and being eager, you may be sure, to be satisfied, I took my gun in
my hand, and ran towards the south side of the island, to the rocks
where I had formerly been carried away with the current; and get-
ting up there, the weather by this time being perfectly clear, I could
plainly see, to my great sorrow, the wreck of a ship, cast away in
the night upon those concealed rocks which I found when I was out
in my Doat; and which rocks, as they checked the violence of the
stream, and made a kind of counter-stream, or eddy, were the occa-
sion of my recovering from the most desperate, hopeless condition
that ever I had been in, in all my life. Thus, what is one man's
safety is another man's destruction; for it seems these men, who-
ever they were, being out of their knowledge, and the rocks being
wholly under water, had been driven upon them in the night, the
wind blowing hard at E.N.E. Had they seen the island, as I must
necessarily suppose they did not, they must, as I thought, have en-
deavoured to have saved themselves on shore by the help of their
boat; hut their firing off guns for help, especially when they saw, as
I imagined, my fire, filled me with many thoughts: First, I imagined
that upon seeing my light, they might have put themselves into their
boat, and endeavoured to make the shore; but that the sea going
very high, they might have been cast away: other times 1 imagined
that they might have lost their boat before, as might be the
case many ways; as particularly, by the breaking of the sea upon
their ship, which many times obliges men to stave, or take in
pieces, their boat, and sometimes to throw it overboard with their
own hands: other times I imagined they had some other ship or
ships in company, who, upon the signals of distress they had made,
nad taken them up and carried them off: other times I fancied they
were all gone off to sea in their boat, and being hurried away by the
current that I had been formerly in, were earned out into the great
ocean, where there was nothing but misery and perishing; and that
perhaps, they might by this tune be starving, and in a condition to
think of eating one another.

SECTION XXI.
1IE VISITS THE WRECK AND OBTAINS MANY STORES FROM IT—
AGAIN THINKS OF QUITTING THE ISLANT).
Till the last year of my being on tbis island, I never knew whether
any were saved out of that ship or no; and had only the affliction,
some days after, to see the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore
at the end of the island which was next the shipwreck. He had no
clothes on but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair of open-kneed linen
drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but nothing to direct me so much
as to guess what nation he was of: he had nothing in his pockets
but two pieces-of-eight and a tobacco pipe :—the last was to me of
ten times more value than the first.
It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out in my
boat to this wreck, not doubting but 1 might find something on
board that might be useful to me: but that did not altogether
press me so much, as the possibility that there might be yet some
living creature on board, whose life I might not only save, but
might, by saving that life, comfort my own to the last degree. And
this thought clung so to my heart, that I could not be quiet night
or day, but I must venture out in my boat on board this wreck;
and committing the rest to God's providence, I thought the im-
pression was so strong upon my mind that it could not be resisted,
that it must come from some invisible direction, and that I should
be wanting to myself if I did not go.
Under the power of this impression, I hastened back to my castle,
prepared everything for my voyage took a quantity of bread, a great
pot of fresh water, a compass to steer by, a bottle of rum (for I
had still a great deal of that left) and a basket of raisins; and thus
loading myself with everything necessary, I went down to my boat,
got the water out of her, put her afloat, loaded all my cargo in her,
and then went home again for more. My second cargo was a great
bag of rice, the umbrella to set up over my head for a shade, another
large pot of fresh water, and about two dozen of my small loaves,
or barley-cakes, more than before, with a bottle of goat's milk and a
cheese: all which, wit h great labour and sweat, I carried to my boat;
and praying to God to direct my voyage, I put out; and rowing, or
paddling, the canoe along the shore, came at last to the utmost
point ot the island on the north-east side.
Having hauled my boat into a little creek on the shore, I stepped
out, and sat me dowu upou a rising bit of ground, very pensive and

anxious, between fear and desire, about my voyage: wlieu, as I was
musing, I could perceive that the tide was turned, and the flood
come on; upon which my going was impracticable for so many
hours.
I resolved, the next morning, to set out with the first of the tide;
and reposing myself for the night in my canoe, under the great
watch-coat I mentioned, I launched out. I went at a great rate directly
for the wreck, and in less than two hours I came up to it. It was a
dismal sight to look at: the ship, which, by its building-, was Spanish,
stuck fastjammed in between two rocks; all the stern and quarter of her
were beaten to pieces with the sea; and as her forcastle, which
stuck in the rocks, had run on with f»reat violence, her mainmast
and foremast was brought by the board, that is to say, broken short
off; but her bowsprit was sound, and the head and bow appeared
firm. When I came close to her, a dog appeared upon her, who,
seeing me coming, yelped and cried; and as soon as I called him
jumped into the sea to come to me. I took him into the boat, but
found him almost dead with hunger and thirst. I gave him a cake
of my bread, and he devoured it like a ravenous wolf that had been
starving a fortnight in the snow. I then gave the poor creature
some fresh water, with which, if I would have let him, he would
have burst himself. After this, I went on board; but the first sight
I met with was two men drowned in the cook room, or forecastle of

the ship, with their arms fast about one another. I concluded, as
indeed probable, that when the ship struck, it being in a storm, the
sea broke so high, and so continually over her, that the men were
not able to bear it, and were strangled with the constant rushing in
of the water, as much as if they had been under water. Besides
the dog, there was nothing left in the ship that had life; nor any
goods, that I could see, but what were spoiled by the water.
I found, however, besides several chests, a little cask full of liquor,
of about twenty gallons, which I got into my boat with much
difficulty. There were several muskets in the cabin, and a great
powder-|jprn, with about four pounds of powder in it: as for the
muskets, I had no occasion for them, so I left them, but took the
powder-horn. I took a fire-shovel and tongs, which I wanted ex-
tremely; as also two little brass kettles, a copper pot to make
chocolate, and a gridiron: and with this cargo, and the dog, I came
away, the tide beginning to make home again; and the same evening,
about an hour within night, I reached the island again, weary and
fatigued to the last degree. I reposed that night in the boat; and
in the morning 1 resolved to harbour what I had got in my new
cave, and not carry it home to my castle. After refreshing myself,
I got all my cargo on shore, and began to examine the particulars.
I found on emptying the chest among other things some very good
shirts, which were very weleome to me; and about a dozen and a
half of white linen handkerchiefs and coloured neckcloths; the
former was also very weleome, being exceeding refreshing to wipe
my face in a hot day. Upon the whole, Igot very little by this voy-
age that was of any use to me: for, as to some money, I had found
Iliad no manner of occasion for it; it was to me as the dirt under
my feet; and I would have given it all for three or four pair of
English shoes and stockings, which were things I greatly wanted,
but had none on my feet for many years.
I lived in this condition near two years more; all the time filled
with projects and designs, how, if it were possible, I might get away
from this island; and I believe verily, if I had the boat that I went
from Sallee in, I should have ventured to sea, bound any where, I
knew not whither.
It was one of the nights of the rainy season in March, the four-
and-twentieth year of my first setting foot in this island of solitari-
ness, I was laying in my bed awake. I had no uneasiness of mind
more than ordinary, but could by no means close my eyes, that is, so
as to sleep; no, not a wink all night long, otherwise than as
follows:
I ran over the whole history of my life by abridgment, as I may
call it, to my coming to this island; and slso since I came to this
island. In my reflections upon the state of my case, since I came
here, I was comparing the nappy posture of my affairs in the first
years of my habitation, with the life of anxiety, fear, and care, which
I had lived ever since I had seen the print of a foot in the sand.
Then I came to reflect seriously upon the real danger I had been
in for so many years; and how I had walked about in the greatest
security, and with all possible tranquility, when perhaps nothing
but the brow of a hill, a great tree, or the casual approach of night,
had been between me and the worst kind of destruction, viz. that of
falling into the hands of cannibals and savages. I would unjustly
slander myself, if I should say I was not sincerely thankful to my
great Preserver, to whom all these unknown deliverances were due.
I made this conclusion, however, that my only way to go about
an attempt for an escape, was, if possible, to get a savage into my
possession; and, if possible, it should be one of their prisoners
whom they had condemned to be eaten, and should bring thither to
kill; but these thoughts were still attended with thls difficulty, that
it was impossible to effect this without attacking a whole caravan of
them, and killing them all; and my heart trembled at the thoughts
of shedding so much blood, though it was for my deliverance.
However, after many disputes with myself, I determined, if
possible, to get one of the savages into my hands, cost what it would:
so I resolvea to put myself upon the watch to see them when they
came on shore, and leave the rest to the event.
SECTION XXII.
ROBINSON HESCUES ONE Or THEIR CAFTIVES FROM THE SAVAGES,
WHOM HE NAMES FRIDAY, AND MAKES HIS SERVANT.
About a year and a half after I entertained these notions (and by
long musing had, as it were, resolved them into nothing, for want
of an occasion to put them into execution), I was surprised, one
morning early, with seeing no less than five canoes all on shore
together on my side the island, and the people who belonged to
them all landed, and out of my sight. The number of them broke
all my measures; for seeing so many, and knowing that they
always came four or six, or sometimes more, in a boat, I could not
tell what to think of it, or how to take my measures, to attack
twenty or thirty men single-handed; so lay still in my castle, per-
plexed and discomforted: however, I put myself into all the same
postures for an attack that I had formerly provided, and was just
ready for action, if anything had presented. Having waited a good
while, listening to hear if they made any noise, at length, being
very impatient, I set my guns at the foot of my ladder, and clam-
bered up to the top of the hill, by my two stages, as usual; stand-
ing so, however, that my head did not appear above the hill, so that
they could not perceive me by any means. Here I observed, by the
help of my perspective glass, that they were no less than thirty in
number; that they had a fire kindled, and that they had meat
dressed. How they had cooked it I knew not, or what it was; but
they were all dancing, in I know not how many barbarous gestures
and figures, their own way, round the fire.
While I was thus looting on them, 1 perceived, by my perspec-
tive, two miserable wretches dragged from the boats, where, it
seems, they were laid by, and were now brought out for the
slaughter. I perceived one of them immediately fall, being knocked
down, I suppose, with a club or wooden sword, for that was their
way, and two or three others were at work immediately, cutting
him open for their cookery, while the other victim was left standing
by himself, till they should be ready for him. In that very moment,
this poor wretch seeing himself a little at liberty, and unbound,
nature inspired him with hopes of life, and he started away from
them, and ran with incredible swiftness along the sands, directly
towards me, I mean towards that part of the coast where my habi-
tation was. I was dreadfully frightened, I must acknowledge, when
I perceived him run my way, and especially when, as I thought, I
saw him pursued by tlie whole body. However, I kept my station,
and my spirits began to recover, when I found that there was not
above three men that followed him; and still more was I encouraged
when I found that he outstripped them exceedingly in running, and
gained ground of them, so that if he could but hold it for half an
hour, I saw easily he would fairly get away from them all.
There was between them and my castle the creek, which I men-
tioned often in the first part of my story, where I landed my
cargoes out of the ship; and this I saw plainly he must necessarily
swim over, or the poor wretch would be laken there: but when the
savage escaping came thither, he made nothing of it, though the
tide was then up; but plunging in, swam through in about thirty
strokes, or thereabouts, landed, and ran on with exceeding strength
and swiftness. When the three persons came to the creek, I found
that two of them could swim, but the third could not, and that,
standing on the other side, he looked at the others, but went no
farther, and soon after went softly back again; which, as it hap-
pened, was very well for him in the end. I observed that the two
who swam were jet more than twice as long swimming over the
creek as the fellow was that fled from them. It came now very
warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now was
the time to get me a servant, and perhaps a companion or assistant,
and that I was called plainly by Providence to save this poor
creature's life. I immediately ran down the ladders with all
possible expedition, fetched my two guns, for they were both at the
foot of the ladders, as I observed above, and getting up again, with
the same haste, to the top of the hill, I crossed toward the sea, and
having a very short cut, and all down hill, placed myself in the way
between the pursuers and the pursued, hallooing aloud to him that
fled, who, looking back, was at first, perhaps, as much frightened at
me as at them; but I beckoned with my hand to him to eome back j
and, in the meantime, I slowly advanced towards the two that fol-
lowed: then rushing at once upon the foremost, I knocked him
down with the stock of my piece. I was loth to fire, because 1
would not have the rest hear; though, at that distance, it would
not have been easily heard, and being out of sight of the smoke too,
they would not have easily known what to make of it. Having
knocked this fellow down, the other who pursued him stopped, as 2
he had been frightened, and I advanced apace towards him: but as
I came nearer, I perceived presently he had a bow and arrow, and
was fitting it to snoot at me: so I was then necessitated to shoot at
him first, which I did, and killed him at the first shot. The poor
savage who fled but had stopped, though he saw both his enemies
fallen and killed, as he thought, yet was so frightened with the fire
and noise of my piece, that he stood stock still, and neither came
forward nor went backward, though he seemed rather inclined to
fly than to come on. I hallooed again to him to come forward,
which he easily understood, and came a little way; then stopped
again, and then a little further, and then stopped again; and I
could then perceive that he stood trembling, as if he had been taken
frisoner, and had just been to be killed, as his two enemies were,
beckoned to him again to come to me, and gave him all the signs
of encouragement that I could think of; and he came nearer and
nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve steps, in token of
acknowledgment for having saved his life. I smiled at him, and
looked pleasantly, and beckoned to him to come still nearer: at
length he came close to me; and then he kneeled down again,
kissed the ground, and laid his head upon the ground, and taking
me by the foot, set my foot upon his head: this, it seems, was in
token of swearing to be my slave for ever. I took him up, and
made much of him, and encouraged him all I could. But there
was more work to do yet; for I perceived the savage whom I
knocked down was not killed but stunned with the blow, and began
to come to himself: so I pointed to him, and showed him the
savage, that he was not dead: upon this he spoke some words to
me, and though I could not understand them, yet I thought they
were pleasant to hear; for they were the first sound of a man's
voice that I had heard, my own excepted, for above twenty-five
years. But there was no time for reflections now; the savage who
was knocked down recovered himself so far as to sit up on the
ground, and I perceived that my savage began to be afraid; but
when I saw that, I presented my other piece at the man, as if I
would shoot him: upon this my savage, for bo I call him now, made
a motion to me to lend him my sword which hung naked in a belt
by my side, which I did He no sooner had it, but he runs to his
enemv, and, at one blow, cut off his head so cleverly, no execu-
t oner in Germany could have done it sooner or better; which I
CBUsOE MBETINO WITH FBIDAT.
thought very strange for one who, I had reason to believe, never
saw a sword in his life before, except their own wooden swords:
however, it seems, as I learned afterwards, they make their wooden
swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so hard, that they will
cut off heads even with them, ay, and arms, and that at one blow
too. When he had done this, he comes laughing to me, in sign of
triumph, and brought me the sword again, and with abundance of
gestures, which I did not understand, laid it down. But that which
astonished him most was to know how I killed the other Indian so
far off: so pointing to him, he made signs to me to let him go to
him; so I bade him go as well as I could. When he came to him,
he stood like one amazed, looking at him, turning him first on one
side, then on the other, looked at the wound the bullet had made,
which, it seems, was just in his breast, where it had made a hole,
and no great quantity of blood had followed, but he had bled in-
wardly, for he was quite dead. He took up his bow and arrows,
and came back; so I turned to go away, and beckoned him to
follow me, making signs to him that more might come after them.
Upon this he made signs to me that he should bury them with
sand, that they might not be seen by the rest, if they followed; and
so I made signs to him again to do so. He fell to work; and, in
an instant, he had scraped a hole in the sand with his hands, big
enough to bury the first in, and then dragged him into it, and
covered him; and did so by the other also: I believe he had
buried them both in a quarter of an hour. Then calling him away,
I conveyed him, not to my castle, but quite away, to my cave, on the
farther part of the island. Here I gave him bread and a bunch of
raisins to cat, and a draught of water, which I found he was
indeed in great distress for, by his running; and having refreshed
him, I made signs for him to go and lie down to sleep, showing him
a place where I had laid some rice straw, and a blanket upon it,
which I used to sleep upon myself sometimes; so the poor creature
lay down and went to sleep.
He was a comely, handsome follow, perfectly well-made, with
straight, strong limbs, not too large, tall, and well-shaped, and, as I
reckon, about twenty-six years of age. He had a very good coun-
tenance, not a fierce and surly aspect; but seemed to have some-
thing very manly in his face; and yet he had all the sweetness and
softness of an European in his countenance too, especially when he
smiled. His hair was long and black, not curled like wool; his
forehead very high and large; and a great vivacity and sparkling
sharpness in his eyes. The colour of his skin was not quite black,
Dut very tawny; and yet not an ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny, as the
Brazilians and Virginians, and other natives of America are, but of
a bright kind of a dun olive-colour, that had something in it very
agreeable, though not very easy to describe. His face was round
and plump; his nose small, not flat like the Negroes; a very good
mouth, thin lips, and his fine teeth well set, and as white r.3
ivory.
After he had slumbered, rather than slept, about half an hour, he
awoke again, and c"ame out of the eave to me, for I had been milking
my goats, which I had in the enclosure iust by: when he espied mej
he came running to me, laying himself down again upon the ground,
with all the possible signs of an humble, thankful disposition, making
a great many antic gestures to show it. At last, he lays his head
flat upon the ground, close to my foot, and sets my other foot upon
his head, as he had done before; and after this made all the signs to
me of subjection, servitude, and submission imaginable, to let me
know how he would serve me as long as he lived. I understood

him in many things, and let him know I was very well pleased with
him. In a little time I began to speak to him and teach him to
speak to me; and, first, I let him know his name should be Friday,
which was the day I saved his life: I called him so for the memory
of the time. I likewise taught him to say Master: and then let him
know that was to be my name: I likewise taught him to say Yes
and No, and to know the meaning of them. I gave him s0me milk
in an earthen pot, and let him see me drink it before him, and sop
my bread in it; and gave him a cake of bread to do the like, which
he quickly complied with, and made signs that it was very good for
him. I kept there with him all that night; but as soon as it was
day, I beckoned to him to come with me, and let him know that I
would give him some clothes: at which he seemed very glad, for he
was stark naked. As we went by the place where he had buried
the two men, he pointed exactly to the spot, and showed me the
marks he had made to find them again, making signs to me that we
should dig them up again, and eat them. At this I appeared very
angry, expressed my abhorrence of it, and beckoned with my hand
ADVENTtJRES OS1 ROBINSON CRUSOE. 191
sion. I then led him up to the top of the hill, to see it his enemies
were gone; and pulling out my glass, I looked, and saw plainly the
iace where they had been, tut no appearance of them or their
canoes: so that it was plain they were gone, and had left their
two comrades behind them, without any search after them.
But I was not content with this discovery; but having now more
courage, and consequently more curiosity, I took my man Friday
witli me, giving him the sword in his hand, with the bow and
arrows at his back, which I found he could use very dexterously,
making him carry one gun for me, and I two for myself; and away
we marched to the place where these creatures had been, for I hail
a mind now to get some further intelligence of them. When I
came to the place, my very blood ran chill in my veins, and my
heart sunk within me, at the horror of the spectaole: indeed, it
was a dreadful sight, at least it was so to me, though Friday made
nothing of it. The place was covered with human bones, the
ground dyed with their blood, and great pieces of flesh left here
and there, half-eaten, mangled, and scorched; and, in short, all the
tokens of the trinmphant feast they had been making there, after a
victory over their enemies. I saw three sculls, five hands, and the
bones of three or four legs and feet, and abundance of other parts
of the bodies; and Friday, by his signs, made me understand that
they brought over four prisoners to feast upon; that three of them
were eaten up, and that he, pointing to himself, was the fourth;
that there had been a great Dattle between them and their next
king, whose subjects, it seems, he had been one of, and that they
had taken a great number of prisoners; all which were carried to
several places by those who had taken them in the fight, in order to
feast upon them, as was done her2 by these wretches upon those
they brought hither.
I caused Friday to gather up all the sculls, bones, and flesh, and
whatever remained, and lay them together in a heap, and make a
great fire upon it, and burn them all to ashes. I found Friday had
still a hankering stomach after some of the flesh, and was still a
cannibal in Ids nature; but I discovered so much abhorrence at the
very thoughts of it, and at the least appearance of it, that he durst
not discover it: for I had, by some means, let him know that I
would kill him if he offered it.
When he had done this, we came back to our castle; and there I
fell to work for my man Friday: and, first of all, I gave him a pair
of linen drawers, which I had out of the poor gunner's chest ]
mentioned which I found in the wreck; and which, with a little
alteration, fitted him very well, and then I made him a jerkin o<
goat's skin, as well as my skill would allow (for I was now grown t
tolerable good tailor); and I gave him a good cap, which I made ol
Dare's skin, very convenient and fashionable enough; and thus at
was clothed for the present, tolerably well, and was mighty well
pleased to see himself almost as wrcll clothed as his master. It is
true, he went awkwardly in those clothes at first: wearing the
drawers was very awkward to him, and the sleeves of the waistcoat
galled his shoulders, and the inside of his arms; but after a little
easing them where he complained they hurt him, and using himself
to them, he took to them at length very well.
The next day after I came home to my hutch with him, 1 began
to consider where I should lodge him; and that I might do well for
him, and yet be perfectly easy myself, I made a little tent for him
in the vacant place between my two fortifications, in the inside of
the last and in the outside of the first. As there was a door or
entrance there into my cave, I made a formal framed door-case,
and a door to it of boards, and set it up in the passage, a little
within the entrance; and causing the door to open in the inside, I

barred it up in the night, taking in my ladders too; so that Friday
could in no way come at me m the inside of my innermost wall,
without making so much noise in getting over that it must needs
waken me: for my first wall had now a complete roof over it of
long poles, covering all my tent, and leaning up to the side of the
hill; which was again laid across with smaller sticks, instead of
laths, and then thatched over a great thickness with the rice-straw,
which was strong, like reeds; and at the hole or place which was
left to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed a kind of trap door,
which, if it had been attempted on the outside, would not have
opened at all, but would have fallen down, and made a great noise:
as to weapons, I took them all into my side every night. But I
needed none of all this precaution; for never man had a more faith-
ful, loving, sincere servant than Friday was to me; without pas-
sions^ sullenness, or desigus, perfectly obliged and engaged—his very
affections were tied to me, like those of a child to a father; and I
dare say, he would have sacrificed his life for the saving mine upon
any occasion whatsoever: the many testimonies he gave me of this
put it out of doubt, and soon convinced me that I needed to use no
precautions as to my safety on his account.
This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that with
wonder, that however it had pleased God, in his providence,
and in the government of the works of his hands, to take from
so great a part of the world of his creatures the best uses to which
their faculties and the powers of their souls are adapted, yet that he
has bestowed upon them the same powers, the same reason, the
same affections, the same sentiments of kindness and obligation, the
same passions and resentments of wrongs, the same sence of grati-
tude, sincerity, fihelity, and all the capacities of doing good, and
rcceaving good, that he has given to us; and that when he pleases
to offer them occasions of exerting these they are as ready, nay, more
ready, to apply them to the right uses for which they were bestowed,
than we are.
With my new companion I was greatly delighted, and made it my
business to teach him everything that was proper to make him use-
ful, handy, and helpful; but especially to make him speak, and
understand me when I spoke: and he was the aptest scholar that
ever was; and particularly was so merry, so constantly diligent, and
so pleased when he could but understand me, or make me under-
stand him, that it was very pleasant to me to talk to him. Now
my life began to be so easy, that I began to say to myself, tht.t
could I have been safe from more savages, I cared not if I vu
ntivar to remove from the place where I lived.

SECTION XXIII.
ROBINSON INSTRUCTS AND CIVILIZES HIS MAN FRIDAY—ENDEAVOURS
TO GIVE HIM AN IDEA OF CHRISTIANITY.
After I had been two or three days returned to my castle, I thought
that, in order to bring Friday off from his horrid way of feeding,
and from the relish of a cannibal's stomach, 1 ought to let him taste
other flesh; so 1 took him out with me one morning to the woods.
I went, indeed, intending to kill a kid out of my own flock, and
bring it home and dress it; but as I was going, I saw a she-goat
lying down in the shade, and two young kids sitting by her. I
caught hold of Friday;—" Hold," said I; "stand still;" and made
signs to him not to stir: immediately I presented my piece, shot, and
killed one of the kids. The poor creature, who had, at a distance,
indeed, seen me kill the savage, his enemy, but did not know, nor
could imagine, how it was done, was sensibly surprised, trembled
and shook, and looked so amazed, that I thought he would have
sunk down. He did not see the kid I shot at, or perceived 1 had
killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat, to feel whether he was not
wounded, and, as I found presently, thought I was resolved to kill
him: for he came and kneeled down to me, and embracing my knees,
said a great man; tiiings I did not understand; but I could easily
see the meaning was, to pray me not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him that I would do him no
harm; and taking him up by the hand, laughed at him, and pointing
to the kid which I had killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it,
which he did; and while he was wondering, and looking to see how
the cieature was killed, I loaded my gun again. By and by, I saw
a grea^ fowl, like a hawk, sitting upon a tree, within shot; so to let
Friday understand a little what I would do, I called him to me again,
pointed at the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, though I thought it
had been a hawk, I say, pointing to the parrot, and to my gun, and
to the ground under the parrot, to let him see I would make it fall,
I made him understand that I would shoot and kill that bird:
accordingly, I fired, and bade him look, and immediately he saw
the parrot fall. He stood like one frightened again, notwithstanding
all I had said to him; and I found he was the more amazed, because
he did not see me put any thing into the gun, but thought that there
must be some wonderful fund of death and destruction in that thing,
able to kill man, beast, or bird, or any thing. near or far off; and
the astonishment this created in him was such, as could not wear
off for a long time; and I believe, if I would have let him, he would
have worshipped me and my gun. As for the gun itself, he would
not so much as touch it for several days after; but he would speak
to it, and talk to it, as if it had answered him, when he was by
himself; which, as I afterwards learued of him, was to desire it not
to kill him. Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this,
I pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I had shot, which he did,
but stayed some time; for the parrot, not being quite dead, had
fluttered away a good distance from the place where she fell: how-
ever, he found her, took her up, and brought her to me; and as [
had perceived his ignorance about the gun before, I took this advan-
tage to charge the gun again, and not to let him see me do it, that
I might be ready for any other mark that might present; but
nothing more offered at that time: so I brought Lome the kid, and
the same evening I took the skin off, and cut it out as well as I
could; and having a pot fit for that purpose, I boiled or stewed
some of the flesh, and made some very good broth. After I had
begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed very glad
of it, and liked it very well: but that which was strangest to him,
was to see me eat salt with it. He made a sign to me that the
salt was not good to cat; and putting a little into his mouth, he
seemed to nauseate it, and would spit and sputter at it, washing
his mouth with fresh water after it: on the other hand, I took
some meat into my mouth without salt, and I prctenled to spit and
sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had done at the salt; but it
would not do; he would never care for salt with his meat or in his
broth; at least, not a great while, and then but very little.
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
Having* thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was resolved
to feast him the next day with roasting a piece of the kid: this I did,
by hanging it before the fire on a string, as I had seen many people
do in England, setting two poles up one each side of the fire, and
one across on the top, ana tying the string to the cross stick,
letting the meat turn continually. This Friday admired very much:
but when he came to taste the flesh, he took so many ways to tell
mo how well he liked it, that I could not but understand him; and at
last he told me, as well as he could, that he would never eat man's
flesh any more, which I was very glad to hear.
The next day I set him to work to beating some cor n out, and
sifting it in the manner I used to do, as I observed before; and he

soon understood how to do it as well as I, especially after he had
seen what the meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread of
it: for after that I let him sec me make my bread, and bake it too;
and in a little time Friday was able to do all the work for me, as
well as I could do it myself.
I began now to consider, that having two mouths to feed instead
of one, I must provide more ground for my harvest, aud plant a
larger quantity of cor n than I used to do: so I marked out a larger
piece of land," and began the fence in the same manner as before,
in which Friday worked not only very willingly and very hard, but
did it very cheerfully: and I told him what it was for; that it was
for cor n to make more bread, because he was now with me, and
that I might have enough for him and myself too. He appeared
very sensible of that part, and let me know that he thought I
had much more labour upon me on his account than I had for
myself; and that he would work the harder for me, if T would tell
him what to do.
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this place.
Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the names of
almost every thing I had occasion to call for, and of every place I
had to send him to, and talked a great deal to me; so that, in
short, I began now to have some use for my tongue again, which,
indeed, I had very little occasion for before, that is to say, about
speech. Besides the pleasure of talking to him, I had a singular
satisfaction in the "fellow himself: his simple, unfeigned honesty
appeared to me more and more every day, and I began really to
love the creature; and, on his side, I believed he loved me more
than it was possible for him ever to love any thing before.
I had a mmd once to try if he had any hankering inclination to
his own country again; and having taught him English so well
that he could answer me almost any question, I asked him "whethci
the nation that he belonged to never conquered in battle?" At
which he smiled, aud said, "Yes, yes, we always fight the belter:"
that is, he meant, always get the better in fight; and so we began
the following discourse:—
Master. "You always fight the belter? how came you to be
taken prisoner then, Friday .J"
Friday. "My nation beat much, for all that."
Master. "How beat? If your nation beat them, how came
vou to be taken?"
Friday. "They more money than my nation in the place where
me was; they take one, two, three, and me; my nation overheat
them in the yonder place, where me no was; there my nation take
one, two, great thousand."
Master. "But why did not your side recover you from the
hands of your enemies, then?"
Friday. "They run one, two, three, and me, and make go in
the canoe; my nation have no canoe that time."
Master. "Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with
the men they take? Do they carry them away and eat them,
as these did?"
Friday. "Yes, my nation eat man's too; eat all up."
Master. "Where do they carry them?"
Friday. "Go to other place, where they think."
Master. "Do they come hither?"
Friday. "Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else place."
Master. "Have you been here with them?"
Friday. "Yes, I nave been here ;" (points to the N.W. side of
the island, which, it seems, was their side.)
By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly been among
the savages who used *o come on shore on the farther part of the
island, on the same man-eating occasions he was now brought for:
and some time after, when I took the courage to carry bim to that
side, being the same [ formerly mentioned, he presently knew the
place, and told me he was there once when they ate up twenty men,
two women, and one child . he could not tell twenty in English, but
he numbered them, by laying so many stones in a row, and pointing
to me to tell them ov^r.
1 have told this passage, hecausc it introduces what follows; that
after I had this discourse with him, I asked him how far it was from
our island to the shore, and whether the canoes were not often lost.
He told me there was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but that, after
a little way out to sea, there was a current and wind, always one
way in the morning, the other in the afternoon. This I understood
to fee no more than the sets of the tide, as going out or coming in;
but I afterwards understood it was occasioned by the great draft
and reflux. of the mighty river Oroonoko, in the mouth or gulf of
which river, as I found afterwards, our island lay; and that this
land which I perceived to the W. and N.W. was the great island
Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth of the river. I asked
Fridav a thousand questions about the country, the inhab-tants, the
sea, tlie coast, and what nations were near: he told me all he knew,
with the greatest openness imaginable. I asked him the names of
the several nations of his sort of people, but could get no other
name than Caribs: from whence I easily understood, tha*, these were
Caribbees, which our maps place on the part of America which
reaches from the mouth of the river Oroonoko to Guiana, and on-
wards to St. Martha. He told me that up a great way beyond the
moon, that was, beyond the setting of the moon, which must be
west from their country, there dwelt white bearded men, like me,
and pointed to my great whiskers, which I mentioned before; ana
that they had killed much mans, that was his word: by all which I
understood, he meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties in America had
been spread over the whole country, and were remembered by all
the nations, from father to son.
I inquired if he could tell me how I might go from this island ant.
get among those white men; he told me: *' les, yes, you may go in
two canoe." I could not understand what he meant, or make him
describe to me what he meant by two canoe; till, at last, with great
difficulty, I found he meant it must be in a iarge boat, as big as two
canoes. This part of Friday's discourse began to relish with me
very well: and from this time I entertained some hopes that, one
time or other, I might find an opportunity to make my escape from
this place, and that this poor savage might be a means to help me.
During the long time that Friday had now been with me, and that
he began to speak to me, and understand me, I was not wanting to
lay a foundation of religious knowledge in his mind; particularly I
asked him, one time, who made him? The poor creature did not
understand me at all, but thought I had asked him who was his
father; but I took it up by another handle, and asked him who
made t>« sea, the ground we walked on, and the hills and woods P
He told me, it was one old Benamuckee, that lived beyond all; he
could describe nothing of this great person, but that he was very
old, much older, he said, than the sea or the land, than the moon or
the stars. I asked him then, if this old person had made all things,
whv did not all things worship him? lie looked very grave, and
with a perfect look of innocence, said: "All tiiings say O to him."
I asked him "if the people who die in his country went away any
where?" He said, " Yes: they all went to Benamuckee;" then I
asked him "whether these they ate up went thither too?" He
said, "Yes."
From these things I began to instruct him in the knowledge of
the true God: I told him that the great Maker of all tiiings lived
up there, pointing up towards heaven; that he governed the world

by the same power and providence by which he made it; and that
he was omnipotent, and could do everything for us, give everything
to us, take everything from us; and thus, by degrees, I opened his
eyes. He listened with great attention, and received with pleasure
the notion of Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us, and of the
manner of making our prayers to God, and his being able to hear us,
even in heaven. He told me one day, that if our God could hear us
up beyond the sun, he must needs be a greater God than their Ben-
amuckee, who lived but a little way off, and yet could not hear till
they went up to the great mountains where he dwelt to speak to
him. I asked him if ever he went thither to speak to him? He
said: "No;" they never went that were young men; none went
thither but the old men, whom he called their Oowookakee: that is,
a3 I made him explain to me, their religious, or clergy; and that
they went to say 0 (so he called saying prayers), and then came
back, and told them what Benamuckee said.
I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man Friday; and told
him, that the pretence of their old men going up to the mountains
to say O to their god Benamuckee was a cheat: and that their
bringing word from thence what he said was much more so; that if
they met with any answer, or spake with any one there, it must be
an evil spirit; and then I entered into a long discourse about the
devil, the original of him, his rebellion against God, his enmity to
man, the reason of it, his setting himself up in the dark parts of Hie
world to be worshipped instead of God, and as God, and the many
stratagems he made use of to delude mankind to their ruin; how he
had a secret access to our passions and to our affections, and to
adapt his snares to our inclinations, so as to cause us even to be our
own tempters, and run upon our destruction by our own choice.
I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in all the
methods I took for this poor creature's instruction, and must
acknowledge, what I believe all that act upon the same principle
will find, that in laying things open to him, I reallv informed and
instructed myself in many things that either I did not Know, or nad
not fully considered before, but which occurred naturally to my
mind upon searching into them, for the information of this poor
savage: and I had more affection in my inquiry after things upon
this occasion than ever I felt before: so that, whether this poor wild
wretch was the better for me or no, I had great reason to be thank-
ful that fiver he came to me; my grief sat lighter upon me; my
habitation grew comfortable to me ocyond measure; and when I
reflected, that in this solitary life vhich I had been confined to, I
had not only been moved to look up to Heaven myself, and to seek
to the hand that had brought me here, but was now to be made an
instrument, under Providence, to save the life, and, for aught I
knew, Hie soul, of a.poor savage, and bring him to the true know-
ledge of religion, and of the Christian doctrine, that he might know
Christ Jesus, in whom is life eternal; I say, when I reflected upon
all these things, a secret joy ran through eveiy part of my soul, and
I frequently rejoiced that ever 1 was brought to this place, which
I had so often thought the most dreadful of all affiictions that could
odssibly have befallen me.

SECTION XXIV.
ROBINSON AND FRIDAY BUILD A CANOE TO CARRY THEM TO FRIDAY S
COUNTRY—THEIR SCHEME FREVENTED BY THE ARRIVAL OF A
FARTY OF SAVAGES.
After Friday and I became more intimately acquainted, and that he
could understand almost all I said to him, and speak pretty fluently,
though in broken English, to me, I acquainted him with my own
history, or at least so much of it as related to my coming to this
place; how 1 had lived here, and how long; I let him into the mys-
tery, for such it was to him, of gunpowder and bullet, and taught
him how to shoot. I gave him a knife, which he was wonderfully
delighted with; and I made him a belt with a frog hanging to it,
such as in England we wear hangers in ; and in the trog, instead of
a hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only as good a
weapon, in some cases, but much more useful upon other occasions.
I described to him the country of Europe, particularly England,
which I came from; how we lived, how we worshipped God, how we
behaved to one another, and how we traded in ships to all parts of
the world. I gave him an account of the wreck which I had been
on board of, and showed him, as near as I could, the place where she
lay; but she was all beaten in pieces before, and gone. I showed
him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when we escaped, and
which I could not stir with my whole strength then; but was now
fallen almost all to pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood
musing a great while, and said nothing. I asked him what it was
he studied upon? At last, he says: "Me see such boat like come
to place at my nation." I did not understand him a good while;
but, at last, when I had examined farther into it, I understood by
him, that a boat such as that had been, came on shore upon the
country where he lived; that is, as he explained it, was driven
thither by stress of weather. I presently imagined that some
European ship must have been cast away upon their coast, and the
boat might get loose, and drive ashore ; but was so dull, that I never
once thought of men making their escape from a wreck thither,
much less whence they might come; so I only inquired after a
description of the boat.
Friday described the boat to me well enough; but brought me
better to understand him when he added with some warmth. "We
save the white mans from drown." Then I presently asked him, if
there were any white mans, as he called them, in the boat? "Yes,"
he said; "the boat full of white mans." I asked him how many?
He told upon his fingers seventeen. I asked him then what became
of them; He told me, "They live, they dwell at iny nation."
This put new thoughts into my head; for I presently imagined
that these might be the men belonging to the ship that was cast
away in the sight of my island, as I now called it; and who, after
the ship was struck on the rock, and they saw her inevitably lost,
had saved themselves in their boat, and were landed upon that wild
shore among the savages. Upon this, I inquired of him more criti-
cally what was become of them; he assured me they lived still there
that they had been there about four years; that the savages let them
alone, and gave them victuals to live on. I asked lain how it came
to pass they did not kill them, and eat them, He said, "No, they
make brother with them;" that is, as I understood him, a truce; and
then he added, " They no cat mans but when make the war fight:"
that is to say, they never eat any men hut such as come to fight
with them, and are taken in battle.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my design of
going over with him to the continent, that I told liim we would go
and make a boat as big as that, and he should go home in it. He
answered not one word, but looked very grave and sad. I asked
him what was the matter with him ? He asked me again, "Why you
angry mad with Friday? What me done P" I asked him what he
meant ? I told him I was not angry with him at all. "No angry?"
says he, repeating the words several times; " Why send Friday home
away to my nation ?"—" Why," says I, "Friday, did not you say you
wished you were there ?"—" Yes, yes," says he, "wish be both there;
no wish Friday there, no master there." In a word, he would not think
of going there without me. "I go there, Friday !" says I;"what shall I
do there?" He returned very quick upon me at this : "Y'ou do great
deal much good," says he; "you teach wild mans be good, sober, tame
mans; you tell them know God, pray God, and live new life."—"Alas!
Friday," says I, "thou snowest not what thou sayest; I am but an
ignorant man myself."—" Yes, yes," says he, "you teachee me good,
yon teachee them good."—"No, no, Iriday," says 1, "you shall go
without me, leave me here to live by myself, as I did before." He
•
FRIDAV INSTEUCTED IS BOAT BUILDINO.
,ooked confused again at that word; and running to one of the hatchets
which he used to wear, he takes it up hastily, and gives it to me. "What
must I do with this ?" savs I to him. "You take Kill Friday," says he.
"What must I kill you for?" said I again. He returns very qv:ck,
"What you send Friday away for? Take kill Friday, no send 1 riday
away." This he spoke so earnestly, that I saw tears stand in his
eyes: in a word, I so plainly discovered the utmost affection in him
to me, and a iirm resolution in him, that I told him then, and often
after, that I would never send him away from me, if he was willing
to stay with me.
Upon the whole, as I found, by all his discourse, a settled affec-
tion to me, and that nothing should part him from me, so I found all
the foundation of his desire to go to his own country was laid in his
ardent affection to the people, and his hopes of my doing them good;
a thing, which as I had no notion of myself, so I had not the least
thought, or intention, or desire, of undertaking it. But still I found
a strong inclination to my attempting an escape, as above, founded
on the supposition gathered from the discourse, viz. that there were
seventeen bearded men there: and, therefore, without any more
delay, I went to work with Friday, to find out a g-reat tree proper to
fell, and make a large periagua, or canoe, to undertake the voyage.
There were trees enough in the island to have built a little fleet, not
of periaguas, or canoes, but even of good large vessels; but the
main thing I looked at was, to get one so near the water that we
might launch it when it was made, to avoid the mistake I committed
at first. At last, Friday pitched upon a tree; for I found he knew
much better than I what kind of wood was fittest for it; nor can I
tell, to this day, what wood to call the tree we cut down, except
that it was very like the tree we call fustie, or between that and the
Nicaragua wood, for it was much of the same colour and smell.
Friday was for burning the hollow or cavity of this tree out, to
make it for a boat, but I showed him how to cut it with tools;
which, after I had showed him how to use, he did very handily : and
in about a month's hard labour we finished it, and made it very
handsome; especially when, with our axes, which I showed him how
to handle, we cut and hewed the outside into the true shape of a
boat. After this, however, it cost us near a fortnight's time to get
her along, as it were inch by inch, upon great rollers, into the water;
but when she was in, she would have carried twenty men with great
ease
I was near two months rigging and fitting my mast and sails; for
I finished them very complete, making a small stay, and a sail, or
foresail, to it, to assist, if we should turn to windward; and, which
was more than all, I fixed a rudder to the stern of her to steer with.
I was but a bungling shipwright, yet, as I knew the usefulness, and
even necessity of such a thing, I applied myself with so much pains
to do it, that at last I brought it to pass; though, considering the
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
many dull contrivances I had for it that failed, I think it cost KiJ
almost as much labour as making the boat.
When the settled season began to come in, as the thought of my
design returned with the fair weather, I was preparing daily for the
voyage, and the first thing I did was to lay by a large quantity of
provisions, being the stores for our voyage; and intended, in a week
or a fortnight's time, to open the dock, and launch out our boat. I
was busy one morning upon something of this kind, when I called to
Friday, and bid him go to the sea-shore, and see if he could find a
turtle, or tortoise, a thing we generallv got once a week, for the sake
of the eggs as well as the flesh. Friday had not been long gone,
when he came running back, and flew over my outer wall, or fence,
like one that felt not the ground, or the steps he set his feet on; and

before I had time to speak to him, he cries out to me, "Oh master!
0 master! 0 sorrow! 0 bad!"—"What's the matter, Friday?"
says I. "0 yonder, there, "says he, "one, two, three canoe: one,
two, three!" By this way of speaking, I concluded there were six;
but, on inquiry, I found it was but three. "Well Friday," says I,
"do not be frightened!" So I heartened him up as welt as I could:
however, I saw the poor fellow was most terribly scared : for nothing
ran in his head but that they were come to look for him, and would
cut him in pieces, and eat him ; and the poor fellow trembled so that
1 scarce knew what to do with him. I comforted him as well as I
could, and told him I was in as much danger as he, and that they
would eat me as well as him. "But," says I, "Friday, we must
resolve to fight them." "Can you fight, Friday?"—"Me shoot,"
says he ; "but there come many great number."—"No matter for
that," said I, again, "our guns will fright them that we do not
13?
kill." So I asked him whether, if I resolved to defend him, he
would defend me, and stand by me; and do just as I bid him. He
said, "Me die, when you bid die, master." So I went and fetched a
good dram of rum and gave him; for I had been so good a husband
of my rum, that I had a great deal left. When he had drank it, I
made him take the two fowling-pieces, which we always carried, and
loaded them with large swan-shot, as big as small pistol-bullets ; then
I took four muskets, and loaded them with two slugs, and five small
bullets each; and my two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets
each; I hung my great sword, as usual, naked by my side ; and gave
Friday his hatchet. When I had thus prepared myself, I took my
perspective glass, and went up to the side of the hill, to sec what I
could discover; and I found quickly by my glass, that there were
^ -^.

one-and-t wenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes; and that
their whole business seemed to be the trinmphant banquet upon
these three human bodies; a barbarous feast indeed! but nothing
more than, as I had observed, was usual with them. I observed
also, that they were landed, not where they had done when Friday
made his escape, but nearer to my creek, where the shore was low,
and where a thick wood came almost close down to the sea. This,
with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these wretches came
about, filled me with such indignation, that I came down again to
Friday, and told him that I was resolved to go down to them and
kill them all; and asked him if he would stand by me. He had now
fot over his fright, and his spirits being a little raised with the dram
had given him, he was very cheerful, and told me, as before, he
would die when I bid die.
In this fit of fury, I took and divided the arms which I had
charged, as before, between us; I gave Friday one pistol to stick in
Iiis girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder; and I took one pistol,
and the other three guns myself; and in Ihil posture we marched
out. I took a small oottle of rum in my pocket, and gave Friday a
large bag with more powder and bullets ; and, as to orders, I charged
him to keep close behind me, and not to stir, or shoot, or do any-
thing, till I bid him; and, in the mean time, not to speak a word.
In this posture, I fetched a compass to my right hand of near a mile,
as well to get over the creek as to get into the wood, so that I might
come within shot of them before I should be discovered, which I had
seen, by my glass, it was easy to do.
1 entered the wood; and, with all possible wariness and silence,
Friday following close at my heels, I marched till I came to the skirt
of the wood, on the side which was next to them, only that one
comer of the wood, lay between me and them. Here I called softly
to Friday, and showing him a great tree, which was just at the cor-
ner of the wood, 1 bade him go to the tree, and bring me word if he
could see there plainly what they were doing. He did so ; and came
immediately back to me, and told me they might be plainly viewed
there; that they were all about their fire, eating the flesh of one of
their prisoners, and that another lay bound upon the sand, a little
from them, which, he said they would kill next, and which fired all
the very soul within me. He told me it was not one of their nation,
but one of the bearded men he told me of, that came to their
country in the boat. I was filled with horror at the very naming
the white bearded man; and, going to the tree, I saw plainly, by my
glass, a white man, who lay upon the beach of the sea, with his
hands and his feet tied with flags or things like rushes, and that he
was an European and had clothes on.
There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it, about fifty
yards nearer to them than the place where I was, which by going a little
way about, I saw I might come at undiscovered, and that then I
should be within half a shot of them: so I withheld my passion,
though I was indeed enraged to the highest degree; and going back
about twenty paces, I got behind some bushes, which held all the
way till I came to the other tree; and then came to a little rising
ground, which gave me a full view of them, at the distance of about
eighty yards

SECTION XXV.
ROHINSON RELEASES A SPANIARD—FRIDAY DISCOVERS HIS FATHER
ACCOMMODATION FROVIDED FOR THESE NEW GUESTS—WHO
ARE AFTERWARDS SENT TO LIBERATE THE OTHER SFANIARDS—
ARRIVAL OF AN ENGLISH VESSEL.
I had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the dreadful
wretches sat upon the ground, all close-huddled together, and had
just sent the other two to butcher the poor Christian, and bring him
perhaps, limb by limb, to their fire ; and they were stooping down to
untie the bands at his feet. I turned to Friday—" Now, Friday," said
I, " do as I bid thee." Friday said he would. "Then, Friday," said I,
"do exactly as you see me do; fail in nothing." So I set down one
of the muskets and the fowling-piece upon the ground, and Friday
did the like by his; and with the other musket I took my aim at
the savages, bidding him to do the like; then asking him if he was
ready, he said, "Yes." "Then fire at them," said 1; and the same
moment I fired also.
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the side that
he shot, he killed two of them, and wounded three more; and on my
side, I killed one, and wounded two. They were, you may be sure,
in dreadful consternation; and all of them who were not hurt
jumped up upon their feet, but did not immediately know which way
to run, or which way to look, for they knew not from whence their
destruction came. Friday kept his eyes close upon me that, as I
had bid him, he might observe what I did; so, as soon as the first
shot was made, I threw down the piece, and took up the fowling-
piece, and Friday did the like: he saw me cock and present; he did
the same again. "Are you ready, Friday?" said I. "Yes," says he.
"Let fly, then," says 1, "in the name of God!" And with that I
fired again among the amazed wretches, and so did Fridav; and as our
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
pieces were now loaden with what I called swan-shot, or small pistol
bullets, we found only two drop, but so many were wounded, that
they ran about yelling and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody,
and most of them miserably wounded, whereof three more fell quickly
after, though not quite dead.
"Now, Friday,"said I, laying down the discharged pieces, and taking
up the musket which was yet loaden, " follow me;" which he did with
a great deal of courage; upon which I rushed out of the wood, and
showed myself, and Friday close at my foot. As soon as I perceived
they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday do so
too; and running as fast as I could, which by the way was not very
fast, being loaded with arms as I was, I made directly towards the
poor victim, who was, as I said, lying upon the beach, or shore,

between the place where they sat and the sea. The two butchers,
who were just going to work with him, had left him at the surprise
of our first fire, and fled in a terrible fright to the sea-side, and had
jumped into a canoe, and three more of the rest made the same way.
I turned to Friday, and bade him step forward, and fire at them ; he
understood me immediately, and running about forty yards, to be
nearer them, he shot at them, and I thought he had killed them all,
for I saw them all fall of a heap into the coat, though I saw two of
them up again quickly: however, he killed two of them, and
wounded the third, so that he lay down in the bottom of the boat as
if he had been dead.
While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out my knife, and
cut the flags that bound the poor victim; loosing his hands and feet,
I lifted him up and asked him in the Portuguese tongue, what he was.
He answered in Latin, Christianus; but was so weak and faint that
he could scarce stand or speak. I took my bottle out of my pocket,
and gave it him, making signs that he should drink, which he did;
and I gave him a piece of bread which he ate. Then I asked hin
what countryman he was : "Espaguiole;" and being a little recovered,
let me know, by all the signs he could possibly make, how much he
was in my debt for his deliverance. "Siguor," said I, with as much
Spanish as I could make up, "we will talk afterwards, but we must
fight now; if you have any strength left, take this pistol and sword,
and lay about you. He took them very thankfully; and no sooner
had he the arms in his hands, but, as if they had put new vigour into
him, he flew upon his murderers like a fury, and had cut two of them
in pieces in an instant; for the truth is the whole was a surprise to
them, so the poor creatures were so much frightened with the noise
of our pieces, that they fell down for mere amazement and fear, and
had no more power to attempt their own escape than their flesh had
to resist our shot: and that was the case of those five that Friday
shot at in the boat; for as three of them fell with the hurt they had
received, so the other two fell with the fright.
I kept my piece in my hand still without firing, being willing to
keep my charge ready, because I had given the Spaniard my pistol and
sword; so I called to Friday, and bade him run up to the tree from
whence we first fired and fetch the arms which lay there that had been
discharged, which he did with great swiftness; and then giving him
my musket, 1 sat down myself to load all the rest again, and bade
them come to me when they wanted. While I was loading these
pieces, there happened a fierce engagement between the Spaniard
and one of the savages, who made at him with one of their great
wooden swords, the same-like weapon that was to have killed him be-
fore, if I had not prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as bold and
brave as could be imagined, though weak, had fought this Indian a good
while, and had cut him two great wounds on his head; but the
savage being a stout, lusty fellow, closing in with him, had thrown
him down, being faint, and was wringing my sword out of his hand;
when the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quitted the sword,
drew the pistol from his girdle, shot the savage through the body,
and killed him upon the spot, before I, who was running to help
him, could come near him.
Friday being now left to his liberty, pursued the flying wretches,
with no weapon in bis hand but his hatchet; and with that he
dispatched those three, who, as I said before, were wounded at first,
and fallen, and all the rest he could come up with; and the Spaniard
coming to me for a gun I gave him one of. "the fowling-pieces, with
which he pursued two of the savages, and wounded them both; but,
as he was not able to run, they both got from him into the wood,
where Friday pursued them, and killed one of them, but the other
was too nimble for him; and though he was wounded, yet had
plunged himself into the sea, and swam, with all his might, off to
those who were left in the canoe, which three in the canoe, with one
ADVENTURES 01 ROBINSOJf CRUSOE.
wounded, that we know not whether he died or no, were all that
escaped our hands of one-and-twenty. The account of the whole is
as follows: three killed at our first shot from the tree; two
killed at the next shot; two killed by Friday in the boat; two killed
by Friday of those at first wounded; one killed by Friday in the
wood; three killed by the Spaniard; four killed, being found dropped
here and there of their wounds, or killed by Friday in his chase
of them; four escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded if not dead.
—Twenty-one in all.
Those who were in the canoe worked hard to get out of gun-shot,
and though Friday made two or three shots at them, I did not find
that he hit any of them. Friday would fain have had me take one
of their canoes, and pursue them; and indeed I was very anxious
about their escape, lest, carrying the news home to their people,
they should come back perhaps with two or three hundred of the

canoes, and devour us by mere multitude; so I consented to pursue
them by sea, and running to one of their canoes, I jumped in, and
bade Friday follow me; but when I was in the canoe I was surprised
to find another poor creature lie there, bound hand and foot, as the
Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and almost dead with fear, not
knowing what was the matter; for he had not been able to look
up over the side of the boat, he was tied so hard neck and heels, and
had been tied so long, that he had really but little life in him.
I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which they had
bound him with, and would have helped him up; but he could not
stand or speak, but groaned most piteously, believing, it seems, still,
that he was only unbound to be killed. When Friday came to hiin,
I bade him speak to him, and tell him of his deliverance; and,
pulling out my bottle, made him give the poor wretch a dram}
which, with the news of his being delivered, revived him, and he sat
np in the boat. But when Friday came to hear him speak, and look
in his face, it would have moved any one to tears to have seeu how
Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed,
t'umped about, danced, sung; then cried again, wrung his hands,
teat his own face and head; and then sang and jumped about again,
like a distracted creature. It was a good while before I could make
him speak to me, or tell me what was the matter; but when he came
a little to himself, he told me that it was his father.
It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to see what
eestacy and filial affection had worked in this poor savage at the
sight of his father, and on his being delivered from death; nor indeed
can I describe half the extravagancies of his affection after this; for
he went into the boat, and out of the boat a great many times: when
he went in to him, he would sit down by him, open his breast, and
hold his father's head close to his bosom for many minutes together,
to nourish it; then he took his arms and ancles which were numbed
and stiff with the binding, and chafed and rubbed them with his
hands: and I, perceiving what the matter was, gave him some rum
out of my bottle to rub them with, which did them a great deal of
good.
This affair put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the other
savages, who were now almost out of sight; and it was happy for us
that we did not, for it blew so hard within two hours after, and
before they could have got quarter of their way, and continued
blowing so hard all night, and that from the north-west, which was
against them, that I could not suppose that their boat could live, or
that they ever reached their own coast.
But, to return to Friday, he was so busy about his father, that I
could not find in my heart to take him off for some time: but after
I thought he could leave him a little, I called him to me, and he
came Jumping and laughing, and pleased to the highest extreme;
then I asked him if he had given his father any bread. He shook
his head, and said, "None; ugly dog eat all up self." I then gave
him a cake of bread, out of a little pouch I carried on purpose; I
also gave him a dram for himself, but he would not taste it, but
carried it to his father. I had in my pocket two or three bunches of
raisins, so I gave him a handful of them for his father. He had no
sooner given his father these raisins, but I saw him come out of the
boat, and run away, as if he had been bewitched, he ran at such a
rate; for he was the swiftest fellow on his feet that I ever saw: I
say, he ran at such a rate, that he was out of sight, as it were, in
an instant; and though I called, and hallooed out too, after him, it
was all one, away he went; and in a quarter of an hour I saw him
come back again, though not so fast as he went; and as he came
nearer I found his pace slacker, because he had something in his
hand. When be came up to me, I found he had been quite home
for an earthen jug, or pot, to bring his father some fresh water, and
that he had two more cakes or loaves of bread; the bread he gave
me, but the water he carried to his father; however, as I was very
thirsty too, I took a little sup of it. The water revived his father
more than all the ruin or spirits I had given him, for he was just
fainting with thirst.
When his father had drunk, I called to him to know if there was
any water left; he said "Yes;" and 1 bade him give it to the poor
Spaniard, who was in as much want of it as his father; and I sent
one of the cakes that Friday brought to the Spaniard too, who was
indeed very weak, and was reposing himself upon a green place
under the shade of a tree; and whose limbs were also very stiff, and
very much swelled with the rude bandage he had been tied with.
When I saw that, upon Friday's coming to him with the water, he
sat up and drank, and took the bread, and began to eat, I went to
him and gave him a handful of raisins; he looked up in my face
with all the tokens of gratitude and thankfulness that could appear
in any countenance; but was so weak, notwithstanding he had
so exerted himself in the fight, that he could not stand up upon his
feet; he tried to do it two or three times, but was really not able,
his ankles were so swelled and so painful to him; so I bade him sit
still, and caused Friday to rub his ankles, and bathe them with rum.,
as he had done his father's.
I observed the poor affectionate creature, every two minutes, or
perhaps less, all the while he was here, turn his "head about to see
if his father was in the same place and posture as he left him
sitting: and at last he found that he was not to be seen; at which
he started up, and, without speaking a word, flew with that swift-
ness to him, that one could scarce perceive his feet to touch the
ground as he went; but when he came he only found he had lain
himself down to ease his limbs, so Friday came back to me pre-
sently; and then I spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help him up,
if he could, and lead him to the boat, and then he should carry him
to our dwelling, where I would take care of hiin; but Friday, a
lusty strong fellow, took the Spaniard quite up upon his back, and
carried him away to the boat, and set him down softly upon the side
or gunnel of the canoe, with his feet in the inside of it; and then,
lifting him quite in, he set himself close to his father; and pre-
sently stepping out again, launched the boat off, and paddled it
along the shore faster than 1 could walk, though the wind blew
pretty hard too: so he brought them both safe into our creek, and
leaving them in the boat, ran away to fetch the other canoe. As
he passed me, I spoke to him, and asked him whither he went. He
told me, " Go fetch more boat:" so away he went like the wind, for
sure never man or horse ran like him; and he had the other canoe
in the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land; so he wafted me
over, and then went to help our new guests out of the boat, which
fie did; but they were neither of them able to walk, so that poor
Friday knew not what to do.
To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and calling to
Friday to bid them sit down on the bank while he came to me, I
soon made a kind of hand-barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I
carried them both up together upon it, between us. But when we
got them to the outside of our wall, or fortification, we were at a
worse loss than before, for it was impossible to get them over, and
I was resolved not to break it down: so I set to work again; and
Friday and I, in about two hours' time, made a very handsome
tsnt, covered with old sails, and above that with bougns of trees,
being in the space without our outward fence, and between that and
the grove of young wood which I had planted; and here we made

them two beds of such things as I had, viz. of good rice straw,
with blankets laid upon it, to lie on, and another to cover them, on
each bed.
My island was now peopled, and I thought myself rich in sub-
jects; and it was a merry reflection, which I frequently made, how
like a king I looked. First of all, the whole country was my own mere
property, so that I had an undoubted right of dominion. Secondly,
my people were perfectly subjected: I was absolutely lord and
lawgiver; they all owed their lives to me, and were ready to lay
down their lives, if there had been occasion for it, for me. It was
remarkable, too, I had but three subjects, and they were of three
different religions: my man Friday was a Protestant, his father was
a Pagan and a cannibal, and the Spaniard was a Papist: however,
I allowed liberty of conscience throughout my dominions.—But
this is by the way.
As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued prisoners, and
given them shelter, and a place to rest them upon, I began to think
of making some provision for them; and the first thing I did, I
ordered Frida) to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat,
out of my particular flock, to be killed; when I cut off the hinder
quarter, and chopping it into small pieces, I set Friday to work to
boiling and stewing, and made them a very good dish, I assure yon,
of flesh and broth, having put some barley and rice also into the
broth; and as I cooked it without doors, for I made no fire within
my inner wall, so I carried it all into the new tent, and having set a
table for them, 1 sat down, and ate my dinner also with them, and, as
well as I could, cheered them and encouraged them. Friday was my
interpreter, especially to his father, and, indeed, to the Spaniard
too: for the Spaniard spoke the language of the savages pretty well.
After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to take
one of the canoes, and go and fetch our muskets and other fire-
arms, which, for want of time, we had left upon the place of battle;
and, the next day, I ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies of
the savages, which lay open to the sun, and would presently be
offensive. I also ordered him to bury the horrid remains of tneir
barbarous feast, and which I could not think of doing myself; nay,
1 could not bear to see them, if I went that way; all which he
jiunctually performed, and effaced the very appearance of the savages
being there; so that when I went again, I could scarce know
where it was, otherwise than by the corner of the wood pointing
to the place.
I then began to enter into a little conversation with my two new
subjects; and first, I set Friday to inquire of his father what he
thought of the escape of the savages in that canoe, and whether we
might expect a return of them, with a power too great for us to
resist. His first opinion was that the savages in the boat could
never live out the storm that blew that night they went off, but
must of necessity be drowned, or driven south to those other shores,
where they were as sure to be devoured as they were to be drowned,
if they were cast away: but, as to what they would do if they came
safe on shore, he said he knew not; but it was his opinion, that they
were so dreadfully frightened with the manner of their being
attacked, the noise, and the fire, that he believed they would tell
the people they were all killed by thunder and lightning, not by the
hand of man; and that the two which appeared, viz. Iriday and I,
were two heavenly spirits, or furies, come down to destroy them,
and not men with weapons. This, he said, he knew: because he
heard them all cry out so, in their language, one to another; for it
was impossible for them to conceive that a man could dart fire, and
speak thunder, and kill at a distance, without lifting up the hand, as
was done now: and this old savage was in the rignt; for, as I
understood since, by other hands, the savages never attempted to go
over to the island afterwards, they were so terrified by the accounts
given by those four men (for, it seems, they did escape the sea),
that they believed whoever went to that enchanted Wand would b«
destroyed by fire from the gods. This, however, I knew not; and
therefore was under continual apprehensions for a good while, and
kept always upon my guard, with all my army: for, as there were
now four of us, I would have ventured upon a hundred of them,
fairly in the open field, at any time.
In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing, the fear of
their coming wore off, and I began to take my former thoughts of a
voyage to the main into consideration; being likewise assured by
Friday's father that I might depend upon good usage from their
nation, on his account, if I would go. But my thoughts were a
little suspended when I had a serious discourse with the Spaniard,
and when I understood that there were sixteen more of his country-
men and Portuguese, who, having been cast away, and made their
escape to that side, lived there at peace, indeed, with the savages,
but were very sore put to it for necessaries, and indeed for life. I
asked him all the particulars of their voyage, and found they were a
Spanish ship, bound from the Bio de la Plata, to the Havannah,
being directed to leave their loading there, which was chiefly hides
and silver, and to bring back what European goods they could meet
with there; that they had five Portuguese seamen on board, whom
they took out of anot^r wreck; that five of their own men were
drowned, when first the ship was lost, and that these escaped
through infinite dangers and hazards, and arrived, almost starved, on
the cannibal coast, where they expected to have been devoured
every moment. He told me they had some arms with them, but
they were perfectly useless, for that they had neither powder nor
ball, the washing of the sea having spoiled all their powder, but a
little, which they used at their first landing, to provide themselves
some food.
I asked him what he thought would become of them there, and
if they had formed no design of making their escape. He said they
had many consultations about it; but that having neither vessel,
nor tools to build one, nor provisions of any kind, their councils
always ended in tears and despair. I asked him how he thought
they would receive a proposal from me, which might tend towards an
escape; and whether, if they were all here, it might not be done. I
told him, with freedom, I feared mostly their treachery and ill-usage
of me, if I put my life in their hands, for that gratitude was no in-
herent virtue in the nature of man, nor did men always square their
dealings by the obligations they had received, so much as they did
bv the advantages they expected.
He answered with a great deal of candour and ingenuousness,
that their condition was so miserable, and they were so sensible ot
it, that he believed they would abhor the thought of using any man
unkindly that should contribute to their deliverance; ana that, if I
pleased, ho would go to them with the old man, and discourse with
them about it, and return again, and bring me their answer; that
he would make conditions with them upon their solemn oath, that
they should be absolutely under my leading, as their commander and
captain: and that they should swear, upon the holy sacraments and
gospel, to be true to me, and go to such Christian country as that I
should agree to, and no other, and to be directed wholly and abso-
lutely by my orders, till they were landed safely in such country as
I intended; and that he would bring a contract for them, under
their hands, for that purpose.
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve them, if
possible, and to send the old savage and this Spaniard over to them
to treat. But when we had got all things in readiness to go, the
Spaniard himself started an objection, which had so much prudence
in it, on one hand, and so much sincerity, on the other hand, that I
could not but be very well satisfied in it; and, by his advice, put off
the deliverance of his comrades for at least half a year. The case
was thus: He had been with us now about a month, during which
time I had let him see in what manner I had provided, with the
assistance of Providence, for my support; and he saw evidently
what stock of corn and rice 1 had laid up; which, though it wai
more than sufficient for myself, yet it was not sufficient, without
good husbandry, for my family, now it wac increased to four; but
much less would it be sufficient if his countrymen, who were, as he
said, sixteen, still alive, should come over; and least of all would it
be sufficient to victual our vessel, if we should build one, for a voy-
age to any of the Christian colonies of America; so he told me he
thought it would be more advisable to let him and the other two dig
and cultivate some more land, as much as I could spare seed to sow,
and that we should wait another harvest, that we might have a
supply of corn for his countrymen, when they should come; for
want might be a temptation to them to disagree, or not to think
themselves delivered, otherwise than out of one difficulty into an-
other. "You know," says he, "the children of Israel, though they
rejoiced at first for being delivered out of Egypt, yet rebelled even
against God himself, that delivered them, when they came to want
bread in the wilderness."
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good, that I
could not but be very well pleased with his proposal, as well as I
was satisfied with his fidelity: so we fell to digging, all four of us, as
well as the wooden tools we were furnished with permitted; and in
« month's time, by the end of which it was seed-time, we had got as
'Juch land cured and trimmed up as we sowed two and twenty
bushels of barley on, and sixteen jars of rice; which was, in short,
all the seed we had to spare: nor, indeed, did we leave ourselves
barley sufficient for our own food, for the six months that we had
to expect our crop; that is to say, reckoning from the time we set
our seed aside for sowing; for it is not to be supposed it is six months
in the ground in that country.
14/
At the same time, I contrived to increase my little flock of tame
goats as much as I could; and, for this purpose, I made Friday and
the Spaniard go out one day, and myself with Friday the next day
(for we took ourl turns), and by this means we got about twenty
young kids to breed up with the rest; for whenever we shot the
dam, we saved the kids, and added them to our flock. But, above
all, the season for curing the grapes coming on, I caused such a pro-
digious quantity to be hung up in the sun, that, I believe, had we
been at Alicant, where the raisins of the sun are cured, we could
have filled sixty or eighty barrels: and these, with our bread, was a
great part of our food, and was very good living, too, I assure you,
for it is exceedingly nourishing.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order: it was not the

most plentiful increase I had seen in the island, but, however, it was
enougn to answer our end; for from twenty-two bushels of barley
we brought in and threshed out above two hundred and twenty
bushels, and the like in proportion of the rice; which was store
enough for our food to the nexe harvest, though all the sixteen
Spamards had been on shore with me ; or if we had been ready for a
voyage, it would very plentifully luwe victualled our ship to have
carried us to any part of the world, that is to say, any part of Ame-
rica. When we had thus housed and secured our magazine of corn,
we fell to work to make more wickerware, viz. great baskets, in
which we kept it; and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous
at this part, and often blamed me that I did not make some things
for defence of this kind of work; but I saw no need of it.
And now, having a full supply of food for all the guests I ex-
pected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the main, to see
what he could do with those he had left behind him there. I gave
hitn a strict charge not to bring any man with him who would not
first swear, in the presence of himself and the old savage, that he
would no way injure, fight with, or attack the person he should find
in the island, who was so kind as to send for them in order to their
deliverance; but that they would stand by him, and defend him
against all such attempts, and wherever they went, would be entirely
under and subjected to his command; and that this should be put
in writing, and signed with their hands. How they were to have
done this, when I knew they had neither pen nor ink, was a ques-
tion which we never asked. Under these instructions, the Spaniard
and the old savage, the father of Friday, went away in one of the
canoes which they might be said to come in, or rather were brought

in, when they came as prisoners to be devoured by the savages. I
gave each of them a musket, with a firelock on it, and about eight
charges of powder and ball, charging them to be very good husbands
of both, and not to use either of them but upon urgent occasions.
This was a cheerful work, being the first measures used by me, in
view of my deliverance, for now twenty-seven years and some days.
I gave them provisions of bread, and of dried grapes, sufficient for
themselves for many days, and sufficient for alt the Spaniards for
about eight days' time; aud wishing them a good voyage, I saw
them go; agreeing with them about a signal they should nang out
at their return, bv which I should know them again, when they
came back, at a distance, before they came on shore. They went
away with a fair gale, on the day that the moon was at full, by my
account in the month of October; but as for an exact reckoning of
days, after I had once lost it, I could never recover it again; nor
had I kept even the number of years so punctually as to be sure I
was right; though, as it proved, when 1 afterwards examined my
account, I found I had kept a true reckoning of years,
149
It was no less than eight days I had waited for them, when a
strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the like has not
perhaps been heard of in history. I was fast asleep in my hutch
one morning, when my man Friday came running in to me, and
called aloud, " Master, master, they are come, they are come!" I
jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I went out as soon as I could
get my clothes on, through my little grove, which, by the way, was
by this time grown to a very thick wood; I say, regardless of dan-

pcr, I went without my arms, which it was not my custom to do;
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
saw a boat about a league and a half distance, standing in for the
shore, with a shoulder-of-mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind
blowing fair to bring them in: also I observed presently, that thcy
did not come from that side which the shore lay on, but from the
southernmost end of the island. Upon this, I called Friday in, and
bade him lie close, for these were not the people we looked for, and
that we might not know yet whether they were friends or enemies.
In the next, place, I went in to fetch my perspective glass, to sec
what I could make of them; and having taken the ladder out, I
climbed up to the top of the hill, as I used to do when I was appre-
hensive of anything, and to take my view the plainer without being
discovered. I had scarce set my foot upon the hill, when my eye
plainly discovered a ship lying at anchor, at about two leagues and a
half distance from me, S.S.E., but not above a league and a half
from the shore. By my observation, it appeared plainly to be an
English ship, and the boat appeared to be an English long-boat.
I cannot express the confusion I was in; chough the joy of
seeing a ship, and one that I had reason to believe was manned
by my own countrymen, and, consequently, friends, was such as I
cannot describe ; but yet I had some secret doubts hang about me—
I cannot tell from whence they came, bidding me keep upon my
guard. In the first place, it occurred to me to consider what busi-
ness an English ship could have in that part of the world, since it
was not the way to or from any part of the world where the English
had any traffic; and I knew there had been no storms to drive them
in there, as in distress; and that if they were really English, it was
most probable that they were here upon no good design; and that I
had better continue as I was, than fall into the hands of thieves and
murderers.
I had not kept myself .ong in tnis posture, but I saw the boat
draw near the shore, as if they looked for a creek to thrust in at,
for the convenience of landing; however, as they did not come
quite far enough, they did not see the little inlet where I formerly
landed my rafts, but run their boat on shore upon the beach, at
about half a mile from me, which was very happy for me; for other-
wise they would have landed just at my door, as I may say, and
would soon have beaten me out of my castle, and perhaps have plun-
dered me of all I had. When they were on shore, I was fully satis-
fied they were Englishmen, at least most of them; one or two I
thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so; there were in all
eleven men, whereof three I found were unarmed, and, as I thought,
bound; and when the first four or five of them were jumped on
shore, they took those three out of the boat, as prisoners; one of
the three I could perceive using the most passionate gestures of
entreaty, affliction, and despair, even to a kind of extravagance; the
other two, 1 could perceive, lifted np their hands sometimes, and
appeared concerned, indeed, but not to such a degree as the first.
I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not what the
meaning of it should be. Friday called out to me in English, as
well as ne could, "0 master! you see English rcans cat prisoner as
well as savage mans."—" Why, Friday," says I, " do you think they
are going to eat them then ?"—" Yes," says Friday, "thev will eat
them." "No, no," says T, "Friday; I am afraid they will murder
them, indeed, but you ma} be sure they will not eat them."
151
All this while I had no thought of what the matter really was,
but stood trembling with the horror of the sight, expecting every
moment when the three prisoners should be killed; nay, once I saw
one of the villains lift up his arm with a great cutlass, as the seamen
call it, or sword, to strike one of the poor men; and I expected to
see him fall every moment; at which all the blood in my body
seemed to run chill in my veins. I wished heartily now for my
Spaniard, and the savage that was gone with him, or that I had any
way to have come undiscovered within shot of them, that I might
have rescued the three men, for I saw no fire-arms they had among
them: but it fell out to my mind another way. After I had observed
the outrageous usage of the three men by the insolent seamen, I
observed the fellows run scattering about the island, as if they
wanted to see the country. I observed that the three other men

had liberty to go also where they pleased; but they sat down all
three upon the ground, very pensive, and looked like men in despair.
This put me in mind of the first time when I came on shore, anp
began to look about me: how I gave myself over for lost; how
wildlv I looked around me; what dreadful apprehensions I had; and
how I lodged in the tree all night, for fear of being devoured by wild
beasts. As I knew nothing that night of the supply I was to re-
ceive by the providential driving of the ship nearer the laud by the
storms and tide, by which I have been so long nourished and sup-
ported; so these three poor desolate men knew nothing how certain .
of deliverance and supply they were. So little do we see before us
in the world, and so much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon
the great Maker of the world, that He does not leave His creatures
so absolutely destitute, but that, in the worst circumstances, they
have always something to be thankful for, and sometimes are nearer
their deliverance than they imagine; nay, are even brought to their
deliverance by the means bv which they seem to be brought to their
destruction.
SECTION XXVI.
ROBINSON DISCOVERS HIMSELF TO THE ENGLISH CAFTAIN—ASSISTS
HIM IN SEDUCING HIS MUTINOUS CREW—WHO SUBMIT TO HIM.
It was just at the top of high water when these people came on
shore; and partly while they rambled about to see what kind of a
place they were in, they had carelessly stayed till the tide was spent,
and the water was ebbed considerably away, leaving their boat
aground. They had left two men in the boat, who, as I found after-
wards, having drunk a little too much brandy, fell asleep; however,
one of them waking a little sooner than the other, and finding the
boat too fast aground for him to stir it, hallooed out for the rest,
who were straggling about; upon which they all soon came to the
boat: but it was past all their strength to launch her, the boat being
very heavy, and the shore on that side being a soft oozy sand, almost
like a quicksand. In this condition, like true seamen, who are
perhaps the least of all mankind given to forethought, they gave it
over, and away they strolled about the country again; and I heard
one of them say aloud to another, calling them off from the boat,
"Why, let her alone, Jack, can't you? she'll float next tide:" by
which I was fully confirmed in the main inquiry of what country-
men they were. All this while I kept myself very close, not once
daring to stir out of my castle, any farther than to my place of
observation, near the top of the hill; and very glad I was to think
how well it was fortified. I knew it was no less than ten hours
before the boat could float agnin, and by that time it would be dark,
Mid I might be at more liberty to see their motions, and to hear
their discourse, if they had any. In the meantime, I fitted myself
up for a battle, as before, though with more caution, knowing I
had to do with another kind of enemy than I had at first. I ordered
Friday also, whom I had made an excellent marksman with his gun,
to load himself with arms. I took myself two fowling-pieces, and
I gave him three muskets. My figure, indeed, was very fierce; I
had my formidable goats' skin coat on, with the great cap I have
mentioned, a naked sword by my side, two pistols in my belt, and a
gun upon each shoulder.
It was my design, as I said above, not to have made any attempt
till it was dark: but about two o'clock, being the heat of the day,
I found that, in short, they were all gone straggling into the woods,
and as I thought, laid down to sleep. The three poor distressed
men, too anxious for their condition to get any sleep, were, however,
sat down under the shelter of a great tree, at about a quarter of a
mile from me, and, as I thought, out of sight of any of the rest.
Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them, and learn some-
thing of IJieir condition; immediately I marched in the figure aa
above, my man Friday at a good distance behind me, as formidable
for his arms as I, but not making quite so staring a spectre-like
figure as I did. I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and
then, before any of them saw me, I called aloud to them in Spanish,
"What are ye, gentlemen?" They started at the noise; hut were
ten times more confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth
figure that I made. They made no answer at all, but I thought I
perceived them just going to fly from me, when I spoke to them in
English: "Gentlemen," said I, "do not be surprised at me; per-
haps you may have a friend near, when you did not expect it."
"lie must he sent directly from Heaven then," said one of them
very gravely to me, and pulling off his hat at the same time to me;
"for our condition is past the help of man."—" All help is from
Heaven, sir," said I: "But can you put a stranger in the way how
to help you? for you s em to be in some great distress. I saw yon
when you landed; and when you seemed to make supplication to
the brutes that came with you, I saw one of them lift up his sword
to kill you."
The poor man, with tears running down his face, and trembling,
lookine like one astonished, returned, "Is it a real man or an
angelP*—"Be in no fear about that, sir," said I; "if God had sent
an angel to relieve you, he would have come better clothed, and
armed after another manner than you see me: pray lay aside your
fears; I am a man, an Englishman, and disposed to assist you: you
see I have one servant only; we have arms and ammunition; tell
us freely, can we serve you? What is your case ?"—" Our case,"
said he, "sir, is too long to tell you, while our murderers are so
near us; but, in short, sir, I was commander of that ship, my men
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
have mutinied against me ; they have been hardly prevailed on not to
murder me; and at last have set me on shore in this desolate place,
with these two men with me, one my mate, the other a passenger,
where we expected to perish, believing the place to be uninhabited,
and know not yet what to think of it."—"Where are these brutes,
your enemies?" said I: "Do you know where they are goneP "—
"There they lie, sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of trees; "my
heart trembles for fear they have seen us, and heard you speak; if
they have, they will certainly murder us all."—"Have they any
fire-arms?" said I. He answered, "They had only two pieces, one
of which they left in the boat."—"Well then," said I, "leave the
rest to me; I see they are all asleep, it is an easy thing to kill them
all: but shall we rather take them prisoners?" He told me there
were two desperate villains among them, that it was scarce safe to

show any mercy to; but if they were secured, he believed all the
rest would return to their duty. I asked him which they were?
He told me he could not at that distance distinguish them, but he
would obey my orders in anything I would direct. "Well," says I,
"let us retreat out of their view or hearing, lest they awake, and
we will resolve further." So they willingly went back with me, till
the woods covered us from them.
"Look you, sir," said I, "if I venture upon your deliverance,
are you willing to make two conditions with me?" He anticipated
my proposals, dv telling me, that both he and the ship, if recovered,
should be wholly directed and commanded by me in every thing;
and, if the ship was not recovered, he would live and die with me
in what part of the world soever I would send him; and the two
other men said the same. "Well," says I, "my conditions are but
two: first, That while you stay in this island with me, you will not
pretend to any authority here; and if I put arms in your hands,
you will, upon all occasion, give them up to me, and do no prejudice
to me or mine upon this island; and, in the mean time, be governed
by my orders: secondly, That if the ship is, or may be recovered,
you will carry me and my man to England, passage free."
He gave me all the assurances that the invention or faith of man
could devise, that he would comply with these most reasonable
demands; and, besides, would owe his life to me, and acknowledge
it upon all occasions, as long as he lived. "Well then," said I,
"here are three muskets for you, with powder and ball: tell me
next what you think is proper to be done." He showed me all the
testimonies of his gratitude that he was able, but offered to be
wholly guided by me. I told him I thought it was hard venturing
anything; but the best method I could think of was to fire upon
them at once, as they lay, and if any was not killed at the first
volley, and offered to submit, we might save them, and so put it
wholly upon God's providence to direct the shot." He said very
modestly, "that he was loth to kill them, if he could help it: but
that those two were incorrigible villains, and had been the authors
of all the mutiny in the ship, and if they escaped, we should be
undone still; for they would go on board and bring the whole ship's
company and destroy us all. "Well then," says I, "necessity
legitimates my advice, for it is the only way to save our lives.
However, seeing him still cautious of shedding blood, I told him
they should go themselves and manage as they found convenient."
In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them awake,
and soon after we saw two of them on their feet. I asked him "if
either of them were the heads of the mutiny?" He said "no."
"Well then," said I, "you may let them escape; and Providence
seems to have awakened them on purpose to save themselves.
Now," says I, "if the rest escape you, it is your fault." Animated
with this, he took the musket I had given him in his hand, and a
pistol in his belt, and his two comrades with him, with each a piece
m his hand; the two men who were with him going first, made
some noise, at which one of the seamen who was awake turned
about, and seeing them coming, cried out to the rest; but it
was too late then, for the moment he cried out they fired; 1 mean
the two men, the captain wisely reserving his own piece. They had
so well aimed their shot at the men they knew, that one of them
was killed on the spot, and the other very much wounded; but not
being dead, he started up on his feet, and called eagerly for help to
the others; but the captain stepping to him, told him it was too
late to cry for help, he should call upon God to forgive his villany;
and with that word knocked him down with the stock of his musket,
so that he never suolfc more; but there were three more in the
company, and one of them was also slightly wounded. By this time
I was come; and when they saw their danger, and that it was in
vain to resist, they begged for mercy. The captain told them he
would spare their lives, if they would give him any assurance of
their abhorrence of the treachery they had been guilty of, and would
swear to be faithful to him in recovering the ship, and afterwards
in carrying her back to Jamaica, from whence they came. They
gave him all the protestations of their sincerity that could be
desired, and he was willing to believe them, and spare their lives,
which I was not against, only that I obliged him to keep them
bound hand and foot while they were on the»island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's mate to
the boat, with orders to secure her and bring away the oars and
sails, which they did: and by and by three straggling men, that
were (happily for them) parted from the rest, came back upon
hearing the guns fired, and seeing the captain, who before was their
prisoner, now their conqueror, they submitted to be bound also;
and so our victory was complete.
It now remained that the captain and I should inquire into one
another's circumstances; I began first, and told him my whole his-
tory, which he heard with an attention even to amazement; and
particularly at the wonderful manner of my being furnished with
provisions and ammunition; and, indeed, as my story is a whole
collection of wonders, it affected him deeply. But when he reflected
from thence upon himself, and how I seemed to have been preserved
there on purpose to save his life, the tears ran down his face, and
he could not speak a word more.' After this communication was at
an end, I carried him and his two men into my apartment, leading
them in just where I came out, viz. at the top of the house, where I
refreshed them with such provisions as I had, and showed them all
the contrivances I had made, during my long, long inhabiting of
that place.
All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly amazing; but
above all, the captain admired my fortification, and how perfectly I
had concealed my retreat with a grove of trees, which, having been
now planted near twenty years, and tfie trees growing much faster
than in England, was become a little wood, and so thick, that it was
impassable m any part of it, but at that one side where I had reserved
my little winding passage into it. I told him this was my castle and
my residence, but that I had a seat in the country, as most princes
have, whither I could retreat upon occasion, and I would show him
that too another time; but at present our business was to consider
how to recover the ship. He agreed with me as to that; but told
me he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take, for that there
were still six-and-twenty hands on board, who having entered into a
cursed conspiracy, by which they had all forfeited their lives to the
law, would be hardened in it now by desperation, and would carry it
on, knowing that, if they were subdued, they would be brought to the
gallows, as soon as they came to England, or to any of the English
colonies; and that, therefore, there would be no attacking them with
80 small a number as we were.
I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found it was a
very rational conclusion, and that, therefore, something was to be
resolved on speedily, as well to draw the men on board into some
snare for their surprise, as to prevent their landing upon us, and
destroying us. Upon this it presently occurred to me, that in a
little while the ship's crew, wondering what had become of their
comrades, and of the boat, would certainly come on shore in their
other boat, to look for them: and that then, perhaps, they might
come armed, and be too strong for us; this he allowed to be rational.
Upon this, I told him the first thing we had to do was to stave the
boat, which lay upon the beach, so that they might not carry her
off; and taking everything out of her, leave her so far useless as not
to be fit to swim; accordingly we went on board, took the arms
which were left onboard out or her, and whatever eise we found there.
Then we knocked a great hole in her bottom, that if they had
come strong enough to master us, yet they could not carry off the
boat.
While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first, by main
strength, heaved the boat upon the beach so high, that the tide would
not float her off at high-water mark, and besides, had broke a hole
in her bottom too big to be quickly stopped, and were musing what
we should do, we heard the ship fire a gun, and saw her make a waft
with her ensign as a signal for the boat to come on board; but no
boat stirred; and they fired several times, making other signals for
the boat. At last when all their signals and firing proved fruitless,
and they found the boat did not stir, we saw them, by the help of
my glasses, hoist another boat out, and row towards the shore; and
we found, as they approached, that there were no less then ten men
in her, and that they had fire-arms with them.
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we had a full
view of them as they came, and a plain sight even of their faces;
because the tide having set them a little to the east of the other
boat, they rowed up under shore, to come to the same place where
the other had landed, and where the boat lay; by this means, I say,
we had a full view of them, and the captain knew the persons and
characters of all the men in the boat, of whom he said there were
three very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led into this con-
spiracy by the rest, being overpowered and frightened; but that as
for the boatswain, who, it seems, was the chief officer among them,
and all the rest, they were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew,
and were no doubt made desperate in their new enterprrse; and
terribly apprehensive he was that they would be too powerful for us.
I smiled at him, and told him that men in our circumstances were
past the operation of fear; that seeing almost every condition that
could be was better than that which we were supposed to be in, ve
ought to expect that the consequence, whether death or life, would
be sure to be a deliverance.
We had, upon the first appearance of the boat's coming from the
ship, considered of separating out prisoners; and we had, indeed,
secured them effectually. Two of them, of whom the captain was
less assured than ordinary, I sent with Friday, and one of the three
delivered men, to my cave, were they where remote enough,
and out of danger of being heard or discovered, or of finding their
way out of the woods if they could have delivered themselves: here
they left them bound, but gave them provisions; and promised them
if they continued there quietly, to give them their liberty in a day
or two; but that if they attempted their escape, they should be put
to death without mercy. They promised faithfully to bear their con-
finement with patience, and were very thankful that they had such
good usage as to have provisions and light left them; for Friday
gave them candles (such as we made ourselves) for their comfort;
and they did not know but that he stood sentinel over them at the
entrance.
The other prisoners had better usage; two of them were kept
pinioned, indeed, because the captain was not free to trust them:
but the other two were taken into my service, upon the captain's
recommendation, and upon their solemnly engaging to live and die
with us; so with them and the three honest men, we were seven men
well armed; and I made no doubt we should be able to deal well
enough with the ten that were coming, considering that the captain
had said that there were three or four honest men among them also.
As soon as they got to the place where their other boat lay, they ran
their boat into the beach, and came on shore, hauling the boat up
after them, which I was glad to see; for I was afraid they would
rather have left the boat at an anchor, some distance from the shore,
with some hands in her to guard her, and so we should not be able
to seize the boat. Bcinf on shore, the first thing they did, they
ran all to their other boat; and it was easy to see tliey were under
a great surprise to find her stripped, as above, of all that was in her,
and a great hole in her Dottom. After they had mused awhile upon
this, they set up two or three great shouts, hallooing with all their
might, to try if they could make their companions hear, but all wss
to no purpose; then they came all close in a ring, and fired a volley
of their small arms, which, indeed, we heard, and the echoes made
the woods ring; but it was all one; those in the cave we were sure
could not hear; and those in our keeping, though they heard it weli
enough, yet durst give no answer to them. They were so astonished
at the surprise of this, that, as they told us afterwards, they resolved
to go all on board again to their ship, and let them know that the
men were all murdered, and the long-boat staved; acccordingly,
they immediately launched their boat again and got all of them on
board.
The captain was terribly amazed and even confounded at this,
believing they would go on board the ship again, and set sail, giving
their comrades over for lost, and so he should still lose the ship,
which he was in hopes we should have recovered; but he was
quickly as much frightened the other way.
They had not been long put off with the boat, but we perceived
them all coming on shore again; but with this new measure in their
conduct, which it seems they consulted together upon, viz. to leave
three men in the boat, and the rest to go on shore, and go up into
the country to look for their fellows. This was a great disappoint-
ment to us, for now we were at a loss what to do; as our seizing
those seven men on shore would be no advantage to us, if we let the
boat escape; because they would then row away to the ship, and

then the rest of them would be sure to weigh and set sail, and so our
recovering the ship would be lost. However we had no remedy but
to wait and see what the issue of things might present. The seven
men came on shore, and the three who remained in the boat put her
off to a good distance from the shore, and came to an anchor to wait
for them; so that it was impossible for us to come at them in the
boat. Those who came on shore kept close together, marching
towards the top of the little hill under which my habitation lay; and
we could see them plainly, though they could not perceive us. We
could have been very glad if they would have come nearer to us, so
that we might have fired at them, or that they would have gone
farther off, that we might have come abroad. But when they were
come to the brow of the hill, where they could see a great way into
the valleys and woods, which lay towards the north-east part, and
where the island lay lowest, they shouted and hallooed till they were
weary; and not caring, it seems, to venture far from the shore, nor
far from one another, they sat down together under a tree, to con-
sider of it. Had they thought fit to have gone to sleep there, as the
other part of them had done, they had done the job for us; but they
were too full of apprehensions of danger to venture to go to sleep
though they could not tell what the danger was they had to fear.
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this consultation
of theirs, viz. that perhaps they would all fire a volley again, to en-
deavour to make their fellows hear, and that we should all sally upon
them, just at the juncture when their pieces were all discharged, and
they would certainly yield, and we should have them without blood-
shed, I liked this proposal, provided it was done while we were near
enough to come up to them before they could load their pieces again.
But this even did not happen; and we lay still a long time, very
irresolute what course to take. At length I told them there would
be nothing done, in my opinion, till night; and then, if they did not
return to the boat, perhaps we might find a way to get between them
and the shore, and so might use some stratagem with them in the
boat to get them on shore. We waited a great while, though very
impatient for their removing; and were very uneasy, when, after long
consultations, we saw them all start up, and march down towards the
sea: it seems they had such dreadful apprehensions upon them of the
danger of the place, that they resolved to go on board the ship again,
give their companions over for lost, and so go on with their intended
voyage with the ship.
As soon as I perceived them to go towards the shore, I imagined
it to be, as it really was, that they had given over their search, and
were for going back again; and the captain, as soon as I told him
my thoughts, was ready to sink at the apprehensions of it: but I
presently thought of a stratagem to fetch them back again, and
which answered my end to a tittle. I ordered Friday and the cap-
tain's mate to go over the little creek westward, towards the place
where the savages came on shore when Friday was rescued, and as
soon as they came to a little rising ground, at about half a mile dis-
tance, I bade them halloo out, as loud as they could, and wait till
they found the seamen heard them; that as soon as ever they heard
the seamen answer them, they should return it again; and then keep-
ing out of sight, take a round, always answering when the others
hallooed, to draw them as far into the island, and among the woods,
as possible, and then wheel about again to me, by such ways as I
directed them.
They were just going into the boat when Friday and the mate
hallooed: and they presently heard them, and answering, run along
the shore westward, towards the voice they heard, when they were
presently stopped by the creek, where the water being up, they could
not get over, and called for the boat to come up and set them over;
161
is, indeed, I expected. When they had set themselves over, I
observed that the boat being gone a good way into the creek, and, as
it were, in a harbour within the land, they took one of the three men
»ut of her, to go along with them, and left only two in the boat,
having fastened ner to the stump of a little tree on the shore. This
was what I wished for; and immediately leaving Friday and the cap-
tain's mate to their business, I took the rest with me, and crossing
the creek out of their sight, we surprised the two men before they
were aware; one of them lying on the shore, and the other being in
the boat. The fellow on shore was between sleeping and waking,
and going to start up; the captain, who was foremost, ran in upon
him, and Knocked him down; and then called out to him in the boat
to yield, or he was a dead man. There needed very few arguments
to persuade a single man to yield, when he saw five men upon him,
and his comrade knocked down; besides, this was, it seems, one of
the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as the rest of the
crew, and thereforo was easily persuaded not only to yield, but after-
wards to join very sincerely with us. In the mean time, Friday and
the captain's mate so well managed their business with the rest, that
they drew them, by hallooing and answering, from one hill to another,
and'from one wood to another, till they not only heartily tired them,
but left them where they were very sure they could not reach back to
the boat before it was dark; and, indeed, they were heartily tired
themselves also, by the time they came back to us.
We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in the dark and
to fall upon them, so as to moke sure work with them. It was
several hours after Friday came back to me before they came back
to their boat; and we could hear the foremost of them, long before
they came quite up, calling to those behind to come along; and could
also hear them answer, and complain how lame and tired they were,
and not able to come any faster, which was very weleome news to
us. At length they came up to the boat; but it is impossible to
express their confusion when they found the boat fast aground in the
creek, the tide ebbed out, and their two men gone. I resolved to
wait, to see if they did not separate; and, therefore, to make sure of
them, I drew my ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday and the cap-
tain to creep upon their hands and feet, as close to the ground as
they could, that they might not be discovered, and get as near them
as they could possibly, before they offered to fire.
They had not been long in that posture, when the boatswain, who
was the principal ringleader of the mutiny, and had now shown him-
self the most dejected and dispirited of all, came walking towards
them, with two more of the crew; the captain was so eager at having
this principal rogue so mucn in his power, that he could hardly have
patience to let him come so near as to be sure of him, for they only
heard his tongue before: but when they came nearer, the captain and
Friday, starting up on their feet, let fly at them. The boatswain was
ABVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
killed upon the spot; the next man was shot in the body, and fell
just by him, though he did not die till an hour or two after; and the
third ran for it. At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced
with my whole army, which was now eight men, viz. myself, general-
issimo; Friday, my lieutenant-general; the captain and his two men,
and the three prisoners of war, whom we had trusted with arms.
We came upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that they could not see
our number; and I made the man they had left in the boat, who was
now one of us, to call them by name, to try if I could bring them to
a parley, and so might rr' 'laps reduce them to terms ; which fell out
just as we desired; for, indeed, it was easy to think, as their condi-
tion then was, they would be willing tc Tapitulate. So he calls out
as loud as he could, to one of them, "Tom Smith! Tom Smith!"
Tom Smith answered immediately, "Is that Robinson?" For it
seems, he knew the voice. The other answered, "Ay, ay; for God's
sake, Tom Smith, throw down your arms and yield, or you are all
dead men this moment."—" Who must we yield to ? Where are they?"
gays Smith again. "Here they are," says he; "here's our captain
and fifty men with him, have been hunting yon these two hours: the
boatswain is killed, Will Fry is wounded, and I am a prisoner; and
if you do not yield, you are all lost."—" Will they give us quarter
then ?" says Tom Smith, "and we will yield."—" 1 will go and ask,
if you promise to yield," says Robinson: so he asked trie captain;
and the captain himself then calls out, "You, Smith, you know my
voice; if you lay down your arms immediately, and submit, you shall
have your lives, all but Will Atkins."

SECTION XXVII.
ATKINS ENTREATS THE CAFTAIN TO SFARE HIS LITE—THE LATTER
RECOVERS HIS VESSEL FROM THE MUTINEERS—AND ROBINSON
LEAVES THE ISLAND.
Upon this Will Atkins cries out, "Tor God's sake, captain, give me
quarter; what have I done? They have all been as bad as I:"
which, by the way, was not true; for it seems, this Will Atkins was
the first man that laid hold of the captain when they mutinied,
and used him barbarously, in tying his hands, and giving him inju-
rious language. However, the captain told him he must lay down
his arms at discretion, and trust to the governor's mercy; by which
he meant me, for they all called me governor. In a word they all
laid down their arms, and begged their lives; and I sent the man
that had parleyed with them, and two more, who bound them all;
and then my great army of fifty men, which particularly with those
three, were in all but eight, came up and seized upon them, and upon
their boat; only that I kept myself and one more out of sight for
reasons of state.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of seizing the
ship: and as for the captain, now he had leisure to parley with them,
he expostulated with them upon the villany of their practices with
him, and at length upon the further wickedness of then* design, and
how certainly it must bring them to misery and distress in the end,
and perhaps to the gallows. They all appeared very penitent and
begged hard for their lives. As for that he told them that they
were none of his prisoners, but the commander's of the island; that
they thought they had set him on shore on a barren, uninhabited
island; but it had pleased God so to direct them, that it was inhabit-
ed, and that the goyernor was an Englishman; that he might hang
them all there, if he pleased; but as he had giveu them alf quarter,
he supposed he would send them all to England, to be dealt with
there as justice required, except Atkins, whom he was commanded
by the governor to advise to prepare for death, for that he would be
hung in the morning.
Though all this was but a fiction of his own, yet it had the desired
effect: Atkins fell upon his knees, to be" the captain to intercede
with the governor for his life; and all the rest begged of him, foi
God's sake, that they might not be sent to England.

It now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance was come,
and that it would be a most easy thing to bring these fellows in to
be hearty in getting possession of the ship; so I retired in the dark
from them, that they might not see what kind of a governor they
had, and called the captain to me: when I called, as at a good
distance, one of the men was ordered to speak again, and say to the
captain, *' Captain, the commander calls for you;" and presently the
captain replied, "Tell his excellency I am just a-coming." This more
perfectly deceived them, and they all believed that the commander
was just by with his fifty men. Upon the captain's coming to me, I
told him my project for seizing the ship, which he liked wonderfully
well, and resolved to put it into execution the next morning. But,
in order to execute it with more heart, and to be secure of success,
I told him we must divide the prisoners, and then he should go and
take Atkins and two more of the worst of them, and send them
pinioned to the cave where the others lay. This was committed to
Friday and the two men who came on shore with the captain. They
were conveyed to the cave as to a prison: and it was indeed a dis-
mal place, especially to men in their condition. The ethers 1
ordered to my bower, as I called it, of which I have given a full
description: and as it was fenced in and they pinioned, the place
was secure enough, considering they were upon their behaviour.
To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was to enter into
a parley with them; in a word, to try them, and tell me whether Le
thought they might be trusted or no to go on board and surprise the
ship. He talked to them of the injury done him, of the condition
they were brought to, and that though the governor had given them
quarter for their lives as to the present action, yet that if they were
sent to England, they would all be hanged .in chains, to be sure: but
that if they would join in so just an attempt as to recover the ship,
he would have the governor's engagement for their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be ac-
cepted by men in their condition; they fell down on their knees to
the captain, and promised, with the deepest imprecations, that they
would be faithful to him to the last drop, and that they should owe
their lives to him, and would go with him all over the world: that
they would own him as a father as long as they lived. "Well," says
the captain, " I must go and tell the governor what you say, and see
what I can do to bring him to consent to it." So he brought me an
account of the temper he had found them in, and that he verily be-
lieved they would be faithful. However, that we might be very
secure, I told him he should go back again and choose out those five,
and tell them that they might see he did not want men, that he
would take out those five to be his assistants, and that the governor
would keep the other two, and the three that were sent prisoners to
the castle (my cave) as hostages for the fidelity of those five; and
that if they proved unfaithful in execution, the five hostages should
be hanged in chains alive on the shore. This looked severe, and
convinced them that the governor was in earnest: however, they
had no way left them but to accept it; and it was n6w the business
of the prisoners, as much as of the captain, to persuade the other
five to do their duty.
Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition: first the
captain, his mate, and passenger; second, the two prisoners of the
first gang, to whom, having their character from the captain, I had
given their liberty, and trusted them with arms: third, the other two
that I had kept till now in my bower, pinioned, but, on the captain's
motion, had now released; fourth, these five released at last; so that
i^ese were twelve in all, besides five we kept prisoners in the cav
for hostages.
When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with the cap-
tain, who told them I was the person the governor had ordered to
look after them ; and that it was the governor's pleasure they should
not stir any where but by my direction; that if they did, they would
be fetched into the castle and laid in irons: so that as we never
suffered them to see me as the governor, I now appeared as another
person, and spoke of the governor, the garrison, the castle, and the
like, upon all occasions.
The captain now had no difficulty before him, but to furnish his
two boats, stop the breach of one, and man them. He made his
passenger captain of one, 'with four of the men; and himself, his
mate, and five more, went in the other; and they contrived their
business very well, for they came up to the ship about midnight.
As soon as they came within call of the ship, he made Robinson nail
them, and tell them they had brought off the men and the boat, but
that it was a long time before they had found them, and the like,
holding them in a chat till they came to the ship's side; when the
captain and the mate entering first with their arms, immediately

knocked down the second mate and carpenter with the but end of
their muskets, being very faithfully seconded by their men; they se-
cured all the rest that were upon the main and quarter decks, and
began to fasten the hatches, to keep them down that were below;
when the other boat and their men entering at the fore-chains,
secured the forecastle of the ship, and the scuttle which went down
into the cook-room, making three men they found there prisoners.
When this was done, and all safe upon deck, the captain ordered the
mate, with three men, to break into the round-house, where the new
rebel captain lay, who having taken the alarm, had got up, and with
two men and a boy had got fire arms in their hands; and when the
mate, with a crow, split open the door, the new captain and his men
fired boldly among them, and wounded the mate with a musket ball,
which broke his arm, and wounded two more of the men, but killed
nobody. The mate calling for help, rushed, however, into the round-
house, wounded as he was, and with his pistol shot the new captain
through the head, upon which the rest yielded, and the ship was
taken effectually, without any more lives lost.
As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered seven
guna to be fired, which was the signal agreed upon with me to give
me notice of his success, which you may be sure I was very glad to
hear, having sat watching upon the shore for it till near two o'clock
in the morning. Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid ma
down; and it naving been a day of great fatigue to me, I slept very
sound, till I was something surprised with the noise of a gun; and
presently starting up, I heard a man call me by tne name of " Governor,
Governor," and presently I knew the captain's voice; w'aen climbing
up to the top of the hill, there he stood, and pointing to the ship, he
embraced me in his arms. "My dear friend and deliverer," says he,
"there's your ship, for she is all yours, and so are we, and all that
belong to her." I cast my eyes to the ship, and there she rode
within little more than half a mile of the shore; for they had weigh-
ed her anchor as soon as they were masters of her, and the weather
being lair, had brought her to an anchor just against the mouth of
the little creek; and the tide being up, the captain had brought the
Cnace in near the place where I at first landed my rafts, and so
ded just at my door. I was at first ready to sink down with the
surprise; for I saw my deliverance, indeed, visibly put into my hands,
all things easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me away whither
I pleased to go. At first, for some time, I was not able to answer
him one word; but as he had taken me in his arms, I held fast by
him, or I should have fallen to the ground. I embraced him as my
deliverer, and we rejoiced together.
When we had talked a while, the captain told me he had brought
me some little refreshment, such as the ship afforded, and such as
the wretches that had been so long his masters had not plundered
him of. Upon this he called aloud to the boat, and bade his men
bring the things ashore that were for the governor; and, indeed, it
was a present as if I had been one that was not to be carried away
with them, but as if I had been to dwell upon the island still. First,
he had brought me a case of bottles full of excellent cordial waters,
six large bottles of Madeira wine (the bottles held two quarts each),
two pounds of excellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the
ship's beef, and six pieces of pork, with a bag of peas, and about a
hundred weight of biscuits: he also brought me a box of sugar, a
box of flour, a bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime juice, and
abundance of other things. But, besides these, and what was a
thousand times more useful to me, he brought me six new clean
shirts, six very good neckcloths, two pair of gloves, one pair of shoes,
a hat, and one pair of stockings, with a very good suit of clothes of
his own, which had been worn but very little; in a word, he clothed
me from head to foot. It was a very kind and agreeable present, as
any one may imagine, to one in my circumstances; but never was
any thing in the world of that kind so unpleasant, awkward, and un-
easy, as it was to me to wear such clothes at first.
After these ceremonies were past, and after all his good things
were brought into my Utile apartment, we began to consult what
was to be done with the prisoners we had; for it was worth
considering whether we might venture to take them away with
us or no, especially two of them, whom we knew to be incorrigible
and refractory to the last degree : and the captain said he knew they
were such rogues, that there was no obliging them; and if he did
carry them away, it must be in irons, as malefactors, to be delivered
over to justice at the first English colony he could come at; and I
found that the captain himself was very anxious about it. Upon
this I told him, that if he desired it, I would undertake to bring the
two men he spoke of to make it their own request that he should

leave them upon the island. "I should be very glad of that," says
the captain, "with all mv heart." "Well," says I, "Iwill send for
them up, and talk with them for you." So I caused Friday and the
two hostages, for they were now discharged, their comrades havhi"
performed their promise: I say, 1 caused them to go to the cave and
bring up the five men, pinioned as they were, to the bower, and keep
them there till I came. After some time, I came thither dressed in
my new habit; and now I was called the governor again. Being all
met, and the captain with mo, I caused the men to be brought before
me, and I told them I had got a full account of their villanous
behaviour to their captain, and how they had rur away with the ship,
and were preparing to commit farther robberies, but that Providence
had ensnared them in their own ways, and that they were fallen into
the pit which they had dug for others. I let them know that by my
direction the ship had been seized; that she lay now in the road:
and they might see by and bv, that their new captain had received
the reward of his villany, and that they would see him hanging at
the yard-arm: that as to them, I wanted to know what they liad to
say wny 1 should not execute them as pirates, taken in ttie lact, as
by my commission they could not doubt but I had authority so to do.
One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they had
nothing to say but this, that when they were taken, the captain
promised them their lives, and they humbly implored my mercy/
But I told them I knew not what mercy to show them; for as for
myself, I had resolved to quit the island with all my men, and had
taken a passage with the captain to go to England; and as for the
captain, he could not carry them to England other than as prisoners,
in irons, to be tried for mutiny, and running away with the ship: the
consequence of which, they must needs know, would be the gallows;
so that I could not tell what was best for them, unless they had a
mind to take their fate in the bland; if they desired that, as I had
liberty to leave the island, I had some inclination to give them their
lives, if they thought they could shift on shore. They seemed very
thankful for it, and said they would much rather venture to stay there
than be carried to England to be hanged; so I left it on that issue.
When they had all declared their willingness to stay, I then told
them I would let them into the story of my living there, and put
them into the way of making it easy to them: accordingly, I gave
them the whole history of the place, and of my coming to it; showed
them my fortifications, the way I made my bread, planted my corn,
cured my grapes; and, in a word, all that was necessary to make
them easy. I told them the story also of the seventeen Spaniards
that were to be expected, for whom I left a letter, and made them
promise to treat them in common with themselves. Here it may be
noted, that the captain had ink on board, who was greatly surprised
that 1 never hit upon a way of making ink of charcoal and water, or
of something else, as I had done things much more difficult.
However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty of it, as if
he durst not leave them there. Upon this I seemed a little angry
with the captain, and told him that they were my prisoners, not his;
and seeing that I had offered them so much favour, I would be as
food as my word: and that if he did not think fit to consent to it,
would set them at liberty, as I found them; and if he did not like
it he might take them again, if he could catch them. Upon this
they appeared vei-y thankful, and I accordingly set them at liberty,
and bade them retire into the woods to the place whence they came,
and I would leave them some fire-arms, some ammunition, and some
directions how they should live very well, if they thought fit. Upon
this I prepared to go on board the ship; but told the captain I would
stay that night to prepare my tiiings, and desired him to go on board,
in the mean time, and keep all right in the ship, and send the boat
on shore next day for me; ordering him, at all events, to cause the
new captain, who was killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that
tnese men might see him.
I left them my fire-arms, viz. five muskets, three fowling-pieces.
and three swords. I had above a barrel and a half of powder left;
for after the first year or two I used but little, and wasted none. I
gave them a description of the waj I managed the goats, and
directions to milk and fatten them, and to make both butter and
cheese: in a word, I gave them every part of my own story, and
told them I should prevail with the captain to leave them two
barrels of gunpowder more, and some garden seeds, which I told
them I would have been very glad of: also I gave them the bag of
peas which the captain had brought me to eat, and bade them be
sure to sow and increase them.
Having done all this, 1 left them the next day, and went on board
the ship. We prepared immediately to sail, but did not weigh that
night. The next morning early, two of the five men came swimming
to the ship's side, and making a most lamentable complaint of the
other three, begged to be taken into the ship, for God's sake, for they
should be murdered, and begged the captain to take them on board,
though he hanged them immediately. Upon this, the captain pre-
tended to have no power without me; but after some difficulty, and
after their solemn promises of amendment, they were taken on board,
and were some time after soundly whipped ana pickled: after which
they proved very honest and quiet fellows.
Some time after this, the boat was ordered on shore, the tide
being up, with the things promised to the men; to which the cap-
tain, at my intercession, caused their chests and clothes to be added,
which they took, and were very thankful for. I also encouraged
them, by telling them that if it lay in my power to send any vessel
to take them in, I would not forget them.
When I took leave of this island, I carried on board, for reliques,
the great goat-skin cap I had made, my umbrella, and one of my
parrots; also I forgot not to take the money I formerly mentioned,
which had lain by me so long useless that it had grown rusty
»r tarnished, and could hardly pass for silver, till it had oeen a little
rubbed and handled; as also the money I found in the wreck of the
Spanish ship. And thus I left the island, the 19th of December, as
I found by the ship's account, in the year 16S6, after I had been
upon it eight-and-twenty years, two months, and nineteen days;
being delivered from this second captivity the same day of the month
that I first made my escape in the long boat, from among the Moors
of Sallec. In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in England
the 11th of June, in the year 16S7, having been thirty-five year*
absent.

SECTION XXVIII.
ROBINSON GOES TO LISBON, (THERE HE FINDS THE FORTUGUESE
CAFTAIN, WHO RENDERS HIM AN ACCOUNT OF HIS FROFERTY IN
THE BRAZILS.—SETS OUT ON HIS RETCRN TO ENGLAND BY LAND.
When I came to England, I was as perfect a stranger to all the
world as if I had never been known there. My benefactor and
faithful steward, whom I left my money in trust with, was alive, but
had had great misfortunes in the world; was become a widow the
second time, and very low in the world. I made her very easy as to
what she owed me, assuring her I would give her no trouble ; but on
the contrary, in gratitude for former care and faithfulness to me, I
relieved her as well as my little stock would afford; which, at the time,
would allow me to do but little for her; but I assured her I would
never forget her former kindness to me; nor did I forget her when
I had sufficient to help her, as shall be observed in its proper place.
I went down afterwards into Yorkshire: butmy father and mother
were dead, and all the family extinct, except that I found two sisters
and two of the children of one of my brothers, and as I had been
long ago given over for dead, there had been no provision made for
me: so that in a word, I found nothing to relieve or assist me: and
that the little money I had would not do much for me as to settling
in the world.
I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did not expect;
and this was, that the master of the ship whom I so happily
delivered, and by the same means saved the ship and cargo, having
riven a very handsome account to the owners of the manner how I
lad saved the lives of the men and the ship, they invited me to meet
them, and some other merchants concerned, and all together made
me a very handsome compliment upon the subject, and a present of
almost two hundred pounds sterling.
I
But after making several reflections upon the circumstances of my
life, and how little way this would go, towards settling me in the
world, I resolved to go to Lisbon, and see if I might not come by
some information of the state of my plantation in the Brazils, and of
what was become of my partner, who, I had reason to suppose, had
some years past given me over for dead. With this vrew I took
shipping for Lisbon, where I arrived in April foEowing; my man
Friday accompanving me very honestly in all these ramblings, and
proving a most faithful servant upon all occasions. When I came
to Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry, and to my particular satisfaction,
my old friend the captain of the ship who first took me up at sea off
the shore of Africa. He was now grown old, and had left off going
to sea, having put his son, who was far from a young man, into his
ship, and who still used the Brazil trade. The old man did not know
me : and, indeed, I hardly knew him: but I soon brought him to my
remembrance, and as soon brought myself to his remembrance,
when I told him who I was.
After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance between
us, I inquired, you may be sure, after my plantation and my partner.
The old man told me he had not been in the Brazils for about nine
years; but that he could assure me that when he came away my
partner was living; but the trustees, whom I had joined with him
to take cognizance of my part, were both dead: that, however, he
believed I would have a very good account of the improvement of
the plantation; for that upon the general belief of my being cast
away and drowned, my trustees had given in the account of the pro-
duce of my part of the plantation to the procurator-fiscal, who had
appropriated it, in case I never came to claim it, one-third to the
king, and two-thirds to the monastery of St. Augustine, to be ex-
?ended for the benefit of the poor, and for the conversion of the
ndians to the Catholic faith; tut that if I appeared, or any one
for me, to claim the inheritance, it would be restored; only that the
improvement, or annual production, being distributed to charitable
uses, could not be restored: but he assured me thai, the steward of
the king's revenue from lauds, and the proviedore, or steward of the
monastery, had taken great care all along that the incumbent, that
is to say, my partner, gave every year a faithful account of the pro-
duce, ot winch they had duly received my moiety. I asked hiin if
he knew to what height of improvement he had brought the planta-
tion, and whether he thought it might be worth looking after; or
whether, on my going thither, I should meet with any obstruction to
my possessing my just right in the moiety. He told me he could
not tell exactly to what degree the plantation was improved, but this
he knew, that my partner was grown exceeding rich upon the enjoy-
ing his part of it; and that, to the best of his remembrance, he had
heard that the king's third of my part, which was, it seems, granted
•way to some other monastery or religious house, amounted to above
two hundred moidores a year; that as to my being restored to a
quiet possession of it, there was no question to be made of that, my
partner being alive to witness my title, and my name being also en-
rolled in the register of the country; also he told me, that the survi-
vors of my two trustees were very fair honest people, and very
wealthy : and he believed I would not only have their assistance for
putting me in possession, but would find a very considerable sum of
money in their hands for my account, heing the produce of the farm
while their fathers held the trust, and before it was given up, as
above ; which, as he remembered, was for about twelve years.
I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this account, and
inquired of the old captain how it came to pass that the trustees
should thus dispose of my effects, when he knew that I had made
my will, and had made him, the Portuguese captain, my universal
heir, &c.
He told me that was true; but that as there was no proof of my
being dead, he could not act as executor, until some certain account
should come of my death; and, besides, he was not willing to inter-
meddle with a thing so remote : that it was true he had registered
my will, and put in his claim; and could he have given any account
of my being dead or alive, he would have acted by procuration, and
taken possession of the ingenio (so they called the sugar-house), and
have given his son, who was now at the Brazils, orders, to do it.
"But, says the old man, " I have one piece of news to tell you, which,
perhaps, may not be so acceptable to you as the rest; and that is,
believing you were lost, and all the world believing so also, your
partner and trustees did offer to account with me, in your name, for
six or eight of the first years' profits, which I received." There
being at that time great disbursements for increasing the works,
building an ingenio, and buying slaves, it did not amount to near so
much as afterwards it produced: "however," says the old man, "I
shall give you a true account of what I have received in all, and how
I have disposed of it."
After a few days' further conference with this ancient friend, he
brought me an account of the first six years' income of my planta-
tion, signed by my partner and the merchant trustees, being always
delivered in goods, viz. tobacco in roll, and sugar in chests, besides
rum, molasses, &c., which is the consequence 01 a sugar-work; and I
found, by this account, that every year the income considerably in-
creased; but, as above, the disbursements being large, the sum at
first was small: however, the old man let me see that he was debtor
to me four hundred and seventy moidores of gold, besides sixty
chests of sugar, and fifteen double rolls of tobacco, which were lost
hi his ship; he having been shipwrecked coming home to Lisbon,
about eleven years after my leaving the place. The good man then
began to complain of his misfortunes, and how he had been obliged
to make use of my money to recover his losses, and buy him a share
in a new ship. "However, my old friend," says he, "yon shall not
want a supply in your necessity; and as soon as my son returns, you
shall be fully satisfied." Upon this, he pulls out an old pouch, and
gives me one hundred and sixty Portugal moidores in gold; and take-
mg the writings of his title to the ship, which his son was gone to
the Brazils in, of which he was a quarter part owner, and his son
another, he pats them both into my hands, for security of the
rest.
I was too much moved with the honesty and kindness of the poor
man to be able to bear this; and remembering what he had done for
me, how he had taken me up at sea, and how generously he had
used me on all occasions, and particularly how sincere a friend he
was now to me, I could hardly refrain weeping at what he said to
me; therefore I asked him if his circumstances admitted him to
spare so much money at that time, and if it would not straiten him?
He told me he could not say but it might straiten him a little; but,
however, it was my money, and I might want it more than he.
Every thing the good man said was full of affection, and I could
hardly refrain from tears while he spoke; in short, I took one
hundred of the moidores, and called for a pen and ink to give him a
receipt for them: then I returned him the rest, and told him if ever
I had possession of thb plantation I would return the other to him
also (as, indeed, I afterwards did); and that as to the bill of sale of
his part in his son's ship, I would not take it by any means: but
that if I wanted the money, I found he was honest enough to pay
me; and if I did not, but came to receive what he gave me reason
to expect, I would never have a penny more from him.
Wnen this was past, the old man asked me if he should put me
into the method to make my claim to my plantation? I told him I
thought to go over to it myself. He said I might do so, if I pleased:
but that if I did not, there were ways enough to secure my right, and
immediately to appropriate the profits to my use: and as there were
ships in the river of Lisbon just ready to go away to Brazil he made
me enter my name in a public register, with his affidavit, affirming,
upon oath, that I was alive, and that I was the same person who
took up the land for the planting the said plantation at first. This
being regularly attested by a notary, and a procuration affixed, he
directed me to send it, with a letter of his writing, to a merchant of
his acquaintance at the place; and then proposed my staying with
him till an account came of the return.
Never was anything more honourable than the proceedings upon
this procuration; for in less than seven months I received a large
packet from the survivors of my trustees, the merchants, for whose
account I went to sea, in which were the following particular letters
and papers enclosed.
First, There was the account-current of the produce of my farm
or plantation, from the year when their fathers had balanced with mr
old Portugal captain, being for six vears: the balance appeared tc
be one thousand one hundred and seventy-four moidores in my
favour.
Secondly, There was the account of four years more, while they
kept the effects in their hands, before the government claimed the
administration, as being the effects of a person not to be found,
which they called civil death; and the balance of this amounted to
nineteen thousand four hundred and forty-six crusadoes, being
about three thousand two hundred and forty moidores.
Thirdly, There was the prior of Agustine's account, who had re-
ceived the profits for above fourteen years; but not being to
account for what was disposed of by the hospital, very honestly
declared he had eight hundred and seventy-two moidores not
distributed, which he acknowledged to my account; as to the king's
part that refunded nothing.
There was a letter of my partner's congratulating me affection-
ately upon my being alive, giving me an account how the estate had
improved, and what it produced a year; with a particular of the
number of squares or acres that it contained, how planted, how many
slaves there were upon it, and making two and twenty crosses for
blessings, told me he had said so many Ave Marias to thank the
blessed Virgin that I was alive; inviting me very passionately to
come over and take possession of my own; and, in the meantime,
to give him orders to whom he should deliver my effects, if I did not
come myself: concluding with a hearty tender of his friendship, and
that of his family; and sent me, as a present, seven fine leopards'
skins, which he had, it seems, received from Africa, by some other
ship he had sent thither, and who, it seems, had made a better voy-
age than I. He sent me also five chests of excellent sweetmeats,
and a hundred pieces of gold uncoined, not quite so large as moi-
dores. By the same fleet, my two merchant trustees shipped me
one thousand two hundred chests of sugar, eight hundred rolls of
tobacco, and the rest of the whole account in gold.
I might well say now, indeed, the latter end of the Job was belter
than the beginning. It is impossible to express the flutterings of
my very heart, when I found all my wealth about me; for as the
Brazil ships came all in fleets, the same ships which brought my
letters brought my goods: and the effects were safe in the river
before the letters came to my hand. In a word, I turned pale and
grew sick; and had not the old man run and fetched me a cordial. I
believe the sudden surprise of joy had overset nature, and I had died
upon the spot: nay after that I continued very ill, and was so some
hours, till a physician being sent for, and something of the real cause
of my illness being known, he ordered me to be let blood; after
which I had relief and grew well: but I verily believe, if I had not
oeen eased by vent given in that manner to the spirits, I should
have died.
I was nw master, all of a sudden, of above five thousand pounds
sterling in money, and had an estate, as I might well call it, in the
Brazils, of above a thousand pounds a year, as sure as an estate of
lands in England ; and, in a word, I was in a condition which I scarce
knew how to understand, or how to compose myself for the enjoy-
ment of it. The first thing I did was to recompense my original
benefactor, my good old captain, who had been first charitable to me
in my distress, Rind to me in my beginning, and honest to me at the
end. I showed him all that was sent to me; I told him, that next
to the providence of heaven, which disposed all things, it was owing
to him; and that it now lay on me to reward him, which I would do
a hundred-fold: so I first returned the hundred moidores, I had re-
ceived of him; then I sent for a notary, and caused him to draw up
a general release or discharge from the four hundred and seventy
moidores, which he had acknowledged he owed me, in the fullest and
firmest manner possible. After which I caused a procuration to be
drawn, empowering him to be my receiver of the annual profits
of my plantation, and appointing my partner to account with him,
and make the returns by the usual fleets to him in my name: and a
clause in the end, being a grant of one hundred moidores a year to him
during his life, out of the effects, and fifty moidores a year to his son
after him, for his life; and thus I requited my old man.
Having settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and turned all my effects
into good bills of exchange, my next difficulty was, which way to
fi to England; I had been accustomed enough to the sea, and yet
had a strange aversion to go to England by sea at that time; and
though I could give no reason for it, yet the difficulty increased
upon me so much, that though I had once shipped my baggage, in
order to go, yet I altered my mind, and that not once, but two or
three times.
Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot, to whom
[ communicated every thing, pressed me earnestly not to go by sea,
but either to go by land to the Groyne (Corunna), and cross over
the Bay of Biscay to Rochelle, from whence it was but an easy and
safe journey by laud to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover, or to go
up to Madrid, and so all the way by land through France. In a
word, I was so prepossessed against my going by sea at all, except
from Calias to Dover, that I resolved to travel all the way by land;
which, as I was not in haste, and did not value the charge, was by
much the pleasauter way: and to make it more so, my old captain
brought an English gentleman, the son of a merchant in Lisbon,
who was willing to travel with me; after which we picked up two
more English merchants also, and two young Portuguese gentlemen,
the last going to Paris only; so that in all there were six of us, and
five servan*s ; the two merchants and the two Portuguese contenting
themselves with one servant between two, to save the charge; and
as for me, I got an English sailor to travel with me as a servant,
besides my man Friday, who was too much a stranger to be capable
of supplying the place of a servant on the road.
In this manner I set out from Lisbon; and our company being
very well mounted and armed, we made a little troop, whereof they
did me the honour to call me captain, as well because I was the ohi-
est man, as because I had two servants, and, indeed, was the original
of the whole journey.
As I have troubled you with none of my sea journals, so I shall
trouble you now with none of my land journal; but some adventures
that happened to us in this tedious and difficult journey I must not
omit.
When we came to Madrid, we being all of us strangers to Spain,
were willing to stay some time to see the Court of Spain, and to see
what was worth observing; but it being the latter part of the sum-
mer, we hastened away, and set out from Madrid about the middle
of October; but when we came to the edge of Navarre, we were
alarmed at several towns on the way, with an account that so much
snow was fallen on the French side of the mountains, that several
travellers were obliged to come back to Pampeluna, after having
attempted, at an extreme hazard, to pass on.
When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so, indeed; and
to me, that had always been used to a hot climate, and to countries
where I could scarce bear any clothes on, the cold was insufferable;
nor, indeed, was it more strange than surprising, to come but ten
days before out of Old Castile, where the weather was not only warm
but very hot, and immediately to feel a wind from the Pyrenean
mountains, so very keen, so severely cold, as to be intolerable,
and to endanger the benumbing and perishing of our fingers and
toes.
We stayed no less than twenty days at Pampeluna; when seeing
the winter coming on, and no likelihood of its being better, for it
was the severest winter all over Europe that had been known in the
memory of man, I proposed that we should all go away to Fonta-
rabia and there take shipping for Bordeaux, which was a very little
voyage. But while I was considering this, there came in four
French gentlemen, who having been stopped on the French side of
the passes, as we were on the Spanish, had found out a guide, who,
traversing the country near the head of Languedoe, had brought
them over the mountains by such ways, that they were not much
incommoded with the snow; for where they met with snow in any
quantity, they said it was frozen bard enough to bear them and their
horses. We sent for this guide, who told us he would undertake to
carry us the same way with no hazard from the snow, provided we
were armed sufficiently to protect ourselves from wild beasts; for, he
said, upon these great snows it was frequent for some wolves to
show themselves at the foot of the mountains, being made ravenous
for want of food, the ground being covered with snow. We told him
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
we were well enough prepared for such creatures as they were if he
would ensure us from a kind of two legged wolves, which, we wer«
told we were in most danger from, especially on the French side of
the mountains, He satisfied us that there was no danger of that
kind in the way we were to go; so we readily agreed to follow him,
as did also twelve other gentlemen, with their servants, some
I'rench, some Spanish, who, as I said, had attempted to go, and
Mere obliged t* come back again.
Accordingly, we set out from Pampeluna, with our guide, on the
15th of November; and, indeed, I was surprised, when, instead of
going forward, he came directly back with us on the same road that
we came from Madrid, about twenty miles ; when having passed two
rivers, and come into the plain country, we found ourselves in a
warm climate again, where the country was pleasant, and no snow to
be seen; but on a sudden turning to his left, he approached the
mountains another way: and though it is true the mils and preci-
pices looked dreadful, yet he made so many tours, such meanders,
and led us by such winding ways, that we insensibly passed the
height of the mountains without being much incumbered with the
snow; and, all on a sudden, he showed us the pleasant fruitful pro-
vinces of Languedoc and Gascouv, all green and flourishing, though,
indeed, at a great distance, and we had some rough way to pass
still.
We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed one
whole day and a night so fast, that we could not travel; but he bid
us be easy; we should soon be past it all: we found, indeed, that we
began to descend every day, and to come more north than before;
and so, depending upon our guide, we went on.

SECTION XXIX.
FRIDAY'S ENCOUNTER 'WlTn A BEAR—ROBINSON AND HIS FELLOW
TRAVELLERS ATTACKED BY A FLOCK OF WOLVES—HIS ARRANGE-
MENT OF HIS AFFAIRS, AND MARRIAGE AFTER HIS RETURN TO
ENGLAND.
It was about two hours before night, when our guide being some-
thing before us, and not just in sight, out rushed three monstrous
wolves, and after them a bear, out of a hollow way, adjoining to a
thick wood; two of the wolves made at the guide, and had he been
far before us, he would have been devoured before we could have
helped him; one of them fastened upon his horse, and the other at-
tacked the man with that violence, that he had not time, or presence
of mind enough, to draw his pistol, but hallooed and cried out to us
most lustily. My man Friday being next me, I bade him ride up,
and see what was the matter. As soon as Friday came in sight of
the man, he hallooed out as loud as the other, " 0 master! O master!"
but, like a bold fellow, rode directly up to the poor man, and with
his pistol shot the wolf, that attacked him, in the head.
It is easy to suppose that at the noise of Friday's pistol we all
mended our pace, and rode up as fast as the way, which was very
difficult, would give us leave, to see what was the matter. As soon
as we came clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we saw
clearly what had been the case, and how Friday had disengaged the
poor guide, though we did not presently discern what kind of
creature it was he had killed.
But never was a fight managed so hardily, and in such a surprising
manner, as that which followed, between Friday aud the bear, which
gave us all, though at first we were surprised and afraid for him, the
greatest diversion imaginable. As the bear is a heavy, clumsy crea-
ture, and does not gallop as the wolf does, who is swift and light, so
he has two particular qualities, which generally are the rule of his
actions; first, as to men, who are not his proper prey (he does not
usually attempt them, except they first attack him, unless he be
excessively hungry, which it is probable might now be the case, the
ground being covered with snow), if you do not meddle with him, he
will not meddle with you; but then you must take care to be very
civil to him, and give him the road, for he is a very nice gentleman;
he will not go a step out of his way for a prince; nay, if you are
really afraid, your best way is to look another way, and keep going
on; for sometimes if you stop, and stand still, and look steadfastly

-"^^Vtf'^
at him, he takes it for an affront, but if yon throw or toss anything
at him and it hits him, though it were but a bit of stick as big as
your finger, he thinks himself abused, and sets all other business
aside to pursue his revenge, and will .have satisfaction in point of
honour:—this is his first quality : the next is, if he be once affronted,
he will never leave you night nor day, till he has his revenge, but
follows, at a good round rate, till he overtakes you.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we came up to
him, he was helping him off from his horse, for the man was both
hurt and frightened, when, on a sudden, we espied the bear come out
of the wood, and avast, monstrous one it was, the biggest by far
that ever I saw. We were all a little surprised when we saw him;
out when Friday saw him, it was easy to see joy and courage in the
fellow's countenance; "O, 0, 0 !" says Friday, three times, pointing
to him; "O master! you give me te leave, me shakee te hand with
him; me makee you good laugh."
I was surprised to see the fellow so well pleased: "You fool,"
i»ys I, "he will eat you up."—" Eatee me up! eatee me up!" gays
Friday, twice over again; "me eatee him up, me makee you good
laugh; you all stay here, me show you good laugh." So down he
sits, and gets off his boots in a moment, and puts on a pair of pumps
(as we call the flat shoes they wear, and which he had in his pocket),
gives my other servant his horse, and with his gun, away he flew,
swift like the wind.
The bear was walking softly on, and offered to meddle with no-
body, till Friday coming pretty near, calls to him, as if the bear
could understand him: "Hark ye, hark ye," says Friday, "me speakee
with you." We followed at a distance; for now being come down on
the Gascony side of the mountains, we were entered a vast great
forest, where the country was plain and pretty open, though it had
many trees in it scattered here and there. 1 riday, who had, as we
say, the heels of the bear, came up with him quickly, and takes up
a great stone and throws it at him, and hit him just on the head, but
did him no more harm than if he had thrown it against a wall; but
it answered Friday's end, for the rogue was so void of fear, that he
did it purely to make the bear follow him, and show us some laugh
as he called it. As soon as the bear felt the blow, and saw him, he
turns about, and comes after him, taking long strides, and shuffling
on at a strange rate, such as would put a horse to a middling gallop;
away runs Friday, and takes his course as if he ran towards us for
help; so we all resolved to fire at once upon the bear, and deliver
my man; though I was angry at him heartily for bringing the bear
back upon us, when he was going about his own business another
way; and especially I was angry that he had turned the bear upon
us, and then run away; and I called out: "You dog, is this your
making us laugh? Come away, and take your horse, that we may
shoot the creature." He heard me, and cned out: "No shoot, no
shoot; stand still, and you get much laugh;" and. as the nimble
creature ran two feet for the bear's one, he turned on a sudden, on
one side of us, and seeing a great oak-tree fit for his purpose, he
beckoned to us to follow; and doubling his pace, he gets nimbly up
the tree, laying his gun down upon the ground, at about five or six
yards from the bottom of the tree. The Dear soon came to the tree,
and we followed at a distance: the first thing he did, he stopped at
the gun, smelt it, but let it lie, and up he scrambles into the tree,
climbing like a cat, though so monstrous heavy. I was amazed at the
folly, as I thought it, of my man, and could not for my life see any-
thing to laugh at yet, till seeing the bear get up the tree, we all rode
near to him.
When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out to the small end
of a large branch, ynd the bear got about half way to him. As soon
as the Dear got out to that part where the limb of the tree was
weaker,—" Ha!" says he to us, "now you see me tcachee the bear
dance;" so be falls a jumping and shaking the bough, at which the
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CBUSOE.
bear began to totter, but stood still, and began to look behind him,
to see how he should get back; then, indeed, we did laugh heartily.
But Friday had not done with him by a great deal; when seeing
him stand still, he calls out to him again, as if he had supposed the
bear could speak English: "What, you come no farther? pray you
come farther;" so he left jumping and shaking the tree; and the
bear, iust as if he understood what he said, did come a little farther;
then he fell a jumping again, and the bear stopped again. We
thought now was a good time to knock him on the head, and called
to Friday to stand still, and we would shoot the bear; but he cried
out earnestly: "0 pray! 0 pray! no shoot, me shoot by and then;"

he would have said by and by. However, to shorten the story,
Friday danced so much, and the bear stood so ticklish, that we had
laughing enough, but still could not imagine what the fellow would
do; for first we thought he depended upon shaking the bear off; and
we found that the bear was too cunning for that too; for he would
not go out far enough to be thrown down, but clings fast with his
great broad claws and feet, so that we could not imagine what
would be the end of it, and what the jest would be at last. But
Friday puts us out of doubt quickly, for seeing the bear cling fast to
the bough, and that he would not be persuaded to come any farther:
"Well, well," says Friday, "you no come farther, me go; you no
come to me, me come to you:" and upon this, he goes out to the
smaller end of the hough, where it would bend with his weight, and
gently lets himself down by it, sliding down the bough, till ne came
near enough to jump down on his feet, and away he runs to his gun,
takes it up, and stands still. "Well," said I to him, "Friday, what
will you do now? Why don't you shoot him t"—" No shoot," says
Friday, " not yet; me no shoot now, me no kill; me stay, give you
one more laugh;" and, indeed, so he did, as you will see presently;
for when the bear saw his enemy gone, he comes back from the
bough where he stood, but did it mighty cautiously, looking behind
him every step, and coming backward till he got into the body of the
tree; then with the same hinder-end foremost, he came down the tree,
grasping it with his claws, and moving one foot at a time, very
leisurely. At this juncture, and just before he could set his hind-
foot on the ground, Friday stepped up close to him, clapped the
muzzle of his piece into his ear, and shot him dead. Then the
rogue turned about, to see if we did not laugh; and when he saw
we were pleased, by our looks, he falls a laughing himself very loud.
"So we kill bear in my country," says Friday. *' So you kill them?
says 1, "why you have no guns." "No," says he, "no gun, but
shoot great much long arrow." This was a good diversion to us;
but we were still in a wild place, and our guide very much hurt, and
what to do we hardly knew; the howling of wolves run much in my
head; and, indeed, except the noise I once heard on the shore of
Africa, of which I have said something already, I never heard any-
thing that filled me with so much horror.
These things, and the approach of night, called us off, or else, as
Friday would have had us, we should certainly have taken the skin
of this monstrous creature off, which was worth saving; but we had
near three leagues to go, and our guide hastened us, so we left him,
and went forward on our journey.
We were not gone half over the plain, when we began to hear the
wolves howl in the wood on our left in a frightful manner, and
presently after, we saw about a hundred coming on directly towards
us, all in a body, and most of them in a line, as regularly as an army
drawn up by an experienced officer. I scarce knew in what manner
to receive them, but found to draw ourselves in a close line was the
only way; so we formed in a moment: but that we might not have
too much interval, I ordered that only every other man should
fire, and that the others who had not firett should stand ready to give
',hcm a second volley immediately, if they continued to advance upon
us; and then that those who baa fired at first should not pretend to
load their fuses again, but stand ready every one with a pistol, for
we were all armed with a fuse and a pair of pistols each man; so we
were, by this method, able to fire six volleys,"half of us at a time.
However, at present we had no necessity, for upon fiiing the first
volley, the enemy made a full stop, being terrified as well with the
noise as with the fire; four of them, being shot in the head, dropped;
several others were wounded, and went bleeding off, as we could see
by the snow. I found they stopped, but did not immediately retreat;
whereupon, remembering that I had been told that the fiercest crea-
tures were terrified by the voice of a man, I caused all the company
to halloo as loud as we could; and I found the notion not altogether
mistaken; for upon our shout, they began to retire and turn about.
I then ordered a second volley to be fired in their rear, which put
them to the gallop, and away they went to the woods. This gave us
leisure to charge our pieces again; and that we might lose no time,
we kept going; we had but little more than loaded our fuses, and
put ourselves in readiness, when we heard a terrible noise in the
same wood, on cur left, only that it was farther onward, the same
way we were to go.
The night was coming on, and the light began to be dusky, which
made it worse on our side; but the noise increasing, we could easily
perceive that it was the howling and yelling of these hellish creatures;
and on a sudden we perceived two or three troops of wolves, one on
our left, one behind us, and one in our front, so that we seemed to
be surrounded with them, however, as they did not fall upon us, we
kept our way forward, as fast as we could make our horses go, which,
the way being very rough, was only a good hard trot. In this manner
we came in view of the entrance of the wood, through which we
were to pass, at the farther side of the plain; but we were greatly
surprised, when, coming nearer the lane or pass, we saw a confused
number of wolves standing just at the entrance. On a sudden, at
another opening of a wood, we heard the noise of a gun, and looking
that way, out rushed a horse, with a saddle and bridle on him, flying
like the wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves after him full speed.
But here we had a most horrible sight; for riding up to the
entrance where the horse came out, we found the carcasses of another
horse and of two men, devoured by the ravenous creatures; and one of
the men was no doubt the same whom we heard lire the gun, for
there lay a gun just by him fired off; but as to the man, his head
and the upper part of his body were eaten up. This filled us with
horror, and we knew not what course to take; but the creatures re-
solved us soon, for they gathered about us presently, in hopes of
prey; and I verily believe there were three nundred of them. It
happened very much to our advantage, that at the entrance into the
wood, but a little way from it, there lay some large timber trees,
which had been cut down the summer before, and I suppose lay there
for carnage. I drew my little troop in among those trees, and
placing ourselves in a line behind one long tree, I advised them all
to alight, and keeping that tree before us for a breastwork, to stand in a
triangle or three fronts enclosing our horses in the centre. We did
so, and it was well wc did; for never was a more furious charge
than the creatures made upon us in this place. They came on with
a growling kind of noise, and mounted the piece of timber, which, as
I said, was our breastwork, as if they were only rushing upon their
prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems, was principally occasioned by
their seeing our horses behind us. I ordered our men to fire as be-
fore, every other man; and they took their aim so sure, that they
killed several of the wolves at the first volley; but there was a
necessity to keep a continual firing, for they came on like devils,
those behind pushing on those before.
When we had fired a second volley of our fuses, we thought they
stopped a little; and I hoped they would have gone off; bnt it was
only a moment, for others came forward again; so we fired two
volleys of our pistols; and I believe in these four firings we had
killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed twice as many, yet
they came on again. I was loth to spend our shot too hastily; so I
called my servant, not my man Friday, for he was better l itployed,
for, with the greatest dexterity imaginable, he had charged my fuse
and his own while we were engaged: hut as I said, I called my other
man, and giving him a horn of powder, I bade him lay a train all
along the piece of timber, and let it be a large train. He did so;
and had but just time to get away, when the wolves came up to it,
and some got upon it, when I, snapping an uncharged pistol close to
the powder, set it on fire; those that were upon the timber were
scorched with it, and six or seven of them fell or rather jumped in
among us, with the force and fright of the fire: we despatched these
in an instant, and the rest were so frightened with the light, which
the night, for it was now very near dark, made more terrible, that
they drew back a little; upon which I ordered our last pistols to be
fired off in one volley, and after that we gave a shout: upon this the
wolves turned tail, and we sallied immediately upon near twenty
lame ones, that we found struggling on the ground, and fell a cutting
them with our swords, which answered our expectation; for the
crying and howling they made was better understood by their fellows;
so that they all fled and left us.
In about an hour more we came to the town where we were to
lodge.
The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs swelled so
much with the rankling of his two wounds, that he could go no far-
ther; so we were obliged to take a new guide here, and go to Tou-
louse, where we found a warm climate, a fruitful pleasant country,
and no snow, no wolves, nor anything like them; but when we told
our story at Toulouse, they told us it was nothing but what was
ordinary in the great forest at the foot of the mountains, especially
when the snow lay on the ground; but they inquired much what
kind of a guide we had got, who would venture to bring us that way
in such a severe season; and told us it was surprising we were not
all devoured.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my passage through
France, nothing Dut what other travellers have given an account of,
with much more advantage than I can. I travelled from Toulouse
to Paris, and without any considerable stay came to Calais, and
landed safe at Dover, the 14th of January, after having a severe cold
season to travel in.
I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had in a little
time all my new discovered estate safe about me; the bills of
exchange which I brought with me having been very currently paid.
My principal guide and privy counsellor was my good ancient
widow; who, in gratitude for the money I had sent her, thought no
pains too much, nor care too great, to employ for me; and I trusted
her so entirely with everything, that I was perfectly easy as to the
security of my effects: and, indeed, I was very happy from the be-
ginning, vid now to the end, in the unspotted integrity of this good
gentle* ...lan.
I now resolved to dispose of my plantation in the Brazils, if I
could find means. For this purpose, I wrote to my old friend at
Lisbon, who having offered it to the two merchants, the survivors of
my trustees, who lived in the Brazils, they accepted the offer, and
remitted thirty-three thousand pieces of eight to a correspondent of
theirs at Lisbon, to pay for it. Having signed the instrument of
sale, and sent it to my old friend, he remitted me bills of exchange
for thirty-two thousand eight hundred pieces of eight for the estate,
reserving the payment oi a hundred moidores a year to himself
during his life, and fifty moidores afterwards to his son for life,
which I had promised them.
Though J had sold my estate in the Brazils, yet I could not keep
the country out of my head; nor could I resist the strong inclination
I had to see my island. My true friend, the widow, earnestly dis-
suaded me from it, and so far prevailed with me, that, for almost
seven years, she prevented my running abroad; during which time 1
took my two nephews, the children of one of my brothers, into my
care: the eldest having something of his own, I bred up as a gentle-
man, and gave him a settlement of some addition to his estate, after
my decease. The other I put out to a captain of a ship; and after
five years, finding him a sensible, bold, enterprising young fellow, I
put him into a good ship, and sent him to sea: and this young fellow
afterwards drew me in, old as I was, to further adventures myself.
In the mean time, I in part settled myself here: for, first of all,
I married, and that not either to my disadvantage or dissatisfaction,
and had three children, two sons and one daughter; but my wife
dying, and my nephew coming home with good success from a
voyage to Spain, my inclination to go abroad, and his importunity
prevailed, and engaged me to go in his ship as a private trader to
the East Indies: this was in the year 1691.
SECTION XXX.
HE IS SEIZED WITH A DESIRE TO REVISIT HIS ISLAND—LOSES HIS
WIFE—IS TEMFTED TO GO TO SEA AGAIN—TAKES OUT A CARGO
FOR HIS COLONY.
When my wife was gone, the world looked awkwardly round me. I
was as much a stranger in it, in my thoughts, as I was in the Brazils,
when I first went on shore there; and as much alone, except as to
the assistance of servants, as I was in my island. I knew neither
what to think nor what to do. I saw the world busy around me:
one part labouring for bread, another part squandering in vile ex-
cesses or empty pleasures, equal,y miserable, because the end they
proposed still fled from them: for the men of pleasure every day
surfeited of their vice, and heaped up work for sorrow and repent-
ance; and the men of labour spent their strength in daily struggling
for bread to maintain the daily strength they laooured with; so living
in a daily circulation of sorrow, living but to work, and working but
to live, as if daily bread were the only end of wearisome life, and a
wearisome life the only occasion of daily bread.
This put me in mind of the life I lived in my kingdom, the island,
where I suffered no more corn to grow, because I did not want it,
and bred no more goats, because I had no more use for them; where
the money lay in the drawer till it grew mouldy, and had scarce the
favour to be looked upon in twenty years.
My sage counsellor was gone; 1 was like a ship without a pilot,
that could only run before the wind: my thoughts ran all away again
into the old affair; my head was quite turned with the whimsies of
foreign adventures; and all the pleasant, innocent amusements at
my farm, my garden, my cat'.le, and my family, which before entirely
possessed me, were nothing to me, had no relish, and were like
music to one that has no ear, or food to one that has no taste; in a
word, I resolved to leave off housekeeping, let my farm, and return
to London; and in a few months after I did so.
When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as I was before;
I had no relish for the place, no employment in it, nothing to do but
to saunter about like an idle person, of whom it may be said he is
perfectly useless in God's creation, and it is not one farthing's matter
to the rest of his kind whether he be dead or alive. This also was
the tiiing which, of all circumstances of life, was the most my aver-
sion, who had been all my days used to an active life; and I would
often say to myself: "A state of idleness is the very dregs of life;
and indeed I thought I was much more suitably employed when I
was twenty-six days making me a deal board."
It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when my nephew,
whom, as I have observed before, I had brought up to the sea, and
had made liim commander of a ship, was come home from a short
voyage to Bilboa, being the first he had made. He came to me, and
told me that some merchants of his acquaintance had been propos-
ing to him to go a voyage to the East Indies and to China, as pri-
vate traders.—" And now, uncle," says he, "if you will go to sea
with me, I will engage to land you upon your old habitation in the
island, for we are to touch at the Brazils.
The scheme hit so exactly with my temper, that is to say, the
repossession I was under, and of which I have said so much, that
told him, in a few words, if he agreed with the merchants I
would go with him; but I told him I would not promise to go any.
farther than my own island. "Why, sir," says he, "you don't
want to be left there again, I hope?" "Why," said I, "can you
not take me up again on your return?" He told me it would not
he possible to do so; that the merchants would never allow him to
come that way with a laden ship of such value, it being a month's
sail out of his way, and might be three or four. "Besides, sir,
if I should miscarry," said he, "and not return at all, then you
would be just reduced to the condition you were in before."
This was very rational; but we both foond out a remedy for it:
which was to carry a framed sloop on hoard the ship, which being
taken in pieces, and shipped on board the ship, might, by the help
of some carpenters, whom we agreed to carry with us, "be set up
again in the island, and finished, fit to go to sea, in a few days.
I was not long resolving; for, indeed, the importunities of my
nephew joined so effectually with my inclination, that nothing could
oppose me; on the other hand, my wife being dead, I had nobody
concerning themselves so much for me as to persuade me to one
way or the other, except my ancient good friend the widow, who
r
189
earnestly struggled with me to consider my years, my easy circum-
stances, and the needless hazards of a long voyage, and above all,
my young children. But it was all to no purpose; I had an irre-
sistible desire to the voyage; and I told her I thought there was
something so uncommon in the impressions I had upon my mind for
the voyage, that it would be a kind of resisting Providence if I
should attempt to stay at home; after which she ceased her expos-
tulations, and joined with me, not only in making provision for my
voyage, but also in settling my family affairs for my absence, and
providing for the education of my children.
In order to this, I made my will, and settled the estate I had in
such a manner for my children, and placed in such hands, that I was
perfectly easy and satisfied they would have justice done them,
whatever mignt befall me; and for their education, I left it wholly
to the widow, with a sufficient maintenance to herself for her care:
all which she richly deserved, for no mother could have taken more
care in their education, or understood it better; and as she lived till
I came home, I also lived to thank her for it.
My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning of January
1G91-5, and I, with my man Friday, went on board in the Downs on
the 8th; having, besides that sloop which I mentioned above, a
very considerable cargo of all kinds of necessary things for my
colony, which, if I did not find in good condition, I resolved to
leave so.
Contrary winds first put us to the northward, and we were
obliged to put in at Gaiway in Ireland, where we lay wind-bound
two-and-twenty days; but we had this satisfaction with the disaster,
that provisions were here exceeding cheap, and in the utmost plenty;
so that while we lay here, we never touched the ship's stores, but
rather added to them. Here, also, I took in several live hogs, and
two cows, with their calves, which I resolved, if I had a good pas-
sage, to put on shore in my island; but we found occasion to dispose
otherwise of them.

SECTION XXXI.
Robinson's ship believes the crew of a French vessel thai
had caught fire.
We set out on the 5th of February from Ireland, and had a very
fair gale of wind for some days. As I remember, it might be about
the 20th of February, in the evening late, when the mate, having the
watch, came into the round-house, and told us he saw a flash of fire,
and heard a gun fired ; and while he was telling us of it, a boy came
in, and told us the boatswain heard another. This made us all run
out upon the quarter-deck, where, for a while, we heard nothing;
but in a few minutes we saw a very great light, and found that there
was some very terrible fire at a distance; immediately we had
recourse to our reckonings, in which we all agreed that there could
be no land that way in which the fire showed itself, no, not for five
hundred leagues, for it appeared at W.N.W. Upon this we con-
cluded it must be some snip on fire at sea; and as, by our hearing
the noise of guns just before, we concluded that it could not be far
off, we stood directly towards it, and were presently satisfied we
should discover it, because, the farther we sailed, the greater the
light appeared; though, the weather being hazy, we could not per-
ceive anything but the light for a while. In about half an hour's
sailing, the wind being fair for us, though not much of it, and the
weather clearing up a little, we could plainly discern that it was a
great ship on fire, in the middle of the sea.
I was most sensibly touched with this disaster, though not at all
acquainted with the persons engaged in it; I presently recollected
my former circumstances, and in what condition I was in, when taken
up by the Portuguese captain; and how much more deplorable the
circumstances of the poor creatures belonging to that ship must be
if they had no other ship in company with them. Upon this, I im-
mediately ordered that five guns should be fired, one soon after
another, that, if possible, we might give notice to them that there
was help for them at hand, and that they might endeavour to save
themselves in their boat; for though we could see the flames of the
ship, yet they, it being night, could see nothing of us.
About eight o'clock in the morning we discovered the ship's boats
by the help of our perspective glasses; found there were two of
them, both thronged with people, and deep in the water. We per-
ceived they rowed, the wind being against them; that they saw oui
ship, and did their utmost to make us see them.
We immediately spread our ancient, to let them know we saw
them, and hung a waft out, as a signal for them to come on board
and then made more sail, standing directly to them. In little more
than half-an-hour we came up with them; and, in a word, took them
all in, being no less than sixty-four men, women, and children; for
there were a great many passengers.
Upon the whole, we found it was a French merchant-ship of three
hundred tons, home-bound from Quebee, in the river of Canada.
The master gave us a long account of the distress of his ship; how
the fire began in the steerage, by the negligence of the steersman;
but on his crying out for help, was, as everybody thought, entirely
put out; but they soon found that some sparks of the first fire had
gotten into some part of the ship so difficult to come at, that they
could not effectually quench it; and afterwards getting in between
the timbers, and within the ceiling of the ship, it proceeded into
the hold, and mastered all the skill and all the application they were
able to exert.
Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowledgments for the kind-
ness shown to them was wanting; the French, it is known, are
naturally apt to exceed that way. The captain and one of the
priests came to me the next day, and desired to speak with me and
my nephew: the commander began to consult with us what should
be done with them; and first, they told us that we had saved their
lives, so all they had was little enough for a return to us for that
kindness received. The captain said they had saved some money,
and some things of value, in their boots, catched hastily out of the
flames, and if we would accept it, they were ordered to make an
offer of it all to us; they only desired to be set on shore somewhere
in our way, where, if possible, they might get a passage to France.
My nephew was for accepting their money at first word, and to con-
sider what to do with them afterwards; but I overruled him in that
part, for I knew what it was to be set on shore in a strange country:
and if the Portuguese captain that took me up at sea had served me
so, and took all I had for my deliverance, I must have starved, or
have been as much a slave at the Brazils as I had been at Barbary,
the mere being sold to a Mahometan excepted; and perhaps a Por-
tuguese is not a much better master than a Turk, if not, in some
cases, much worse.
I therefore told the French captain that we had taken them up in
their distress, it was true, but that it was our duty to do so, as we
were fellow-creatures; and we would desire to be so delivered, if we
were in the like, or any other extremity; that we had done nothing
for them but what we believed they would have done for us, if we
had been in their case, and they in ours; but that we took them up
to save them, not to plunder them; and it would be a most barbar-
ous thing to take that little from them which they had saved out of
fie fire, and then set them on shore and leave them; that this would
be first to save them from death, and then kill them ourselves;
save them from drowning, and abandon them to starving; and there-
fore I would not let the least thing be taken from them. As to
set I ing them on shore, I told them, indeed, that was an exceeding
difficulty to us, for that the ship was bound to the East Indies; and
though we were driven out of our course to the westward a very
great way, and perhaps were directed by Heaven on purpose for
their deliverance, yet it was impossible for us wilfully to change our
voyage on their particular account; nor could my nephew, the
captain, answer it to the freighters, with whom he was under
charter-party to pursue his voyage by the way of Brazil: and all I
knew we could do for them, wa3 to put ourselves in the way of
meeting with other ships homeward bound from the West Indies,
and get them a passage, if possible, to England or France.
The first part of the proposal was so generous and kind, they
could not but be very thankful for it; but they were in a very great
consternation, especially the passengers, at the notion of being
carried away to the East Indies; they then entreated me, that seeing
I was driven so far to the westward before I met with them, I
would at least keep on the same course to the Banks of Newfound-
land, where it was probable I might meet with some ship or sloop
that they might hire to carry them back to Canada, from whence
they came.
I thought this was but a reasonable request on their part, and
therefore I inclined to agree to it; for, indeed, I considered, that to
carry this whole company to the East Indies, would not only be an
intolerable severity upon the poor people, but would be ruining our
whole voyage, by devouring all our provisions: so I thought it no
breach of charter-party, but what an unforeseen accident made
absolutely necessary to us, and in which no one could say we were
to blame: for the laws of God and nature would have forbid that
we should refuse to take up two boats' full of people in such a dis-
tressed condition; and the nature of the thing, as well respecting
ourselves as the poor people, obliged us to set them on shore some-
where or other for their deliverance; so I consented that we would
carry them to Newfoundland, if wind and weather would permit;
and if not, that I would carry them to Martinico, ill the West
Indies.
4&r

SECTION XXXII.
RELIEVES THE CREW OF A BKISTOL SHIP, WHO ARE RABVINC
ARRIVES AT HIS ISLAND.
The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather pretty good, and
as the winds had continued in the points between N.E. and S.E. a
long time, we missed several opportunities of sending them to
France; for we met several ships bound to Europe, whereof two
were French, from St. Christopher's; but they had been so long
beating up against the wind, that they durst take in no passengers,
for fear of wanting provisions for the voyage, as well for them-
selves as for those that they should take in; so we were obliged to
go on. It was about a week after this that we made the Banks of
Newfoundland; where, to shorten my story, we put all our French
people on board a barque, which they hired at sea there, to put them
on shore, and afterwards to carry them to France, if they could get
provisions to victual themselves with. When I say all the French
went on shore, I should remember that a young priest on board,
hearing we were bound to the East Indies, desired1 to go the voyage
with us, and to be set on shore on the coast of Coromandel; which
I readily agreed to, for I wonderfully liked the man, and had very
good reason, as will appear afterwards: also four of the seamen
entered themselves on our ship, and proved very useful fellows.
From hence we directed our course to the West Indies, steering
away S. and S. by E. for about twenty days together, sometimes
little or no wind at all; when we met with another subject for our
humanity to work upon, almost as deplorable as that before.
It was in the latitude of twenty-seven degrees five minutes north,
oil the 19th day of March, 1G94-5, when we spied a sail, our course
S.J3. and by S.: we soon perceived it was a large vessel, and that
she bore up to us, but could not at first know what to make of her,
till, after coming a little nearer, we found that she had lost her main
topmast, foremast, and bowsprit; and presently she fired a gun, as
a signal of distress: the weather was pretty good, wind at NiN.W.,
a fresh gale, and we soon came to speak with Tier.
We found her a ship of Bristol, bound home from Barbadoes,
but had been been blown out of the road at Barbadoes a few
days before she was ready to sail, by a terrible hurricane, while
the captain and chief-mate were both gone on shore; so that, besides
the terror of the storm, they were in an indifferent case for good
artists to brine the ship home. They had been already nine weeks
at sea, and had met with another terrible storm, after the hurricane
was over, which had blown them quite out of their knowledge to
the westward, and in which they lost their masts, as above. They
told us they expected to have seen the Bahama islands, but were
then driven away again to the south-east, by a strong gale of wind
at N.N.W., the same that blew now: and having no sails to work
the ship with but a niainnour.se, and a kind of square sail upon a
jury foremast, which they had set up, they could not lie near the
wind, but were endeavouring to stand away for the Canaries.
But that which was worst of all was, that they were almost starved
for want of provisions, besides the fatigues they had undergone:
their bread and flesh were quite gone; they had not one ounce left
in the ship, and had none left for eleven days. The only reuV 'hey
had was, their water was not all spent, and they had about half a
barrel of flour left; they had sugar enough; some succades, or
sweetmeats, they had at first, but they were devoured; and they
had seven casks of rum.
There were a youth and his mother, and a maid-servant, on board,
who were going passengers, and thinking the ship was ready to sail,
unhappily came on board the evening before the hurricane began;
and having no provisions of their own left, they were in a more de-
plorable condition than the rest: for the seamen, being reduced te
such an extreme necessity themselves, had no compassion, we may
be sure, for the poor passengers; and they were, indeed, in a con-
dition, that their misery is very hard to describe.
I had perhaps not known this part, if my curiosity had not led
me (the weather being fair, and the wind abated) to go on board
the ship. The second mate, who, upon this occasion, commanded
the ship, had been on board our ship, and he told me, indeed, they
had three passengers in the great cabin, that were in a deplorable
condition: "Nay," says he, "I believe they are dead, for I have
heard nothing of them for above two days; and I was afraid to
inqure after them," said he, "for I had nothing to relieve them with."
We immediately applied ourselves to give them what relief we
could spare * and, indeed, I had so far overruled things with my
nephew, that I would have victualled them, though we had gone
away to Virginia, or any other part of the coast of America, to have
supplied ourselves; but there was no necessity for that.
But now they were in a new danger ; for they were afraid of
eating too much, even of that little we gave them. The mate or
commander brought six men with him in his boat; but these poor
wretches looked liked skeletons, and were so weak, that they could
hardly sit to their oars. The mate himself was very ill, and half-
starved, for he declared he had reserved nothing from the men, and
went share and share alike with them in every bit they ate.
I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat before him imme-
diately; and he had not eat three mouthfuls before he began to be
sick, and out of order; so he stopped awhile, and our surgeon mixed
him up something with some broth, which he said would be to him
both food and physic; and after he had taken it, he grew better.
In the meantime, I forgot not the men; I ordered victuals to be
given them; and the poor creatures rather devoured than ate it:
they were so exceeding hungry, that they were in a kind ravenous,
and had no command of themselves; and two of them ate with so
much greediness, that they were in danger of their lives the next
morning.
While I kept the mate, whom we then called captain, on board
with his men, to refresh them, so I also forgot not the starving crew
that were left on board; but ordered my own boat to go on board
the ship, and, with my mate and twelve men, to carry them a sack
of bread, and four or five pieces of beef to boil. Our surgeon
charged the men to cause the meat to be boiled while they stayed,
and to keep guard in the cook-room to prevent the men taking it to
eat raw, or taking it out of the pot before it was well boiled, and
then to give every man but a very little at a time: and by this
caution he preserved the men, who would otherwise have killed
themselves with that very food that was given them on purpose to
save their lives.
At the same time, I ordered the mate to go into the great cabin,
and see what condition the poor passengers were in; and if they
were alive, to comfort them, and give them what refreshment was
proper: and the surgeon gave him a large pitcher, with some of the
prepared broth which he had given the mate that was on board, and
which he did not question would restore them gradually.
I was not satisfied with this; but, as I said above, having a grea.
mind to see the scene of misery which I knew the ship itself would
present me with, in a more lively manner than I could have it by
report, I took the captain of the ship, as we now called him, with
me, and went myself, a little after, in their boat.
I found the poor men on board almost in a tumult, to get the
victuals out of the boiler before it was ready; but my mate observed
his orders, and kept a good guard at the cook-room door; and the
man he placed there, after using all possible persuasion to have
patience, kept them off by force: however, he caused some biscuit-
cakes to be dipped in the pot, and softened with the liquor of the
meat, which they called brewis, and gave them every one some, to
stay their stomachs, and told them it was for their own safety that
he was obliged to give them but a little at a time. But it was all
in vain; ana had I not come on board, and their own commander
and officers with me, and with good words, and some threats also
of giving them no more, I believe they would have broken into the
cook-room by force, and torn the meat out of the furnace; for
words are indeed of very. small force to a hungry belly: however, we

pacified them, and fed them gradually and cautiously for the first time,
and the next time gave them more, and at last filled their bellies,
and the men did well enough.
But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of another
nature, and far Beyond the rest; for the ship's company had so little
for themselves, it was but too true that they had at first kept them
'very low, and at last totally neglected them; so that for six or seven
days it might be said they had really no food at all, and for several
days before very little. The poor mother, who, as the men reported,
was a woman of sense and good breeding, had spared all she could
so affectionately for her son, that at last she entirely sunk under it;
and when the mate of our ship went, she sat upon the floor or dock,
with her back up against the sides, between two chairs, which were
lashed fast, and her head sunk between her shoulders, like a corpse,
though not quite dead. My mate said all he could to revive and
encourage her, and with a spoon put some broth into her mouth.
She opened her lips, and lifted up one hand, but could not speak;
yet she understood what he said, and made signs to him, intimating
that it was too late for her, but pointed to her child, as if she would
have said they should take care of him. However, the mate, who
was exceedingly moved with the sight, endeavoured to get some of
the broth into her mouth, and, as he said, got two or three spoonfuls
down; though 1 question whether he could be sure of it or not:
but it was too late, and she died the same night.
The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most affectionate
.mother's life, was not so far gone: yet he lay in a cabin-bed, as oas
stretched out, with hardly any life left in him. He had a piece of
an old glove in his mouth, having eaten up the rest of it: however,
being young, and having more strength than his mother, the mate
got something down his throat, and ne began sensibly to revive;
though by giving him, some time after, but two' or three spoonfuls
extraordinary, he was very sick, and brought it up again.
But the next care was the poor maid: she lay all along upon the
deck, hard by her mistress, and just like one that had fallen down
with an apoplexy, and struggled for life. Her limbs were distorted
one of her hands was clasped round the frame of a chair, and she
griped it so hard, that we could not easily make her let it go: her
other arm lay over her head, and her feet lay both together, set fast
against the frame of the cabin-table: in short, she lay just like one
in the agonies of death, and yet she was alive too.
We knew not what to do with this poor girl; for when onr
surgeon, who was a man of very great knowledge and experience,
had with great application recovered her as to life, he had her upon
his hands as to her senses , for she was little less than distracted for
a considerable time after, as shall appear presently.
Whoever shall read these memorandums must be desired to con-
sider, that visits at sea are not like a journey into the country,
where sometimes people stay a week or a fortnight at a place: our
business was to relieve this distressed ship's crew, but not lie by for
them; and though they were willing to steer the same course. with
us for some days, yet we could carry no sail, to keep pace with a
ship that had no masts: however, as their captain begged of us to
help him to set up a main topmast, and a kind of a topmast to his
jury foremast, we did, as it were, lie by him for three or four days;
and then having given five barrels of beef, a barrel of pork, two
hogsheads of biscuit, and a proportion of peas, flour, and what other
things we could spare; and taking three casks of sugar, some rum,
and some pieces of eight from them for satisfaction, we left them;
taking on board with us, at their own earnest request, the youth and
the maid, and all their goods.
The young lad was about seventeen years of age; a pretty, well
bred, modest, and sensible youth, greatly dejected with the loss of
his mother, and, as it seems, had lost his father but a few months
before, at Barbadoes: he begged of the surgeon to speak to me to
take him out of the ship: for ne said the cruel fellows bad murdered
his mother: and, indeed, so they had, that is to say, passively; for
they might have spared a small sustenance to the poor helpless
widow, that might have preserved her life, though it had been but
just enough to keep her alive: but hunger knows no fiiend, no rela-
tion, no justice, no right; and therefore is remorseless, and capable
of no compassion
The surgeon told him how far we were going, and that it would
carry him away from all his friends, and put him perhaps in as bad
circumstances almost as those we found them in, that is to say,
starving in the world. He said it mattered not whither he went, if
he was out delivered from the terrible crew that he was among;
that the captain (by which he meant me, for he could know nothing
of my nephew) had saved his life, and he was sure would not hurt
him; and as for the maid, he was sure, if she came to herself, she
would be very thankful for it, let us carry them where we would.
The surgeon represented the case so affectionately to me, that I
yielded, and we took them both on board, with all their goods, except
eleven hogsheads of sugar, which could not be removed or come at;
and as the youth had a bill of lading for them, I made his com-
mander sign a writing obliging himself to go, as soon as he came to
Bristol, to one Mr. Rogers, a merchant there, to whom the youth
said he was related, and to deliver a letter which I wrote to him,
and all the goods he had belonging to the deceased widow; which I
suppose was not done, for I could never learn that the ship came to
Bristol, but was, as is most probable, lost at sea; being in so
disabled a condition, and so far from any land, that I am of opinion
the first storm she met with afterwards she might founder in the
sea; for she was leaky and had damage in her hold, when we met
with her.
I was now in the latitude of nineteen degrees thirty-two minutes,
and had hitherto a tolerable voyage as to weather, though, at first,
the winds had been contrary. I shall trouble nobody with the little
incidents of wind, weather, currents, &c., on the rest of onr voyage;
but to shorten my story, for the sake of what is to follow, shall
observe, that I came to my old habitation, the island, on the 10th of
April, 1695. It was with no small difficulty that I found the place;
for as 1 came to it, and went from it, before, on the south and east
side of the island, as coming from the Brazils, so now, coming in
between the main and the island, and having no chart for the coast,
nor any landmark, I did not know it when I saw it, or know whether
I saw it or not.
Thus coasting from one island to another, sometimes with the
ship,'sometimes with the Frenchmen's shallop, which we had found
a convenient boat, and therefore kept her with their very good will,
at length I came fair on the south side of my island, and presently
knew the very countenance of the place: so I brought the ship safe
to an anchor, broadside with the little creek where my old habita-
tion was.
*^-0i#

SECTION XXXliL
robinson and friday go ashore—the latter meets with his
father — account op what passed on the island after
Robinson's quitting it.
As soon as I saw the place, I called for Friday, and asked him if he
knew where he was; he looked about a little, and presently clapping
his hands, cried: "0 yes, 0 there, O yes, 0 there," pointing to our
old habitation, and fell dancing and capering like a mad fellow; and
I had much ado to keep him from jumping into the sea, to swim
ashore to the place.
"Well, Friday," says I, "Do you think we shall find anybody
here or no? and do you think we shall see your father?" The
fellow stood mute as a stock a good while, but when I named his
father, the poor affectionate creature looked dejected, and I could
see the tears run down his face very plentifully. "What is the
matter, Friday ?" says I; "are you troubled because you may see
your fatherf" "No, no," says lie, shaking his head, "no see him
more: no, never more see him again." "Why so," said I, "Friday?
how do you know that?" "O no, 0 no," says Friday; "he long
ago die, long ago, he much old man." "Well, well," says I, "Friday
you don't know; but shall we see any one else, then?" The fellow,
it seems had better eyes than I, and he points to the hill just above
my old house; and though we lay half a league off, he cries out,
"We see, we see, yes, yes, we see much man there, and there, and
there." I looked, but I saw nobody, no, not with a perspective
glass, which was, I suppose, because I could not hit the place; for
the fellow was right, as I found upon inquiry the next day; and
there were five or six men all together, who stood to look at the
ship, not knowing what to think of us.
As soon as Friday told me he saw people, I caused the English
ancient to be spread, and fired three guns, to give them notice we
were friends; and in about half a quarter of an hour after we per-
ceived a smoke arise from the side of the creek; so I immediately
ordered the boat out, taking Friday with me; and hanging out a
white flag, or a flag of truce, I went directly on shore, taking with
me the young friar I mentioned, to whom I had told the story of my
living there, and the manner of it, and every particular both of
myself and those I left there; and who was, on that account,
extremely desirous to go with me. We had besides about sixteen
men well armed, if we had found any new guests there which we did
not know of; but we had no need of weapons.
As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high water, we
rowed directly into the creek; and the first man that I fixed my
eye upon was the Spaniard whose life I had saved, and whom I knew
by his face perfectly well: as to his habit, I shall describe it after-
wards. I ordered nobody to go on shore but myself; but there was

no keeping Friday in the boat, for the affectionate creature had spied
his father at a distance, a good way off the Spaniards, where indeed
I saw nothing of him; and if they had not let him go ashore, he
would have jumped into the sea. He was no sooner on shore, but
he flew away to his father, like an arrow out of a bow. It would
have made any man shed tears, in spite of the firmest resolution, to
have seen the first transports of this poor fellow's joy when he came
to his father: how he embraced him, kissed him, stroked his face,
took him up in his arms, set him down upon a tree, and lay down by
him; then stood and looked at him, as any one would look at a
strange picture, for a quarter of an hour together; then down upon
the ground, and stroke his legs, and kiss them, and then get up
again, and stare at him; one would have thought the fellow be-
witched.
It would be needless to take notice of all the ceremonies and
civilities that the Spaniards received me with. The first Spaniard,
who, as I said, I knew very well, was he whose life I had saved: he
came towards the boat, attended by one more, carrving a flag of
truce also: and he not only did not know me at first, but he had no
thoughts, no notion of its being me that was come, till I spoke to
him. "Senhor," said I, in Portuguese, "do you not know mef"
A.t which he spoke not a word, but giving his musket to the man that
wati with him, threw his arms abroad, saying something in Spanish
that I did not perfectly hear, came forward and embraced me;
telling me he was inexcusable not to know the face again, that he
had once seen as if an angel came from heaven to save his life: he
said abundance of very handsome things, as a well-bred Spaniard
always knows how; and then beckoning to the person that attended
him, bade him go and call out his comrades. He then asked me if
I would walk to my old habitation, where he would give me posses-
sion of my own house again, and where I should see they had made
but mean improvements: so I walked along with him; but, alas! I
could no more find the place again than if I had never been there;
for they had planted so many trees, and placed them in such a
posture, so thick and close to one another, and in ten years' time
they were grown so big, that, in short, the place was inaccessible,
except by such windings and blind ways as they themselves only,
who made them, could hnd.
I asked them what put them upon all these fortifications: he
told me I would say there was need enough of it, when they had
given me an account how they had passed their time since their
arriving in the island, especially after they had the misfortune to
find that I was gone.
As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that were left
behind, and of whom, he said, he had a long story to tell me, the
Spaniards all thought themselves much better among the savages,
only that their number was so small: and, says he, had they beta
strong enough, we had been all long ago in purgatory; and with
that he crossed himself on the breast. "But, sir," says he, "I hope
you will not be displeased when I shall tell you how, forced by
necessity, we were obliged, for our own preservation, to disarm them,
and make them our subjects, who would not be content with being
moderately our masters, but would be our murderers." I answered:
"I was heartily afraid of it when I left them there, and nothing
trouoled me at my parting from the island but that they were not
come back, that 1 might have put them in possession of everything
first, and left the others in a state of subjection, as they deserved;
but if they had reduced them to it, I was very glad, and should be
very far from finding any fault with it; for 1 knew they were a
parcel of refractory, ungoverned villains, and were fit for any manner
of mischief."
While 1 was saying this, the man came whom he had sent
back, and with him eleven men more. In the dress they were in, it
was impossible to guess what nation they were of; but he made all
clear, both to them and to me. First he tnrned to me, and pointing
to them, said, "These, sir, are some of the gentlemen who owe
their lives to you;" and then turning to them, and pointing to me,
he let them know who I was; upon which they all came up, one by
one, not as if they had been sailors and ordinary fellows, and the
like, but really as if they had been ambassadors of noblemen, and I
a monarch or great conqueror: their behaviour was to the list de-
gree obliging and courteous, and vet mixed with a manly, majestic
gravity, which very well became them; and, in short, they had so
much more manners than I, that I scarce knew how to receive their
civilities, much less how to return them in kind.
I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation in the first
person, which will put me to the expense of ten thousand said l'l
and said he's, and he told /lie's, and I told hint's, and the like; but I
shall collect the facts historically, as near as I can gather them out
of my memory, from what they related to me, and from what I met
with in my conversing with them and with the place.
The first thing, however, which I inquired into, that I might begin
where 1 left off, was of their own part; and I desired he would give
me a particular account of his voyage back to his countrymen with
the boat, when I sent him to fetch them over. He told me there
was little variety in that part, for nothing remarkable happened to
them on the way, having nad very calm weather and a smooth sea.
As for his countrymen, it could not be doubted, he said, but that
they were overjoyed to see him (it seems he was the principal man
among them, the captain of the vessel they had been shipwrecked
in having been dead sohie time); they were, he said, the more sur-
prised to see him, because they knew that he was fallen into the
hands of savages, who, they were satisfied, would devour him, as
they did all the rest of their prisoners; that when he told them the
story of his deliverance, and in what manner he was furnished for
carrying them away, it was like a dream to them, and their
astonishment, he said, was somewhat like that of Joseph's brethren,
when he told them who he was, and told them the story of his
exaltation in Pharaoh's court; but when he showed them the arms,
the powder, the ball, and provisions, that he brought them for their
journey or voyage, they were restored to themselves, took a just
share of the joy of their deliverance, and immediately prepared to
come away with him.
Their first business was to get canoes: and in this they were
obliged not to stick so much upon the honest part of it, but to
trespass upon their friendly savages, and to borrow two large
canoes, or periaguas, on pretence of going out a fishing, or for plea-
sure. In these they came away the next morning. It seems they
wanted no time to get themselves ready ., for they had no baggage,
neither clothes nor provisions, nor anything in the world but what
they had on them, and a few roots to eat, of which they used to
make their bread.
They were in all three weeks absent; and in that time, unluckily
for them, I had the occasion offered for my escape, as I mentioned
in my other part, and to get off from the island, leaving three ol
the most impudent, hardened, ungoverned, disagreeable villains
behind me, that any man could desire to meet with; to the poor
Spaniards' great grief and disappointment, you may be sure.
The only just thing the rogues did was, that when the Spaniards
came ashore, they gave my letter to them, and gave them provisions,
and other relief, as I had ordered them to do; also they gave them
the long paper of directions which I had left with them, containing
the particular methods which I took for managing every part of my
life there; the way how I baked my bread, bred up tame goats, and
planted my corn; how I cured my grapes, made my pots, and, in a
word, every thing I did; all this being written down, they gave to
the Spaniards (two of them understood English well enough): nor
did they refuse to accommodate the Spaniards with anything else,
for they agreed very well for some time. They gave them an
equal admission into the house, or cave, and they began to live very
sociably; and the head Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of my
methods, and Friday's father together, managed all their affairs:
but as for the Englishmen, they did nothing but ramble about the
island, shoot parrots, and catch tortoises; and when they came home
at night, the Spaniards provided their suppers for them.
The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, had the others
but let them alone; which, however, they could not find in their
hearts to do long, but, like the dog in the manger, they would not
eat themselves, neither would they let the others eat. The differ-
ences, nevertheless, were at first but trivial, and such as are not
worth relating, but at last it broke out into open war: and it began
with all the rudeness, and insolence that can be imagined, without
reason, without provocation, contrary to nature, and, indeed, to
common sense; and though, it is true, the first relation of it came
from the Spaniards themselves, whom I may call the accusers, yet
when I came to examine the fellows, they could not deny a word
of it.
But before I come to the particulars of this part, I must supply a
defect in my former relation; and this was, I forgot to set down,
among the rest, that just as we were weighing the anchor to set sail,
there happened a little quarrel on board of our ship, which I was
afraid would have turned to a second mutiny; nor was it appeased
till the captain, rousing up his courage, and taking us all to his
assistance, parted them by force, and making two of the most re-
fractory fellows prisoners, ne laid them in irons; and as they had
been active in the former disorders, and let fall some ugly, dangerous
words, the second time he threatened to carry them in irons to
England, and have them hanged there for mutiny, and running away
with the ship. This, it seems, though the captain did not intend to
do it, frightened some other men in the ship; and some of them had
put it into the heads of the rest that the captain only gave them
good words for the present, till they should come to some English
port, and that then they should be all put into gaol, and tried for
their lives. The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted us
with it; upon which it 'was desired that I, who still passed for a
great man among them, should go down with the mate, and satisfy
the men, and tell them that they might be assured, if they behaved
well the rest of the voyage, all they had done for the time past
should be pardoned. So I went, and after passing my honour's
word to them, they appeared easy, and the more so when I caused
the two men that were in irons to be released and forgiven.
But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night; the
wind also falling calm next morning, we found that our two men who
had been laid in irons had stole each of them a musket, and some
other weapons (what powder and shot they had we knew not), and
had taken the ship's pinnace, which was not yet hauled up, and run
away with her to his companions in roguery on shore. As soon as
we found this, I ordered the long boat on shore, with twelve men and
the mate, and away they went to 6cek the rogues; but they could
neither find them nor any of the rest, for they all fled into the woods
when they saw the boat coming on shore. The mate was once
resolved, in justice to their roguery, to have destroyed their planta-
tions, burned all their household-stuff and furniture, and left them to
shift without it; but having no orders, he let it all alone, left every-
thing as he found it, and bringing the pinnace away, came on board
without tbem. These two men made their number five; but the
other three villains were so much more wicked than they, that after
they had been two or three days together, they turned the two new
comers out of doors to shift for themselves, and would have nothing
to do with tbem; nor could they, for a good while, be persuaded to
give them any food: as for the Spaniards, they were not yet come.
When the Spaniards came first on shore, the business began to go
forward: the Spaniards would have persuaded the three English
brutes to have taken in their two countrymen again, that, as they
said, they might be all one family; but they would not hear of it:
so the two poor fellows lived by themselves; and finding nothing
but industry and application would make them live comfortably, they
pitched their tents on the north shore of the island, but a little
more to the west, to be out of danger of the savages, who always
landed on the east parts of the island.
Here they built them two huts, one to lodge in, and the other to
lay up their magazines and stores in;.and the Spaniards having
fven them some corn for seed, and especially some of the peas which
had left them, they dug. planted and enclosed, after the pattern 1
had set for them all, and began to live pretty well. Their f rrt crop
of corn was on the ground; and though it was but a litt'e bit of
•and which they had dug up first, having had but a little time, yet
it was enough to relieve them, and find them with bread and otuer
eatables.
SECTION XXXIV.
THE ACCOUNT CONTINUED—QUARRELS BETWEEN THE ENGLISHMEN
A BATTLE BETWEEN TWO FARTIES OE SAVAGES WHO VISIT THE
ISLAND—ERESH MUTINY AMONG THE SETTLERS.
They were going on in this little thriving posture, when the three
unnatural rogues, their own countrymen too, in mere humour, and
to insult them, came and bullied them, and told them the island was
theirs; that the Governor, meaning me, had given them the posses-
sion of it, and nobody else had any right to it; and that they should
build no houses upon their ground, unless they would pay rent for
them.
The two men, thinking ther v/crc jesting at first, asked them to
come in and sit down, and see whav fine houses they were that they
had built, and to tell them what rent thcv demanded; and one of
chem merrily said, if they were the ground-landlords, he hoped, if
they built tenements upou their land, and made improvements, they
would, according to the custom of landlords, grant a long lease; and
desired they would get a scrivener to draw the writings. One of
the three, cursing and raging, told them they should see they
were not in jest; and going to a little place at a distance, where the
honest men had made a fire to dress their victuals, he takes a fire-
brand, and claps it to the outside of their hut, and very fairly set it
on fire; and it would have been burned all down in a few minutes,
if one of the two had not run to the fellow, thrust him away, and
trod the fire out with his feet, and that not without «ome difficulty
too.
The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man's thrusting him
away, that he returned upon him, with a pole he had in his hand,
and had not the man avoided the blow very nimbly, and run into the
hut, he had ended his days at once. His comrade, seeing the danger
they were both in, ran in after him, and immediately they both came
out with their muskets, and the man that was first struck at with
the pole knocked the fellow down that had begun the quarrel with
the stock of his musket, and that before the other two could come
to help him; and then seeing the rest come at them, they stood to-
gether, and presenting the other ends of their pieces to them, bade
tnem stand off.
The others had fire-arms with them too; but one of the two hon-
est men, bolder than his comrade, and made desperate by his danger,
told them, if they offered to move hand or foot they were dead men,
and boldly commanded them to lay down their arms. They did not,
indeed, lay down their arms, but seeing him so resolute it brought
them to a parley, and they consented to take their wounded man
with them and be gone; and, indeed, it seems the fellow was
wounded sufficiently with the blow. However, they were much in
the wrong, since they had the advantage, that they did not disarm
them effectually, as they might have done, and have gone immedi-
ately to the Spaniards, and given them an account of how the rogues
had treated them ; for the three villians studied nothing but revenge,
and every day gave them some intimation that they did so.
But not to crowd this part with an account of the lesser part of
the rogueries, such as treading down their corn; shooting three
young kids and a she goat, which the poor men had got to breed up
tame for their store; and, in a word plaguing them night and day in
this manner; it forced the two men to such a desperation, that they
resolved to fight them all three, the first time they had a fair oppor-
tunity. In order to this, they resolved to go to the castle, as they
called it (that was, my old dwelling), where the three rogues and the
Spaniards all lived together at that time, intending to have a fair
battle, and the Spaniards should stand by, to see fair play; so they
got up in the morning before day, and came to the place, and called
the Englishmen by their names, telling a Spaniard that answered
that they wanted to speak with them.
It happened that the day before, two of the Spaniards, having
been in the woods, had seen one of the two Englishmen, whom, for
distinction, I called the honest men, and he haa made a sad com-
plaint to the Spaniards of the barbarous usage they had met with
from their three countrymen, and how they had ruined their planta-
tion, and destroyed their corn that they had laboured so hard to
bring forward, and killed the mileh goat and their three kids, which
was all they had provided for their sustenance; and that if he and
his friends, meaning the Spaniards, did not assist them again, they
should be starved. When the Spaniards came home at night, and
they were all at supper, one of them took the freedom to reprove
the three Englishmen, though in very gentle and mannerly terms,
and asked them how they could be so cruel, they being harmless, in-
offensive fellows; that they were putting themselves in a way to
subsist by their labour, and that it had cost them a great deal ol
pains to bring things to such perfection as they were then in.
One of the Englishmen returned very brisklv: "What had they
to do there? that they came on shore without leave; and that they
should not plant or build upon the island; it was none of their
?round." "Why," says the Spaniard, very calmly, "Senhor
nglese, they must not starve." The Englishman replied, like a
rough-hewn tarpauling: "They might starve and be hanged; they
should not plant nor build in that place." "But what must they
do, then, senhor?" said the Spaniard. Another of the brutes
returned: "Do? they should be servants, and work for them."
"But bow can you expect that of them?" says the Spaniard;
"they are not bought with your money: you have no right to make
them servants." The Englishman answered: "The island was
theirs; the Governor had given it to them, and no man had anvthing
to do there but themselves;" and with that swore by his Maker
that they would go and burn all their new huts; they should build
none upon their land." "Why, senhor," says the Spaniard, "by
the same rule, we must be your servants too." "Ay," says the
bold dog, "and so you shall too before we have done with you."
The Spaniard only smiled at that, and made him no answer. How-
ever, this little discourse had heated them; and starting up, one
says to the other, I think it was he tltey called Will Atkins: "Come
Jack, let's go, and have 'tother brush with 'em; we'll demolish their
castle, I'll warrant you; they shall plant no colony in our
dominions."
Upon this they went all trooping away, with every man a gun, a
pistol, and a sword, and muttered some insolent things among them-
selves, of what they would do to the Spaniards too, when opportu-
nity offered; but the Spaniards, it seems, did not so perfectlv
understaud them as to know all the particulars, only that, in general,
they threatened them hard for taking the two Englishmen's part.
Whither they went, or how they bestowed their time that evening,
the Spaniards said they did not know; but it seems they wandered
about the country part of the night, and then lying down in the
place which I used to call my bowe r, they were weary, and overslept
themselves. The case was this: they had resolved to stay till mid-
night, and so take the two poor men when they were asleep, and, as
they acknowledged afterwards, intended to set fire to their huts
while they were in them, and either burn them there, or murder
them as they came out; as malice seldom sleeps very sound, it was
very strange they should not have been kept awake.
However, as the two men had also a design upon them, as I have
said, though a much fairer one than that of burning and murdering,
it happened, and very luckily for them all, that they were up, and
gone abroad, before the bloody-minded rogues came to their huts.
When they came there, and found the men gone, Atkins, who, it
seems, was the forwardest man, called out to his comrade: "Ha,
Jack, here's the. nest, but the birds are flown. They mused awhile
to think what should be the occasion of their being gone abroad so
soon, and suggested presently that the Spaniards had given them
notice of it; and with that they shook hands, and swore to one
another that they would be revenged of the Spaniards. As soon as
they had made this bloody bargain, they fell to work with the poor
men's habitation: they did not set fire, indeed, to anything, but they
pulled down both their houses, and pulled them so limb from limb,
that they left not the least stick standing, or scarce any sign on the
ground where they stood; they tore all their little collected house-
hold stuff in pieces, and threw every thing about in such a manner,
that the poor men afterwards found some of their things a mile off
their habitation. When they had done all this, they pulled up all
the young trees which the poor men had planted; pulled up an en-
closure they had made to secure their cattle and their corn; and, in
a word, sacked and plundered every thing as completely as a horde
of Tartars would have done.
The two men were, at this juncture, gone to find them out, and
had resolved to fight them wherever they had been, though they
were but two to three; so that, had they met, there certainly would
have been bloodshed among them; for they were all very stout,
resolute fellows, to give them their due.
But Providence took more care to keep them asunder than they
themselves could do to meet: for, as if they had dogged one ano-
ther, when the three were gone thither, the two were here; and
afterwards, when the two went back to find them, the three were
come to the old habitation again: we shall see their different con-
duct presently. When the three came back bike furious creatures,
flushed with the rage which the work they had been about had put
them into, they came up to the Spaniards, and tokTthem what tlicy
had done, by way of scoff and bravado; and one of them, stepping
up to one of the Spaniards, as if they had been a couple of boys at
play, takes hold of his hat as it was upon his head, and giving it a
twirl about, fleering in his face, says to him: "And you, Senhor
Jack Spaniard, shall have the same sauce, if you do not mend your
manners." The Spaniard, who, though a quiet, civil man, was as
brave a man as could be, and withal a strong, well-made man, looked
at him for a good while, and then, having no weapon in his hand,
stepped gravely up to him, and with one blow of his fist knocked
him down, as an ox is felled with a pole-axe; at which one of the
rogues, as insolent as the first, fired his pistol at the Spaniard imme
diately: he mussed his body, indeed, for the bullets went IhrougL
his hair, but one of them touched the tip of his car, and he bled
pretty much. The blood made the Spaniard believe he was more
hurt than he really was, and that put him into some heat, for before
he acted all in a perfect calm; but now, resolving to go through
with his work, he stooped, and took the fellow's musket whom ne
had knocked down, and was just going to shoot the man who had
fired at him, when the rest of the Spaniards, being in the cave, came
out, and calling to him not to shoot, they stepped in, secured the
other two, and took their arms from them.

When they were thus disarmed, and found they had made all the
Spaniards their enemies, as well as their own countrymen, they
begau to cool, and, giving the Spaniards better words, would have
their arms again; but the Spaniards, considering the feud that was
between them and the other two Englishmen, and that it would be
the best method they could take to keep them from killing one ano-
ther, told them they would do them no harm, and if they would live
peaceably, they would be very willing to assist and associate with
them as ihey did before; but that they could not think of giving
them their arms again, while they appeared so resolved to do mis-
chief with them to their own countrymen, and had even threatened
them all to make them their servants.
The rogues were now no more capable to hear reason than to act
with reason; but being refused their arms, they went raving away,
and raging like madmen, threatening what they would do, though
they had no fire-arms. But the Spaniards, despising their threaten-
ing, told them they should take care how they offered any injury to
their plantation or cattle, for if they did, they would shoot them as
they would ravenous beasts, wherever they found them; and if they
fell into their hands alive, they should certainly be hanged. However,
this was far from cooling them, but away they went, raging and
swearing like furies As soon as they were gone, the two men
came back, in passion and rage enough also, though of another
kind; for, having been at their plantation, and finding it all demol-
ished and destroyed, as above, it will easily be supposed they had
provocation enough. They could scarce have room to tell their
tale, the Spaniards were so eager to tell theirs. And it was strange
enough to find that three men should thus bully nineteen, and
receive no punishment at all.
The Spaniards, indeed, despised them, and especially, having thus
disarmed them, made light of their threatenings; but the two Eng-
lishmen resolved to have their remedy against them, what pains
soever it cost to find them out. But the Spaniards interposed here
too, and told them, that as they had disarmed them, they could not
consent that they (the two) should pursue them with fire-arms, and
perhaps kill them. "But," said the grave Spaniard, who was their
governor, "we will endeavour to make them do you justice, if you
will leave it to us; for there is no doubt but they will come to us
again, when their passion is over, being not able to subsist without
our assistance: we promise you to make no peace with them, without
having a full satisfaction for you; and upon this condition we hope
you will promise to use no violence with them, other than in your
own defence." The two Englishmen yielded to this very awkwardly,
and with great reluctance; but the Spaniards protested they did it
only to keep them from bloodshed, and to make all easy at last.
"For," said they, "we are not so many of us; here is room enough
for us all, and it is a great pity we should not be all good friends."
At length they did consent, and waited for the issue of the thing,
living for some days with the Spaniards, for their own habitation
was destroyed.
In about five days' time the three vagrants, tired with wandering,
and almost starved with hunger, having chiefly lived on turtles' eggs
all that while, came back to the grove; and finding my Spaniard,
who, as I have said, was the governor, and two more with him walk-
ing by the side of the creek, they came up in a very submissive,
humble manner, and begged to be received again into the family.
The Spaniards used them civilly, but told them they had acted so
unnaturally by their countrymen, and so very grossly by them (the
Spaniards), that they could not come to any conclusion without con-
sulting the two Englishmen and the rest; but, however, they would
go to them, and discourse about it, and they should know in half an
hour. It may be guessed that they were very hard put to it: for it
seems, as they were to wait this half hour for an answer, they begged
they would send them out some bread in the meantime, which they
did, sending at the same time a large piece of goat's flesh, and a
boiled parrot, which they ate very heartily, for they were hungry
enough.
After half an hour's consultation, they were called in, and a long
debate ensued; their two countrymen charging them with the ruin
of all their labour, and a design to murder them; all which they
owned before, and therefore could not deny now. Upon the whole,
the Spaniards acted the moderator between them; and as they had
obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt the three while they were
naked and unarmed, so they now obliged the three to go and rebuild
their fellows' two huts, one to be of the same, and the other of
larger dimensions, than they were before; to fence their ground
again where they had pulled up their fences, plant trees in the room
of those pulled up, dig up the land again for planting corn where
they had spoiled it, and, in a word, to restore every thing in the
same state as they found it, as near as they could; for entirely it
could not be, the season for the corn, and the growth of the trees
and hedges, not being possible to be recovered.
Well, they submitted to all this; and as they had plenty of pro-
visions given them all the while, they grew very orderly, and the
whole society began to live pleasantly and agreeably together again:
only that these three fellows could never be persuaded to work, 1
mean for themselves, except now and then a little, just as they
pleased; however, the Spaniards told them plainly, that if they
would but live sociably and friendly together, and study the good of
the whole plantation, they would be content to work for them, and
let them walk about and be as idle as they pleased; and thus having
lived pretty well together for a month or two, the Spaniards gave
them arms again, and gave them liberty to go abroad with them as
before.
It was not above a week after they had these arms, and went
abroad, but the ungrateful creatures began to be as insolent and
troublesome as before: but, however, an accident happened pre-
sently upon this, which endangered the safety of them all, and they
were obliged to lay by all private resentments, and look to the pre-
servation of their livcs.
It happened one night, that the Spanish governor, as I call him,
that is to say, the Spaniard whose life I had saved, who was now
the captain, or leader, or governor of the rest, found himself very
uneasy in the night, and could by no means get any sleep: he was
perfectly well in body, as he told me the story, only found his
thoughts tumultuous; his mind ran upon men fighting and killing
one another, but he was broad awake, and could not by any
means get any sleep: in short, he lay a great while; but growing
more and more uneasy, he resolved to rise. As they lay, being so
many of them, upon goats' skins laid thick upon such couches and
pads as they made for themselves, and not in hammocks and ship
beds, as I did, who was but one, so they had little to do, when they
Were willing to rise, but to get up upon their feet, and perhaps put
on a coat, such as it was, and their pumps, and they were ready for
going any way that their thoughts guided them. Being thus got up,
he looked out; but, being dark, he could see little or nothing; and
besides, the trees which I had planted, as in my former account is
described, and which were now grown tall, intercepted his sight, so
that he could only look up, and see that it was a clear starlight
night, and hearing no noise he returned and laid him down again;
but it was all one, he could not sleep, nor could he compose him-
self to anything like rest; but his thoughts were to the last degree
uneasy, and he Knew not for what.
Having made some noise with rising and walking about, going out
and coming in, another of them waked, and calling, asked who it
was that was up. The governor told him how it haabeen with him.
"Say vou so?" says the other Spaniard; "such things are not to
be slighted, I assure you; there is certainly some mischief working
near us;" and presently he asked him: "Where are the English-
men?" "They are all in their huts," says he, "safe enough. It
seems that the Spaniards had kept possession of the main apartment,
and had made a place for the three Englishmen, who, since their
last mutiny, were always quartered by themselves, and could not
come at the rest. "Well," says the Spaniard, "there is something
in it, I am persuaded, from my own experience. I am satisfied our
spirits embodied have a converse with, and receive intelligence from,
the spirits unembodied, and inhabiting the invisible world; and this
friendly notice is given for our advantage, if we knew how to make
use of it. Come," says he, "let us go and look abroad; and if we
find nothing at all in it to justify the trouble, I'll tell you a story to
the purpose, that shall convince you of the justice of my proposing
it." ''
In a word, they went out, to go to the top of the hill where I
used to go; but they being strong, and a good company, not alone,
as I was, used none of my cautions, to go up by the ladder, and
pulling it up after them, to go up a second stage to the top, but
were going round through the grove, unconcerned and unwary, when
they were surprised with seeing a light as of fire, a very little way
off from them, and hearing the voices of men, not one or two, but of
a great number.
In all the discoveries I had made of the savages landing on the
island, it was my constant care to prevent them making the least
discovery of their being any inhabitant upon the place; and when
by any occasion they came to know it, they felt it so effectually,
that uiey that got away were scarce able to give any account of it;
for we disappeared as soon as possible; nor did ever any that had
seen me escape to tell any one else, except the three savages in our
last encounter, who jumped into the boat; of whom I mentioned,
I was afraid they should go home and bring more help. Whether
it was the consequence of the escape of those men that so great a
number came now together, or whether they came ignorantly, and
by accident, on their usnal bloody errand, the Spaniards could not,
it seems, understand; but whatever it was, it had been their business
either to have concealed themselves, or not to have seen them at all,
much less to have let the savages have seen that there were any in-
habitants in the place; or to have fallen upon them so effectually, as
that not a man of them should have escaped, which could only nave
been bv getting in between them and their boats; but this* presence
of mind was wanting to them, which was the ruin of their tranquil-
lityfor a great while.
We need not doubt but that the governor and the man with him,
surprised with this sight, ran back immediately, and raised their fel-
lows, giving them an acaount of the imminent danger they were all
in, and they again as readily took the alarm; but it was impossible
to persuade them to stay close within, where they were, but they
must all run out to see how tiiings stood.
While it was dark, indeed, they were well enough, and they had
opportunity enough, for some hours, to view them by the light of
the three hres they had made at a distance from one another; what
they were doing they knew not, and what to do themselves they
knew not. For, first, the enemy were too many; and, secondly,
they did not keep together, but were divided into several parties,
and were on shore in several places.
The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this sight; and
when they found that the fellows ran straggling all over the shore,
they made no doubt but, first or last, some of them would chop in
upon their habitation, or upon some other place where they would
see the token of inhabitants; and they were in great purplexity also
for fear of their flock of goats, which would have been little less
than starving them, if they should have been destroyed; so the first
thing they resolved upon was to despatch three men away before it
was light, two Spaniards and one Englishman, to drive all the goats
away to the great valley where the cave was, and, if need were, to
drive them into the very cave itself. Could they have seen the
savages all together in one body, and at a distance from their canoes,
they resolved, if there had been a hundred of them, to have attacked
them , but that could not be obtained: for they were some of them
two miles off from the other; and, as it appeared afterwards were of
two different nations.
After having mused a great while om the course they should take,
and beating their brains m considering their present circumstances,
they resolved, at last, while it was still dark, to send the old savage,
Friday's father, out as a spy, to learn, if possible, something con-
cerning them; as what they came for, what they intended to do,
and the like. The old man readily undertook it; and stripping
himself quite naked, as most of the savages were, away he went.
After he had been gone an hour or two, he brings word that he has
been among them undiscovered; that he found they were two
parties, and of two several nations, who had war with one another,
and had a great battle in their own country; and that both sides
having had several prisoners taken in the fight, they were, by mere
chance, landed all on the same island, for the devouring their
prisoners and making merry, but their coming so by chance to
the same place had spoiled all their mirth; that they were in a great
rage at one another, and were so near, that he believed they would
fight again as soon as daylight began to appear: but he did not
perceive that they had any notion of any body being on the island
but themselves. He had hardly made an end of telling his story,
when they could perceive, by the unusual noise they made, that the
two little armies were engaged in a bloody fight.
Friday's father used all the arguments he could to pursuade our
people to lie close, and not be seen: he told them their safety con-
sisted in it, and that they had nothing to do but lie still, and the
savages would kill one another to their hands, and then the rest
would go away; and it was so to a tittle. But it was impossible to
prevail, especially upon the Englishmen; their curiosity was so
importunate upon their prudentials, that they must ran out and see
the battle; however they used some caution too, viz. they did not
go openly, just by their own dwelling, but went farther into the
woods, and placed themselves to advantage, where they might
securely see them manage the fight, and, as they thought, not be
seen by them; but it seems the savages did see them, as we shall
find hereafter.
The battle was very fierce; and, if I might believe one of the
Englishmen, one of them said he could perceive that some of them
were men of great bravery, of invincible spirits, and of great policy
in guiding the fight. The battle, they said, held two hours before
they could guess which party would be beaten; but then, that party
which was nearest our people's habitation began to appear weaksst,
and, after some time more, some of them began to fly; and this put
our men again into a great consternation, lest any one of those that
fled should run into the grove before their dwelling for shelter, and
thereby involuntarily discover the place; and that, by consequence,
the pursuers would do the like in search of them. Upon tins they
resolved they would stand armed within the wall, and whoever came
into the grove, they resolved to sally over the wall and kill them; so
that, if possible, not one should return to give an account of it: they
ordered also that it should be done with their swords or by knocking
them down with the stocks of their muskets, but not by shooting
them, for fear of raising an alarm ny the noise.
As they expected, it fell out: three of the routed army fled for
life, and crossing the creek, ran directly into the place, not in the
least knowing whither they went, but running as into a thick wood
for shelter. The scout they kept to look abroad gave notice of this
within, with this addition, to our men's great satisfaction, viz. that
the eonquorors had not pursued them, or seen which way they were
gone: upon this, the Spaniard governor, a man of humanity, would
not suffer them to kill the three fugitives, but sending three men
out by the top of the hill, ordered them to go round, come in behind
them, surprise and take them prisoners; which was done. The
residue of the conquered people fled to their canoes, and got off to
tea; the victors retired, made no pursuit, or very little, but drawing
themselves into a body together, gave two screaming shouts, which
they supposed was by the way of trinmph, and so the fight ended:
and the same day, about three o'clock in the afternoon, they also
marched to their canoes. And thus the Spaniards had their island
again free to themselves, their fright was over, and they saw no
savages in several years after.
After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of their den,
and viewing the field of Dattle, they found about two-and-thirty men
dead on the spot: some were killed with great long arrows, some of
which were found sticking in their bodies; but most of them were
killed with great wooden swords, sixteen or seventeen of which were
found on the field of battle, and as many bows, with a great many
arrows. These swords were strange, great, unwieldy things, and
they must be very strong men that used them; most of those men
that were killed with them had their heads mashed to pieces, as we
may say, or, as we call it in English, their brains knocked out, and
several their arms and legs broken; so that it was evident they
fight with inexpressible rage and fury. We found not one man that
was not stone-dead, for either they stay by their enemy till they have
quite killed him, or they carry all the wounded men that are not
quite dead away with them.
This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great while; the
sight had filled them with horror, and the consequences appeared
terrible to the last degree, especially upon supposing that some
time or other they should fail into the hands of those creatures, who
would not only kill them as enemies, but kill them for food, as we
kill our cattle; arid they professed to me, that the thoughts of being
eaten up like beef or mutton, though it was supposed that it was
not to be till they were dead, had something in it so horrible, that
it nauseated their very stomachs, made them sick when they thought
of it, and filled their minds with such unusual terror, that they were
not themselves for some weeks after. This, as I said, tamed even
the three English brutes I have been speaking of, and, for a great
while after, they were tractable, and went about the common
business of the whole society well enough; planted, sowed, reaped,
and began to be all naturalised to the country. But some time after
this, they fell into such measures again, as brought them into a great
deal of trouble.
They had taken three prisomers, as I observed; and these three
being lusty, stout young fellows, they made them servants, Etd
ADVENTURES 0* ROBINSON CRUSOE.
taught tbcm to work for them; and as slaves, they did well enough;
but they did not take their measures with them as I did by my man
Friday, viz. to begin with them upon the principle of having saved
their lives, and then instruct them in the rational principles of life;
r*y

much less of religion, civilizing and reducing them by kind usage
and affectionate arguings; but as they gave tliem their food every
day, so they gave them their work too, and kept them fully employed
in drudgery enough; but they failed in this by it, that they never
had them to assist them, and fight for them, as 1 had my man Friday,
who was as true to me as the flesh upon my bones.
But to come to the family part. Being all now good friends, for
common danger, as I said above, had effectually reconciled them,
they began to consider their general circumstances; and the first
thing that came under their consideration was, whether, seeing the
savages particularly haunted that side of the island, and that there
were more remote and retired parts of it equally adapted to their way
of living, and manifestly to their advantage, they should not rather
move their habitation, and plant in some more proper place for their
safety, and especially for the security of their cattle and corn.
Upon this, after long debate, it was concluded that they would
not remove their habitation; because that, some time or other, they
thought they might hear from their governor again, meaning me;
and if I should seud any one to seek them, I should be sure to direct
them to that side; where, if they should find the place demolished,
they would conclude the savages had killed us all, and we were gone;
and so our supply would go too. But as to their corn and cattle,
they agreed to remove them into the valley where my cave was,
where the land was as proper for both, and where, indeed, there was
land enough; however, upon second thoughts, they altered one part
of their resolution too, and resolved only to remove part of their
eattle thither, and plant part of their corn there; and so if one part
was destroyed, the other might be saved. And one part of prudence
they used, which it was very well they did, viz. that they never
trusted those three savages, which they had made prisoners, with
knowing anything of the plantation they had made in that valley, or
of any cattle they had there, much less of the cave there, which
they kept, in case of necessity, as a safe retreat; and thither they
carried also the two barrels of powder which I had sent them at my
coming away. But, however, they resolved not to change their
habitation, yet they agreed, that as I had carefully covered it
first with a wall or fortihcation, and then witji a grove of trees, so
seeing their safety consisted entirely in their being concealed, of
which they were now fully convinced, they set to work to cover and
conceal the place yet more effectually than before. For this purpose,
as I planted trees, or rather thrust in stakes, which in time all grew
to be trees, for some good distance before the entrance into my
apartments, they went on in the same manner, and filled up the rest
of that whole space of ground, from the trees I had set, quite down
to the side of the creek, where, as I said, 1 landed my floats, and
even into the very ooze where the tide flowed, not so much as leav-
ing any place to land, or any sign that there had been any landing
thereabout; these stakes also being of a wood very forward to grow,
as I have noted formerly, they took care to have them generally
much larger and taller than those which I had planted; and as they
grew apace, so they planted them so very thick and close together,
that when they had Tieen three or four years grown, there was no
piercing with the eye any considerable way into the plantation; and
as for that part which I had planted, the trees were grown as thick
as a man's thigh, and among them they placed so many other short
ones, and so thick, that, in a word, it stood like a palisade a quarter
of a mile thick, and it was next to impossible to penetrate it, but
with a little army to cut it all down; for a little dog could hardlv
get between the trees, they stood so close.
But this was not all; for they did the same by all the ground to
the right hand and the left, and round even to the top of the hill,
leaving no way, not so much as for themselves to come out, but by
the ladder placed up to the side of the hill, and then lifted up, and
placed again from the first stage up to the top; and when the ladder
was token down, nothing but what had wings, or witchcraft to assist
it, could come at them. This was excellently well contrived; nor
was it less than what they afterwards found occasion for; which
served to convince me, that as human prudence has the authority of
Providence to justify it, so it has doubtless the direction of Provi
dence to set it to work; and if we listened carefully to the voice of
it, I am persuaded we might prevent many of the disasters which
our lives are now, by our own negligence, subjected to: but this by
the way.
I return to the story.—They lived two years after this in perfect
retirement, and had no more visits from the savages. They had
indeed an alarm given to them one morning, which put them into a
great consternation; for some of the Spaniards being out early one
morning on the west side, or rather eud, of the island (which was
that end where I never went, for fear of being discovered), they
were surprised with seeing about twenty canoes of Indians just
coming on shore. They made the best of their way home, in hurry
enough; and giving the alarm to their comrades, they kept close all
that day and the next, going out only at night to make their obser-
vation: but they had the good luck to be mistaken; for wherever
the savages went, they did not land that time on the island, but
pursued some other design.
And now they had another broil with the three Englishmen; one
of whom, a most turbulent fellow, being in a rage at one of the
three slaves, which I mentioned they had taken, because the fellow
had not done something right which he bid him do, and seemed a

little untractable in his showing him, drew a hatchet out of a frog-
belt, in which he wore it by his side, and fell upon the poor savage,
not to correct him, but to kill him. One of the Spaniards, who was
by, seeing him give the fellow a barbarous cut with the hatchet,
which he aimed at his head, but struck into his shoulders, so that he
thought he had cut the poor creature's arms off, ran to him, and en-
treating him not to murder the poor man, placed himself between
him and the savage, to prevent the mischief. The fellow being
enraged the more at this, struck at the Spaniard with his hatchet,
aud swore he would serve him as he intended to serve the savage;
which the S|>aniard perceiving, avoided the blow, and with a shovel
which he had in his hand (for they were all working in the field
about their corn-land) knocked the brute down. Another of the
Englishmen running at the same time to help his comrade, knocked
the Spaniard down; and then two Spaniards more came in to help
their man, and a third Englishman fell in upon them. They had
none of them any fire-arms, or any other weapons but hatchets and
other tools, except this third Englishman; he had one of my rusty
cutlasses, with which he made at the two last Spaniards and wounded
them both. This fray set the whole family in an uproar, and more
help coming in, they took the three Englishmen prisoners. The
next question was, what should be done with them? They had
been so often mutinous, and were so very furious, so desperate, and
so idle withal, they knew not what course to take with them, for
they were mischievous to the highest degree, and valued not what
hurt they did to any man; so that, in short, it was not safe to live
with tbem.
The Spaniard who was governor told them, in so many words, that
if they had been of his own country, he would have hanged them;
for all laws and all governors were to preserve society, and those
who were dangerous to the society ought to be expelled out of it;
but as they were Englishmen, and that it was to the generous kind-
ness of an Englishman that they all owed their preservation and
deliverance, he would use them with all possible lenity, and would
leave them to the judgment of the other two Englishmen, who were
their countrymen.
One of the two honest Englishmen stood up, and said they desired
it might not be left to them: "For," says he, '* I am sure we ought
to sentence them to the gallows:" and with that he gives an account
how Will Atkins, one of the three, had proposed to nave all the five
Englishmen join together, and murder all the Spaniards when they
were in their sleep.
When the Spanish governor heard this, he oalls to Will Atkins,
"How Senhor Atkins, would you murder us all? What have you
to say to that?" The hardened villain was so far from denying it,
that he said it was true: and, that they would do it still,
before they had done with them." "Well, but Senhor Atkins,"
says the Spaniard, "what have we done to you, that you will kill
us? And what would you get by killing us? And what must
we do to prevent your killing us? Must we kill you, or you kill
us? Why will you put us to the necessity of this, Senhor Atkins?"
says the Spaniard, very calmly and smiling. Senhor Atkins was in
such a rage at the Spaniard's making a jest of it, that, had he not
been helcf by three men, and withal had no weapon near him, it was
thought he would have attempted to have killed the Spaniard in the
middle of all the company. This hair-brained carriage obliged them to
consider seriously what was to be done: the two Englishmen, and
the Spaniard who saved the poor savage, were of the opinion that
they should hang one of the three, for an example to the rest; and
tbat particularly it should be he that had twice attempted to commit
murder with his hatchet; and, indeed, there was some reason to
believe he had done it, for the poor savage was in such a miserable
condition with the wound he had received, that it was thought he
could not live. But the governor Spaniard still said no; it was an
Englishman that had saved all their lives, and he would never con-
sent to put an Englishman to death, though he had murdered half
of them; nay, he said, if he had been killed himself by an English-
man, and had time left to speak, it should be that they should
pardon him.
This was so positively insisted on by the governor Spaniard, that
there was no gainsaying it; and as,, merciful counsels are most apt to
prevail, where they are so earnestly pressed, so they all came into
it: but then it was to be considered what should be done to keep
them from doing the mischief they designed; for all agreed, governor
and all, that means were to be used for preserving the society from
danger. After a long debate, it was agreed, first, that they should
be disarmed, and not permitted to have either gun, powder, shot,
sword, or any weapon; and should be turned out of the society, and
left to live where they would, and how they would, by themselves;
but that none of the rest, either Spaniards or English, should con-
verse with them, speak with them, or have anything to do with
them: that they should be forbid to come within a certain distance
of the place where the rest dwelt; and if they offered to commit
any disorder, so as to spoil, burn, kill, or destroy any of the corn,
plantings, buildings, fences, or catlle belonging to the society, they
should die without mercy, and they would shoot them wherever they
could find them.
Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned them out to
shift for themselves. They went away sullen and refractory, as
neither content to go away nor to stay; but as there was no remedy,
they went, pretending to go and choose a place were they woulu1
settle themselves; and some provisions were given them, but no
weapons.
About four or five days after, they came again for some victuals,
and gave the governor an account where they had pitched their
tents, and marked themselves out a habitation and plantation;
and it was a very convenient place, indeed, on the remotest part of
the island, N.E., much about the place where I had providentially
landed in my first voyage, when 1 was driven out to sea, the Lord
alone knows whither, in my foolish attempt to sail round the island.
Here they built themselves two handsome huts, and contrived
them in a manner like my first habitation, but close under the side
of a hill, having some trees growing already on three sides of it, so
that by planting others, it would be very easilv covered from the
sight, unless narrowly searched for. They desired some dried goats'-
tkins, for beds and covering, which were given them; and upon
giving their words that they would not disturb the rest, or injure any
of their plantations, they gave them hatchets, and what ether tools
they could spare; some peas, barley, and rice, for sowing; and, in a
word, anything they wanted, except arms and ammunition.
They lived in this separate condition about six months, and had
got in their first harvest, though the quantity was but small, the
parcel of land they had planted being but little; for, indeed, having
all their plantation to form, they had a great deal of work upon
their hands; and when they came to make boards and pots, and
such things, they were quite out of their element, and could make
nothing ot it: and when the rainy season came on, for want of a cave
in the earth, they could not keep their grain dry, and it was in great
danger of spoiling; and this humbled them much: so they came
and begged the Spaniards to help them, which they very readily did;
and in four days worked a hole in the side of the hill for them, big
enough to secure their corn and other things from the rain: but it
was but a poor place, at best, compared to mine, and especially as
mine was then, for the Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and made
several new apartments in it.
About three-quarters of a year after this separation, a new frolic
took these rogues, which, together with the former villany they had
committed, brought mischief enough upon them, and had very
nearly been the ruin of the whole colony. The three new associates
began, it seems, to be weary of the laborious life they led, and that
without hope of bettering their circumstances; and a whim took
them, that they would make a voyage to the continent, from whence
the savages came, and would try if they could seize upon some
prisoners among the natives there, and bring them home, so to make
them do the laborious part of their work for them.
The project was not so preposterous, if they had gone no farther:
but they did nothing, and proposed nothing, but had either mischief
in the design, or mischief in the event: and, if I may give my opinion,
they seemed to be under a blast from Heaven; for if we will not allow
a visible curse to pursue visible crimes, how shall we reconcile the
events of things with the divine justice? It was certainly an
apparent vengeance on their crime of mutiny and piracy that
brought them to the state they were in; and they showed not the
least remorse for the crime, but added new villames to it, such as
the piece of monstrous cruelty of wounding a poor slave, because he
did not, or perhaps could not, understand to do what he was directed;
and to wound him in such a manner as made him a cripple all his
life, and in a place where no surgeon or medicine could be had for
his cure; and what was still worse, the murderous intent, or, to do
justice to the crime, the intentional murder, for such to be sure it
was, as was afterwards the formed design they all laid, to murder
the Spaniards in cold blood and in their sleep.
SECTION XXXV.
THE MUTINOUS ENGLISHMEN DISMISSED TROM THE ISLAND—RE-
TURN WITH SEVERAL CAFTIVE SAVAGES—TAKE THE EEMA, ES AS
WIVES—ARRIVAL OE SAVAGES.
But I leave observing and return to the story.—The three fellows
came down to the Spaniards one morning, and in very humble terms
desired to be admitted to speak with them; the Spaniards very
readily heard what they had to say, which was this:—That they
were tired of living in the manner they did; and that they were not
handy enough to make the necessaries they wanted, and tliat having
no help, they found they should be starved; but if the Spaniards
would give them leave to take one of the canoes which they came
over in, and give them arms and ammunition proportioned to their
defence, they would go over to the main and seek their fortunes,
and so deliver them from their trouble of supplying them with any
other provisions.
The Spaniards were glad enough to get rid of them, but very
honestly represented to them the certain destruction they were run-
ning into; told them they had suffered such hardships upon that
very spot, that they could, without any spirit of prophecy tell them
they would be starved, or murdered, and bade them consider of it.
The men replied audaciously, they should be starved if they stayed
here, for they could not work, and would not work, and they could but
be starved anroad; and if they were murdered, there was an cud of
them; they had no wives or children to cry after them: and, in
short, insisted importunatelv upon their demand; declaring they
would go, whether they would give them arms or no.
The bpaniards told them, with great kindness, that if they were re-
solved to go, they should not go like naked men, and be in no
condition to defend themselves: and that though they could ill spare
their fire-arms, having not enough for themselves, yet they would
let them have two muskets, a pistol and a cutlass, and each man a
hatchet, which they thought was sufficient for them. In a word,
they accepted the offer; and having baked them bread enough to
serve them a month, and given them as much goat's flesh as they
could eat while it was sweet, and a great basket of dried grapes, a
pot of fresh water, and a young kid alive, they boldly set out in the
canoe for a voyage over the sea, where it was at least forty miles
broad.
The boat, indeed, was a large one, and would very well have
carried fifteen or twenty men, and therefore was rather too big for
them to manage; but as they had a fair breeze, and flood tide with
them, they did well enough. They had made a mast of a long pole,
and a sail of four large goats'-skins dried, which they had sewed or
laced together; and away they went merrily enough; the Spaniards
called after them, Buen viage; and no man ever thought of seeing
them any more.
The Spaniards were often saying to one another, and to the two
honest Englishmen who remained behind, how quietly and comfort-
ably they lived, now these three turbulent fellows were gone; as for
their coming again, that was the remotest thing from their thoughts
that could De imagined; when, behold, after two-and-twenty days'
absence, one of the Englishmen, being abroad upon his planting work,
sees three strange men coming towards him at a distance, with guns
upon their shoulders.
Away runs the Englishman, as if he was bewitched, comes fright-
ened and amazed to the governor Spaniard, and tells him that they
were all undone, for there were strangers landed upon the island, but
could not tell who. The Spaniards, pausing a while, says to him,
"How do you mean, you cannot tell who? They are the savages,
be sure." "No, no," says the Englishman : "they are men in clothes,
with arms." "Nay, then," says the Spaniard, " why are you con-
cerned? If they are not savages, they must be friends; for there is
no Christian nation upon earth but what will do us good rather than
harm."
While they were debating thus, came the three Englishmen, and
standing without the wood, which was new planted, hallooed to them,
they presently knew their voices, and so all the wonder of that kind
ceased. But now the admiration was turned upon another question,
viz., What could be the matter, and what made them come back
again?
It was not long before they brought the men in, and inquiring where
they Iiad been, and what they had been doing, they gave them a fuE
account of their voyage in a few words, viz. That they reached the
land in two days, or something less; but finding the people alarmed
at their coming, and preparing with bows and arrows to tight them,
they durst not go on shore, but sailed on to the northward six or
seven hours, till they came to a great opening, by which they per-
ceived that the land they saw from our island was not the main, but
an island; upon entering that opening of the sea, they saw another
island on the right hand, north, and several more west; and having
resolved to lanoTsomewhere, they put over to one of the islands which
lay west, and went boldly on shore: that they found the people very
courteous and friendly to them; and that tlicy gave them several
roots and some dried fish, and appeared very sociable; and the
women as well as the men were very forward to supply them with
anything they could get for them to eat, and brought it to them a
great way upon their heads.
They continued here four days: and inquired, as well as they
could of them, by signs, what nations were this way, and that way;
and were told of several fierce and terrible people that lived almost
every way, who, as they made known by signs to them, nsed to eat
men; but as for themselves, they said, they never eat men or women,
except only such as they took in the wars; and then, they owned,
they made a great feast, and ate their prisoners.
The Englishmen inquired when they had a feast of that kind;
and they told them about two moons ago, pointing to the moon, and
to two fingers; and that their great king had two hundred prisoners
now, which he had taken in his war, and they were feeding them to
make them fat for the next feast. The Englishmen seemed mighty
desirous of seeing those prisoners; but the others mistaking them,
thought they were desirous to have some of them to carry away for
their own eating; so they beckoned to them, pointing to the setting
sun, and then to the rising; which was to signify that the next
morning at sun-rising they would bring some for them; and accor-
dingly, the next morning, they brought down five women, and eleven
men, and gave them to the Englishmen, to carry with them on their
voyage, just as we would bring so many cows and oxen down to a
seaport town to victual a ship.
As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home, their
stomachs turned at this sight, and they did not know what to do.
To refuse the prisoners would have been the highest affront to the
savage gentrr that could be offered them, and what to do with them
they knew not. However, after some debate, they resolved to
accept of them; and, in return, they gave the savages that brought
them one of their hatchets, an old key, a knife, and six or seven of
their bullets; which, though they did not understand their use,
they seemed particularly pleased with; and then tying the poor crea-
tures' hands behind them, they dragged the prisoners into the boat wr
our men.
Tbe Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as they
had them, or else they that gave them this noble present would
certainly have expected that they should have gone to work with
them, have killed two or three of them the next morning, and per-
haps have invited the donors to dinner. Bat having taken their
leave, with all the respect and thanks that could well pass between
people, where on either side, they understood not one word they could
say, they put off with their boat, and came back towards the first
island; where, when they arrived, they set eight of their prisoners at
liberty, there being too many of them for their occasion.
In their voyage, they endeavoured to have some communication
with their prisoners; but it was impossible to make them under-
stand anything; nothing they could say to them, or give them, or
do for them, but was looked upon as going to murder them. They
first of all unbound them; but the poor creatures screamed at that,
especially the women, as if they had just felt the knife at their
throats; for they immediately concluded they were unbound on
purpose to be killed. If they gave them anything to eat it was the
same thing; they then concluded it was for fear they should sink in
flesh, and so not be fat enough to kill. If they looked at one of
them more particularly, the party presently concluded it was to see
whether he or she was fattest, and fittest to kill first; nay, after
they had brought them quite over, and begun to use them kindly,
and treat them well, still they expected every day to make a dinner
or supper for their new masters.
When the three wanderers had given this unaccountable history
or journal of their voyage, the Spaniard asked them where their
new family was; and being told that they had brought them on
shore, and put them into one of their huts, and were come up to beg
some victuals for them, they (the Spaniards) and the other two
Englishmen, that is to say, the whole colony, resolved to go all down
to the place and see them; and did so, and Friday's father with them.
When they came into the hut, there they sat all bound; for when
they had brought them on shore, they bound their hands, that they
might not take the boat and make their escape; there, I say, they
sat, all of them stark naked. First, there were three men, lusty,
comely fellows, well-shaped, straight and fair limbs, about thirty to
thirty-five years of age; and five women, whereof two might be
from thirty to forty; two more, not above four or five-and-twenty;
and the fifth, a tall, comely maiden, about sixteen or seventeen.
The women were well-favoured, agreeable persons, both in shape
and features, only tawny; and two of them, had they been perfect
white, would have passed for very handsome women, even in London
itself, having pleasant agreeable countenances, and of a very modest
behaviour, especially when they came afterwards to be clothed and
dressed, as they called it; though that dress was very indifferent,
it must be confessed.
The sight, you may be sure, wa» something uncouth to our
Spaniards, who were, to give them a just character, men of the best
behaviour, of the most calm, sedate tempers, and perfect good
humour, that ever I met with; and, in particular, of the most
modest, as will presently appear: I say, the sight was very uncouth,
to see three naked men and five naked women, all together bound,
and in the most miserable circumstances that human nature could
be supposed to be, viz. to be expecting every moment to be dragged
out, and have their brains knocked out, and then to be eaten up like
a calf that is killed for a dainty.
The first thing they did was to cause the old Indian, Friday's
father, to go in, and see, first, if he knew any of them, and then, if
he understood any of their speech. As soon aj the oid man came
in, he looked seriously at them, but knew none of them; neither
could any of them understand a word he said, or a sign he could
Aiake, except one of the women. However, this was enough to
answer the end, which was to satisfy them that the men into whose
hands they were fallen were Christians; that they abhorred eating
men or women; and that they might be sure they would not be
killed. As soon as they were assured of this, they discovered such
a joy, and by such awkward gestures, several ways, as is hard to
describe; for, it seems they were of several nations.
The woman who was their interpreter was bid, in the next place,
to ask them if they were willing to be servants, and to work for the
men who had brought them away, to save their lives; at which they
all fell a dancing; and presently one fell to taking up this, and ano-
ther that, anything that lay next, to carry on their shoulders, to
intimate that they were willing to work.
The governor, who found that the having women among them
would presently be attended with some inconvenience, ana might
occasion some strife, and perhaps blood, asked the three men what
they intended to do with these women, and whether they intended to
make them servants or wives? One of the Englishmen answered
very boldly and readily, that they would make them both; to which
the governor said: "I am not going to restrain you from it; you
arc your own masters as to that; but this I think is but just, for
avoiding disorders and quarrels among you, and I desire it of you
for that reason only, viz. that you will ail engage, that if any of you
take any of these women, that while you stay here, the woman any
of you takes, should be maintained by the man that takes her, and
should be his wife." All this appeared so just, that every one agreed
to it without any difficulty.
Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if they designed to
take any of them? But every one of them answered no: some of
them said they had wives in Spain, and the others did not like
women that were not Christians: and all together declared that they
would not have one of them. On the other hand, to be short, tut
five Englishmen took every one of them a wife; and so they set up
a new form of living; for the Spaniards and Friday's father lived in
my old habitation, which they had enlarged exceedingly within. The
three servants which were token in the late battle of the savages

lived with them; and these carried on the main part of the colony,
supplied all the rest with food, and assisted them in anything as
they could, or as they found necessity required.
But the wonier of the story was, how five such refractory, ill-
matched fellows should agree about these women, and that two of
them should not pitch upon the same woman, especially seeing two
or thrce of them were, without comparison more agreeable than the
others; but they took a good way enough to prevent quarrelling
among themselves, for they set the five women by themselves in
one ot their huts, and they went all into the other hut, and drew
lots among them who should choose first.
He that drew to choose first went away by himself to the hut
where the poor naked creatures were, and fetched out her he chose;
and it was worth observing, that he that chose first took her that
was reckoned the homeliest and oldest of the five, which made mirth
enough among the rest; and even the Spaniards laughed at it: but
the fellow considered better thau any of them, that it was appli-
cation and business they were to expect assistance in, as much
as in anything else; and she proved the best wife of all the
parcel.
When the fioor women saw themselves set in a row thus, and
fetched out one by one, the terrors of their condition returned upon
them again, and they firmly believed they were now going to be de-
voured. Accordingly, when the English sailor came in and fetched
out one of them, the rest set up a most lamentable cry, and hung
about her, and took their leave of her with such agonies and affec-
tion as would have grieved the hardest heart in the world; nor
J
was it possible for the Englishmen to satisfy them that thev were
not to be immediately murdered, till they fetched the old* man,
Friday's father, who immediately let them know that the five men,
who had fetched them out one by one, had chosen them for their
wives.
When they had done, and the fright the women were in was a
little over, the men went to work, and the Spaniards came and
helped them; and in a few hours they had built them every one a new
hut or tent for their lodging apart; for those they lv*u already were
crowded with their tools, household stuff, and provisions. The
three wicked ones had pitched farthest off, and tae two honest ones
nearer, but both on the north shore of the island, so that they con-
tinued separated as before; and thus my islarj was peopled in three
places; and, as I might say, three towns were commenced to be
built.
And here it is very well worth observing, that, as it often happens
in the world (what the wise ends of God's providence are, in such a
disposition of things, I cannot say), the two honest fellows had the two
worst wives; and the three reprobates, that were scarce worth hang-
ing, that were fit for nothing, and neither seemed born to do them-
selves good, nor any one else, had three clever, diligent, careful, and
ingeniour wives: not that the first two were bad wives, as to their
temper or humour, for all the five were most willing, quiet, passive,
and subjected creatures, rather like slaves than wives; but my
meaning is, they were not alike capable, ingenious, or industrious, or
alike cleanly and neat.
Another observation I must make, to the honour of a diligent
application, on one hand, and to the disgrace of a slothful, negli-
gent, idle temper, on the other, that when I came to the place, and
viewed the several improvements, plantings, and management of the
several little colonies, the two men had so far outgone the three,
that there was no comparison. They had, indeed, both of them as
much ground laid out for corn as they wanted, and the reason was,
because, according to my rule, nature dictated that it was to no
purpose to sow more corn than they wanted; but the difference of
the cultivation, of the planting, of the fences, and, indeed, of every-
thing else, was easy to be seen at first view.
The two men had innumerable young trees planted about their
huts, so that when you came to the place, nothing was to be seen
but wood; and though they had twice had their plantation demo-
lished, once by their own countrymen, and once by the enemy, as
shall be shown in its place, yet they had restored all again, and
everything was thriving and flourishing about them, they had
grapes planted in order, and managed like a vineyard, though they
had themselves never seen anything of that kind; and by their good
ordering their vines, their grapes were as good again as any of the
sthers. They had also found themselves out a retreat in the thickest
22'J
part of the woods; where, though there was not a natural cave, as I
tad found, yet they made one with incessant labour of their hands,
and where, when the mischief which followed happened, they
secured their wives and children, so as they could never be found;
they having, by sticking innumerable stakes and poles of the wood
which, as I said, grew so readily, made the grove unpassable, except
in some places where they climoed up to get over the outside part,
and then went on by ways of their own leaving.

As to the three reprobates, as I justly call them, though they
were much civilized by their settlement, compared to what they
were before, and were not so quarrelsome, having not the same
opportunity; yet one of the certain companions of a profligate mind
never left them, and that was their idleness. It is true, they planted
corn, and made fences, but Solomon's words were never better verified
than in them, "I went by the vineyard of the slothful, and it was
all overgrown with thorns;" for wficn the Spaniards came to view
their crop, they could not see it in some places for weeds, the hedge
had several gaps in it, where the wild goats had got in and eaten up
the corn; pernaps here and there a dead bush was crammed in, to
stop them out for the present, but it was only shutting the stable-
door after the steed was stolen: whereas, when they looked on the
colony of the other two, there was the very face of industry and
success upon all they did; there was not a weed to be seen in all
their corn, or a gap m any of their hedges; and they, on the other
hand, verified Solomon's words in another place, "that the diligent
hand maketh rich;" for every thing grew and thrived, and they had
plenty within and without; they Tiad more tame cattle than the
others, more utensils and necessaries within doors, and yet more
pleasure and diversion too.
It is true, the wives of the three were very handy and cleanly
within doors, and having learned the English ways of dressing and
cooking from one of the other Englishmen, who, as I said, was a
cook's mate on board the ship, they dressed their husbands' victuals
very nicely and well; whereas the others could not be brought to
understand it: but then the husband, who, as I say, haa been
cook's mate, did it himself. But as for the husbands of the three
wives, they loitered about, fetched turtles' eggs, and caught fish and
birds; in a word, anything but labour, and they fared accordingly.
The diligent lived well and comfortably; and the slothful lived hard
and beggarly; and so, I believe, generally speaking, it is all over
the world.
But I now come to a scene different from all that had happened
before, either to them or to me; and the original of the story was
this: Early one morning', there came on shore five or six canoes of
Indians or savages, call them which you please, and there is no doubt
they came upon the old errand of feeding upon their slaves; but
that part was now so familiar to the, Spaniards, and to our men too,
that they did not concern themselves about it, as I did: but having
been made sensible, by their experience, that their only business was
to lie concealed, and that if they were not seen by any of the
savages, they would go off again quietly, when their business was
done, having, as yet, not the least notion of there being any inhabi-
tants in the island; I say, having been made sensible of this, they
had nothing to do but to give notice to all the three plantations to
keep within doors, and not show themselves, only placing a scout in
a proper place, to give notice when the boats went to sea again.
This was, without doubt, very right; but a disaster spoiled all
these measures, and made it known among the savages that there
were inhabitants there; which was, in the end, the desolation of
almost the whole colony. After the canoes with the savages were
gone off, the Spaniards peeped abroad again; and some of them had
the curiosity to go to the place where they had been, to see what
they had been doine. Here, to their great surprise, they found
three savages left behind, and lying fast asleep upon the ground.
The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and perfectly
at a loss what to do. The Spanish governor, as it happened, was
with them, and his advice was asked, but he professed he knew not
what to do. As for slaves, they had enough already; and w to
killing them, they were none of them inclined to that: the Spanish
governor told me, they could not think of shedding innocent blood:
for as to them, the poor creatures had done them no wrong, invaded
none of their property, and they thought they had no just quarrel
against them, to take away their lives. And here I must, in justice
to these Spaniards, observe, that let the accounts of Spanish cruelty
in Mexico and Peru be what they will, I never met with seventeen
men of any nation whatsoever, in any foreign country, who were so
universally modest, temperate, virtuous, so very good-humoured, and
so courteous, as these Spaniards; and as to cruelty, they had nothing
of it in their very nature: no inhumanity, no barbarity, no out-
rageous passions; and yet all of them men of great courage and
spirit. Their temper and calmness had appeared in their bearing
the insufferable usage of the three Englishmen; and their justice
and humanity appeared now in the case of the savages, as above
After some conetiltation, they resolved upon this: that they would
lie still a while longer, till, if possible, these three men might be
gone. But then the governor Spaniard recollected, that the three
savages had no boat; and if they were left to rove about the island,
they would certainly discover that there were inhabitants in it; and so
they should be undone that way. Upon this they went back again,
and there lay the fellows fast asleep still, and so they resolved to waken
them, and take them prisoners; and they did so. The poor fellows
were strangely frightened when they were seized upon and bound;
and afraid, like the women, that they should be murdered and eaten:
for it seems those people think all the world does as they do, eating
men's flesh; but they were soon made easy as to that, and away
they carried them.
It was very happy for them that they did not carry them home to
their castle, I mean to my palace under the hill; but they carried
them first to the bower, where was the chief of their country work,
such as the keeping the goats, the planting the corn, &c.; and after-
wards they carried them to the habitation of the two Englishmen.
Here "they were set to work, though it was not much they had for
them to do; and whether it was by negligence in guarding them, or
that they thought the fellows could not mend themselves, I know
not, but one of them ran away, and taking to the woods, they could
never hear of him any more.
They had good reason to believe he got home again soon after, in
some other boats or canoes of savages who came on shore three or
four weeks afterwards; and who, carrying on their revels as usual
went off in two days time. This thought terrified them exceedingly;
for they concluded, and that not without good cause indeed, that ii
this fellow came home safe among his comrades, he would certainly
give them an account that there were people in the island, and also how
few and weak they were: for this savage, as I observed before, had
never been told, and it was very happy he had not, how many there
were, or where they lived; nor had he ever seen or heard the fire of any
of their guns, much less had they shown him any of their other
retired places; such as the cave in the valley, or the new rttreat
which the two Englishmen 'nad made, and the like.
The first testimony they uad that this fellow had given intelligence
of them was, that, auout two months after this, six canoes of savages,
with about seven, eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowing along
the north side of the island, where they never used to eome oefore,
an-] landed, about an hour after sunrise, at a convenient place, about
a .aile from the habitation of the two Englishmen, where this escaped
man had been kept. As the Spaniard governor said, had they been
all there, the damage would not have been so much, for not a man of
tnem would have escaped; but the case differed now very much, for
two men to fifty was too much odds. The two men had the happi-
ness to discover them about a league off, so that it was above an
hour before they landed; and as they landed about a mile from their
huts, it was some time before they could come at them. Now,
having great reason to believe that they were betrayed, the first
thing they did was to bind the two slaves which were left, and
cause two of the three men who were brought with the women (who
it seems proved very faithful to them) to lead them, with their two
wives, and whatever they could carry away with them, to their re-
tired places in the woods, which I have spoken of above, and there
to bind the two fellows hand and foot, till they heard further.
In the next place, seeing the savages were all come on shore, and
that they had bent their course directly that way, they opened the
fences where the mileh goats were kept, and drove them all out;
leaving their goats to straggle in the woods, whither they pleased,
that the savages might think they were all bred wild; but the rogue
who came with. them was too cunning for that, and gave them an
account of it all, for they went directly to the place.
When the two poor frightened men had secured their wives and
goods, they sent the other slave they had of the three who came with
the women, and who was at the place by accident, away to the
Spaniards with all speed, to give them the alarm, and desire speedy
help ; and, in the mean time, they took their aras and what ammuni-
tion they had, and retreated towards tne place in the wood where their
wives were sent; keeping at a distance, yet so that they might see,
if possible which way the savages took.
They had not gone far, but that from a rising ground they could
gee the little army of their enemies come on directly to their
habitation, and, in a minute more, could see all their huts and house-
hold stuff flaming up together, to their great grief and mortification;
for they had a very great loss, to them irretrievable, at least for some
time. They kept their station for a while, till they found the savages,
like wild beasts, spread themselves all over the place, rummaging
every way and every place they could think of, in search of prey;
and in particular for the people, of whom, now, it plainly appeared
they had intelligence.
The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves not secure
where they stood, because it was likely some of the wild people
might come that way, and they might come too many together, though'
it proper to make another retreat about half a mile farther; believing,
as it afterwards happened, that the farther they strolled the fewer
would be together.
SECTION XXXVI.
SEVERAL SAVAGES KILLED; THE REMAINDER LEAVE THE ISLAND—
A KLEET OF THEM AFTERWARDS ARRIVE—A GENERAL BATTLE—
THE SAVAGES ARE OVERCOME, AND TRANQUILITY RESTORED.
Their next halt was at the entrance into a very thick-grown part of
the woods and where an old trunk of a tree stood, which was hollow
and vastly large ; and in this tree they both took their standing, re-
solving to see there what might offer. They had not stood there
long, before two of the savages appeared running directly that way,
as if they already had notice where they stood, and were coming up
to attack them; and a little way farther they espied three more com-
ing after them, and five more beyond them, all coming the same
way: besides which, they saw seven or eight more at a distance run-
ning another way; for, in a word, they ran every way, like sports-
men beating for their game.
The poor men were now in great perplexity whether they should
stand and keep their posture, or fly; but, after a very short debate
with themselves, they considered, that if the savages ranged the
country thus before help came, they might perhaps find out their re-
treat in the woods, and then all would be lost: so they resolved to
stand them there ; and if they were too many to deal with, then they
would get up to the top of the tree, from whence they doubted not
to defend themselves, fire excepted, as long as their ammunition.
tasted, though all the savages that were landed, which was near fifty,
were to attack them.
Having resolved upon this, they next considered whether they
should me at the first two, or wait for the three, and so take th»
middle party, by which the two and the five that followed would be
separated : at length they resolved to let the first two pass by, un-
less they should spy them in the tree, and come to attack them.
The first two savages confirmed them also in this resolution, by
turning a little from them towards another part of the wood; but
the three, and the five after them, came forward directly to the tree,
as if they had known the Englishmen were there. Seeing them
come so straight toward them, they resolved to take them in a line
as they came; and as they resolved to fire but one at a time, perhaps
the first shot might hit them all three: for which purpose, the man
who was to fire put three or four small bullets into his piece; and
having a fair loophole, as it were, from a broken hole in the tree, he
took a sure aim, without being seen, waiting till they were within
abour thirty yards of the tree, so that he could not miss.
While they were thus waiting, and the savages came on, they
plainly saw that one of the three was the runaway savage that had
escaped from them; and they both knew him distinctly, and resolved
that, if possible, he should not escape, though they should both fire;
so the other stood ready with his piece, that if he did not drop at the
first shot, he should be sure to have a second. But the first was too
good a marksman to miss his aim; for as the savages kept near one
another, a little behind, in a line, he fired, and hit two of them
directly: the foremost was killed outright, being shot in the head; the
second, which was the runaway Indian, was shot through the body,
and fell, but was not quite dead; and the third had a little scratch
in the shoulder, perhaps by the same ball that went through the
body of the second; and being dreadfully frightened, though not so
much hurt, sat down upon the ground, screaming and yelling in u
hideous manner.
The five that were behind, more frightened with the noise than
sensible of the danger, stood still at first: for the woods made the
sound a thousand times bigger than it really was, the echoes rattling
from one side to another, and the fowls rising from all parts, scream-
ing, and every sort making a different noise, according to their kind;
just as it was when I fired the first gun that perhaps was ever shot
off in the island.
However, all being silent again, and they not knowing what the
matter was, came on unconcerned, till they came to the place where
their companions lay, in a condition miserable enough; and here the
poor ignorant creatures,' not sensible that they were within reach of
the same mischief, stood all of a huddle over the wounded man, talk-
ing, and, as may be supposed, inquiring of him how he came to be
hurt: and who, it is very rational to believe, told them, that a flash
of fire first, and immediately after that thunder from their gods, bad
killed those two and wounded him : this, I say, is rational; for no-
thing is more certain than that, as they saw no man near them, so they
had never heard a gun in all their lives, nor so much as heard of a
gun ; neither knew they any thing of killing and wounding at a dis-
tance with fire and bullets . if they had, one might reasonably believe
they would not have stood so unconcerned in viewing the fate of
their fellows, without some apprehensions of their own.
Our two men, though, as they confessed to me, it grieved them
to be obliged to kill so many poor creatures, who, at the same time,
had no notion of their danger; yet, having them all thus in their
power, and the first having loaded his piece again, resolved to let fir
both together among them ; and singling out, by agreement, whien
to aim at, they shot together, and killed, or very much wounded,
four of them; the fifth, frightened even to death, though not hurt,
fell with the rest; so that our men, seeing them all fall together,
thought they had killed them all.
The belief that the savages were all killed made our two men
come boldly out from the tree before they had charged their guns,
which was a wrong step; and they were under some surprise when
they came to the place, and found no less then four of them alive,
and of them two very little hurt, and one not at all: this obliged
them to fall upon them with the stocks of their muskets; and first
they made sure of the runaway savage, that had been the cause of
all the mischief, and of another that was hurt in the knee, and put
them out of their pain: then the man that was hurt not at all came
and kneeled down to them, with his two hands held up, and made
piteous moans to them, by jestures and signs, for his life, but could
not say one word to them that they could understand. However,
they made signs to him to sit down at the foot of a tree hard by;
and one of the Englishmen, with a piece of rope twined, which ne
had by great chance in his pocket, tied his two hands behind him,
and there they left him: and with what speed they could made after
the other two, which were gone before, fearing they, or any more of
them, should find the way to their covered place in the woods, where
their wives, and the few goods they had left, lay. They came once
in sight of the two men, but it was at a great distance; however
they had the satisfaction to see them cross over a valley towards the
sea, quite the contrary way from that which led to their retreat,
which they were afraid of; and being satisfied with that, they went
back to the tree where they left their prisoner, who, as they suppos-
ed, was delivered by his comrades, for he was gone, and the two
pieces of rope-yarn, with which they had bound him, lay just at the
toot of the tree.
They were now in as great concern as before, not knowing what
course to take, or how near the enemy might be, or in what numbers;
so they resolved to go away to the place were their wives were, to
see if all was well there, and to make them easy, who were in fright
enough, to he sure; for though the savages were their own country-
folk, yet they were most terribly afraid of them, and perhaps th«
more for the knowledge they had of them.
When they came there, they found the savages had been in the
wood, and very near that place, but had not found it: for it was in-
deed inaccessible, by the trees standing so thick, as unless the
persons seeking it had been directed by those that knew it, which
these did not: they found, therefore, every thing very safe, only the
women in a terrible fright. While they were here, they had the
comfort to have seven of the Spaniards com* to their assistance ; the
other ten, with their servants, and old Friday, I mean Friday's
father, were gone in a body to defend their bower, and the corn and
cattle that was kept there, in case the savages should have roved
over to that side of the country; but they did not spread so far.
With the seven Spaniards came one of the three savages who, as I
said, were their prisoners formerly; and with them also came the
savage whom the Englishmen had left bound hand and foot at the
tree: for it seems, they came that way, saw the slaughter of the
seven men, and unbound the eighth, and brought him along with
them; where, however, they were obliged to bind him again, as they
had the two others who were left when the third ran away.
The prisoners now began to be a burthen to them; and they were
so afraid of their escaping, that they were once resolving to kill them
all, beli-jving they were under an absolute necessity to do so, for
their own preservation. However, the Spaniard governor would not
consent to it; but ordered, for the present, that they should be sent
out of the way, to my old cave in the valley, and be kept there, with
two Spaniards to guard them, and give them food for their subsis-
tence, which was done; and they were bound there hand and foot
for that night.
When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen were so encouraged,
that they could not satisfy themselves to stay any longer there;
but taking five of the Spaniards and themselves, with four muskets
and a pistol among them, and two stout quarter-staves, away they
went in quest of the savages. And first they came to the tree where
the men lay that had been killed; but it was easy to see that some
more of the savages had been there, for they had attempted to carry
their dead men away, and had dragged two of them a good way, but
had given it over. From thence they advanced to the first rising
ground, where they had stood and seen their camp destroyed, and
where they had the mortification still to see some of the smoke: but
neither could they here see any of the savages. They then resolved,
though with all possible caution, to go forward, towards their ruined
plantation; but a little before they came thither, coming in sight of
the sea-shore, they saw plainly the savages all embarked again in
their canoes, in order to be gone. They seemed sorry, at first, that
there was no way to come at them, to give them a parting blow;
but, upon the whole, they were very well satisfied to be rid of
them.
The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined, and all their im-
provements destroyed, the rest all agreed to come and help them to
rebuild, and to assist them with needful supplies. Their three
countrymen, who. were not yet noted for having the least inclination
to do any good, yet as soon as they heard of it (for they living re-
mote eastward, knew nothing of the matter till all was over), came
and offered their help and assistance, and did, very friendly, work for
several days, to restore their habitation, and make necessaries for
them. And thus, in a little time, they were set upon their legs
again.
About two days after this, they had the further satisfaction of
seeing three of the savages' canoes come driving on shore, and, at
some distance from them, two drowned men: oy which they had
reason to believe that they had met with a storm at sea, which had
overset some of them; for it had blown very hard the night after
they went oft.
However, as some might miscarry, so, on the other hand, enough
of them escaped to inform the rest, as well of what they had done as
of what had happened to them, and to whet them on to another
enterprise of the same nature; which they, it seems, resolved to at-
tempt, with sufficient force to carry all before them: for except what
ihe first man had told them of inhabitants, they could say little of it
of their own knowledge, for they never saw one man; and the fellow
being killed that had affirmed it, they had no other witness to confirm
it to them.
It was five or six months after this before they heard any more
of the savages, in which time our men were in hopes they had either
forgot their former bad luck, or given over hopes of better; when,
on a sudden, they were invaded with a most formidable fleet of no
less than eight-and-twenty canoes, full of savages, armed with bows
and arrows, great clubs, wooden swords, and such-like engines of
war; and they brought such numbers with them, that, in short, it
put all our people into the utmost consternation.
As they came on shore in the evening, and at the easternmost side
of the island, our men had that night to consult and consider what to
do; and, in the first place, knowing that their being entirely concealed
was their only safety before, and would be much more so now, while
the number of their enemies was so great, they therefore resolved,
first of all, to take down the huts which were built for the two
Englishmen, and drive away their goats to the old cave; because they
supposed the savages would go directly thither, as soon as it was day,
to play the old game over again, though they did not now land with-
in two leagues of it. In the next place, they drove away all the
flocks of goats they had at the old bower, as I called it, which be-
longed to the Spaniards; and, in short, left as little appearance of
inhabitants any where as was possible: and the next morning early
they posted themselves, with all their force, at the plantation of tho
two men, to wait for their coming. As they guessed, so it happen-
ed: these new invaders, leaving their canoes at the east end of the
island, came ranging along the shore, directly towards the place, to
the number of two hundred and fifty, as near as our men could
judge. Our army was but small, indeed; but that which was worse,
they had not arms for all their number neither. The whole account,
it seems, stood thus: first, as to men, seventeen Spaniards, five En-
glishmen, old Friday, or Friday's father, the three slaves taken with
the women, who proved very faithful, and three other slaves, who
lived with the Spaniards. To arm these, thev had eleven muskets,
five pistols, three fowling-pieces, five muskets or fowling-pieces
which were taken by me from the mutinous seamen whom I reduced,
two swords, and three old halberds.
To their slaves they did not give either musket or fuse, but they
had every one a halberd, or a long staff, like a auarter-staff, with a
great spike of iron fastened into each end of it, and by his side a
hatchet; also every one of our men had a hatchet. Two of the women
could not be prevailed upon but they would come into the fight,
and they had bows and arrows, which tne Spaniards had taken from
the savages when the first action happened, which I have spoken of,
where the Indians fought with one another; and the women had
hatchets too.
The Spaniard governor, whom I described so often, commanded
the whole; and Will Atkins, who, though a dreadful fellow for
wickedness, was a most daring, bold fellow, commanded under him.
The savages came forward like lions; and our men, which was the
worst of their fate, had no advantage in their situation; only that
Will Atkins, who now proved a most useful fellow, with six men,
was planted just behind a small thicket of bushes, as an advanced
guard, with orders to let the first of them pass by, and then lire into
the middle of them, and as soon as he had fired, to make his retreat
as nimble as he could round a part of the wood, and so come in be-
hind the Spaniards, where they stood, having a thicket of trees be-
fore them.
When the savages came on, they ran straggling about every way
in heaps, out of all manner of order, and Will Atkins let about fifty
of them pass by him; then seeing the rest come in a very thick
throng, he orders three of his men to fire, having loaded their
muskets with six or seven bullets a piece, about as big as large
pistol bullets. How many they killed or wounded they knew not,
but the consternation and surprise was inexpressible among the
savages; they were frightened to the last degree to hear such a
dreadful noise, and see their men killed, and others hurt, but see
nobody that did it; when, in the middle of their fright, Will Atkins
»nd bis other three let fly again among the thickest of them, and in
less than a minute the iirst three being loaded again, gave them a
third volley.
Had Will Atkins and his men retired immediately, as soon as
they had fired, as they were ordered to do, or had the rest of tho
body been at hand, to have poured in their shot continually, the
savages had been effectually routed; for the terror that was among
them came principally from this, viz. that they were killed by the
gods with thunder and lightning, and could see nobody that hurt
them; but Will Atkins, staying to load again, discovered the cheat;
some of the savages who were at a distance spying them, came
upon them behind; and though Atkins and his men fired at them
also, two or three times, and killed above twenty, retiring as fast as
they could, yet they wounded Atkins himself, and killed one of his
fellow-Englishmen, with their arrows, as they did afterwards one
Spaniard, and one of the Indian slaves who came with the women.
This slave was a most gallant fellow, and fought most desperately,
killing five of them with his own hand, having no weapon but one
of the armed staves and a hatchet.
Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded, and two other
men killed, retreated to a rising ground in the wood; and the
Spaniards, after firing three volleys upon ihem, retreated also;
for their number was so great, and they were so desperate, that
though above fifty of them were killed, and more than as many
wounded, yet they came on in the teeth of our men, fearless of
danger, and shot their arrows like a crowd; and it was observed
that their wounded men, who were not quite disabled, were made
outrageous by their wounds, and fought like madmen.
When our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and the English-
man that were killed behind them; and the savages, when they
came up to them, killed them over again in a wretched manner,
breaking their arms, legs, and heads, with their clubs and wooden
swords, like true savages; but finding our men were gone, they did
not seem to pursue them, but drew themselves up in a ring, which
is, it seems, their custom, and shouted twice, in token of their
victory; after which they had the mortification to see several of
their wounded men fall, dying with the mere loss of blood.
The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body up together
upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he was wounded, would have
had them march and charge again all together at once; but the
Spaniard replied: "Senhor Atkins, you see how their wounded
men fight; let them alone till morning; all the wounded mgn will
be stiff and sore with their wounds, and faint with the loss of blood;
and so we shall have the fewer to engage." This advice was good;
but Will Atkins replied merrily: "That is true, senhor, and so shall
I too; and that is the reason I would go on while I am warm."
"Well, Senhor Atkins," says the Spaniard, "you have behaved gal
lantly, and done your part; we will fight for you, if you cannot
come on; but I think it best to stay till morning. So they
waited.
But as it was a clear moonlight night, and they found the savages
in great disorder about their dead and wounded men, and a great
noise and hurry among them where they lav, they afterwards re-
solved to fall upon them in the night, especially if they could come
to give them but one volley before they were discovered, which they
had a fair opportunity to do; for one of the Englishmen, in whose
quarter it was where the fight began, led them round between the
woods and the seaside westward, and then turning short south, they
came so near where the thickest of them lay, that, before they were
seen or heard, eight of them fired in among them, and did dreadful
execution upon them; in half a minute more, eight others fired
after them, pouring in their small shot in such quantity, that
abundance were killed and wounded; and all this while they were
not able to see who hurt them, or which way to fly.
The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition, and then
divided themselves in three bodies, and resolved to fall in among
them altogether. They had in each body eight persons, that is to
say, twenty-two and the two women, who, by the way fought des-
perately. They divided the fire-arms equally in each party, and so
the halberds and staves. They would have had the women kept
back, but they said they were resolved to die with their husbands.
Having thus formed their little army, they marched out from among
the trees, and came up to the teeth of the enemy, shouting and
hallooing as loud as they could; the savages stood altogether, but
were in the utmost confusion, hearing the noise of our men shouting
from three quarters together; they would have fought if they had
seen us; for as soon as we came near enough to be seen, some
arrows were shot, and poor old Friday was wounded, though not
dangerously; but our men gave them no time, but, running up to
them, fired among them three ways, and then fell in with the butt-
ends of their muskets, their swords, armed staves, and hatchets, and
laid about them so well, that, in a word, they set up a dismal
screaming and howling, flying to save their lives which way soever
they could.
Our men were tired with the execution, and killed or mortally
wounded in the two fights about one hundred and eighty of them;
the rest being frightened out of their wits, scoured through the
woods and over the hills, with all the speed fear and nimble feet
could help them to; and as we did not trouble ourselves much to
pursue them, they got all together to the seaside where they landed,
and where their canoes lay. But their disasters were not at an end
yet; for it blew a terrible storm of wind that evening from the sea,
so that it was impossible for them to go on'; nay, the storm con-
tinuing all night, when the tide came up, their canoes were most of
241
them driven by the surge of the sea so high upon the shore, that it
required infinite toil to get them off; and some of them were even
dashed to pieces against the beach, or against one another.
Our men, though glad of their victory, yet got little rest that night;
but having refreshed themselves as well as they could, they resolved
to march to that part of the island where the savages were fled, and
see what posture they were in. This necessarily led them over the'
place where the fight had been, and where they found several of the

poor creatures not quite dead, and yet past recovering life; a sight
disagreeable enough to generous minds; for a truly great man,
though obliged by the law of battle to destroy his enemy, takes no
delight in his misery. However, there was no need to give any
orders in this case; for their own savages, who were their servants,
dispatched these poor creatures with their hatchets.
At length, they came in view of the place where the more miser-
able remains of the savages' army lay, where there appeared about
a hundred still: their posture was generally sitting upon the
ground, with their knees up towards their mouth, and the head put
between the two hands, leaning down upon the knees.
When our men came within two musket-shots of them, the
Spaniard governor ordered two muskets to be fired, without ball, to
alarm them: this he did, that by their countenance he might know
what to expect, viz. whether they were still in heart to fight, or
were so heartily beaten as to be dispirited and discouraged, and so
he might manage accordingly. This stratagem took; for as soon as
the savages heard the first gun and saw the flash of the second,
they started up upon their feet in the greatest consternation ima-
ginable; and as our men advanced swiftly toward them, they all
ran screaming and yelling away, with a kind of howling noise, which
our men did not understand, and had never heard before: and thus
they ran up the hills into the country.
At first our men bad much rather the weather had been calm, and
they had all gone away to sea; but they did not then consider that
this might probably have been the occasion of their coming again
in such multitudes as not to be resisted, or, at least, to come so
many, and so often, as would quite desolate the island, and starve
them. Will Atkins, therefore, who, notwithstanding his wound,
kept always with them, proved the best counsellor in this case: his
advice was, to take the advantage that offered, and clap in between
them and their boats, and so deprive them of the capacity of ever
returning any more to plague the island.
They consulted long about this; and some were against it, for
fear of making the wretches fly to the woods and live there des-
perate, and so they should have them to h«int like wild beasts, be
afraid to stir out about their business, and have their plantation
continually rifled, all their tame goats destroyed, and, in short, be
reduced to a life of continual distress.
Will Atkins told them they had better have to do with a hun-
dred men than with a hundred nations; that as they must destroy
their boats, so they must destroy the men, or be all of them de-
stroyed themselves. In a word, he showed them the necessity of it
so plainly, that they all came into it; so they went to work imme-
diately with the boats, and getting some dry wood together from a
dead tree, they tried to set some of them on fire, but they were^o
wet that they would not burn; however, the fire so burned the
upper part, that it soon made them unfit for swimming in the sea as
boats. When the Indians saw what they were about, some of them
came running out of the woods, and coming as near as they could
to our men, kneeled down and cried: "Oa, Oa, Waramokoa," and
some other words of their language, which none of the othert
understood anything of; but as they made pitiful gestures and
strange noises, it was easy to understand they begged to have their
boats spared, and that they would be gone, and never come there
again. But our men were now satisfied that they had no way to
preserve themselves or to save their colony, but effectually to pre-
vent any of these people from ever going home again; depending
upon this, that if even so much as one of them got back into their
country to tell the story, the colony was undone; so that, lettina;
them know that they should not have any mercy, they fell to work
with their canoes, and destroyed them every one that the storm had
not destroyed before: at the sight of which the savages raised a
hideous cry in the woods, which our people heard plain enough,
after which they ran about the island like distracted men, so that,
in a word, our men did not really know at first what to do with
them. Nor did the Spaniards, with all their prudence, consider
that while they made those people thus desperate, they ought to
have kept a good guard at the same time upon their plantations;
for though, it is true, they bad driven away their cattle, aud the
Indians did not find out their main retreat, I mean my old castle at
the hill, nor the cave in the valley, yet they found out my plantation
at the bower, and pulled it all to pieces, and all the fences and
planting about it; trod all the corn under foot, tore up the vines
and grapes, being just then almost ripe, and did our men an inesti-
mable damage, though to themselves not one farthing's worth of
service.
Though our men were able to fight them upon all occasions, yet
they were in no condition to pursue them, or hunt them up and
down; for as they were too nimble of foot for our men, when they
found them single, so our men durst not go abroad single, for fear
of being surrounded with their numbers. The best was, they had
no weapons; for though they had bows, they had no arrows left,
nor any materials to make any; nor had they any edge-tool or
weapon among them.
The extremity and distress they were reduced to was great and
indeed deplorable; but, at the same time, our men were also brought
to very bad circumstances by them; for though their retreats were
preserved, yet their provision was destroyed, and their harvest
spoiled; and what to do, or which way to turn themselves they knew
not. The only refuge they had now was, the stock of cattle they
had in the valley by the cave, and some little corn that grew there,
and the plantation of the three Englishmen, Will Atkiis and his
comrades, who were now reduced to two; one of them being killed
by an arrow, which struck him on the side of the head, just under the
temple, so that he never spoke more; and it was very remarkable,
that this was the same barbarous fellow that cut the poor savage slave
with his hatchet, and who afterwards intended to have murdered the
Spaniards.
I looked upon their case to have been worse at this time than
mine was at any time, after I first discovered the grains of barley and
rice, and got into the manner of planting and raising my corn and
my tame cattle; for now they had, as I may say, a hundred wolves
upon the island, which would devour everything they could come at,
yet could be hardly come at themselves.
When they saw what their circumstances were, the first thing they
concluded was, that they would, if possible, drive them up to the
farther part of the island, south-west, that if any more savages came
on shore they might not find one another; then that they would
daily hunt and harass them, and kill as many of them as they could
come at, till they had reduced their number; and if they could
*t last tame them, and bring them to anything, they would give
them corn, and teach them how to plant, and live upon their daily
labour.
In order to this, they so followed them, and so terrified them with
their guns, that in a few days, if any of them fired a gun at an Indian,
if he did not hit him, yet he would fall down for fear; and so dread-
244
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRCSOE.
fully frightened they were, that they kept out of sight farther and
farther; till, at last, our men following them, and almost every day
killing or wounding some of them, they kept up in the woods or
hollow places so much, that it reduced them to the utmost misery
for want of food ; and many were afterwards found dead in the woods,
without any hurt, absolutely starved to death.
When our men found this, it made their hearts relent, and pity
moved them, especially the Spaniard governor, who was the most
gentleman-like, generous-minded man that I ever met with in my
fe; and he proposed, if possible, to take one of them alive, and
bring him to understand what they meant, so far as to be able to act
as interpreter, and go among them, and see if they might be brought
to some conditions that mignt be depended upon, to save their lives
and do us no harm.

It was some while before any of them could be taken; but being'
weak and half-starved, one of them was at last surprised and made a
prisoner. He was sullen at first, and would neither eat nor drink;
but finding himself kindly used, and victuals given him, and no vio-
lence offered him, he at last grew tractable, and came to himself.
They brought old Friday to him, who talked often with him, and told
him*how kind the others would be to them all; that they would not
only save their lives, but would give them part of the islam! to live
in, provided they would give satisfaction that they would keep in
their own bounds, and not come beyond it to injure or prejudice
others . and that they should have corn given them to plant and
make it grow for their bread, and some bread given them for their
present subsistence; and old Friday bade the fellow go and talk with
the rest of his countrvmen, and sec what they said to it; assum'S
them, that if they did not agree immediately, they would be aJJ
destroyed.
The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and reduced in number
to about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal at the first offer, and
begged to have some food given them; upon which, twelve Spaniards
an ctwo Englishmen, well armed, with three Indian slaves and old
Friday, marched to the place where they were. The three Indian
slaves carried them a large quantity of bread, some rice boiled up to
cakes and dried in- the sun, and three live goats; and they were
ordered to go to the side of a hill, where they sat down, ate their
provisions very thankfully, and were the most faithful fellows to
their words that could be thought of; for, except when they came
to beg victuals and directions, they never came out of their bounds
and there they lived when I came to the island, and I went to see
them.
They had taught them both to plant corn, make bread, breed tame
goats, and milk them: they wanted nothing but wives, and they
soon would have been a nation. They were confined to a neck of
land, surrounded with high rocks behind them, and lying plain
towards the sea before them, on the south-east corner of the island.
They had land enough, and it was very good and fruitful; about
a mile and a half broad, and three or four miles in length.
Our men taught them to make wooden spades, such as I made for
myself, and gave among them twelve hatchets and three or four
knives; and there they lived, the most subjected, innocent creatures
that ever were heard of.
After this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquillity with respect
to the savages, till I came to revisit them, which was about two
years after; not but that, now and then, some canoes of savages
came on shore for their trinmphal, unnatural feasts; but as they
were of several nations, and perhaps had never heard of those that
came before, or the reason of it, they did not make any search 01
inquiry after their countrymen; and if they had, it would have been
very hard to have found them out.
Thus, I think, 1 have given a full account of all that happened ta
them till my return, at least, that was worth notice. The Indians
or savages were wonderfully civilized by them, and they frequently
went among them; but forbade, on pain of death, any one of the
Indians coming to them, because they would not have their settle-
ment betrayed again. One thing was very remarkable, viz. that they
taught the savages to make wicker-work, or baskets, but they soon
outdid their masters; for they made abundance of most ingenious
things in wicker-work, particularly all sorts of baskets, sieves, bird-
cages, cupboards, &c.; as also chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches,
ana abundance of other things, being very ingenious at such work,
when they were once put in the way of it.
8ECTI0N XXXVII.
EOBINSOK LEARNS FROM THE SPANIARDS THE DIFFICULTIES T1IIT
HAD TO ENCOUNTER—HE FURNISHES THE FEOFLE WITH TOOLS,
ETC—THE FRENCH ECCLESIASTIC.
Having thus given an account of the colony in general, and pretty
much of my five runagate Englishmen, I must say something of the
Spaniards, who were the main body of the family, and in whose
story there are some incidents also remarkable enough.
I had a great many discourses with them about their circumstances
when they were among the savages. They told me readily that they
had no instances to give of their application or ingenuity in that
country; that they were a poor, miserable, and dejected handful of
people; that if means had been put into their hands, yet they had so
abandoned themselves to despair, and so sunk under the weight of
their misfortunes, that they thought of nothing but starving. One
of them, a grave sensible man, told me he was convinced they were
in the wrong; that it was not the part of wise men to give them-
selves up to their misery, but always to take hold of the helps which
reason offered, as well for present support as for future deliverance:
he told me that grief was the most senseless insignificant passion in
the world, for that it regarded only things past, which were gene-
rally impossible to be recalled, or to be remedied, but had no views
of things to come, and had no share in anything that looked like
deliverance, but rather added to the affliction than proposed a
remedy; and upon this he repeated a Spanish proverb, which though
I cannot repeat in just the same words that he spoke it in, yet I
remember I made it into an English proverb of my own thus:
In trouble to be troubled.
Is to have your trouble doubled.
He ran on then in remarks upon all the little improvements I had
made in my solitude; my unwearied application, as he called it; and
how I had made a condition which in it s circumstances was at first
much worse than theirs, a thousand times more happy than theirs
was even now when they were all together. He told me it was
remarkable that Englishmen had a greater presence of mind, in their
distress, than any people he ever met with; that their unhappy
nation and the Portuguese were the worst men in the world to
struggle with misfortunes; for that their first step in dangers, after
the common efforts were over, was to despair, lie down under it, and
die, without rousing their thoughts. up to proper remedies for
escape.
I told him their case «td mine differed exceedingly; that they
were cast upon the shore without necessaritc, without supply of food,
or present sustenance till they could provide it; that, it was true, I
had this disadvantage and discomfort, that I was alone; but then the
supplies I had providentially thrown into my hands, by the unexpected
driving of the ship on shore, was such a help as would have
encouraged any creature in the world to have applied himself as I
had done. "Senhor," says the Spaniard, "had we poor Spaniards been
in jrour case, we should never have got half those things out of the
ship, as you did; nay," says he, "we should never have found means
to nave got a raft to carry them, or to have got the raft on shore
without boat or sail; and how much less should we have done if any
of us had been alone!" Well, I desired him to abate his complaint,
and go on with the history of their coming on shore, where they
landed. He told me they unhappily landed at a place where there
were people without provisions; whereas had they had the common
sense to have put off to sea again, and gone to another island a little
farther, they had found provisions, though without people; there
being an island that way, as they had been told, where there were
provisions, though no people; that is to say, that the Spaniards of
Trinidad had frequently been there, and had filled the island with
goats and hogs at several times, where they had bred in such multi-
tudes, and where turtle and seafowls were in such plenty, that they
could have been in no want of flesh, though they had found no
bread; whereas here, they were only sustained with a few roots and
herbs, which they understood not and which had no substance in
them, and which the inhabitants gave them sparingly enough; and
who could treat them no better, unless they would turn cannibals,
and eat men's flesh, which was the great dainty of their country.
They gave me an account how many ways they strove to civilize
the savages they were with, and to teach them rational customs in
the ordinary way of living, but in vain; and how they retorted it
upon them, as unjust, that they who came there for assistance and
support, should attempt to set up for instructors of those that gave
them food; intimating, it seems, that none should set up for the
instructors of others but those who could live without them.
They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they were drive*
to; how sometimes they were many days without food at all, the
island they were upon Ving inhabited by a sort of savage* that
lived more indolent, and for that reason were less supplied with the
necessaries of life, than they had reason to believe others were in tho
same part of the world; and yet they found that these savages were
less ravenous and voracious than those who had better supplies of
food. Also they added, they could not but see with what demon-
strations of wisdom and goodness the governing providence of God
directs the events of things in the world; which, they said, appeared
in their circumstances; for if, pressed by the hardships they were
under, and the barrenness of the country where they were, they had
searched after a better to live in, they had been out of the way of the
relief that happened to them by my means.
They then gave an account how the savages whom they lived
among expected them to go out with them into their wars; and, it
was true, that as they had fire-arms with them had they not had the
disaster to lose their ammunition, they should have been serviceable
not only to their friends, but have made themselves terrible both to
friends and enemies; but being without powder and shot, and yet in
a condition that they could not in reason deny to go out with their
landlords to their wars, so when they came into the field of battle,
they were in a worse condition than the savages themselves; for
they had neither bows nor arrows, nor could they use those the
savages gave them; so they could do nothing but stand still, and be
wounded with arrows, till they came up to the teeth of their enemy;
and then, indeed, the three halberds they had were of use to them:
and they would often drive a whole little army before them with
those halberds, and sharpened sticks put into the muzzles of their
muskets; but that, for all this, they were sometimes surrounded
with multitudes, and in great danger from their arrows, till at last
they found the way to make themselves large targets of wood, which
they covered with skins of wild beasts, whose names they knew not,
and these covered them from the arrows of the savages; yet, not-
withstanding these, they were sometimes in great danger; and five
of them were once knocked down together with the clubs of the
savages, which was the time when one of them was taken prisoner,
that is to say, the Spaniard whom I had relieved: that at first they
thought had been killed; but when they afterwards heard he was
taken prisoner, they were under the greatest grief imaginable,
and would willingly have all ventured their lives to have rescued him.
They told me that when they were so knocked down, the rest of
their company rescued them, and stood over them fighting till they
were come to themselves, all but him who they thought had been
dead; and then they made their way with their halberds and pieces,
standing close together in a line, through a body of above a thousand
savages, beating down all that came in their way, got the victory
over their enemies, but to their great sorrow, because it was with
the loss of their friend, whom the other party, finding him alive,
carried off, with some others, as I gave an account before.
A BULTGIOITS CONVERSATION.
AfiVfiNTUBEg OF R0BIN80N CKUSOB. 849
They described most affectionately how they were surprised with
joy at the return of their friend and companion in misery, who, they
thought, had been devoured by wild beasts of the worst kind, viz.,
by wild men; and yet how much more they were surprised
with the account he gave them of his errand, and that there was a
Christian in any place near, much more one that was able, and had
humanity enough, to contribute to their deliverance.
They described how they were astonished at the sight of the relief
J sent them, and at the appearance of loaves of bread, things they
Had not seen since their coming to that miserable place; how often
they crossed it and blessed it as bread sent from Heaven; and what
a reviving cordial it was to their spirits to taste it, as also the other
things I had sent for their supply; and, after all, they would have
told me something of the joy they were in at the sight of a boat
and pilots, to carry them away to the person and place from whence
all these new comforts came, out it was impossible to express it by
words, for their excessive joy naturally driving them to unbecoming
extravagances, they had no way to describe them, but by telling me
they bordered upon lunacy, having no way to give vent to their
passions suitable to the sense that was upon them; that in some it
worked one way, and in some another; and that some of them
through a surprise of joy, would burst into tears, others be stark
mad, and others immediately faint. This discourse extremely affected
me, and called to my mind Friday's eestasy when he met his father,
and the poor people s eestasy when I took them up at sea after their
ship was on fire; the joy of the mate of the ship when he found
himself delivered in the place where he expected to nerish; and my
own joy, when, after twenty-eight years' captivity, 1 found a good
ship ready to carry me to my own country. All'these things made
me more sensible of the relation of these poor men, and more
affected with it.
Having thus given a view of the state of things as I found them,
I must relate the heads of what I did for these people, and the con-
dition in which I left them. It wus their opinion, and mine too,
that they would be troubled no more with the savages, or, if they
were, they would be able to cut them off, if they were twice as
many as before; so they had no concern about that. Then I entered
into a serious discourse with the Spaniard, whom I call governor,
about their stay in the island; for as I was not come to carry any of
them off, so it would not be just to carry off some and leave others,
who, perhaps, woulu be unwilling to stay if their strength was
diminished. On the other hand, I told thein I came to establish
them there, not to remove them: and then 11ft them know that I
had brought with me relief of sundry kinds for them; that I had
been at a great charge to supply them with all things necessary, as
well for their convenience as their defence; and that I had such
and such particular persons with me, as well to increase and recruit
their number, as by the particular necessary employments which
they were bred to, being artificers, to assist them in those things
in which they were at present in want.
They were altogether when I talked thus to them; and before I
delivered to them the stores I had brought, I asked them, one by
one, if they had entirely forgot and buried the first animosities that
had been among them, and would shake hands with one another, and
engage in a strict friendship and union of interest, that so there
might be no more misunderstandings and jealousies.
Will Atkins, with abundance of frankness and good humour, said,
they had met with affliction enough to make them all sober, and
enemies enough to make them afl friends; that, for his part, he
would live and die with them; and was so far from designing any-
thing against the Spaniards, that he owned they had done nothing
to him but what his own mad humour made necessary, and what he
would have done, and perhaps worse, in their case; and that he
would ask them pardon, if I desired it, for the foolish and brutish
things he had done to them, and was very willing and desirous of
living in terms of entire friendship and union with them, and would
do anything that lay in his power to convince them of it: and as
for going to England, he cared not if he did not go thither these
twenty years.
The Spaniards said they had, indeed, at first disarmed and exclu-
ded Will Atkins and his two countrymen for their ill conduct, as
they had let me know, and they appealed to me for the necessity
thev were under to do so; but that Will Atkins had behaved himself
so Bravely in the great fight they had with the savages, and on
several occasions since, and had showed himself so faithful to, and
concerned for, the general interest of them all, that they had for-
gotten all that was past, and thought he merited as much to be
trusted with arms, and supplied with necessaries, as any of them:
and they had testified their satisfaction in him, by committing the
command to him, next to the governor himself; and as they had
entire confidence in him, and all his countrymen, so they acknow-
ledged they had merited that confidence by all the methods that
honest men could merit to be valued and trusted; and they most
heartily embraced the occasion of giving me this assurance, that
they would never have any interest separate from one another.
Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we ap-
pointed the next day to dine all together; and, indeed, we made a
splendid feast. I caused the ship's cook and his mate to come on
shore and dress our dinner, and the old cook's mate we had on shore
assisted. We brought on shore six pieces of good beef, and four
pieces of pork, out of the ship's provision, with our punchbowl and
materials to fill it; and, in particular, I gave them ten bottles of
Trench claret, and ten bottles of English beer; things that neither
the Spaniards nor the English had tasted for many years, and which
it may be supposed, they were very glad of. The Spaniards added
to our feast five whole kids, which the cooks roasted: and three of
them were sent, covered up close, on board the ship to the seamen,
that they might feast on fresh meat from on shore, as we did wJlh
their salt meat from on board.
After this feast, at which we were very innocently merry, I
brought out my cargo of goods : wherein that there might be no dis-
pute about dividing, I showed them that there was a sufficiency for
them all, desiring that they might all take an equal quantity of the
goods that were for wearing: that is to say equal when made up.
As, first, I distributed linen sufficient to make every one of them
four shirts, and, at the Spaniards' request, afterwards made them up
nix; these were exceedingly comfortable to them, having been what,
as I may say, they had long since forgot the use of, or what it was
to wear them. I allotted the thin English stuffs, which I mentioned
before, to make every one a light coat like a frock, which I judged
fittest for the heat of the season, cool and loose; and ordered that
whenever they decayed they should make more, as they thought fit:
the like for pumps, shoes, stockings, hats, &c.
I cannot express what pleasure, what satisfaction, sat upon the
countenances of all these poor men, when they saw the care I had
taken of them, and how well I had furnished them. They told me I
was a father to them; and that having such a correspondent as I
was in so remote a part of t"he world, it would make them forget
that they were left in a desolate place; and they all voluntarily
engaged to me not to leave the place without my consent.
Then I presented to them the people I had brought with me,
particularly the tailor, the smith, and the two carpenters, all of
them most necessary people; but, above all, my general artificer,
than whom they could not name anything that was more useful to
them: and the tailor, to show his concern for them, went to work
immediately, and, with my leave, made them every one a shirt, the
first thing he did; and, which was still more, he taught the women
not only how to sew and stitch, and use the needle, but made them
assist to make the shirts for their husbands and for all the rest.
As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention how useful they were;
for they took to pieces all my clumsy, unhandy things, and made
them clever convenient tables, stools, bedsteads, cupboards, lockers,
shelves, and everything they wanted of that kind. But, to let them
see how nature made artificers at first, I carried the carpenters to see
Will Atkin's basket-house, as I called it: and they both owned they
never saw an instance of such natural ingenuity before, nor anything
so regular and so handily built, at least of its kind: and one of them,
when he saw it, after musing a good while, turning about to me,
"I am sure," says he, "that man has no need of us; you need no-
hing but give him tools."
Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and gave evwj
man a digging-spade, a shovel, and a rake, for we had no harrows of
ploughs; and to every separate place a pick-axe, a crow, a broad-axe,
and a saw; always appointing that as often as any were broken or
worn out, they should be supplied without grudging, out of the
general stores that I left behind. Nails, staples, hinges, hammers,
chisels, knives, scissors, and all sorts of iron-work, they had with-
out tale, as they required: for no man would take more than ho
wanted, and he must be a fool who would waste or spoil them on
any account whatever; and for the use of the smith, I left two tons
of unwrought iron for a supply.
My magazine of powder and arms which I brought them was such,
even to profusion, that they could not but rejoice at them; for now
they could march as I used to do, with a musket upon each shoulder,
if there was occasion; and were able to fight a thousand savages, if
they had but some little advantages of situation, which also they
comd not miss, if they had occasion.
I carried on shore with me the young man whose mother was
starved to death, and the maid also ; she was a sobcry well educated,
religious young woman, and behaved so inoffensively, that every one
gave her a good word; she had indeed an miiappy life with us, there
being no woman in the ship but herself, but she bore it with
patience. After a while, seeing things so well ordered, and in so
fine a way of thriving upon my island, and considering that they had
neither business or acquaintance in the East Indies, or reason for
making so long a voyage; I say, considering all this, both of them
came to me, and desired I would give them leave to remain on the
island, and be entered among the family, as they called it. I agreed
to this readily; and they had a little plot of ground allotted to them,
where the;l had three tents or houses set up, surrounded with a
basket-work pallisadoed like Atkins's, adjoining to his plantation.
Their tents were contrived so that they had each of them a room
apart to lodge in, and a middle tent, like a great storehouse, to lay
their goods in, and to eat and drink in. And now the other two
Englishmen removed their habitation to the same place; and so the
-island was divided into three colonies, and no more, viz. the
Spaniards, with old Friday, and the first servants, at my old habita-
tion under the hill, which was, in a word, the capital city; and
where they had so enlarged and extended their works, as well under
as on the outside of the hill, that they lived, though perfectly
concealed, yet full at large. Never was there such a little city in a
wood, and so hid, in any part of the world: for I verily believe a
thousand men might have ranged the island a month, and, if they
had not known tnere was such a thing, and looked on purpose for it,
they would not have found it; for the trees stood so thick and so
close and grew so fast woven one into another, that nothing but
cutting them down first could discover the place, except the only
two narrow entrances where they went in and out could be found.
953
which was not very easy : one of them was close down at the water's i
edge, on the side of the creek, and it was afterwards above two
hundred yards to the place; and the other was up a ladder at twice, (
as I have already formerly described it; and they had also a large
wood thick-planted on the top of the hill, containing above an acre,
whieh grew apace, and concealed the place from all discovery there,
with only one narrow place between two trees, not easily to be dis-
covered, to enter on that side.
The other colony was that of Will Atkins, where there were four
families of Englishmen, I mean those I had left there, with their
wives and children; three savages that were slaves; the widow and
the children of the Englishmen that was killed; the young man and
the maid; and, by the way, we made a wife of her before we went
away. There was also the two carpenters and the tailor, whom I
brought with me for them ; also the smith, who was a very necessary
man to them, especially as a gun smith, to take care of their arms;
and my other man, whom I called Jack-of-all-trades, who was in him-
self as good almost as twenty men; for he was not only a very
ingenious fellow, bnt a very merry fellow; and before I went away
the French ecclesiastic that I had brought with me married him to
the honest maid that came with the youth in the ship I men-
tioned before.
Having now done with the island, I left them all in good circum-
stances, and in a flourishing condition, and went on board my ship
again on the 6th of May, having been about twenty-five days among
them; and as they were all resolved to stay upon the island till I
came to remove them, I promised to send them further relief from
the Brazils, if I could possibly find an opportunity; and, particu-
larly, I promised to send them some cattle, such as sheep, hogs, and
cows; as to the two cows and calves which I had brought from
England, we had been obliged, by the length of our voyage, to kill
them at sea, for want of hay to feed them.

^-V^-"
SECTION XXXVIII.
ENCOUNTER WITH SAVAGES AT SEA—FRIDAY'S DEATJI—HOBINSON
FINDS HIS FORMEK FARTNER IN THE BRAZILS—SAILS FOR TEE
EAST INDIES.
The next day, giving them a salute of five guns at parting, we set
sail, and arrived at the Bay of All Saints, in the Brazils, in about
twenty-two days, meeting nothing remarkable in our passage but
this: that about three days after we had sailed, being becalmed, and
the current setting strong to the E.N.E., running, as it were, into a
bay or gulf on the land side, we were driven something out of our
course, and once or twice our men cried out: "Land to the east-
ward;" but whether it was the continent or islands we could not
tell by any means. But the third day, towards evening, the sea
smooth, and the weather calm, we saw the sea, as it were, covered
towards the land with something very black. Our chief mate,
going up the main-shrouds a little way, and looking at them with a
perspective, cried out it was an army. I could not imagine what
he meant by an army, and thwarted him a little hastily. "Nay,
sir," says he, "don't be angry, for 'tis an army, and a fleet too; for
I believe there are a thousand canoes, and you may see them paddle
along, for they are coming towards us apace."
I was a little surprised, then, indeed, and so was my nephew the
captain; for he had heard such terrible stories of them in the island,
and having never been in those seas before, that he could not tell
what to think of it, but said, two or three times, we should all be
devoured. I must confess, considering wo were becalmed, and the
current set strong towards the shore, I liked it the worse; however,
I bade them not be afraid, but bring the ship to an anchor as soon
as we came so near as to know that we must engage them.
The weather continued calm, and they came on apace towards us;
so I gave order to come to an anchor, and furl all our sails: as for
the savages, I told them they had nothing to fear but fire, and there-
fore they should get their boats out, aSd fasten them, one close by
the head, and the other by the stern, and man them both well, and
wait the issue in that posture; this I did, that the men in the boats
might be ready with sheets and buckets to put out any fire these
savages would endeavour to fix to the outside of the ship.
In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little whiie they came
up with us; but never was such a horrid sight seen by Christians:
though my mate was much mistaken in his caleulation of their num-
ber, yet when they came up we reckoned about a hundred and
twenty-six; some of them had sixteen or seventeen men in them,
some more, and the least six or seven.
"When they came nearer to us, they seemed to be struck with
wonder and astonishment, as at a sight which doubtless they had
never seen before; nor could they, at first, as we afterwards under-
stood, know what to make of us; they came boldly up, however,
very near to us, and seemed to go about to row round us; but w6
called to our men in the boats not to let them come too near them.
This very order brought us to an engagement with them, without
our designing it: for five or six of the large canoes came so near
our longboat that our men beckoned with their hands to keep them
back, wiiich they understood very well, and went back, but at their
retreat about fifty arrows came on board us from those boats, and
one of our men in the longboat was very much wounded. However,
I called to them not to fire by any means; but we handed down
some deal boards into the boat, and the carpenter presently set up a
kind of fence, like waste boards, to cover them from the arrows of
the savages, if they should shoot again.
About half an hour afterwards they all came up in a body astern
of us, and so near, as that we could easily discern what they were,
though we could not tell their design; and I easily found they were
some of my old friends, the same sort of savages that I had been
used to engage with; and in a short time more they rowed a little
further out to sea, till they came so near that they could hear us
speak: upon this I ordered all my men to keep close, lest they
should shoot any more arrows, and made all our guns ready; bu7,
being so near as to be within hearing, I made Friday go out upon
the deck, and call out aloud to them in his language, to know what
they meant; which, accordingly he did. Immediately afterwards,
Friday cried out they were going to shoot, and, unhappily for him,
Door fellow, they let fly about three hundred of their arrows, and,
to my inexpressible grief, killed poor Friday, no other man being in
their sight. The poor fellow was shot with no less than three
arrows, and about three more fell very near him; such unlucky
marksmen they were!
I was so enraged at the loss of my old trusty servant and com-
panion, that I immediately ordered five guns to be loaded with smaL
shot, and four with great, and gave them such a broadside as they
had never heard in their lives oefore, to be sure. They were not
above half a cable length off when we fired; and our gunners took
their aim so well that three or four of their canoes were overset, as
we had reason to believe, by one shot only.
I had only resolved to have fired four or five guns at them with
powder only, which I knew would frighten them sufficiently; but
when they shot at us directly, with all the fury they were capable of,
and especially as they had killed my poor Friday, whom I so entirely
loved and valued, and who, indeed, so well deserved it, I thought
myself not only justifiable before God and man, but would have been
very glad if I could have upset every canoe there, and drowned
every one of them.
I can neither tell how many we killed, nor how many we wounded,
at this broadside, but sure such a fright and hurry never was seen
among such a multitude; there were thirteen or fourteen of their
canoes split and overset in all, and the men all set a swimming; the
rest, frightened out of their wits, scoured away as fast as they could,
taking But little care to save those whose boats were split or spoiled
with our shot; so I suppose that many of them were lost; and our
men took up one poor fellow swimming for his life, above an hour
after they were all gone.
We had a prisoner, indeed, but the creature was so sullen that he
would neither eat nor speak, and we all fancied he would starve
himself to death; but I took a way to cure him; for I made them
take him and turn him into the longboat, and make him believe they
would toss him into the sea again, and so leave him where they
found him, if he would not speak; nor would that do, but they
really did throw him into the sea, and came away from him, and
then he followed them, for he swam like a cork, ana called to them,
in his tongue, though they understood not one word of what he
said; however, at last they took him in again, and then he began to
be more tractable; nor did I ever design they should drown him.
We were now under sail again; but I was the most disconsolate
creature alive for want of my man Friday.
And now I name the poor fellow once more, I must take my last
leave of him: poor honest Fridav! We buried him with all the
decency and solemnity possible, 6y putting him into a coffin, and
throwing him into the sea; and I caused them to fire eleven guns
for him; and so ended the life of the most grateful, faithful, honest,
and most affectionate servant that ever man had.
"We went now away with a fair wind for Brazil; and in about
twelve days' time we made land, in the latitude of five degrees south
of the line, being the norlh-eastcrmost land on all that part of
America. We kept on S. by E. in sight of the shore four days.
when we made Cape St. Augustine, and in three days came to an
anchor off the Bay of All Saints, the old place of my deliverance,
from whence came both my good and evil fate.
Never ship came to this port that had less business than I had,
and yet it was with great difficulty that we were admitted to have
the least correspondence on shore; nor my partner himself, who
was alive, and made a great figure among them, not my two mer-
chant trustees, not the fame of my wonderful preservation in the
island, could obtain me that favour; but my partner remembering
that I had given five hundred moidores to the priory of the monas-
tery of the Augustines, and two hundred and seventy-two to the
poor, went to the monastery, and obliged the prior that then was, to
go to the governor, and get leave for me personally, with the cap-
tain and one more, besides eight seamen, to come on shore, and no
more; and this upon condition absolutely capitulated for, that we
should not offer to land any goods out of the ship, or to carry any
person away without licence. They were so strict with us as to
landing any goods, that it was with extreme difficulty that I got on
shore three bales of English goods, such as fine broadcloths, stuffs,
and some linen, which I had brought for a present to my partner.
He was a very generous, open-hearted man; though, like me, he
came from little at first; and though he knew not that I had the
least design of giving him anything, he sent me on board a present
of fresh provisions, wine, and sweetmeats, worth about thirty moi-
dores, including some tobacco, and three or four fine medals of gold;
but I was even with him in my present, which, as I have said, con-
sisted of fine broadcloth, English stuffs, lace, and fine Hollands; also,
I delivered him about the value of one hundred pounds sterling, in
the same goods, for other uses; and 1 obliged him to set up the
sloop, which I had brought with mo from England, as I have said,
for the uie of my colony, in order to send the refreshments I intended
to my plantation.
Accordingly, he got hands, and finished the sloop in a very few
days, for she was already framed; and I gave the master of her such
instructions as that he could not miss the place; nor did he miss
them, as I had an account from my partner afterwards. I got him
soon loaded with the small cargo I sent them; and one of our sea-
men, that had been on shore with me there, offered to go with the
sloop and settle there, upon my letter to the governor Spaniard to
allot him a sufficient quantity of land for a plantation.
The cargo arrived safe, and, as you may easily suppose, was very
weleome to my old inhabitants, who were now, with this addition,
between sixty and seventy people, besides little children, of which
there were a great many. I found letters at London from them all,
by way of Lisbon, when 1 came back to England, of which I shall
also take some notice immediately.
I have now done with the island, and all manner of discourse
258
adventttb.es or robinson CRrsos.
about it; and whoever reads the rest of my memorandums would do
well to turn his thoughts entirely from it, and expect to read of the
follies of an old man, not warned by his own harms, much less by
those of other men, to beware of the like; not cooled by almost
forty years' miseries and disappointments; not satisfied with pros-
perity beyond expectation, nor made cautious by afflictions ana dis-
tress beyond imitation.
From the Brazils we made directly over the Atlantic Sea to the
Cape of Good Hope, and had a tolerable good voyage, our course
generally south-east, now and then a storm, and some contrary winds,
but my disasters at sea were at an end; my future rubs and cross
events were to befall me on shore, that it might appear the land was
as well prepared to be our scourge as the sea.
Our snip was on a trading voyage, and had a supercargo on board
who was to direct all her motions after she arrived at the Cape, only
being limited to a certain number of days for stay, by charter-party,
at the several ports she was to go to. " This was none of my busi-
ness, neither did I meddle with it: my nephew, the captain, and the
supercargo, adjusting all those things between them as thev thought
fit.
"^C^.*

SECTION XXXIX.
THE SAILORS REFUSE TO SAIL WITH ROBINSON, WHO IS LIFT BT
HIS NEFHEW, THE CAFTAIN, IN BENGAL.
We stayed at the Cape no longer than was needful to take in fresh
water, but made the best of our way for the coast of Coromandel.
We were indeed informed that a French man-of-war of fifty guns,
and two large merchant ships, were gone for the Indies; and as I
knew we were at war with Prance, I had some apprehensions of
them; but they went their own way, and we heard no more of
them.
I shall not pester the reader with a tedious description of places,
journals of our voyages, variations of the compass, latitudes, trade-
winds, &c.; it is enough to name the ports and places which we
touched at, and what occurred to us upon our passing from one to
another. We touched first at the island of Madagascar, where,
though the people are fierce and treacherous, and very well armed
with lances and oows, which they used with inconceivable dexterity,
yet we fared very well with them a while ; they treated us very civilly;
and, for some trifles which we gave them, such as knives, scissors,
&c. they brought us eleven good fat bullocks of a middling size,
which we took in, partly for fresh provisions for our present spending,
and the rest to salt for the ship's use.
We were now bound to the gulf of Persia, and from thence to the
coast of Coromandel, only to touch at Surat; but the chief of the
supercargo's design lay at the bay of Bengal; where if he missed his
business outward-bound, he was to go up to China, and return to
the coast as he came home.
The first disaster that befel us was in the gulf of Persia, where
five of our men venturing on shore on the Arabian side of the gulf,
were surrounded by the Arabians, and either all killed or carried
»way into slavery: the rest of the boat's crew were not able to rescue
them, and had but just time to get off their boat. I began to upbraid
them with the just retribution of Heaven in this case for cruelty
they had exercised on the natives of Madagascar.
But my frequent preaching to them on the subject had worse
consequences than I expected; and the boatswain who had been the
head of that affair, came up boldly to me one time, and told me he
found that I brought that affair continually upon the stage; that I
made unjust reflections upon it, and had used the men very ill on
that account, and himself in particular; that as I was but a passenger,
and had no command in the ship, or concern in the voyage, they were
not obliged to bear it; that they did not know but 1 might have some
ill design in my head, and perhaps to call them to an account for it
when they came to England; and that, therefore, unless I would
resolve to have done with it, and also not to concern myself any
farther with him, or any of his affairs, he would leave the ship; for
he did not think it was safe to sail with me among them.
I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and then told him,
that as to having no command in the ship, that was true; nor did I
exercise any authority, only took the liberty of speaking my mind in
things which publicly concerned us all; and what concern I had in
the voyage was none of his business; that I was a considerable owner
in the ship ; in that claim, I conceived I had a right to speak even
farther than I had done, and would not be accountable to him or any
one else; and began to be a little warm with him. He made but
little reply to me at that time, and I thought the affair had been over.
We were at this time in the road at Bengal; and being willing to see
the place, I went on shore with the supercargo, in the ship s boat,
to divert myself; and towards evening was preparing to go on board,
when one of the men came to me, and told me he would not have
me trouble myself to come down to the boat, for they had orders not
to carry me on board any more. Any one may guess what a surprise
I was in at so insolent a message; and I asked the man who bade
him deliver that message to me ? He told me, the cockswain. I said
no more to the fellow, but bade him let them know he had delivered
his message, and that I had given him no answer to it.
I immediately went and found out the supercargo, and told him
the story; adding, which I presently foresaw, that there would be a
mutiny in the ship; and entreated him to go immediately on board
the ship in an Indian boat, and acquaint the captain of it. But I
might have spared this intelligence, for before I had spoken to him
on shore the matter was effected on board. The boatswain, the
gunner, the carpenter, and all the inferior officers, as soon as I was
gone off in the boat, came up, and desired to speak with the
captain; and there the boatswain making a long barangue, and
repeating all he had said to me, told the captain, in a few words,
that as 1 was now going peacebly on shore, they were loth to use
any violence with me, which, if I had not gone on shore, they would
otherwise have done, to oblige me to have gone; they therefore
thought fit to tell him, that as they shipped themselves to serve
in the ship under his command, they would perform it well and
faithfully; but if I would not quit the ship, or the captain oblige me
to quit it, they would all leave the ship, and sail no farther with him;
and at that word all, he turned his face towards the mainmast,
which was, it seems, the signal agreed on between them, at which
all the seamen, being got together there, cried out, One and all!
one and all!
My nephew, the captain, was a man of spirit, and of great
presence of mind; and though he was surprised, you may be sure,
at the thing, yet he told them calmly that he would consider of the
matter; out that he could do nothing in it till he had spoken to me
about it. He used some arguments with them to show them the
unreasonableness and injustice of the thing; but it was all in vain;
they swore and shook hands round before his face, that they would
all go on shore, unless he would engage to them not to suffer me to
come any more on board the ship.
This was a hard article upon him, who knew his obligation to me,
and did not know how I might take it; so he began to talk smartly
to them; told them that I was a very considerable owner of the ship,
and that, in justice, he could not put me out of my own house; that
this was next door to serving him as the famous pirate Kiild had
done, who made a mutiny in the ship, set the captain on shore ou an
uninhabited island, and ran away with the ship; that let them go
into what ship they would, if ever they came to England again it
would cost them very dear; that the ship was mine, and that he
could not put me out of it; and that he would rather lose the ship
and the voyage too than disoblige me so much; so they might do as
they pleased; however, he would go on shore and talk with me, and
invited the boatswain to go with him, and perhaps they might
accommodate the matter with me. But they all rejected the proposal,
and said they would have nothing to do with ine any more; and if I
came on board they would go on shore. "Well," said the captain, "if
you are all of this mind, let me go on shore and talk with him" So
away he came to me with thi3 account, a little after the message had
been brought to me from the cockswain.
I was very glad to see my nephew, I must confess: for I was not
without apprehensions that they would confine him by violence, set
sail, and run away with the ship; and then I had been stripped
naked in a remote country, having nothing to help myself: in short,
I had been in a worse case than when I was alone in the island.
But they had not come to that length, it seems, to my satisfaction;
and when my nephew told me what they had said to him, and how
they had sworn and shook hands that they would, one and all, leave
the ship if I was suffered to come on beard, I told him he should
not be concerned at it at all, for I would stay on shore: I only
desired he would take care and send me all my necessary things or
shore, and leave me a sufficient sum of mouey, and I would find my
way to England as well as I could.
This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew, but there was no
way to help it but to comply; so, in short, he went on board the
ship again, and satisfied the men that his uncle had yielded to their
import unity, and had sent for his goods from on board the ship: so
that the matter was over in a few nours, the men returned to their
duty, and I began to consider what course 1 should steer.

SECTION XL.
MEETS WITH AN ENGLISH MERCHANT WITH WHOM HE MAKES
SOME TRADING VOYAGES—THEY ASE MISTAKEN FOR FIRATES
VANQUISH THEIR FURSUERS—VOYAGE TO CHINA — RENCONTRE
WITH THE COCHIN CHINESE ISLAND OF FORMOSA GULP OF
NANQUIN — AFFREHENSIONS OP FALLING INTO THE HANDS OF
THE DUTCH.
[ was now alone in the most remote part of the world, as I think I
may call it, for I was near three thousand leagues by sea farther off
from England than I was at my island; only, it is true, I might
travel here by land over the great Mogul's country to Surat, might
go from thence to Bassora by sea, up the gulf of Persia, and take the
way of the caravans, over the Desert of Arabia, to Aleppo and
Seandcroon; from thence hv sea again to Italy, and so overland into
France; and this put together might at least "be a full diameter of the
globe, or more.
I had another way before me, which was to wait for some English
ships, which were coming to Bengal from Achin, on the island of
Sumatra, and get passage on board them for England. But as I
came hither without any concern with the English East India Com-
pany, so it would be difficult to go from hence without their license,
unless with great favour of the captains of the ships, or the Company's
factors, and to both I was an utter stranger.
Here I had the mortification to see the ship set sail without me;
a treatment I think a man in my circumstances scarce ever met with,
except from piratcs running away with the ship, and setting those
that would not agree with their villany on shore. Indeed, this was
next door to it, both ways ; however, my nephew left me two servants,
or rather one companion and one servant; the first was clerk to the
purser, whom he engaged to go with me, and the other was his own
servant. I took me also a good lodging in the house of an English-
woman, where several merchants lodged, some French, two Italians,
or rather Jews, and one Englishman; here I was handsomely enough
entertained: and that I might not be said to run rashly upon any-
thing, I stayed here above nine months considering what course to
take, and how to manage myself. I had some English goods with
me of value, and a considerable sum of money; my nephew furnish-
ing me with a thousand pieces of eight, and a letter of credit for
more, if I had occasion, that I might not be straitened whatever
might happen.
I quickly disposed of my goods to advantage, and, as I originally
intended, I bought here some very good diamonds, which, of all
other things, were the most proper for me, in my present circum-
stances; because I could always carry my whole estate about me.
After a long stay here, and many proposals made for my return to
England, but none falling out to my mind, the English merchant who
lodged with me, and whom I had contracted an intimate acquaintance
with, came to me one morning. "Countryman," says he, "I have a
project to communicate to you, which, as it suits with my thoughts,
may, for aught I know, suit with yours also, when you shall have
thoroughly considered it. Here we are posted, you by accident, and
I by my own choice, in a part of the'world very remote from our own
country; but it is in a country where, by us who understand trade
and business, a great deal of money is to be got. If you will put
one thousand pounds, to my one thousand pounds, we will hire a ship
here, the first we can get to our minds ; you shall be captain, I'll be
merchant, and we'll go a trading voyage to China."
I liked this proposal very well, and the more because it seemed to
be expressed with so much good will, and in so friendly a manner.
It was, however, some time before we could get a ship to our
minds, and when we had got a vessel, it was not easy to get English
sailors; that is to say, so many as were necessary to govern the
voyage and manage the sailors which we should pick up there. After
some time we got a mate, a boatswain, and a gunner, English; a
Dutch carpenter, and three foremastmen. With these we found we
could do well enough, having Indian seamen, such as they were, to
make up.
We made this voyage to Achin, in the island of Sumatra, and from
thence to Siam, where we exchanged some of our wares for opinm
and some arrack; the first a commodity which bears a great price
among the Chinese, and which, at that time, was much wanted
thers. In a word, we went up to Susham, made a very great voyage
were eight months out, and returned to Bengal; and I was very
well satisfied with my adventure
In short, we made a very good voyage, and I got so much money
b.y my first adventure, and such an insight into the method of getting
more, that had I been twenty years younger, I should have been
tempted to have stayed here, and sought no farther for making any
fortune: but what was all this to a man upwards of threescore, that
was rich enough, and came abroad more in obedience to a restless
desire of seeing the world than a covetous desire of gaining by it?
But this was not all: I had a kind of impatience upon me to be
nearer home, and yet the most unsettled resolution imaginable which
way to go. In the interval of these consultations, my friend, who
was always upon the search for business, proposed another voyage
to me among the Spice Islands, and to bring home a loading of
cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts; places, indeed, where the
Dutch trade, but islands belonging partly to the Spaniards; though
we went not so far, but to some other, where they have not the
whole power, as they have at Batavia, Ceylon, &c.
We were not long in preparing for this voyage; the chief difficulty
was in bringing me to come into it: however; at last, nothing else
offering, and finding that really stirring about and trading, the profit
being so great, and, as I may say certain, had more pleasure in it,
and had more satisfaction to my mind, than sitting still, which, to
we especially, was the unhappiest part of my life, 1 resolved on this
voyage too, which we made very successfully, touching at Borneo,
ind several islands whose names I do not remember, and came home
in about five months. We sold our spice, which was chiefly cloves
and some nutmegs, to the Persian merchants, who carried them
away to the gulf; and making near five of one, we really got a great
deal of money.
But, to be short with my speculations, a little while after this
there came in a Dutch ship from Batavia; she was a coaster, not an
European trader, of about two hundred tons burthen; the men, as
they pretended, having been so sickly, that the captain had not
hands enough to go to sea with, he lay by at Bengal; and having, it
seems, got money enough, or being willing, for other reasons, to go
to Europe, he gave public notice that he would sell his ship. This
came to my ears before my new partner heard of it, and I had a
great mind to buy it; so I went to him, and told him of it. lie
considered awhile, for he was no rash man; but musing some time.
he replied, "She is a little too big; but, however, we will have her."
Accordingly, we bought the ship, and agreeing with the master, w*»
paid for ner, and took possession. When we had done so, wj
resolved to entertain the men, if we could, to join them with mow
we had, for the pursuing our business; but on a sudden, they havintr
received not their wages, but their share of the money, as we after-
wards learned, not one of them was to be found; we inquired mucu
about them, and at length were told that they were all gone together
by land to Agra, the great city of the Mogul's residence, and Iron,
thence to travel to Surat, and go by sea to the gulf of Persia.
Nothing had so mueh troubled me a good while as that I should
miss the opportunity of going with them; for such a ramble, 1
thought, ana in such company as would both have guarded and
diverted me, would have suited mightily with my great design; and
I should have both seen the world and gone homewards too: but I
was much better satisfied a few days after, when I came to know
what sort of fellows they were; for, in short, their history was,
that this man they called captain was the gunner only, not the com-
mander; that they had been a trading voyage, in which they had
been attacked on shore by some of the Malays, who had killed the
captain and three of his men; and that after the captain was killed,
these men, eleven in number, had resolved to run away with the
shin, which they did and brought her to Bengal, leaving the mate
ana five more men on shore; of whom hereafter.
Well, let them get the ship how they would, we came honestly by
her, as we thought, though we did not, I confess, examine into
things so exactly as we ought; for we never inquired anything of
the seamen, who would certainly have faltered in their account,
contradicted one another, and perhaps contradicted themselves; or
one how or other we should nave had reason to have suspected
them: but the man showed us a bill of sale for the ship, to one
Emanuel Clostershoven, or some such name, for I suppose it was all
a forgery, and called himself by that name, and we could not con-
tradict him; and withal, having no suspicion of the thing, we went
through with our bargain.
We picked up some more English sailors here after this, and some
Dutch; and now we resolved for a second voyage to the south-east
for cloves, &c.; that is to say, among the Philippine and Molucca
isles; and, in short, not to fill up this part of my story with trifles,
when what is to come is so remarkable, I spent, from first to laat,
six years in this country, trading from port to port, backward and
forward with very great success, and was now the last year with my
new partner, going in the ship above-mentioued, on a voyage to
China, but designing first to go to Siam, to buy rice.
In this voyage, bein" by contrary winds obliged to beat up and
dovn a great while in the straits of Malacca, and among the islands,
w» were no sooner got clear of those difficult seas than we found
our shin had sprung a leak, and we were not able, by all out
industry, to find out where it was. This forced us to make some
poif. and my partner, who knew the country better than I did,
auected the captain to put into the river of Cambodia; for I had
maue the English mate, one Mr. Thompson, captain, not being
wuiing to take the charge of the ship upon myself. This river lies
on tne north side of the great bay or gulf which goes up to Siam.
While wc were here, and going often on shore for refreshments ther*
comes to me one day an Englishman, and he was, it seems, ii
gunner's-maf e on board an English East India ship which rode in
the same river, at or near the city of Cambodia; what brought him
hither we knew not; but he comes to me, and speaking English,
"Sir," says he, "you are a stranger to me, and I to you, but I have
something to tell you that very nearly concerns you."
I looked steadfastly at him a good while, and thought at first I
had known him, but I did not: "If it very nearly concerns me,"
said T, "and not yourself, what moves you to tell it to me?"—"J
am moved," says he, "by the imminent danger you are in, and, fot
aught I see, you have no knowledge of it."—" I know no danger I
am in," says I, "but that my ship is leaky, and I cannot find it out;
but I intend to lay her aground to-morrow, to see if I can find it."
"But, sir," says he, "leaky or not leaky, find it or not find it, you
will bo wiser than to lay your ship on shore to-morrow, when you
hear what I have to say to you: do you know, sir," said he, "the
town of Cambodia lies about fifteen leagues up this river? and there
are two large English ships about five leagues on this side, and
three Dutch."—"Well," said I, "and what is that to me?"—
"Why, sir," said he, "is it for a man that is upon such adventures
as you are, to come into a port and not examine first what ships
there are there, and whether he is able to deal with them? I sup-
pose you do not think you are a match for them?" I was amused
very much at his discourse, but not amazed at it, for I could not
conoeive what he meant; and I turned short upon him, and said,
"Sir, I wish you would explain yourself; I cannot imagine what
reason 1 have to be afraid of any of the Company's ships, or Dutch
ships; 1 am no interloper; what can they have to say to me? He
looked like a man half angry and half pleased, and pausing awhile,
but smiling, "Well, sir, savs he, "if you think yourself secure,
you must take your chance; 1 am sorry your fate should blind you
against good advice: but assure yourself, if you do not put to sea
immediately, you will the very next tide be attacked by five long-
boats full of men, and perhaps, if you are taken, you will be hanged
for a pirate, and the particulars be examined afterwards. I thought,
sir," added he, "] should have met with a better reception than
this, for doing you a piece of service of such importance. —" I can
never be ungrateful," said I, "for any service, or to any man that
offers me any kindness; but it is past my comprehension what they
should have such a design upon me for: however, since you say
there is no time to be lost, and that there is some villanous design
on hand against me, 1 will go on board this minute, and put to sea
immediately, if my men can stop the leak, or if we can swim with-
out stopping it: but, sir," said I, "shall I go away ignorant of the
cause of all this? Can yon give me no further light into it?"—
"I can tell you but part of the storv, sir," says he; "but I have a
Dutch seaman here with me, and I believe I could persuade him to
Sell you the rest; but there is scarce time for it: but the short of
the story is this, the first part of which, I suppose, you know well
enough, viz., that you was with this ship at Sumatra; that there
your captain was murdered by the Malays, with three of his men;
and that you, or some of those that were on board with you, ran
away with the ship, and are since turned pirates. This is the sum
of the story, and you will all be seized as pirates, I can assure you,
and executed with very little ceremony; for you know merchant
ships show but little law to pirates, if they get them into their
power."—" Now you speak plain English," said I, "and I thank
you; and though 1 know nothing that we have done like what you
talk of, for I am sure we came honestly and fairly by the ship; yet
seeing such a work is doing, as you say, and that you seem to mean
honestly, I will be upon my guard."—" Nay, sir, says he, "do not
talk about being upon your guard; the best defence is, to be out of
danger; if you have any regard for your life, and the lives of all
your men, put to sea without fail, at high water; and as you have
a whole tide before you, you will be gone too far out before they cau
come down; for they will come away at high water, and as they
have twenty miles to come, you will get near two hours of them by
the difference of the tide, not reckoning the length of the way;
besides, as they are only boats, and not ships, they will not venture
to follow you tar out to sea, especially if it wows."—" Well, said I,
"you have been very kind in this; what shall I do to make
amends?"—"Sir," says he, "you may not be willing to make any
amends, because you may not be convinced of the truth of it: I
will make an offer to you; I have nineteen months' pay due to me
on board the ship ***, which I came out of England in; and the
Dutchman that is with me has seven month's pay due to him; if
you will make good our pay to us, we will go along with you: if
you find nothing more in it, we will desire no more; but if we do
convince you that we have saved vour lives, and the ship, and the
lives of all the men in her, we will leave the lest to you.
I consented to this readily, and went immediately on board, and
the two men with me. As soon as I came to the ship's side, my
partner, who was on board, came out on the quarter-deck, and called
to me, with a great deal of joy, "O ho! 0 ho! we have stopped
the leak! we have stopped the leak!"—"Say you so?" said I,
"thank God; but weigh anchor then immediately."—" Weigh!"
says he: "what do you mean by that? What is the matter?"
"Ask no questions," said I, " but all hands to work', and weigh
without losing a minute." He was surprised, but, however, he
culled the captain, and he immediately ordered the anchor to be got
up; and though the tide was not quite down, yet a little land
breeze blowing, we stood out to sea. Then I called him into the
cabin, and told him the story; and we called in the men, and they
told us the rest of it: but as it took up a great deal of time, before
we had done a seaman comes to the cabin door, and called out to us
that the captain bade him tell us we were chased. "Chased!" says
I; "by what?"—"By five sloops, or boats," says the fellow, "full
of men."—" Very well," said I; "then it is apparent there is some-
thing in it." In the next place I ordered all our men to be called
up, and told them there was a design to seize the ship, and to take
us for pirates, and asked them if they would stand by us, and by
one another: the men answered cheerfully, one and all, that they
wouid live and die with us. Then I asked the captain what way he
thought best for us to manage a fight with them; for resist them I
was resolved we would, and that to the last drop. He said readily
that the way was to keep them off with our great shot as long as we
could, and then fire at them with our small arms, to keep them from
boarding us; but when neither of these would do any longer, we
should retire to our close quarters; perhaps they had not materials
to break open our bulk-heads, or get in upon us.
The gunner had, in the meantime, orders to bring two guns to
bear fore and aft, out of the steerage, to clear the deck, and load
them with musket bullets and small pieces of old iron, and what
came next to hand; and thus we made ready for fight: but all this
while we kept out to sea, with wind enough, and could see the boats
at a distance, being five large long-boats, following us with all the
sail they could make.
Two of those boats (which by our glasses we could see were
English) outsailed the rest, were near two leagues ahead of them,
and gained upon us considerably, so that we found they would come
up with us; upon which we fired a gun without ball, to intimate
that they should bring to; and we put out a flag of truce, as a
signal for parley; but they came crowding after us, till they came
within shot, when we took in our white nag, they having made no
answer to it, and hung out a red flag, and fired at them with shot.
Notwithstanding this, they came on till they were near enough to
call to them with a speaking trumpet which we had on board; so
we called to them, and bade them keep off, at their peril.
It was all one: they crowded after us, and endeavoured to come
under our stern, so as to board us on our quarter; upon which,
seeing they were resolute for mischief, and depended upon the
strength that followed them, I ordered to bring the ship to, so
that they lay upon our broadside; when immediately we fired five
guns at them, one of which had been levelled so true as to carry
away the stern of the hindermost boat, and bring them to the
necessity of taking down their sail, and running all to the head of the
boat to keep her from sinking; so she lay by, and had enough of it;
but seeing the foremost boat crowd on after us, we made ready to
fire at her in particular. While this was doing, one of the three
boats that was behind, being forwarder than the other two, made up
to the boat which we had disabled, to relieve her, and we could see
270 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CB.USOE.
offered a truce, to parley again, and to know what her business was
with us; but had no answer, only she crowded close under our
stern. Upon this our gunner, who was a very dexterous fellow, run
out his two chase guns, and fired again at her, but the shot missing,
the men in the boat shouted, waved their caps, and came on; but
the gunner, getting quickly ready again, fired among them a second
time, one shot of which, though it missed the boat itself, yet fell in
among the men, and we could easily see had done a great deal of
mischief among them; but we took no notice of that, wore the ship
again, and brought our quarter to bear upon them, and firing three
guns more, we found the boat was almost split to pieces; in
particular, her rudder and a piece of her stern was shot quite away;
so they handed her sail immediately, and were in great disorder.
But to complete their misfortune, our gunner let fly two guns at
them again: where he hit them we could not tell, but we found the
noat whs sinking, and some of the men already in the water.- upon
this I immediately manned out our pinnace, which we had kept close
by our side, with orders to pick up some of the men, if they could,
and save them from drowning, and immediately come on board the
ship with them, because we saw the rest of the boats began to come
up. Our men in the pinnace followed their orders, and took up
three men, one of whom was just drowning, and it was a good while
before we could recover him. As soon as they were on board, we
crowded all the sail we could make, and stood farther out to sea;
and we found that when the other three boats came up to the first,
they gave over their chase.
Being thus delivered from a danger, which, though I knew not
the reason of it, yet seemed to be much greater than I apprehended,
I resolved that we should change our course, and not let any one
know whither we were going: so we stood out to sea, eastward,
quite out of the course of all European ships, whether they were
bound to China or any where else within the commerce of the
European nations.
When we were at sea, we began to consult with the two seamen,
and inquire what the meaning of all this could be; and the Dutch-
man let us into the secret at once, telling us that the fellow that
sold us the ship, as we said, was no more than a thief that had run
away with her. Then he told us how the captain, whose nafhe too
he told us, though I do not remember it now, was treachorouslj
murdered by the natives on the coast of Malacca, with three of his
men; and that he, this Dutchman, and four more, got into the
woods, where they wandered about a great while, till at length he,
in particular, in a miraculous manner, made his escape, and swam
off to a Dutch ship, which, sailing near the shore in its way from
China, had sent their boat on shore for fresh water; that he durst
not come to that part of the shore where the boat was, but made
saifl in the night to take the water farther off, and swimming a great
while, at last the ship's boat took him up.
He then told us that he went to Batavia, where two of the sea-
men belonging to the ship arrived, having deserted the rest in their
travels, ana gave an account that the fellow who had run away with
the ship sold her at Bengal to a set of pirates, which were gone a
cruising in her; and that they had already taken an English ship
and two Dutch ships very richly laden.
This latter part was found to concern us directly, though we knew
it to be false; yet as my partner said very justly, if we had fallen
into their hands, and they had such a prepossession against us
beforehand, it had been in vain for us to have defended ourselves, or
to hope for any good quarter at their hands; and especially con-
sidering that our accusers had been our judges, and that we could
have expected nothing from them but what rage would have dictated,
and an ungoverned passion have executed; and therefore it was his
opinion we should go directly back to Bengal, trom whence wo
came, without putting in at any port whatever; because there we
could give a good account of ourselves, could prove where we were
when the ship put in, of whom we bought her, and the like; and
which was more than all the rest, if we were put upon the necessity
of bringing it before the proper judges, we should be sure to have
some justice, and not to be hanged first and judged afterwards.
I was some time of my partner's opinion; but after a little more
serious thinking, I told him I thought it was a very great hazard for
us to attempt returning to Bengal, for that we were on the wrong
side of the Straits of Malacca, and that if the alarm was given, we
should be sure to be waylaid on every side, as well by the Dutch of
Batavia as the English elsewhere; that if we should be taken, as it
were, running away, we should even condemn ourselves, and there
would want no more evidence to destroy us. I abo asked the English
sailor's opinion, who said he was of my mind, and that we should
certainly be taken. This danger a little startled my partner, and all
the ship's company, and wc immediately resolved to go away to the
coast of Tonquin, and so on to the coast of China; ana pursuing the
first design as to trade, find some way or other to dispose ot the
ship, and come back in some of the vessels of the country, such as
we could get. This was approved of as the best method for our
security; and accordingly we steered away N.N.E., keeping above
fifty leagues off from the usual course to the eastward. This, how-
ever, put us to some inconvenience; for, first, the winds, when we
came to that distance from the shore, seemed to be more steadily
against us, blowing almost trade, as we call it, from the E and
E.N.E., so that we were a long while upon our voyage, and we were
but ill provided with victuals for so long a run; and, which was still
worse, there was some danger that those English and Dutch ships,
whose boats pursued us, whereof some were bound that way, might
be got ill before us, and if not, some other ship bound to Q.'.-aa
might have information of us from them, and pursue us with the
same vigour.
I must confess, I was now very uneasy, and thought myself, in-
cluding the late escape from the long-boats, to have been in the most
dangerous condition that ever I was in through my past life; for
whatever ill circumstances I had been in, I was never pursued for a
thief before; nor had 1 ever done anything that merited the name
of dishonest or fraudulent, much less thievish; I had chiefly been
my own enemy, or, as I might rightly say, I had been nooody't
enemy but my own; but now I was embarrassed in the worst condi-
tion imaginable; for though I was perfectly innocent, I was in no
condition to make that innocence appear; and if I had been taken,
it had been under a supposed guilt of the worst kind. This made
me very anxious to make an escape, though which way to do it I
knew not, or what port or place we could go to. My partner seeing
me thus dejected, though he was the most concerned at first, began
to encourage me, and describing to me the several ports of that
coast, told me he would put in on the coast of Cochin China, or the
Bay of Tonquin, intending to go afterwards to Macao, a town once
in possession of the Portuguese, and where still a great many Euro-
pean families resided; and particularly the missionary priests usually
went thither, in order to their going forward to China.
Hither then we resolved to go; and accordingly, though after a
tedious and irregular course, and very much straitened for provi-
sions, we came within sight of the coast very early in the morning;
and upon reflection on the past circumstances we were in, and tie
danger if we had not escaped, we resolved to put into a small river,
which, however, had depth enough of water for us, and to-see if we
could, either overland or by the ship's pinnace, come to know what
ships were in any port thereabouts. This happy step was, indeed,
our deliverance; for though we did not immediately see any Euro-
pean ships in the Bay of Tonquin, yet the next morning there came
into the bay two Dutch ships; and a third, without any colours
spread out, but which we believed to be a Dutchman, passed by at
about two leagues' distance, steering for the coast of China; and in
the afternoon went by two English ships steering the same course;
and thus we thought we saw ourselves beset with enemies both one
way and the other. The place we were in was wild and barbarous;
the people thieves, even by occupation or profession; and though, it
is true, we had not much to seek of them, and, except getting a few
provisions, cared not how little we had to do with them, yet it was
with much difficulty that we kept ourselves from being insulted by
them, several ways. We were in a small river of this country,
within a few leagues of its utmost limits northward; and by our
boat we coasted north-east, to the point of land which opens the
great Bay of Tonquin; and it was in this beating up along 1 he shore
that we discovered we were surrounded with enemies. The people
we were among were the most barbarous of all the inhabitants of tin
coast, having no correspondence with any other nation, and dealing
only in fish and oil, and such gross commodities; and it may be par-
ticularly seen that they are, as I said, the most barbarous of any of
the inhabitants. Among other customs, they have this one, viz.
that if any vessel has the misfortune to be shipwrecked upon their
coast, they presently make the men all prisoners or slaves; and it
was not long before we found a spice of their kindness this way,
on the occasion following.
1 have observed above, that our ship sprang a leak at sea, and
that we could not find it out; and it happened that, as I have said,
it was stopped unexpectedly in the happy minute of our being to be
seized by the Dutch and English ships in the Bay of Siam; yet as
we did not find the ship so perfectly sound and tight as we desired,
we resolved, while we were at this place, to lay ner on shore, and
take out what heavy things we had on board, and clean her bottom;
and, if possible, to find out where the leaks were. Accordingly,
having lightened the ship, and brought all our guns and other move-
ables to one side, we tried to bring her down, that we might come
at her bottom; but, on second thoughts, we did not care to lay her
on dry ground, neither could we find a proper place for it.
The inhabitants, who had never been acquainted with such a sight,
Cuuie wondering down t o t he shore to look at us; and seeing the ship
lie down on one side in such a manner, and heeling in towards the
shore, and not seeing our men, who were at work on her bottom
with stages, and with their boats on the off-side, they presently
concluded that the ship was cast away, and lay bo fast on the
ground On this supposition, they came all about us in two or
three hours' time, with ten or twelve large boats, having some of
them eight, some ten men in a boat, intending, no doubt, to have
come on board and plundered the ship; and if they had found us
there, to have carried us away for slaves to their king, or whatever
they call him, for we knew nothing of who was governor.
When they came up to the ship and began to row round her, they
discovered us all hard at work on the outside of the ship's bottom
and side, washing, and graving, and stopping, as every seafaring
.nan knows how. They stood for a while gazing at us, and we, who
were a little surprised, could not imagine what their design was;
but being willing to be sure, we took this opportunity to get some of
us into the ship, and others to hand down arms and ammunition to
those that were at work to defend themselves with, if there should
be occasion; and it was no more than need: for in less than a quar-
ter of an hour's consultation, they agreed, it seems, that the ship
was really a wreck; and that we were all at work endeavouring to
save her, or to savo our lives by the help of our boats; and when we
banded our arms into the boats, they concluded, by tlmt motion,
that we were endeavouring to save some of our goods; upon this
they took it for granted we all belonged to them, and away they
came directly upon our men, as if it had been in a line of battle.
Our men, seeing so many of them, began to be frightened, for we
lay but in au ill posture to fight, and cried out to us to know what
they should do. I immediately called to the men that worked upon
the stages, to slip t hem down, and get up the side into the ship ; and
bade those in the boat to row round, and come on board; and those
few of us who were on board worked with all the strength and hands
we had, to bring the ship to rights; but, however, neither the men
upon the stages nor those in the boats could do as they were ordered,
before the Cochin Chinese were upon them; and two of their boats
boarded our long-boat, and began to lay hold of the men as their
prisoners.
The first man they laid hold of was an English seaman, a stout,
strong fellow, who, having a musket in his hand, never offered to
fire it, but laid it down in the boat, like a fool, as I thought; but he
understood his business better than I could teach him, for he grappled
the pagan, and dragged him by main force out of their boat into
ours, where taking him by the cars, he beat his head so against the
boat's gunnel, that the fellow died in his hands; and, in the mean
time, a Dutchman, who stood next, taking up the musket, with
the butt-end of it so laid about him, that he knocked down five of
them who attempted to enter the boat. But this was doing little
towards resisting thirty or forty men, who fearless, because ignorant
of their danger, began to throw themselves into the long-boat, where
we had but five men in all to defend it: but the following accident,
which deserved our laughter, gave our men a complete victory.
Our carpenter being prepared to grave the outside of the ship, as
well to pay the seams where he had caulked her, to stop the leaks,
had got two kettles just let down into the boat, one filled with
boiling pitch, and the other with rosin, tallow, and oil, and such stuff
as the shipwrights use for that work, and the man that attended
the carpenter had a great iron ladle in his hand, with which he
supplied the men who were at work with the hot stuff; two of
the cnemv's men entered the boat just where this fellow stood,
being in the fore-sheets; he immediately saluted them with a handful
of the stuff, boiling hot, which so burned and scalded them, being
half naked, that they roared out like bulls, and enraged with the fire,
leaped both into the sea. The carpenter saw it, and cried out.
"Well done, Jack; give them some more of it; " and stepping for-
ward himself, takes one of the mops, and dipping it in the pitch-pot
he and his man threw it among them so plentifully, that, in short,
of all the men in the three boats there was not one who escaped
being scalded and burned with it, in a most frightful, pitiful manner,
and made such a howling and crying, that I never heard a worst
noise; for it is worth observing, for that though pain naturally make*
all people cry out, yet every nation has a particular way t. exclama-
tion, and makes noises as different from cne another as their speech.
I cannot give the noise these creatures made a better name than
howling, nor a name more proper to the tone of it; for I never heard
anything more like the noise of the wolves, which, as I have said, I
heard howl in the forest on the frontiers of Languedoc.
I was never better pleased with a victory in my life; not only rts
it was a perfect surprise to me, and that our danger was imminent
before, but as we got this victory without any bloodshed, except of
that man the fellow killed with his naked hands, and which I was
much concerned at, for I was sick of killing such poor savage wretches,
even though it was in my own defence, knowing they came on
errands which they thought just, and knew no better; and that
though it may be a just thing, because necessary (for there is no
necessary wickedness in nature) yet I thought it was a sad life, when
we must be always obliged to be killing our fellow-creatures to pre-
serve ourselves; and, indeed I think so still, and I would even now
suffer a great deal, rather than T would take away the life even of
the worst person injuring me; and I believe all considering people
who know the value of Bfe would be of my opinion, if they entered
seriously into the consideration of it.
But to return to my story:—All the while this was doing, my
partner and I, who managed the rest of the men on board, had with
great dexterity brought the ship almost to rights, and having got
the guns into their places again, the gunner called to me to get our
boat out of the way, for he would let fly among them. I called
back again to him, and bid him not offer "to fire, for the carpenter
would do the work without him; but bid him heat another pitch-
kettle, which our cook, who was on board, took care of; but the
enemy was so terrified with what they had met with in their first
attack, that they would not come on again: and some of them who
were farthest off, seeing the ship swim, as it were, upright, began,
as we suppose, to see their mistake, and give over the enterprise,
finding it was not as they expected. Thus we got clear of this
merry fight, and having got some rice, and some roots and bread,
with about sixteen hogs, on board, two days before, we resolved to
stay here no longer, but go forward, whatever came ol it; for we
made no doubt out we should be surrounded the next day with
rogues enough, perhaps more than our pitch-kettle would dispose of
for us. We therefore got all our things on board the same evening,
and the next morning were ready to sail; in the mean time, laying
at anchor at some distance from the shore, we were not so much
concerned, being now in a fighting posture, as well as in a sailing
posture, if an enemy had presented. The next day, having finished
our work within board, and finding our ship was perfectly healed of
all her leaks, we set sail. _ We would have gone into the Bay of
Tonquin, for we wanted to inform ourselves of what was to be known
concerning the Dutch ships that had been there; but we durst not
staud in there, because we had seen several ships go in, as we
supposed, but a little before: so we kept on N.B. towards the island
of Formosa, as much afraid of being seen by a Dutch or English
merchant ship, as a Dutch or English merchant ship in the Medi-
terranean is of an Algerine man-of-war.
When we were thus got to sea, we kept on N.E. as if we would go
to the Manillas or the Philippine islands, and this we did that we
might not fall into the way of the European ships; and then
we steered north, till we came to the latitude of 22 deg. 30 min., by
which means we made the island Formosa directly, where we came
to an anchor, in order to get water and fresh provisions, which the
people there, who were very courteous and civil in their manners,
supplied us with willingly, and dealt very fairly and punctually with
us in all their agreements and bargains, which is what we did not
find among other people, and may be owing to the remains of Chris-
tianity which was once planted here by a Dutch missionary of
Protestants, and is a testimony of what 1 have often observed, viz.
that the Christian religion always civilizes the people and reforms
their manners, where it is received, whether it works saving cfTecls
upon them or no.
From thence we sailed still north, keeping the coast of China at
an equal distance, till we knew we were beyond all the ports of
China where our European ships usually come; being resolved, if
possible, not to fall into any of their hands, especially in this country;
where, as our circumstances were, we could not fail of being entirely
ruined.
Being now come to the latitude of thirty degrees, we resolved to
put into the first trading port we should come at; and standing in
for the shore, a boat came off two leagues to us, with an old Portu-
guese pilot on board, who knowing us to be an European ship,
came to offer his service, which, indeed, we were very glad of, and
took him on board; upon which, without asking us whither we
would go, he dismissed the boat he came in, and sent it back.
I thought it was now so much in our choice to make the old man
carry us whither we would, that I began to talk to him about
carrying us to the gulf of Nanquin, which is the most northern part
of the coast of China. The old man said he knew the gulf of
Nanquin very well, but smiling, asked us what we would do there?
I told him we would sell our cargo and purchase China wares,
calicoes, raw silks, tea, wrought silks, &c., and so would return by
the same course we came. He told us our best port had been to
have put in at Macao, where we could not have failed of a market
for our opinm to our satisfaction, and might for our money have
purchased all sorts of China goods as cheap as we could at
Nanquin.
Not being able to put the old man out of his talk, of which h«
was very opinionated or conceited, I told him we were gentlemen as
well as merchants, and that we had a mind to sec the great city of
Pckin, and the famous Court of .the monarch of China. "Why
then." says the old man, "you should go to Ningpo, where by the
river that runs into the sea there, you may go up within five leagues
of the great canal. This canal is a navigable stream, which goes
through the heart of that vast empire of China, crosses all the rivers,
passes some considerable hills by the help of sluices and gates. and
goes up to the city of Pckin, being in length near two hundred and
seventy leagues.
"V\ ell," said I, "Senhor Portuguese, but that is not our business
now; the great question is, if you can carry us up to the city of
Nanquin, from whence we can travel to Peking afterwards t" He said
he could do so very well, and that there was a great Dutch ship gone
up that way just before. This gave me a little shock, for a Dutch
ship was now our terror; and we depended upon it that a Dutch ship
would be our destruction, for we were in no condition to fight them;
all the ships they trade with into those parts being of great burden,
and of much greater force than we were.
The old man found me a little confused, and under some concern,
when he named a Dutch ship; and said to me, "Sir, you need be
under no apprehensions of the Dutch ; I suppose they are not now
at war with your nation ?"—"No," said I, "that's true; but I know
not what liberties men may take when they are out of the reach of the
laws of their own country.—" Why," says he, "you are no pirates;
what need you fear? They will not meddle with peaceable merch-
ants, sure."
If I had any blood in my body that did not fly up into my face at
that word, it was hindered by some stop in the vessels appointed by
nature to circulate it, for it put me into the greatest disorder ana
confusion imaginable; nor was it possible for me to conceal it so;
but that the old man easily perceived it.
"Sir," says he, "I find you are in some disorder in your thoughts
at my talk; pray be pleased to go which way you think fit, and,
depend upon it, I'll do you all the service I can."—" Why, senhor,"
said I, "it is true, I am a little unsettled in my resolution at this
time, whither to go in particular; and I am something more so for
what you said abt.ut pirates. I hope there are no pirates in these
sc"as; we are but in an ill condition to meet with them, for you see
wc are but a small force, and are but very weakly manned. —" 0,
sir," says he, "don't be concerned, I do not know that there have
been any pirates in these seas for fifteen years, except one, which
was seen, as I hear, in the bay of Siam, about a month since; but
you may be assured she is gone to the southward; nor was she a
ship of any great force, or fit for the work. She was not built for
a privateer, Gut was run away with by a reprobate crew that was on
board, after the captain and some of his men had been murdered by
the Malayans, at or near the bland of Sumatra." What!" said
I, seeming to know nothing of the matter, *' did they murder the
captain?" "No," said he, "I don't understand that they murdered
him; but as they afterwards ran away with the ship, it is generally
believed that they betrayed him into the hands of the Malayans,
who did mnrder him; and perhaps they procured them to do it."—
"Why then," said I, "they deserve death as much as if they had
done it themselves."—" Nay," says the old man, "they do deserve
it; and they will certainly have it, if they light upon any English
or Dutch ship: for they liave all agreed together, that if they meet
that rogue they'll give him no quarter."—" But," said I to him,
"you say the pirate is gone out of these seas; how can they meet
with him then?"—""Why, that's true," says he, "they do say so;
but he was, as I tell you, in the bay of Siam, in the river Cambodia;
and was discovered there by some Dutchmen who belonged to the
ship, and who were left on shore when they ran away with her; and
some English and Dutch traders being in the river, they were within
a little of taking him: nay," said he, "if the foremost boats had
had been well seconded by the rest, they had certainly taken him;
but he, finding only two boats within reach of him, tacked about,
and fired at those two, and disabled them before the others came up,
and then standing off to sea, the others were not able to follow, and
so he got away; but they have all so exact a description of the
ship, that they will be sure to know her; and wherever they find
her they have vowed to give no quarter either to the captain or sea-
men, but to hang them all up at the yard-arm."—" What!" said I,
"will they execute them right or wrong; hang them first, and
judge them afterwards ?"—" O sir," says the old pilot, " there is no
need to make a formal business of it with such rogues as those; let
them tie them back to back, and set them a diving, 'tis no more
than they deserve."
I knew I had my old man fast on board, and that he could do no
harm, so that I turned short upon him: "Well now, senhor," said
I, "this is the very reason why I would have you carry us up to
Nanquin, and not put back to Macao, or to any other part of the
country where the English or Dutch ships come; for be it known to
you, senhor, those captains of the English and Dutch ships are a
parcel of rash, prouct insolent fellows, that neither know what
belongs to justice, nor how to behave themselves as the laws of
God and nature direct; but being proud of their offices, and not
understanding their power, they would act the murderers to punish
robbers; would take upou them to insult men falsely accused, and
determine them guilty without due inquiry: and perhaps I may live
to bring some of them to account for it, when they may be taught
how justice is to be executed; and that no man ought to be treated
as a criminal till some evidence may be had of the crime, and
that he is the man."
With this I told him that this was the very ship they attacked,
and gave him a full account of the skirmish we had with their
boats, and how foolishly and cowardly they behaved. I told him all
the story of our buying the ship, and how the Dutchmen served us.
I told him the reasons I had to believe the story of killing the
master by the Malayans was true, as also the running away with the
ship; but it was all a fiction of their own to suggest that the men
had turned pirates, and they ought to have been sure it was so
before they had ventured to attack us by surprise, and oblige us to
resist them; adding, that they would have the blood of those men,
whom we killed there in just defence, to answer for.
The old man was amazed at this relation, and told us we were
very much in the right to go away to the north; and that if he might
advise us, it should be to sell the ship in China, which we might
very well do, and buy or build another in the country; "and," said lie,
"though you will not get so good a ship, yet you may get one able
enough to carry you and all your goods back again to Bengal, or
any where else." I told him I would take his advice when I came
to any port where I could find a ship for my turn, or get any
customer to buy this. He replied, I should meet with customers
enough for the ship at Nanquin, and that a Chinese junk would
serve me very well to go back again; and that he would procure me
people both to buy one and sell the other. "Well but, senhor,"
said I, "as you say they know the ship so well, I may, perhaps, if I
follow your measures, be instrumental to bring some honest innocent
men into a terrible broil, and perhaps be murdered in cold blood;
for wherever they find the ship, they will prove the guilt upon the
men, by proving this was the ship, and so innocent men may pro-
bably be overpowered and murdered."—" Why," says the old man,
*' I'll find out a way to prevent that also; for as I know all those
commanders you speak of very well, and shall see them all as they
pass by, I will be sure to set them to rights in the thing, and let
them know that they had been so much in the wrong; that though
the people who were on board at first might run away with the ship,
yet it was not true that they had turned pirates; and that, in par-
ticular, these were not the men that first went off with the ship, out
innocently bought her for their trade; and I am persuaded they will
so far believe me, as at least to act more cautiously for the time to
come." , ,
While these things were pas-ing between ns, by way of discour.e,
we went forward directly for Nanquin, and in about thirteen days'
sail came to an anchor at the south-west point of the great gulf of
Nanquin; where, by the way, I came by accident to understand
that two Dutch ships were gone that length before me, and that I
should certainly fall into their hands. I consulted my partner again
in this exigency, and he was as much at a loss as I was, and would
very gladly have been safe on shore almost anywhere: however, I
was not in such perplexity neither, but I asked the old pilot if there
was no creek or harbour which I might put into and pursue my
business with the Chinese privately, and oe in no danger of the
enemy. He told me, if I would sau to the southward about forty-
two leagues, there was a little port called Quinchang, where the
fathers of the mission usually landed from Macao, on their progress
to teach the Christian religion to the Chinese, and where no Euro-
pean ships ever put in; and if I thought to put in there, I might
consider what further course to take when I was on shore. lie
confessed, he said, it was not a place for merchants, except that at
some certain times they had a kind of a fair there, when the
merchants from Japan came over thither to buy the Chinese mer-
chandises.
We all agreed to go back to this place; the name of the pert, as
he called it, I may perhaps spell wrong, for I do not particularly
remember it, having lost this, together with the names of many
other places set down in a little pocket-book, which was spoiled by the
water by an accident; but this I remember, that the Chinese or Japanese
merchants we corresponded with called it by a different name from
that which our Portuguese pilot gave it, and pronounced it as above,
Quinchang.
As we were unanimous in our resolution to go to this place, we
weighed the next day, having only gone twice on shore where we
were to get fresh water; on both which occasions the people of the
country were very civil to us, and brought us abundance of things
to sell to us, I mean of provisions, plants, roots, tea, rice, and some
fowls, but nothing without money.
We came to the other port (the wind being contrary) not till five
days, but it was very much to our satisfaction; and I was joyful,
and I may say thankful, when I set my foot on shore, resolving, and
my partner too, that if it was possible to dispose of ourselves and
effects any other way, though not every way to our satisfaction, we
would never set one foot on board that unhappy vessel more; and,
indeed, I must acknowledge, that of all the circumstances of life
that ever I had any experience of, nothing makes mankind so com-
pletely miserable as that of being in constant fear. Well does the
Scripture say, "The fear of man brings a snare;" it is a life of
death, and the mind is so entirely oppressed by it, that it is capable
of no relief.
The first thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us was, to get us
acquainted with three missionary Romish priests who were in town,
and who had been there some time converting the people to
Christianity; we thought they made but poor work of it, and
made them but sorry Christians when they had done: however, that
was none of our business. One of these was a Frenchman, whom
they called Father Simon; another was a Portuguese, and the third,
* Genoese; Father Simon was courteous, easy in his manner,
and very agreeable company; the other two were more reserved,
seemed rigid and austere, and applied seriously to the work they
came about, viz., to talk with, and insinuate themselves among the
inhabitants, wherever they had an opportunity. We often ate and
drank with those men; and though, 1 must confess, the conversion,
as they call it, of the Chinese to Christianity is so far from the true
conversion required to bring heathen people to the faith of Christ,
that it seems to amount to little more than letting them know the
name of Christ, and say some prayers to the Virgin Mary and her
Son, in a tongue which they understand not, and to cross themselves,
and the like; yet it must be confessed that the religionists, whom
we call missionaries, have a firm belief that these people will be
saved, and that they are the instruments of it; and, on this account,
they undergo not only the fatigue of the voyage, and the hazards of
living in such places, but oftentimes death itself, with the most
violent tortures, for the sake of this work.
But to return to my story. This French priest, Father Simon,
was appointed, it seems, by order of the chief of the mission to go
up to Pckin, the royal seat of the Chinese emperor, and waited
only for another priest, who was ordered to come to him from
Macao, to go along with him; and we scarce ever met together but
he was inviting me to go that journey; telling me how he would
show me all the glorious things of that mighty empire, and, among
the rest, the greatest city in the world: a city, said he, that your
London and our Paris put together, cannot be equal to. This was
the city of Pekin, which, I confess, is very great, and infinitely
full of people; but as 1 looked upon those things with different
eyes from other men, so I shall give my opinion of them in a few
words, when I come in course of my travels to speak more par-
ticularly of them.
We had something else before us at first, for we had all this while
our ship and our merchandise to dispose of, and we began to be
very doubtful what we should do, for we were now in a place of very
little business; and once I was about to venture to sail for the river
of Kilam, and the city of Nanquin: but Providence seemed now
more visibly, as I thought, than ever, to concern itself in our
affairs; and I was encouraged, from this very time, to think I should
one way or other get out of this entangled circumstance, and be
brought home to my own country again, though I had not the least
view of the manner. Providence, I say, began here to clear up our
way a little: and the first thing that offered was, that our old
Portuguese pilot brought a Japan merchant to us, who inquired what
goods we had; and, in the first place, he bought all our opium, and
gave us a very good price for it, paying us in gold by weight, some
in small pieces of their own com, and some in small wedges, of
about ten or eleven ounces each. While we were dealing with him
for our opinm, it came into my head that he might perhaps deal for
the skip too, and I ordered the interpreter to propose it to him: he
shrugged up his shoulders at it, when it was first proposed to him;
but in a few days after he came to me, with one of the missionary
priests for his interpreter, and told me he had a proposal to make to
me, which was this: he had bought a great quantity of goods of us,
when he had no thoughts (or proposals made to him) of buying the
ship; and that, therefore, he had not money enough to pay for the
ship< but if I would let the same men who were in the ship navi-
gate her, he would hire the ship to go to Japan; and would send
them from thence to the Philippine islands with another loading,
which he would pay the freight of before they went to Japan, and"
that at their return he would miy the ship. I began to listen to his
proposal, and so eager did my head still run upon rambling, that I
could not but begin to entertain a notion of going myself with him,
and so to sail from the Philippine islands away to the South Seas;
accordingly I asked the Japanese merchant if he would not hire us
to the Philippine islands, and discharge us there. He said, "No,
he could not do that, for then he could not have the return of his
cargo; but he would discharge us in Japan, at the ship's return."
Well, still I was for taking him at that proposal, and going myself;
but my partner, wiser than myself, persuaded me from it, representing
the dangers, as well of the seas as of the Japanese, who are a false,
cruel, and treacherous people; likewise those of the Spaniards at
the Philippines, more false, cruel, and treacherous than they.
But to bring this long turn of our affairs to a conclusion: the
first thing we had to do was, to consult with the captain of the ship,
and with his men, and know if they were willing to go to Japan:
and while I was doing this, the young man whom my nephew had
left with me as my companion for my travels came to me, and told
me that he thought that voyage promised very fair, and that there
was a great prospect of advantage, and he would be very glad if I
undertook it; but that if I would not, and would give him leavo, lie
would go as a merchant, or how I pleased to order him; that if he
ever came to England, and I was there and alive, he would render
me a faithful account of his success, which should be as much mine
as I pleased. I was really loth to part with him; but considering
the prospect of advantage, which was really considerable, and that
he was a young fellow as likely to do well in it as any I knew, I
inclined to let him go; but I told him I would consult my partner,
and give him an answer the next day. My partner and I discoursed
about it, and my partner made a most generous offer: "You know
it has been an unlucky ship," said he, "and we both resolve not to
fco to sea in it again: if your steward (so he called my man) wiL
venture the voyage, I will leave my share of the vessel to him, and
let him make the best of it; and if we live to meet in England, and
he meets with success abroad, he shall account for one half of the
profits of the ship's freight to us; the other shall be his own."
If my partner, who was no way concerned with my young man,
made him such an offer, I could do no less than offer him the same:
and all the ship's company being willing to go with him, we made
over half the ship to him in property, and took a writing from him,
obliging him to account for the other; and away he went to Japan.
Tuc Japan merchant proved a very punctual, honest man to him;
protected him at Japan, and got him a licence to come on shore,
which the Europeans in general have not lately obtained; paid him
his freight very punctually; sent him to the Philippines, loaded
with Japan and China wares, and a supercargo of their own, who,
trafficking with the Spaniards, brought back European goods again,
and a great quantity of cloves and other spices; and there he was
not only paid Ms freight very well, and at a very good price, but not
being willing to sell the ship then, the merchant furnished him goods
on his own account; and with some money, and some spices of his
own which he brought with him, he went back to the Manillas to
the Spaniards, where he sold his cargo very well. Here, having
got a good acquaintance at Manilla, he got his ship made a free
ship; and the governor of Manilla hired him to go to Acapuleo in
America, on the coast of Mexico, and gave him a licence to land
there, and to travel to Mexico, and to pass in any Spanish ship to
Europe with all his men. He made the voyage to Acapuleo very
happdy; and there he sold his ship; and having there also obtained
allowance to travel by land to Porto Bello, he found means, some-
how or other, to get to Jamaica, with all Ills treasure; and about
eight years after came to England exceeding rich, of which I shall
take notice in its place: in the mean time, I return to our particular
affairs.
Being now to part with the ship and the ship's company, it came
before us, of course, to consider what recompense we should give
to the two men that gave us such timely notice of the design against
us in the river Cambodia. The truth was, they had aone us a very
considerable service, and deserved well at our hands; though, by
the way, they were a couple of rogues too: for as they believed the
story of our being pirates, and that we had really run away with
the ship, they came down to us not only to betray the design that was
formed against us, but to go to sea with us as pirates; and one of them
confessed afterwards that nothing else but the hopes of going a
roguing brought him to do it: however, the service they did us was
not the less; and therefore, as I had promised to be grateful to
them, I first ordered the money to be paid them which they said
was due to them on board their respective ships; over and above
that, I gave each of them a small sum of money in gold, which con-
tented them very well; then I made the Englishman gunner in the
ship, the gunner being now made second mate and purser; the
Dutchman I made boatswain; so they were both very well pleased,
and proved very serviceable, being both able seamen, and very stout
fellows
FACTION XL1.
JOURNEY TO PEK.IN — ROBINSON JOINS A CARAVAN PROCEEDING
TO MOSCOW—RENCONTRES WITH THE TARTARS.
I was now, as near as I can compule, in the heart of China, about
thirty degrees north of the line. I had, indeed, a mind to see the
city of Pekin, which I had heard so much of, and Father Simon im-
portuned me daily to do it. At length his time of going away being
set, and the other missionary who was to go with him being arrived
from Macao, it was necessary that we should resolve either to go or
not; so I referred him to my partner, and left it wholly to his
choice, who at length resolved it in the affirmative; and we pre-
pared for our journey. We set out with very good advantage, as
to finding the way, for we got leave to travel in the retinue of one
of their Mandariiis, a kind of viceroy or principal magistrate in the
province where they reside, and who take great state upon them,
travelling with great attendance, and with much homage from the
people, who are sometimes greatly impoverished by them, being
obliged to furnish provisions for them and all their attendants in
their journeys. That which 1 particularly observed, as to our tra
veiling with his baggage, was this, that though we received sufficient
provisions both for ourselves and our horses from the country, as
belonging to the Mandarin, yet we were obliged to pay for every-
thing we had, after the market price of the country, and the Man-
darin's steward collected it duly from us; so that our travelling in
t he retinue of the Mandarin, though it was a very great kindness to
us, was not such a mighty favour in him, but was a great advantage
to hiin, considering there were about thirty other people travelled in
the same manner besides us, under the protection of his retinue;
the country furnished all the provisions for nothing to him, and yet
lie took our money for them.
We were twenty-five days travelling to Pekin, through a country
infinitely populous, but I think badly cultivated; the husbandry, the
economy, and the way of living miserable, though they boast sc
much of the industry of the people: I say miserable, if compared
with our own, but not so to these poor wretches, who know no
other. The pride of the people is infinitely great, and exceeded by
nothing but their poverty, which adds to that which I call their
misery; and I must needs think the naked savages of America live
much more happily, because, as they have nothing, so they desire
nothing: whereas these are proud and insolent, and in the main are
mere beggars and drudges; thcir ostentation is inexpressible; and, if
they can, they love to keep multitudes of servants or slaves, and,
wluch is to the last degree ridiculous, have the greatest contempt
of all the world but themselves.
I must confess, I travelled more pleasantly afterwards in the
deserts and vast wildernesses of Grand Tartary than here; and yet
the roads here are well paved and well kept, and very convenient
for travellers: but nothing was more awkward to me than to see
such a haughty, imperious, insolent people, in the- midst of the
frossest simplicity and ignorance, and my friend Father Simon and
used to be very merry upon these occasions, to see the beggarly
pride of these people. For example, coming by the house of a
country gentleman, as Father Simon called him, about ten leagues
off the city of Nanquin, we had first of all the honour to ride with
the master of the house about two miles; the state he rode in was a
1>erfect Don Quixotism, being a mixture of pomp and poverty. His
labit was very proper for a scaramouch, or merry-andrew, oeing a
dirty calico, with hanging sleeves, tassels, and cuts and slashes on
almost every side; it covered a taffety vest, as greasy as a butcher's,
and which testified that his honour must be a most exquisite sloven.
Ilis horse was but a poor, starved, hobbling creature, and he had
two slaves who followed him on foot to drive the poor creature
along: he had a whip in his hand, and he belaboured! the beast as
fast about the head as his slaves did about the tail; and thus he
rode by us, with about ten or twelve servants, going from the city
to his country seat, about half a league before us. We travelled on
gently, but this figure of a gentleman rode away before us; and as
we stopped at a village about an hour to refresh us, when we came
by the country scat of this great man, we saw him in a little place
before his door, eating his repast. It was a kind of a garden, but
he was very easy to be seen; and we were given to understand that
the more we looked at him the better ho would he pleased. He sat
under a tree, something like the palmetto, which effectually shaded
him over the head, ana on the south side; but under the tree was
also placed a large umbrella, which made that part look well enough.
He sat lolling back in a great elbow-chair, being a heavy, corpulent
man, and had bis meat brought him by two women slaves; ho had
two more, one cf whom fed the squire with a spoon, and the other
aeid the dish with one hand, and scraped off what he let fall upon
his worship's beard and taffety vest with the other; while the great
fat brute though* it below him to employ hia own bancis in any of
those familiar offices, which kings and monarchs would rather do
than be troubled with the clumsy fingers of their servants.
At length we arrived at Pekin: I had nobody with me but the
youth whom my nephew the captain had given me to attend me as a
servant, and who proved very trusty and diligent; and my partner
had nobody with him, but one servant, who was a kinsman. As for
the Portuguese pilot, he being desirous to see the court, we bore
his charges for his company, and to use him as an interpreter, for
he understood the language of the country, and spoke good French,
and a little English; and, indeed, this old man was a most useful
implement to us everywhere; tor we had not been above a week at
Pekin, when he came laughing: "Ah, Scnhor Inglese," said he, "1
have something to tell you will make your heart glad!" "My heart
glad!" says I; "what can that be? I don't know anything in this
country can either give me joy or grief, to any great degree."
"Yes, yes," said the old man, m broken English, '* make you glad,
me sorry." "Why," said I, "will it make you sorry?" "Be-
cause," said he, "you have brought me here twenty-five days' jour-
ney, and will leave me to go back alone, and which way shall I get to
my port afterwards without a ship, without a horse, without pecune:"
so he called money, being his broken Latin, of which he had abun-
dance to make us merry with. In short, he told us there was a
great caravan of Muscovite and Polish merchants in the city, pre-
paring to set out on their journey by land to Muscovy, within four
or five weeks, and he was sure we would take the opportunity to go
with them, and leave him behind, to go back alone.
I confess I was greatly surprised with this good news, and had
scarce power to speak to him for some time; but at last I turned to
him: "How do you know this?" said I. "Are you sure it is
truef" "Yes," says he; "I met this morning in the street an old
acquaintance of mine, an Armenian, who is among them: he came
last from Astracan, and was designing to go to Tonquin, where I
formerly knew him, but has altered his mind, and is now resolved to
go with the caravan to Moscow, and so down the river Wolga to
Astracan." "Well, senhor," says I, "do not be uneasy about
being left to go baek alone; if this be a method for my return to
England, it shall be your fault if you go back to Macao at all." We
*Ueu went to consult together what was to be done; and I asked my
partner what he thought of the pilot's news, and whether it would
siut with Ids affairs? He told me he would do just as I would, for
he had settled all his affairs so well at Bengal, and left his effects in
such good hands, that as we had made a good voyage here, if he
could vest it in China silks, wrought and raw, such as might be
worth the carriage, he would be content to go to England, and 1 hei
'oaks bis voyage back to Bengal by the Company's ships.
Having iqfolvect upon this, we agreed that if our Portuguese pilot
would go with us we would bear his charges to Moscow, or to tug-
land, if he pleased; nor, indeed, were we to be esteemed over gene-
rous in that neither, if we had not rewarded him farther, the service
he had done us being really worth more than that; for he had not
only been a pilot to us at sea, but he had been like a broker for us
on shore; and his procuring for us the Japan merchant was some
hundreds of pounds in our pockets. So we consulted together about
it, and being willing to gratify him, which was but doing him justice,
and very willing also to have him with us besides, for he was a most
necessary man on all occasions, we agreed to give him a quantity of
coined gold, which, as I compute it, came to about one hundred and
seventy-five pounds sterling, Detween us, and to bear all his charges,
both for himself and horse, except only a horse to carry his goods.
Having settled this between ourselves, we called him to let him
know what we had resolved. I told him he had complained of our
being to let him go back alone, and I was now to tell him we were
resolved he should not go back at all; that as we had resolved to go
to Europe with the caravan, we resolved also he should go with us:
and that we called him to know his mind. He shook his head, and
said it was a long journey, and he had no pecune to carry him
thither, or to subsist himselJ when he came there. We told him we
believed it was so, and therefore we had resolved to do something
for him that should let him see how sensible we were of the service
he had done us, and also how agreeable he was to us: and then I
told him what we had resolved to give him here, which he might lay
out as we would do our own; and that as for his charges, if he
would go with us we would set him safe on shore (life and casualties
excepted) either in Muscovy or England, which he would, at our
own charge, except only the carriage of his goods. He received the
proposal like a man transported, and told us he would go with us
over the whole world; and so we all prepared for our journey.
However, as it was with us, so it was with the other merchants:
they had many things to do; and instead of being ready in five
weeks, it was four months and some days before all tiiings were got
together.
It was in the beginning of February, our style, when we set out
from Pekin. My partner and the old pilot had gone express back
.o the port where we had first put in, to dispose of some goods
which we had left there: and I, with a Chinese merchant whom I
had some knowledge of at Nanquin, and who came to Pekin on his
own affairs,_went to Nanquin, where I bought ninety pieces of fine
damasks, with about two hundred pieces of other very fine silks of
several sorts, some mixed with gold, and had all these brought to
Pekin against my partner's return: besides this, we bought a very
large quantity of raw silk, and some other goods, our cargo amount-
ing, in these goods only, to about three thousand five handled
pounds sterling; which, together with tea, and some fine calicoes,
and three camels' loads of nutmegs and cloves, loaded in all eighteen
camels for our share, besides those we rode upon; which, with two
or three spare horses, and two horses loaded with provisions, made
us, in short, twenty-six camels and horses in our retinue.
The company was very great, and^ as near as I can remember,
made between three and four hundred horses, and upwards of one
hundred and twenty men, very well armed, and provided for all
events: for as the Eastern caravans are subject to be attacked by
the Arabs, so are these by the Tartars; but they are not altogether
so dangerous as the Arabs, nor so barbarous, when they prevail.
The company consisted of people of several nations; but there
were above sixty of them merchants or inhabitants of Moscow,
though of them some were Livonians; and to our particular satis-
faction five of them were Scots, who appeared also to be men of
great experience in business, and of very good substance.
When we had travelled one day's journey, the guides, who were
five in number, called all the gentlemen and merchants, that is to
say, all the passengers except the servants, to a great council, as
they called it. At this council every one deposited a certain quan-
tity to a common stock, for the necessary expense of buying forage
on the way, where it was not otherwise to be had, and for satisfying
the guides, getting horses, and the like: and here they constituted
the journey, as they called it, viz. they named captains and officers
to draw us all up, and give the word of command, in case of an
attack, and give every one their turn of command; nor was this
forming us into order any more than what we found needful upon
the way, as shall be observed.
In two days more we passed the great China wall, made for a for-
tification against the Tartars; ana a very great work it is, going
over hills and mountains in a needless track, where the rocks are
impassible, and the precipices such as no enemy could possibly
enter, or indeed climb up, or where, if they did, no wall could hinder
them. They tell us its length is near a thousand English miles, but
that the country is five hundred in a straight measured line, which
the wall bounds, without measuring the windings and turnings it
takes: it is about four fathoms high, and as many thick in some
places. „
I stood still an hour, or thereabout, without trespassing our
orders (for so long the caravan was in passing the gate), to look at
it on every side, near and far off, I mean that was within my view;
and the guide of our caravan, who had been extoUing it for the won-
der of the world, was mighty eager to hear my opinion of it. I told
him it was a most excellent tiiing to keep out the Tartars; which
he happened not to understand as I meant it, and so took it for a
compliment; but the old pilot laughed; "0, Senhor Inglese," says
he, "you speak in colours."—"In colours!" said I; what do
you mean by that ? "—"Why, you speak what looks white this
way, and black that way: gay one way, and dull another. You tell
him it is a good wall to keep out Tartars; you tell me by that, it it,
good for nothing but to keep out Tartars. I understand you,
Senhor Inglese; I understand you; but Senhor Chinese understood
you his own way."—"Well," says I, "Senhor, do you think it
would stand out an army of our country people, with a good train
of artillery, or our engineers, with two companies of miners?
Would not they batter it down in ten days, tnat an army might
enter in battalia; or blow it up in the air, foundation and all, that
there should be no sign of it left ?"—" Ay, ay," says he, "I know
that." The Chinese wanted mightily to know what I said, and I
gave him leave to tell him a few days after, for we were then almost
out of their country, and he was to leave us in a little time after
this; but when ho knew what I said, he was dumb all the rest of
the way, and we heard no more of his fine story of the Chinese
power and greatness while he stayed.
After v, e passed this mightv nothing, called a wall, something like
the Picts' wall, so famous in Northumberland, built by the Romans,
we began to find the country thinly inhabited, and the people rather
confined to live in fortified towns and cities, as being subject to the
inroads and depredations of the Tartars, who rob in great armies,
and therefore are not to be resisted by the naked inhabitants of an
open country. And here I began to find the necessity of keeping
together in a caravan as we travelled, for we saw several troops of
Tartars roving about; but when I came to sec them distinctly, I
wondered more that the Chinese empire could be conquered by such
contemptible fellows; for they are a mere horde of wild fellows,
keeping no order, and understanding no discipline or manner of
fight. Their horses are poor lean creatures, taught nothing, and fit
for nothing; and this we found the first day we saw them, which
was after we entered the wilder part of the country. Our leader for
the day gave leave for about sixteen of us to go a hunting, as they
call it, and what was this but hunting of sheep: however, it may be
called hunting too, for the creatures are the wildest and swiftest of
foot that ever I saw of their kind; only they will not run a great
way, and you are sure of sport when you begin the chase, for they
appear generally thirty or forty in a flock, and, like true sheep,
always keep together when they fly.
We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and therefore
the Tartars were not so bold as afterwards; but in about five days
we entered a vast, great, wild desert, which held us three days and
nights' march; and we were obliged to carry our water with us hi
great leathern bottles, and to encamp all night, just as I have heard
they do in the desert of Arabia.
I asked our guides whose dominion this was in: and they told me
this was a kind of border, and might be called No Man's Land, being
a part of Great Karakathay, or Grand Tartary; but, however, it was
all reckoned as belonging to China, but that there was no care taken
here to preserve it from the inroads of thieves, and therefore it was
reckoned the worst desert in the whole march, though we were to
go over some much larger.
In passing this wilderness, which was at first very frightful to me,
we 8aw, two or three times, little parties of the Tartars. Once, a
party of them came so near as to stand and gaze at us; whether it
was to consider if they should attack us or not, we knew- not; but
when we were passed at some distance by them, we made a rear
guard of forty men, and stood ready for them, letting the caravan
pass half a mile or thereabouts before us: but after a while they
marched off; only we fouud they saluted us with five arrows at their
parting, one of which wounded a horse, so that it disabled him, and
we left him the next day, poor creature, in ereat need of a good
farrier; they might shoot more arrows, which might fall short of us,
but we saw no more arrows or Tartars that time.
We travelled near a month after this, the ways not being so good
as at first, though still in the dominions of the emperor of China, but
lay for the most part in villages, some of which were fortiDed,
because of the incursions of the Tartars. When we were come tc
one of these towns (it was about two days and a half journay before
we were to come to the city of Naum), I wanted to buy a camel, of
which there are plenty to be sold all the way upon that road, and
horses also, such as they are, because, so many caravans coming that
way, they are often wanted. The person that I spoke to, to get me
a camel, would have gone and fetched one for me; but I, like a fool,
must be officious, and go myself along with him : the place was about
two miles out of the village, where it seems they kept the camels and
horses feeding under a guard.
I walked it on foot, with mv old pilot and a Chinese, being very
desirous of a little variety. When we came to the place, it was a
low marshy ground, walled round with a stone wall, piled up dry,
without mortar or earth among it, like a park, with a little guard of
Chinese soldiers at the door. Having bought a camel, and agreed
for the price, I came away, and the Chinese-man that went with me
led the camel, when on a sudden came up five Tartars on horseback;
two of them seiied the fellow and took the camel from him, while
Mie other three stepped up to me and my old pilot, seeing us, as it
were, unarmed, for I had no weapon about me but my sword, which
could but ill defend me against three horsemen. The first that came
up stopped short upon my drawing my sword, for they are arrant
cowards; but a second coming upon my left, gave me a mow on the
head, which I never felt till afterwards, and wondered, when I cams
to myself, what was the matter, and where I was, for he laid me flat
on the ground; but my never-failing old pilot, the Portuguese (so
Providence, unlooked for, directs deliverances from dangers which to
ns are unforeseen), had a pistol in his pocket, which I knew nothing
of, nor the Tartars neither: if they had, I suppose they would not
have attacked us; but cowards are always boldest when there is no
danger. The old man seeing me down, with a bold heart stepped up
to the fellow that had struck me, and laying hold of his arm with one
hand, and pulling him down by main force a little towards him with
the other, shot him in the head, and laid him dead upon the spot.
fle then immediately stepped up to him who had stopped us, as I
said, and before he could come forward again, made a Mow at him
with a scimitar which he always wore, but missing the man, cut his
horse in the side of his head, cut one of the ears off by the root, and
a great slice down by the side of his face. The poor beast, enraged
with the wound, was no more to be governed oy his rider, though
the fellow sat well enough loo, but away he flew, and carried him
quite out of the pilot's reach; and at some distance, rising upon his
hind legs, threw down the Tartar, and fell upon him.
In this interval, the poor Chinese came in who had lost the camel,
but he had no weapon: however, seeing the Tartar down, and his
horse fallen upon him, away he runs to him, and seizing upon an ugly
ill-favoured weapon he had by his side, something Joke a pole-axe,
but not a pole-axe neither, he wrenched it from him, and made shift
to knock his Tartarian brains out with it. But my old man had the
third Tartar to deal with still, and seeing he did not fly, as he
expected, nor come on to fight him, as he apprehended, but stand
stock-still, the old man stood still too, and fell to work with his tackle,
to charge his pistol again; but as soon as the Tartar saw the pistol,
away he scoured, and left my pilot, my champion I called him after-
wards, a complete victory.
By this time I was a little recovered; for I thought when I first
began to wake, that I had been in a sweet sleep; but, as I said
above, I wondered where I was, how I came upon the ground, and
what was the matter. But a few moments after, as sense returned,
I felt pain, though I did not know where; so 1 clapped my hand to
my head, and took it away bloody: then I felt my head ache; and
then, in a moment, memory returned, and every thing was present
to me again. I jumped upon my feet instantly, and got hold of my
sword, but no enemies in view: I found a Tartar lie dead, and his
horse standing very quietly by him; and, looking further, I saw my
champion ana deliverer, who had been to see what the Chinese had
done, coming back with his hanger in his hand: the old man, seeing
me on my feet, came running to me, and embraced me with a great
deal of joy, being afraid before that I had been killed; and seeing me
bloody, would see how I was hurt: but it was not much, only what
we call a broken head; neither did I afterwards find any great
inconvenience from the blow, for it was well again in two or three
days.
We made no great gain, however, by this victory, for we lost a
camel and gained a horse; but that which was remarkable, when we
came back to the village, the man demanded to be paid for the
camel; I disputed it, and it was brought to a hearing before Hie
Chinese judge of the place. To give him his due, he acted with a
great deal of prudence and impartiality; and, having heard both
sides, he gravely asked the Chinese man that went with me to buy
the camel, whose servant he was? "I am no servant," cays he,
"but went with the strauger."—"At whose request?" says the
justice. "At the stranger's request," says he. "Why, then,"
says the justice, "you were the stranger's servant for the time; and
the camel being delivered to his servant, it was delivered to him,
and he must pay for it."
I confess the thing was so clear, that I had not a word to
say: but, admiring to see such just reasoning upon the conse-
quence, and an accurate stating of the case, I paid willingly for
the camel, and sent for another; but, you may observe,, I did
not go to fetch it myself any more, for I had enough of that.
The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese empire: they call
it fortified, and so it is, as fortifications go there; for this I will
venture to affirm, that all the Tartars in Karakathay, which I
believe, are some millions, could not batter down the walls with
their bows and arrows; but to call it strong, if it were attacked
with cannon, would be to make those who understand it laugh at
you.
We wanted, as I have said, above two days' journey of this city,
when messengers were sent express to every part of the road to tell
all travellers and caravans to halt till they had a guard sent for
them; for that an unusual body of Tartars, making ten thousand
in all, had appeared in the way, about thirty miles beyond the
city.
This was very bad news to travellers; however, it was carefully
done of the governor, and we were very glad to hear we should have
a guard. Accordingly, two days after, we had two hundred soldiers
sent us from a garrison of the Chinese, on our left, and three
hundred more from the city of Naum, and with these we advanced
boldly, the three hundred soldiers from Naum inarched in our
front, the two hundred in our rear, and our men on each side of our
camels, with our baggage, and the whole caravan in the centre: in
this order, and well prepared for battle, we thought ourselves a
match for the whole ten thousand Mogul Tartars, if they had
apppeared; but the next day, when they did appear, it was quite
another thing.
It was early in the morning, when, marching from a well situated
little town, called Changu, we had a river to pass, which we were
obliged to ferry; and had the Tartars had any intelligence, then
had Decn the time to have attacked us, when the caravan being over,
the rear guard was behind; but they did not appear there. About
three hours after, when we were entered upon a desert of about
fifteen or sixteen miles over, behold, by a cloud of dust they raised,
we saw an enemy was at hand; and they were at hand, indeed. for
they came on upon the spur.
'f he Chinese, our guard on the front, who had talked so big the
day before, began to stagger; and the soldiers frequently looked
behind them, which is a certain sign in a soldier that he is just ready
to run away. My old pilot was of my mind; and, being near me,
called out, "Senhor Inglese," says he, "those fellows must be en-
couraged, or they will ruin us all; for if the Tartars come on, they
will never stand it."—" I am of your mind," said I; "but what
must be done?"—"Done!" says he, "let fifty of our men advance,
and flank them on each wing, and encourage them; and they will
fight like brave fellows in brave company: ou',, without this, they
will every man turn his back. Immediately I rode up to our leader,
and told him, who was exactly of our mind; and accordingly fifty
of us marched to the right wing, and fifty to the left, and the rest
made a line of rescue; and so we marched, leaving the last two
hundred men to make a body by themselves, and to guard the
camels: only that, if need were, they should send a hundred men
to assist the last fifty.
In a word, the Tartars came on, and an innumerable company
they were: how many we could not tell, but ten thousand, we
thought, was the least: a party of them came on first and viewed
our posture, traversing the ground in the front of our line; and, as
we found them within gunshot, our leader ordered the two wings to
advance swiftly, and give them a salvo on each whig with their shot,
which was done; but they went off, and I suppose back, to give an
account of the reception they were likely to meet with; and, indeed,
that salute cloyed their stomachs, for they immediately halted, stood
awhile to consider of it, and wheeling off to the left, they gave over
their design, and said no more to us for that time; which was very
agreeable to our circumstances, which were but very indifferent for
a battle with such a number.
Two days after we came to the city of Naun, or Naum; we
thanked the governor for his care of us, and collected lo the value
of a hundred crowns, or thereabouts/which we gave to the soldiers
sent to guard us; and here we rested one day. This is a garrison,
indeed, and there were nine hundred soldiers kept here; but the
reason of it was, that formerly the Muscovite frontiers lay nearer to
them than they now do, the Muscovites having abandoned that pail
of the country, which lies from this city west for about two hundred
miles, as desolate and unfit for use; and more especially being so
very remote, and so difficult to send troops thither for its defence;
for we had yet above two thousand miles to Muscovy, properly so
called.
After this we passed several great rivers, and twe dreadful
deseits; one of which we were sixteen days passing over; and
which, as I said, was to be called No Man's Land; and, on the 13th
of April, we came to the frontiers of the Muscovite dominions. I
think the first town, or fortress, whichever it may be called, that
belonged to the Czar of Muscovy, was called Argun, being on the
west side of the river Argun.
I could not but discover an infinite satisfaction that I was so soon
arrived in, as I called it, a Christian country, or, at least, in a coun-
try governed by Christians; for though the Muscovites do, in my
opinion, but just deserve the name of Christians, yet such thjy pre-
tend to be, and arc very devout in their way. It would certainly
occur to any man who travels the world as I have done, and who had
any power of reflection, what a blessing it is to be brought into the
world where the name of God and a Redeemer is known, adored and
worsnippca; and not where the people, given up by Heaven to
strong delusions, worship the devil, and prostrate themselves to
stocks and stones; worship monsters, elements, horrid-shaped ani-
mals, and statues or images of monsters. Not a town or city wo
passed through, but had their pagods, their idols, and their temples,
and ignorant people worshipping even the works of their own hands.
Now we came where, at least, a face of the Christian worship
appeared; where the knee was bowed to Jesus; and whether ignor-
antly or not, yet the Christian religion was owned, and the name of
the true God was called upon and adored, and it made my soul
rejoice to see it. I saluted the brave Scots merchant I mentioned
above with my first acknowledgment of this; and taking him by the
hand, I said to him, "Blessed be God, we are once again amongst
Christians." He smiled, and answered, "Do not rejoice too soon,
countryman! these Muscovites are but an odd sort of Christians;
and but for the name of it, you may see very little of the substance
for some months farther of our journey." "Well," says I, "but
still it is better than paganism and worshipping of devils." "Why,
I will tell you," says he, "except the llussian soldiers in the gar-
risons, and a few of the inhabitants of the cities upon the road, all
the rest of this country, for above a thousand miles farther, is inha-
bited by the worst and most ignorant of pagans;" and so indeed w«
found it.

SECTION XL1I.
HOUTE TnROUGH MUSCOVY—ROBINSON AND A SCOTS MERCHANT
DESTROY AN IDOL—THE WHOLE CARAVAN IN OREAT PERIL
FROM THE FURSUIT OF THE FAGANS — TOBOLSKI — DEPARTURE
FROM TOBOLSKI—ENCOUNTER WITH A TIIOOF OF ROBBERS IN
THE DESERT—ROBINSON REACHES ARCHANGEL, AND FINALLY
ARRIVES IN ENGLAND.
We were now launched into the greatest piece of solid earth, if 1
understand anything of the surface of the globe, that is to be found
in any part of the world; we had, at least, twelve hundred miles to
the sea, eastward; two thousand to the bottom of the Baltic sea,
westward; and above three thousand, if we left that sea and went
on west, to the British and Trench channels; we had full five thou-
sand miles to the Indian or Persian sea, south; and about eight
hundred to the Frozen sea, north. Nay, if some people may be be-
lieved, there might be no sea, north-east, till we came round the
pole, and consequently into the north-west, and so had a continent
of laud into America; though I could give some reasons why I be-
lieve that to be a mistake.
As we entered into the Muscovite dominions a good while before
we came to any considerable towns, we had nothing to observe
there but this: first, that all the rivers run to the east: as I under-
stood by the charts, which some in our caravan had with them, it
was plain all those rivers ran into the great river Yamour, or Amour;
which river, by the natural course of it, must run into the East Sea,
or Chinese Ocean. The story they tell us, that the mouth of this
river is choked up with bulrushes of a monstrous growth, viz. three
feet about, and twenty or thirty feet high, I must be allowed to say,
I believe nothing of it; but, as its navigation is of no use, because
there is no trade that way, the Tartars, to whom it alone belongs,
dealing in nothing but cattle, so nobody, that ever I heard of, has
been curious enough to go down to the mouth of it in boats, or come
up from the mouth of it in ships, as far as I can find: but this it
certain, that this river, running east, in the latitude of about fift*
degrees, carries a vast concourse of rivers along with it, and finds an
ocean to empty itself in that latitude: so we are sure of sea there.
Some leagues to the north of this river there are several consider
able rivers, whose streams run as due north as the Yamour runs
east, and these are all found to join their waters with the great river
Tartarus, named so from the northermost nations of the Mogul Tar-
tars; who, as the Chinese say, were the first Tartars in the world;
and who, as our geographers allege, are the Gog and Magog men-
tioned in sacred story. These rivers running all northward, as well
as all the other rivers I am yet to speak of, make it evident that the
noiiher n ocean bounds the land also on that side; so that it does
not seem rational in the least to think that the land can extend itself
to join with America on that side, or that there is not a communica-
tion between the northern and eastern ocean: but of this I shall say
no more; it was my observation at that time, and therefore I take
notice of it in this place.
We now advanced from the river Argun by easy and moderate
journeys, and were very visibly obliged to the care the Czar of Mus-
covy has taken to have cities aid towns built in as many places as
it is possible to place them, where his soldiers keep garrison, some-
thing like the stationary soldiers placed by the Romans in the
remotest countries of their empire; some of which that I had read
of were placed in Britain, for the security of commerce, and for the
lodging travellers; and thus it was here: for wherever we came,
though at these towns and stations the garrisons and governors were
Russians and professed Christians, yet the inhabitants were mere
pagans; sacrificing to idols, and worshipping the sun, moon, and
stars, or all the host of heaven; and not only so, but were, of all the
heathens and pagans that ever I met with, the most barbarous,
except only that they did not eat men's flesh, as our savages of Ame-
rica did.
Some instances of this we met within the country between
Argun, where we enter the Muscovite dominions, and a city ol
Tartars and Russians together, called Nertzinskoi, in which is a
continued desert or forest, which cost us twenty days to travel
over. In a village, near the last of these places, I had the curiosity
to go and see their way of living, which is most brutish and in-
sufferable; they had had, I suppose, a great sacrifice that day; for
there stood out, upon an old stump of a tree, an idol made of
wood, frightful as the devil; at least, as any thing we can think of
to represent the devil can be made: it had a head not so much as
resembling any creature that the world ever saw; ears as big as
goats' horns, and as high; eyes as big as a crown piece; a nose like
a crooked ram's-horn, and a mouth extended four-corned, like that
of a lion, with horrible teeth, hooked like a parrot's under bill: it
was dressed up in the filthiest manner that you could suppose: its
\
npper garment was of sheep-skins, with the wool outward; a great
Tartar bonnet on the head, with two horns growing through it,:
it was about tight feet high, yet had no feet or legs, nor any other
proportion of parts.
This scarecrow was set up at the outer side of the village; and,
when I came near to it, there were sixteen or seventeen creatures,
whether men or women I could not tell, for they made no distinc-
tion by their habits, all lying flat upon the ground round this
formidable block of shapeless wood: I saw no motion among them
any more than if they had been all logs of wood, like the idol, and
.*t first I really thought they had been so; but, when I came a little
nearer, they started up upon their feet, and raised a howling cry,
as if it had been so many deep-mouthed hounds, and walked away,
as if they were displeased at our disturbing them. A little way
olf from the idol, and at the door of a tent or hut, made all of
sheep-skins and cow-skins dried, stood three butchers,—I thought
they were such: when I came nearer to them, I found they had
long knives in their hands; and in the middle of the tent appeared
three sheep killed, and one young bullock or steer. These, it seems,
were sacrifices to that senseless Tog of an idol; the three men were
priests belonging to it, and the seventeen prostrated wretches were
the people who Drought the offering, and were making their prayers
to that stock.
I confess, I was more moved at their stupidity and brutish
worship of a hobgoblin than ever 1 was at anything in my life;
to see God's most glorious and best creature, to whom he had
granted so many advantages, even by creation above the rest of
the works of his hands, vested with a reasonable soul, aud that
soul adorned with faculties and capacities adapted both to honour
his Maker, and be honoured by him, sunk and degenerated to a
degree so very stupid as to prostrate itself to a frightful nothing, a
mere imaginary object, dressed up by themselves, and made terrible
to themselves by their own contrivance, adorned only with clouts
and rags; and that this should be the effect of mere ignorance,
wrought up into hellish devotion by the devil himself; who, envying
to his Maker the homage and adoration of his creatures, had deluded
them into such sordid and brutish things as one would think should
ADVENTURES OH ROBINSON CRUSOE. 29?
But what signified all the astonishment and reflection of thoughts:
thus it was, and I saw it before my eyes, and there was no room to
wonder at it, or think it impossible: all my admiration turned te
rage, and I rode up to the image or monster, call it what ydu will,
and with my sword made a stroke at the bonnet that was on its
head, and cut it in two; and one of our men that was with me took
hold of the sheep-skin that covered it, and pulled at it; when,
behold, a most hideous outcry and howling ran throughout th&
village, and two or three hundred people came about my ears, so
that I was glad to scour for it, for we saw some had bows and
arrows; but I resolved from that moment to visit them again.
Our caravan rested three nights at the town, which was about
four miles off, in order to provide some horses which they wanted,
several of the hjrses having been lamed and jaded with the badness
of the way, and long march over the last desert; so we had some
leisure here to put my design in execution. I communicated my
project to the Stots merchant of Moscow, of whose courage I hail
sufficient testimony: I told him what I had seen, and with what indig-
ation I had since thought that human nature could be so degenerate:
I told him if I could get but four or five men well armed to go
with me, I was resolved to go and destroy that vile, abominable idol,
and let them see that it had no power to help itself; and conse-
quently could not be an object of worship, or to be prayed to, much
less help them that offered sacrifices to it.
He laughed at me: says he, " Your zeal may be good, but what
do you propose to yourself by it?"—"Propose! said I; "to
vindicate the honour of God, which is insulted by this devil-worship."
—" But how will it vindicate the honour of God," said he, "while
the people will not be able to know what you mean by it, unless
you could speak to them, and tell them so? And then they will
fight you, and beat you too, I'll assure you; for they are desperate
fellows, and that especially in defence of their idolatry."—"Can we
not," said I, " do it in the night, and then leave them the reasons
and the causes in writing in their own language?"—"Writing!"
said he; "why there is not a man in five nations of them that knows
anything of a letter, or how to read a word any way."—" Wretched
ignorance!" said I to him: "however, I have a great mind to do
it; perhaps nature may draw inferences from it to them, to let them
see how brutish they are to worship such horrid things."—" Look
you, sir," said he, "if your zeal prompts you to it so warmly, you
must do it; but in the next place, I would have you consider, these
wild nations of people are subject ed by force to the Czar of Mus-
covy's dominion, ana if you do this, it is ten to one but they will
come by thousands to the governor of Nertzinskoi, and demand
satisfaction; and if he cannot give them satisfaction, it is ten to
one but they revolt; and it will occasion a new war with all the
Tartars in the country.
This, I confess, put new thoughts into my head for awhile, but I
harped upon the same string still; and all that day I was uneasy to
put my project in execution. Towards the evening the Scots
merchant met me by accident in our walk about the town, and
desired to speak with me: "1 believe," said he, "I have put you off
your good design ; I have been a little concerned abdut it since: for I
abhor idolatry as much as you can do."—" Truly," said I," you havo
put it off a little, as to the execution of it, but you have not put it
out of my thoughts: and I believe I shall do it before I quit this place,
though I were to be delivered up to them for satisfaction."—" No, no,"
said ne, "God forbid they should deliver you up to such a crew of
monsters! They shall not do that neither; that would be murdering
you indeed."—" Why,"'said I, "how would they use me ?"—" Use
you I" said he, "I'll tell you how they served a poor Russian, who
affronted them in their worship, just as you did, and whom they took
prisoner, after they had lamed him with an arrow, that he could not run
away: they took him and stripped him stark-naked, and set him upon
the top of the idol-monster, and stood all round him, and shot as many
arrows into him as would stick over his whole body; and then they burnt
him, and all the arrows sticking in him, as a sacrifice to the idol."—
"And was this the same idol? said I. "Yes," said he, "the very
same."—"Well," said I, " I will tell you a story." So I related
the story of our men at Madagascar, and how they burnt and sacked
the village there, and killed man, woman, and child, for their
murdering one of our men, just as it is related before; and I added,
that I thought we ought to do so to this village.
He listened very attentively to the story; but when I talked of
doing so to that village, said he, "You mistake very much; it was
not this village, it was almost a hundred miles from this place; but
it was the same idol, for they carry him about in procession all over
the country."—" Well," said I, "then that idol ought to be punished
for it; and it shall," said I, " if I live this night out."
In a word, finding me resolute, he liked the design, and
told me I should not go alone, but he would go with me,
and bring a stout fellow, one of his countrymen, to go along with
us: *' and one," said he, "as famous for his zeal as you can desire
auy one to be against such devilish things as these." In a word, he
brought me his comrade, a Scotsman, whom he called Captain
Richardson; and gave him a full account of what I had seen, and
atao what I intended; and he told me readily, he would go with mo
if it cost him his life. So we agreed to go, only we three. I had,
indeed, proposed it to my partner, but he declined it. He said he
was ready to assist me to the utmost, and upon all occasions, for
my defence; but this was an adventure quite out of his way: so,
I say, we resolved upon our work, only we three and my man-
servant, and to put it in execution that night about midnight, with
all the secrecy imaginable.
However, upon second thoughts, we were willing to delay it till
the next night, because, the caravan being to set forward in the
morning, we supposed the governor could not pretend to give them
any satisfaction upon us when we were out of his power. The Scots
merchant, as steady in his resolution for the enterprise, as bold in
executing, brought me a Tartar's robe or gown of sheep-skins, and
a bonnet, with a bow and arrows, and had provided the same for
himself and his countryman, that the people, if they saw us, shotild
not be able to determine who we were.
All the first night we spent in mixing up some combustible matter
with aqua vitee, gunpowder, and such other materials as we could
fet; and, having a good quantity of tar in a little pot, about an
our after night we set out upon our expedition.
We came to the place about eleven o'clock at night, and found
that the people had not the least jealousy of danger attending their
idol. The night was cloudy; yet the moon gave us light enough to
see that the idol stood just in the same posture and place that it did
before. The people seemed to be all at their rest; only, that in the
great hut, or tent, as we called it, where we saw the three priests
whom we mistook for butchers, we saw a light; and going up close
to the door, we heard people talking as if there were five or six of
them; we concluded, therefore, that if we set wild-fire to the idol,
these men would come out immediately, and run up to the place to
rescue it from the destruction that we intended for it; and what to
do with them we knew not. Once we thought of carrying it away
and setting fire to it at a distance, but whan we came to handle it,
we found it too bulky for our carriage; so we were at a loss again.
The second Scotsman was for setting fire to the tent or hut, and
knocking the creatures that were there on the head, when they
came out; but I could not join with that; I was against killing
them, if it were possible to avoid it. "Well then," said the Scots
merchant, I will tell you what we will do: "we will try to make them
prisoners, tie their hands, and make them stand and see their idol
destroyed."
As it happened, we had twine or packthread enough about us,
which was used to tie our firweorks together with: so we resolved
to attack these people first, and with as little noise as we could.
The first thing we did, we knocked at the door, when, one of the
priests coming to it, we immediately seized upon him, stopped his
mouth, and tied his hands behind him, and led him to the idol, where
we gagged him that he might not make a noise, tied his feet also
together, and left him on the ground.
Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that another would
ime out, to see what the matter was; but we waited so long till
he third man came back to us; and then nobody coming out, we
knocked again gently, and immediately out came two more, and we
served them just in the same manner, but were obliged to go all
with them, and lay them down by the idol some distance from one
another; when, going back, we found two more were come out to
the door, and a third stood behind them within the door. We seized
the two, and immediately tied them, when the third stepping back,
and crying out, my Scots merchant went in after him, and, taking
out a composition we had made, that would only smoke and stink,
he set fire to it and threw it in among them: by that time the
other Scotsman and my man, taking charge cf the two men already
bound, and tied together also by the arm, led them away to the idol.
CO]
fh«
and left them there to see if their idol would relieve them, making
haste back to us.
When the fuze we had thrown in had filled the hut with so much
smoke that they were almost suffocated, we then threw in a small
leather bag of another kind, which flamed like a candle, and following
it in, we found there were but four people, who, as we supposed, had
been about some of their diabolical sacrifices. They appeared, in
short frightened to death, at least so as to sit trembling and stupid,
and not able to speak neither, for the smoke.
In a word, we took them, bound them as we had done the other,
and all without any noise. I should have said we brought them oat
of the house, or hut, first; for indeed we were not able to bear the
smoke any more than they were. When we had done this, we
carried them altogether to the idol: when we came there we fell to
work with him; and first we daubed him all over, and his robes also,
with tar, and such other stuff as we had, which was tallow mixed
with brimstone; then we stopped his eyes and ears and mouth full
of gunpowder; then we wrapped up a great piece of wild-fire in his
bonnet; and then sticking all the combustibles we had brought with
us upou him, we looked about to see if we could find anything else
to help to burn him; when my Scotsman remembered that by the
tent, or hut, where the men were, there lay a heap of dry forage,
whether straw or rushes 1 do not remember; away he and the other
Scotsman ran and fetched their arms full of that. When they had
done this, we took all our prisoners, and brought them, having
untied their feet and ungagged their mouths, and made them stand
up, and set them before their monstrous idol, and then set fire to
the whole.
We stayed by it a quarter of an hour, or thereabouts, till the
powder in the eyes and mouth and ears of the idol blew up, and as
we could perceive, had split and deformed the shape of it; and in a
word, till we saw it burned into a mere block or log of wood; and
setting dry forage to it, we found that it would be soon quite con-
sumed; so we began to think of going awav; but the Scotsman said:
"No, we must not go, for these poor deluded wretches will all
throw themselves into the fire, and bur n themselves with the idol."
So we resolved to stay till the forage was burnt down too, and then
ame away and left them.
After the feat was performed, we appeared in the morning among
our fellow travellers, exceeding busy in getting ready for our journey;
nor could any man suggest that we had been any where but in our
beds, as travellers might be supposed to be, to fit themselves for the
fatigues of the day's jourucy,
But the affair did not end so: the next day came a great number
of the country people to the town gates, and in a most outrageous
manner demanded satisfaction of the Russian governor for the in-
sulting their priests, and burning their Cham Chi-Thaungu. The
people of Nertzinskoi were at first in a great consternation, for they
said the Tartars were already no less than thirty thousand strong.
The Russian governor sent out messengers to appease them, and gave
them all the good words imaginable; assuring them that he knew
nothing of it, and that there had not a soul in his garrison been
abroad, so that it could not be from any body there; but if they
could let him know who did it, they shoula be exemplarilv punished.
They returned haughtily, that all the country reverenced the great
Cham Chi-Thaungu, who dwelt in the sun, and no mortal would
have dared to offer violence to his image but some Christian miscre-
ant; and they therefore resolved to denounce war against him and
all the Russians, who, they said, were miscreants and Christians.
The governor, still patient, and unwilling to make a breach, or to
have any cause of war alleged to be given by him, the Czar having
strictly charged them to treat the conquered country with gentleness
and civility, gave them still all the good words he could. At last
he told them there was a caravan gone towards Russia that morn-
ing, and perhaps it was some ot them who had done them this
injury ; and that if they would be satisfied with that, he would send
alter them to inquire into it. This seemed to appease them a little;
and accordingly the governor sent after us, and gave us a particular
account how the thing was; intimating withal, that if any in our
caravan had done it, they should make their escape; but that, whe-
ther we had done it or no, we should make all the haste forward
that was possible; and that, in the mean time, he would keep them
in play as long as he could.
This was very friendly in tke governor: however, when it came
to the caravan, there was nobody knew anything of the matter; and
as for us that were guilty, we were least of all suspected. How-
ever, the captain of the caravan for the time took the hint that the
governor gave us, and we travelled two days and two nights without
any considerable stop, and then we lay at a village called Plothus:
nor did we make any long stop here, but hastened on towards Jara-
wena, another of the Czar of Muscovy's colonies, and where we
expected we should be safe. But upon the second day's march
from Plothus, by the clouds of dust behind us at a great distance,
some of our people began to be sensible we were pursued. AVc had
entered a great desert, and had passed by a great lake called Schanks
Osier, when we perceived a very great body of horse appear on the
other side of the lake, to the north, we travelling west. We
observed they went away west, as we did, but had supposed we
would have taken that side of the lake, whereas we very happily took
the south side; and in two days more they disappeared again: for
they, believing we were still before them, pushed on till they came
to the river Udda, a very great river when it passes farther north,
but when we came to it we found it narrow and fordable.
The third day, they had either found their mistake, or had intelli-
gence of us, and came pouring in upon us towards the dusk of the
evening. We had, to our great satisfaction, just pitched upon a
place for our camp, which was very convenient for the night; for as
we were upon a desert, though but at the beginning of it, that was
above five hundred miles over, we had no towns to lodge at, and, in-
deed, expected none but the city Jarawena, which we had yet two
days' march to: the desert, however, had some few woods in it on
this side, and little rivers, which ran all into the great river Udda;
it was in a narrow strait, between little but very thick woods, that
we pitched our camp for that night, expecting to be attacked before
morning.
Nobody knew but ourselves what we were pursued for: but as it
was usual for the Mogul Tartars to go about in troops in that
desert, so the caravans always fortify themselves every night against
Aem, as against armies of robbers; and it was therefore no new
thing to be pursued.
But we had this night, of all the nights of our travels, a most
advantageous camp; for we lay between two woods, with a little
rivulet running just before our front, so that we could not be sur-
rounded, or attacked in any way but in our front or rear. We took
care also to make our frout as strong as we could, by placing our
packs, with our camels and horses, all in a line on the inside of the
river, and felling some trees in our rear.
In this posture we encamped for the night; but the enemy was
upon us before we had finished our situation. They did not come
on us like thieves, as we expected, but sent three messengers to us,
to demand the men to be delivered to them that had abused their
priests, and burned their god Cham Chi-Thaungu with fire, that they
might burn them with fire; and upon this, they said, they would go
away, and do us no further harm, otherwise they would destroy us
all. Our men looked very blank at this message, and began to stare
at one another, to see who looked with the most guilt in their faces:
but nobody was the word; nobody did it. The leader of the caravan
sent word he was well assured that it was not done by any of our
camp; that we were peaceable merchants, travelling on our busi-
ness; that we had done no harm to them or to any one else; and
that, therefore, they must look further for their enemies who had
injured them, for we were not the people; so desired them not to
disturb us, for, if they did, we should defend ourselves.
They were far from oeing satisfied with this for an answer; and a
great crowd of them came running down in the morning by break
of day, to our camp; but seeing us in sv.ch an unaccountable situa-
tion, they durst come no farther thuii the brook in our front, where
ihey stood and showed us such a number that indeed terrified us
very much: for those that spoke least of them spoke of ten thou-
sand. Here they stood and looked at us awhile, and then setting up
a great howl, they let fly a cloud of arrows among as; but we were
well enough fortified for that, for we sheltered under our baggage,
and I do not remember that one of us was hurt.
Some time after this, we Jaw them move a little to our right, and
expected them on tlve rear; when a cunning fellow, a Cossack of
Jarawena, in the pay of the Muscovites, calling to the leader of the
caravan, said to him," I'll go send all these people away to Sibeilka:"
this was a city four or five days' journey at least to the right, and
rather behind us. So he takes his bow and arrows, and getting on
horseback, he rides away from our rear directlv, as it were back to
Nertzinskoi; after this, he takes a great circuit about, and comes
directly on the army of the Tartars, as if he had been sent express
to tell them a long story, that the people who had burned the Cham
Chi-Thaungu were gone to Sibeilka, with a caravan of miscreants,
as he called them, that is to say, Christians; and that they had
resolved to burn the god Schal-Isarg, belonging to the Tonguescs.
Asthisfellow was himself amere Tartar, and perfectly spoke their lan-
guage, he counterfeited so well, that they all took it from him, and
away they drove in a most violent hurry to Sibeilka, which, it seems,
was five days'journey to the north; and in less than three hours
they were entirely out of our sight, and we never heard any more
of them, nor whether they went to Sibeilka or no. So we passed
away safely on to Jarawena, where there was a garrison of Musco-
vites, and there we rested five days, the caravan being exceedingly
fatigued with the last days' hard march, and with want of rest in
tne night.
From this city we had a friahtful desert, which held us twenty-
three days' march. We furnished ourselves with some tents here,
for the better accommodating ourselves in the night; and the leader
of the caravan procured sixteen carriages, or waggons of the country,
for carrying our water or provisions; and these carriages were our
defence," every night, rountf our little camp; so that had the Tartars
appeared, unless they had been very numerous indeed, they would
not have been able to hurt us.
We may well be supposed to want rest again after this long jour-
ney: for in this desert we neither saw house nor tree, and scarce a
bctli; \hough we saw abundance of the sable-hunters, who are all
Tartus oi the Mogul Tartavy, of which this country is a part; and
they frequently attack small caravans, but we saw no numbers of
them together.
After we had passed this desert, we came into a country pretty
n ell inhabited; that is to sav, we found towns and castles, settled
by the Czar of Muscovy, with garrisons of stationary soldiers, to
protect the caravans, and defend the country against the Tartars,
who would otherwise make it very dangerous travelling; and his
czarish majesty has given such strict orders for the well guarding
the caravans and merchants, that, if there are any Tartars neard of
in the country, detachments of the garrisons are always scut to see
the travellers safe from station to station. And thus the governor
of Adinskoy, whom I had an opportunity to make a visit to, by
means of the Scots merchant, who was acquainted with him, offered
us a guard of fifty men, if we thought there was any danger, to the
next station.
I thought, long before this, that as we came nearer to Europe we
should find the country better inhabited, and *the people more civil-
ized; but I found myself mistaken in both: for we had yet the
nation of the Tongueses to pass through, where we saw the same
tokens of paganism and barbarity as before; only, as they were
conquered by the Muscovites, they were not so dangerous; but for
rudeness of manners, and idolatry, no people in the world ever went
beyond them: they are clothed all in sicins of beasts, and their
houses are built of the same; you know not a man from a woman,
either by the ruggedness of their countenances or their clothes;
and in the winter, when the ground is covered with snow, they live
underground in vaults, which have cavities going from one to an-
other. If the Tartars had their Cham Chi-Thaungu for a whole vil-
lage or country, these had idols in every hut and every cave: be-
sides, they worship the stars, the sun, the water, the snow, and, in a
word, every thing they do not understand, and they understand but
very little; so that every element, every uncommon thing, sets them
a sacrificing. I met with nothing peculiar to myself in all this
country, which I reckon was, from the dtsert I spoke of last, at
least lour hundred miles, half of it being another desert, which took
us up twelve days' severe travelling, without house or tree; and we
were obliged again to carry our own provisions, as well water as
bread. Alter we were out of this desert, and had travelled two
days, we came to Janezay, a Muscovite city or station on the great
river Janezay (Yenisay), which, they told us there, parted Europe
from Asiiv.
Here I observed ignorance and paganism still prevailed, except in
the Moscovite garrisons; all the country between the river Oby and
the river Janezay is as entirely pagan, and the people as barbarous,
as the remotest of the Tartars; nay, as any nation in Asia or
America. I also found, which I observed to the Muscovite govern-
ment; which they acknowledged was true enough; but that, as they
said, was none of their business; that if the Czar expected to
convert his Siberian, Tonguese, or Tartar subjects, it should be done
by sending clergymen among them, not soldiers; and they added
with more sincerity than I expected, that they found it was not so
much the concern of their monarch to make the people Christians as
it was to make them subjects.
From this river to the great river Oby, we crossed a wild unculti-
vated country, barren ol people and good management; other-
wise it is in itself a most pleasant, fruitful, and agreeable country.
What inhabitants we found in it are all pagans, except such as are
sent among them from Russia; for this is the country, I mean on
both sides the river Oby, whither the Muscovite criminals that are
not put to death are bauisiied, and from whence it is next to impossible
they should ever come away. ,
I have nothing material to say of my particular affairs till I came
to Tobolski, the capital city of Siberia, where I continued some time
on the following occasion.
We had now been almost seven months on our journey, and
winter began to come on apace; whereupon my partner and I called
a council about our particular affairs, in whicu we found it proper,
as we were bound to England, and not for Moscow, to consider how
to dispose of ourselves. They told us of rein-deer to carry us over
the snow in the winter time; and, indeed, they have such things
that it would be incredible to relate the particulars of, by which
means the Russians travel more in the winter than they can in
summer, as in these sledges they are able to run night and day; the
snow being frozen, is one universal covering to nature, by which the
hills, vales, rivers, and lakes are all smooth and hard as a stone, and
they run upon the surface, without any regard to what is underneath.
But I had no occasion to push at a winter journey of tjiis kind; I
was bound to England, not to Moscow, and my route lay two ways;
either I must go on as the caravan went, till I came to Jareslaw, and
than go off west for Narva and the Gulf of Finland, and so to
Dantzie, where I might possibly sell my China cargo to good advantage;
or I must leave the caravan at a little town on the Dwina, from
whence I had but six days by water to Archangel, and from thence
might be sure of shipping either to England, Holland, or Hamburgh.
Now, to go any of these journeys in the winter would have been
preposterous: for as to Dantzie, the Baltic would have been frozen
up, and I could not get passage; and to go by laud in these coun-
tries was far less safe than among the Mogul Tartars; likewise, to
go to Archangel in October, all the ships would be gone from thence,
and even the merchants who dwell there in summer retire south to
Moscow in the winter, when the ships are gone; so that I could
have nothing but extremity of cold to encounter, with a scarcitv of
provisions, and must lie in an empty town all the winter; so tliat,
upon the whole, I thought it much my better way to let the caravan
go, and make provision to winter where I was, at Tobolski, in
Siberia, in the latitude of about sixty degrees, where I was sure of
three things to wear out a cold winter with, viz. plenty of provisions,
such as the country afforded, a warm house with fuel enough, and
excellent company.
I was now in quite a different climate from my beloved island,
where I never felt cold, except when I had my ague; on the con-
trary, I had much to do to bear any clothes on my back, and never
made any fire but without doors, wuici was necessary for dressing
my food, &c. Now 1 made me three good vesta, with large robea
»r gowns over them, to hang down to the feet, and button close to
the wrists; and all these lined with furs, to make them sufficiently
warm.
As to a warm house, I must confess I greatly disliked our way in
England of making fires in every room in the house in open chimneys,
which, when the fire was out, always kept the air in the room cold
as the climate; but taking an apartment in a good house in the
town, 1 ordered a chimney to be built like a furnace, in the centre
of six several rooms, like a stove; the funnel to carry the smoke
went up one way, the door to come at the fire went in another, and
all the rooms were kept equally warm, but no fire seen, just as they
heat the bagnios in England. By this means, we had always the same
climate in all the rooms, and an equal heat was preserved; and how
cold soever it was without, it was always warm within; and yet we
saw no fire, nor were ever incommoded with smoke.
I had been here eight months, and a dark, dreadful winter I
thought it; the cold so intense that I could not so much as look
abroad without being wrapped in furs, and a mask of fur before my
face, or rather a hood, with only a hole for breath, and two for sight;
the little daylight we had was, as we reckoned, for three months,
not above five hours a day, and six at most; only that the snow lying
on the ground continually, and the weather clear, it was never quite
dark. Our horses were kept, or rather starved, underground, and
as for our servants, whom we hired here to look after ourselves and
horses, we had, every now and then, their fingers and toes to thaw
and take care of, lest they should mortify and fall oft'.
It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses being close, the
walls thick, the lights small, and the glass all double. Our food was
chiefly the flesh of deer, dried and cured in the season; bread good
enough, but baked as biscuits ; dried fish of several sorts, and some
flesh of mutton and of the buffaloes, which is pretty good meat. All
the stores of provisions for the winter are laid up in the summer, and
well cured: our drink was water, mixed with aqua-vitaj instead of
brandy; and for a treat, mead instead of wine, which, however, they
have excellent good. The hunters, who venture abroad all weathers,
frequently brought us in fine venison, and sometimes bear's flesh, but
we did not much care for the last. We had a good stock of tea, with
which we treated our friends, and we lived very cheerfully and well,
all things considered.
It was now March 15; the days grown considerably longer, and the
weather at least tolerable; so the other travellers began to prepare
sledges to carry them over the snow, and to get things ready to be
going: but my measires being fixed, as I have said, for Archangel,
and not for Muscovy or the Baltie, I made no motion ; knowing very
well that the ships from the south do not set out for that part of tha
wcrld till Mav or June, and that if I was there by the beginning of
August, it would be as soon as any ships would be ready to go away;
and therefore I made no taste to be gone, as others did: in a word,
I saw a great many people, nay, all the travellers, go away before me.
It seems, every year they go from thence to Muscovy for trade, viz.
to carry furs, and buy necessaries, which they bring back with them
to furnish their shops : also others went on the same errand to Arch-
angel ; but then they all being to come back again, above eight hun-
dred miles, went all out before me.
In the month of Mav I began to make all ready to pack up; I
had bought a considerable quantity of sables, black fox-skins, fine
ermines, and such other furs as are very rich, in that city, in exchange
for some of the goods I had brought from China: in particular for the
cloves and nutmegs, of which I sold the greatest part here, and the
rest afterwards at Archangel, for a much better price than I could
have got in London; and my partner, who was sensible of the profit,
aud whose business more particularly than mine was merchandise,
was mightily pleased with our stay, on account of the traffic we made
here.
It was the beginning of June when I left this remote place, a city,
I believe, little heard of in the world : and, indeed, it is so far out of
the road of commerce, that I know not how it should be much talked
of. We were now reduced to a very small caravan, having only
thirty-two horses and camels in all. We had now the worst and the
largest desert to pass over that we met with in our whole journey;
I call it the worst, because the way was very deep in some places,
and very uneven in others; the best we had to say for it was, that
we thought we had no troops of Tartars or robbers to fear, and that
they never came on this side the river Oby, or at least but very
seldom; but we found it otherwise.
We had just entered Europe, having passed the river Kama, which
in these parts is the boundary between Europe and Asia, and the first
city on the European side was called Soloy Kamskoi, which is as
much as to say, the great city on the river Kama; and here we
thought to see some evident alteration in the people; but we were
mistaken: for as we had a vast desert to pass, which is near seven
hundred miles long in some places, but not above two hundred miles
over where we passed it, so, till we came past that horrible place, we
found very little difference between that country and the Mogul Tar-
tary: the people are mostly pagans, and little better than the savages
of America; their houses and towns full of idols, and their way of
living whojy barbarous, except in the cities, as above, and the villages
near them, where they are Christians, as they call themselves, of the
Greek church; but have their religion mingled with so many relies of
uperstition, that it is scarce to be known in some places from mere
orcery and witchcraft.
In passing this forest, I thought, indeed, we must (after all our
dangers were to our imagination escaped, as before) have been plun-
dered and robbed, and perhaps murdered, by a troop of thieves; J
what country they were I am yet at a loss to know, but they were
all on horseback, carried bows and arrows, and were at first about
forty-five in number: they came so near to us as to be within two
musket shots, and asking no questions, surrounded us with their
horses, and looked very earnestly upon us twice: at length they
placed themselves just in our way; upon which we drew up in a little
line, before our camels, being not above sixteen men in all; and being
drawn up thus, we halted, and sent out a Siberian servant, to see
who they were. The man came up near them with a flag of truce,
and called to them; but though he spoke several of their languages,
or dialects of languages rather, he could not understand a word they
said: however, after some signs to him not to come nearer to them,
at his peril, the fellow came oack no wiser than he went : only that
by their dress, he said, he believed them to be some Tartars of Kal-
muck, or of the Circassian hordes, and that there must be more of
them upon the great desert, though he had never heard that any of
them were seen so far north before.
About an hour after, they again made a motion to attack us, and
rode round our little wood to see where they might break in; but
finding us always ready to face them, they went off again; and we
resolved not to stir for that night.
This was small comfort to us; however, we had no remedy: there
was on our left hand, at about a quarter of a mile distance, a little
grove, and very near the road: I immediately resolved we should
advance to those trees, and fortify ourselves as weE as we could
there: for, first, I considered that the trees would in a great measure
cover us from their arrows; and, in the next place, they could not
come to charge us in a body: it was, indeed, my old Portuguese
pilot who proposed it, and who had this excellency attending him,
that he was always readiest and most apt to direct and encourage us
in cases of the most danger. We advanced immediately, with what
speed we could, and gained that little wood; the Tartars, or thieves,
for we knew not what to call them, keeping their stand, and not
attempting to hinder us. When we came thither, we found, to our
great satisfaction, that it was a swampy piece of ground, and on the
one side a very great spring of water, which running out in a little
brook was, a little farther, joined by another of the like size ; and
was, in short, the source of a considerable river, called afterwards the
Wirtska: the trees which grew about this spring were not above two
hundred, but very large, and stood pretty thick, so that as soon as
we got in we saw ourselves perfectly safe from the enemy, unless
thev attacked us on foot.
While we stayed here waiting the motion of the enemy some
hours, without perceiving they made any movement, our Portuguese,
with some help, cut several arms of trees half off, and laid them
hangng across from one tree to another, and in a manner fenced us
in. About two hours before night they came down directly upca
lis; «ud though we had not perceived it, we found they had been
joined by some more of the same, so that they were near fourscore
horse; whereof, however, we fancied some were women. Thcj
came on till they were within half shot of our little wood, when we
fired one musket without ball, and called to them in the Russian
tongue to know what they wanted, and bade them keep off: but
they came on with a double fury up to the wood side, not imagining
we were so barricaded that they could not easily break in. Our old
pilot was our captain, as well as our engineer, and desired us not to
fire upon them till they came within pistol-shot, that we might be
sure to kill; and that when we did fire, we should be sure to take
good aim: we bade him give the word of command, which he
delayed so long, that they were some of them within two pikes'
length of us when we lot fly. We aimed so true that wc killed four-
teen of them, and wounded several others, as also several of their
'horses; for we had all of us loaded our pieces with two or three
bullets at least.
They were terribly surprised with our fire, and retreated imme-
diately about one hundred rods from us, in which time we loaded our
pieces again, and seeing them keep that distance, we sallied out, and
catched four or five of their horses, whose riders we supposed were
killed; and coming up to the dead, we judged they were Tarters,
but knew not how they came to make an excursion of such ar.
unusual length.
We slept little, you may be sure, but spent the most part of the
night in strengthening our situation, and barricading the entrances
into the wood, and keeping a strict watch. We waited for daylight,
and when it came, it gave us a very uusreleome discovery, indeed;
for the enemy, who we thought were discouraged with the reception
they met with, were now greatly increased, and had set up eleven or
twelve huts or tents, as if they were resolved to besiege us; and
this little camp they had pitched upon the open plain, about three
quarters of a mile from us. We were indeed surprised at 'his
discovery; and now, I confess, I gave myself over for lost, and all
that I had; the loss of my effects did not lie so near me, though
very considerable, as the thoughts of falling into the hands of such
barbarians, at the latter end of my journey, after so many difficulties
and hazards as I had gone through, and even in sight of our port,
where we expccled safety and deliverance. As to my partner, he
was raging, and declared that to lose his goods would be his ruin,
and that he would rather die than be starved; and he was for
fighting to the last drop.
We spent the day in debates of what we should do; but towards
evening we found that the number of our enemies still increased, and
we did not know but by the morning they might be a still greater
number: so 1 began to enquire of those people we had brought
from 'i'obolski, if "there v ;re no private ways, by which we might
avoid them in the night, and perhaps retreat to some town, or get
help to guard us over the desert. The Siberian servant, told us, if
we designed to avoid them, and not fight, he would engage to carry
us off in the night, to a way that went north, towards the river
Pctrou, by which he made no question but we might get away, and
ihe Tartars never the wiser. I told him that if he thought it
possible for us to escape in the night, we had nothing else to do but
to attempt it, and we immediately prepared for putting it in
practice.
And, first, as soon as it began to be dark, we kindled a fire in our
little camp, wiuch we kept burning, and prepared so as to make it
burn all night, that the Tartars might conclude we were still there;
but as soon as it was dark, and we could see the stars (for our guide
would not stir before), having all our horses and camels ready
loaded, we followed our new guide, who T socn found steered
himself by the north star.
After we had travelled two hours very hard, it began to be lighter
still; not that it was quite dark all night, but the moon began to
rise, so that, in short, it was rather lighter than we wished it to In;
but by six o'clock the next mornimg we weo got above thirty miles,
iiaving almost spoiled our horses. Here ?ve k und a Russian village,
named Kermanzinskoy, where we rested, and iieard nothing of ihe
Kalmuck Tartars that day. About two hours before night we set
out again, and travelled till eight the next morning, though not
quite so hard as before; and about seven o'clock we passed a little
river, called Kirtza, and came to a good large town. inhabited by
Russians, called Ozomys: there we heard that several troops of
Kalmucks had been abroad upon the desert, but we were now com-
pletely out of danger of them, which was to our great satisfaction.
Here we were obliged to get some fresh horses; and having need
enough of rest, we stayed five days; and my partner and 1 agreed to
give the honest Siberian who had brought us thither the value of
ten pistoles.
In five days more we came to Veuslima, upon the river Witzogda,
and running into the Dwina; we were there, very happily, near the
end of our travels by land, that rivdr being navigable, in seven days'
passage, to Archangel. 1'rom heLcf we came to Lawrenskoy the 3d
of July; and providing ourselves with two luggage boats, and a
barge for our own convenience, we juibarked the 7th, and arrived all
safe at Archangel the 18th; having been a year, five months, and
three days on the journey, including our stay of eight months
at Tobolski. We were obliged to stay at this place six weeks
for the arrival of the ships, and must have tarried longer, had
not an Hamburgher come in above a month sooner than any of the
English ships: when after some consideration that the city of
Hamburg might happen to be as good a market for our goods as
London, we all took freight with him.
ADVENTUllES OF HOBINSON CRUSOE.
We then set sail from Archangel the 20th of August, the same
year; and after no extraordinary bad voyage, arrived safe in the Elbe
the 18th of September. Here my partner and I found a very good
sale for our goods, as well those of China, as the sables, &c. of
Siberia; and dividing the produce, my share amounted to three
thousand four hundred and seventy-five pounds seventeen shillings
and three pence, including about six hundred pounds worth of
diamonds which I purchased at Bengal.
To conclude, having stayed near four months in Hamburgh,
I came from thence by land to the Hague, where I embarked in the
packet, and arrived in London the tenth of January, 1705, having
been absent from England ten years and nine months. And here I
am, preparing for a longer journey than all these, having lived a
a life of infinite variety seventy-two years, and learned sufficiently to
know the value of retirement, and the blessing of ending our days
in peace.

B. W.ACKLOCK £ CO., FAtUlINUDOS KUAL> ASU VH.US& amfiEi'. «C.
;," —10—56,1-4—83-1113.
A 1V0RK FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLDER AND BUSINESS MAN.
Popular Law Dictionary (Ward & Lock's).
A Concise Compendium of the Common and Statute Law of England and
Wiles. Including Technical Terms, Historical Memoranda, Legal
Points and Practical Suggestions on an immense variety of subiects
relating to the every-day Business and contingencies of ordinary life.
Alphabetically arranged for ready reference, with details on leading
topics. down 8vo, cloth, 6a.
The Title of this Work describes its scope: it is a Dictionary of Legal Terms
and Phrases; a Compendium of the existing Law on all subjects likely to affect
the interests of most fersons. The adoption of the Dictionary arranettnent -wilt
greatly facilitate reference^ and readily place before the inquirer the information
In requires.
NEW EDITIONS, RE-WRITTEN THROUGHOUT.
Beeton's Dictionary of Universal Infor-
mation : Geography, History and Biography. An entirely New and Re-
vised Edition, re-written throughout, with Hundreds of New Articles.
With Maps. Complete in One Volume, comprising about 1,800 pages, 3,000
columns, 25,000 complete Articles. Royal 8vo, half-leather, 18a.
"In proposing to themselves, as the chief aim of their enterprise, a com-
blaatlou of nccurncy* compactness, comprehensiveness, and
cheapness, the publishers have achieved a success which cannot fail
to be appreciated by ilic public**'—Glasgow Herald,
Just ready, uniform with the above.
Beeton's Dictionary of Universal Infor-
mation: Science, Art, and Literature. An entirely New and Revised
Edition, rewritten throughout, with Hundreds of Now Articles. Complete
in One Volume, comprising about 2,000 pages, 4,000 columns, 25,000 com-
plete Articles. Royal Svo, half-leather, ISs.
The Life of Charles Lever. By W. J.
Fitzpatricr, F.S.A. Demy Svo, cloth gilt, 6s.
This is a New, Cheaper, and thoroughly Revised Editions of a well-known
book. In this work, which has the accuracy of fact, and the high feeling of literary
admiration for its subject, the whole career of Ireland** Great Novelitt, at once
the contemporary and rival of Dicrens and Thacreray, is clearly traoed.
Literally, from the cradle to the grave, we are placed not only in full view of, but
with intimate relations to, the spirited and gifted creator of" Harry Lorrequer/*
"Charles O'AfaJtey," " Jack Hinton,'* and a score or two ofotlur worthies, whose
names and deeds art "familiar in our mouths as household words.*'
A NEW AND HANDSOME LIBRARY EDITION OP
Gibbon's Roman Empire. Wilh the late
Dean Milman's copious and very valuable Kotos, numerous Engravings,
and Marginal Notes throughout. In Two Volumes, medium 8vo, cloth, 21s.
No other edition of Gibbon's great Work can compare for cheapness and
completeness with this. The whole of the Text is given, as written toy the
Author, no word is changed, no line is omitted; at the same time, the reader has
before him Dean Milman's copious Notes, combating the Author's scepticism in
religious matters, while enriching the work by their literary and historical
Value This Edition also includes Marginal Notes, giving the essence of the
narrative, and a large number of Engravings, illustrating the Manners and
Customs, cVv., of the Ancient Romans.
The Enquirer's Oracle; or, What to Do
and How to Do It. A Ready Reference Dook upon Family Matters, Health
And Education. Home Management, Home Culture, and a countless variety
of subiects, illustrated. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 2s. Gd.
WARD, LOCK & CO., London and New York,
THE CHILDREN'S FINE-ART GIFT BOOKS FOR 1885.
New and Elegant Children's Gift Books for all Seasons.—Containing
numerous beautiful designs, executed in the highest style of Colour Printing.
Quacks: The Story of the Ugly Duckling,
after Hans Andersen. Told in Verse, and Illustrated with exquisite
Coloured Pictures by Marion M. Wingrave. 4:0, ornamental boards,
Ss. ; cloth gilt, 6s.
This New Version of the most popular oj Hans Christian Andersen's
Stories cannot fail to find a cordial and general welcome. The story is told in
agreeable and flowing rhymes, certain to recommend themselves to children. The
artistic merit of the Pictures, their truth to nature, and their kindly and grace-
ful humour, will speak for themselves; and every care has been taken to make it a
most Popular Juvenile Gift-book.
"The beautiful coloured pictures, the delightful verse, and the
instructive moral make it a prize Indeed."—Christian World.
Happy Child Life, at Home and at School.
A Good Boy's Day, with its Work and Play. Beautifully Illustrated with
Coloured Pictures by Eugen Klimsck. Polio, pictorial boards, Gs. ; cloth
gilt, 7s. (id.
Ih this book will be found illustrated the various incidents of Child Life, with
its schooltitne and playtime, the pleasures and enjoyments, and the mishaps and
disasters, which make up the history o ' little people. The task achieved or nef.
lectid, the small quarrel and reconciliation, e>c, &*c.—all intertstin* to Children,
ana all most artistically illustrated by the famous pencil of Eugen Klimsch.
"Elegant In form, and profanely illustrated in colours, the
drawing, moreover, being exceedingly good, it is just the kind of book to
attract youthful readers."—Aberdeen Free Press.
BEAUTIFULLY PRINTED IN COLOURS.
Cradle Songs of Many Nations. The Music
by Rsinhold Herman. Beautifully Illustrated with Original Coloured
Pictures by Walter Satterlee. Large demy 41.0, cloth gilt, 10s. Gd.
This is a pictorial Art-book of infinite variety. It is an illustrated collection
of Cradle Songs; it offers representative Specimens of that department of Infant
literature from all parts of the world, from the Far West and the Far East,j/-om
the frozen North and the sunny South. In its Artistic, Antiquarian, and Philo-
logical interest the book cannot fail to recommend itself to all.
"This charming book will be appreciated by lovers of music, and by all
mothers and children. —The Standard.
Andersen's Fairy Tales, with Coloured piciures,
nearly 100 full-page and other Illustrations, and Life of the Author. Demy
8vo, cloth gilt, gilt edges, 7s. 6d.
Uniform with the above, 7s. Gil. each,
i. NURSERY RHYMES, STORIES AND BALLADS.
2. OLD FAVOURITE FAIRY TALES.
3- THE SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON.
4- ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
5- DON QUIXOTE DE LA MANCHA.
6. WILD SPORTS OF THE WORLD.
The Children's Picture Annual, for 1886.
inth Season.) Birdie and Bobble: How they Kept House. Profusely
gilt edges, Ss.
(Nil
lUu
"WARD, LOCK & CO,, London and New York.
Royal 8vo, cloth gilt, 800 pp., price 7s. 6d.; gilt edges, 9s.
SCIENTIFIC0 PRECRE ATIONS.
With 900 Engravings.

A Delightful and Instruc-
tive Work for all who wish
to have
The SECRETS of SCIENCE
Explained and Illustrated
in the most popular and
amusing manner.

Translated and En-
larged from "Les Recre-
ations Scientifiques," by
M. Gaston Tissandier.
Science i» not only made easr bill rendered iib»oInnlv
delightful. A more f.1-1 innting booh of the clnu we hnrc nerer
1 met with The Western Morning News.
TWO BEAUTIFULLY ILLUSTRATED GIFT BOOKS.
Royal 8vo, cloth gilt, price 7s. Gd. each.
i. GOD'S GLORIOUS CREATION;
or, The Mighty Marvels of Earth, Sea, and Sky. The Earth's
Place in the Universal plan—Wonders of the Water—Won-
ders of the Land—Wonders of the Atmosphere.
11. THE CREATOR'S WONDERS
BEAUTIFULLY
ILLUSTRATED
WITH
OKIQIHAL
ENGRAVINGS.
IN LIVING NATURE; or, Marvels of Life in the Animal
and Vegetable Kingdoms. Organic Life in all parts of the
World, on Land and in the Ocean.
Translated from
the German of
Dr. Kerman, J.
Klein, and Dr.
Thome, by J.
Minsiiull.
"WARD, LOOK & CO , London and New York
Crown 4to, cloth gilt, price 7s. Oil.
BENCH, BRUSH, AND LATHE.
Being VOLUME IV. of A3IATEUB WOBK, ILLUSTBATEO.
With Valuable SUPPLEMENTS, and about l.cco ENGRAVINGS In tho Text.
Containing Practical Instructions in the following among other subjects:
Perambula-
Lathe
Building,
Carpsntry,
Fret Work,
Screens,
Printing,
Forge Work,
Inlaying,
Wood-
Carving,
Scene-
Painting,
Utilization
of Waste
Materials,
ULa^^
iPifer
wra
ft
J§3e
BraBfi-ra*'
-c=S»v3
F^J^M-i5.V/~
tor Making,
Painting and
Papering,
Musical
Instrument
Making,
Home-made
Furniture,
Fishing
Tackle,
Decoration,
Canoe
Building,
Photography
&c, &c, Ac.
Also, uniform with the above, 7s. Gd. each,
I. AMATEUR WORK, ILLUSTRATED, Volume I.
II- MECHANICS MADE EASY. The Second Volume of above.
III. THE WORKSHOP AT HOME. Third Volume of above.
Printed with great care on the finest paper. In Eleven Vols., demy 8vo, cloth,
82a. <i>L; half-calf or half-morocco, 115s. Gd.
A New and greatly Improved Edition of
HOOD'S COMPLETE WORKS.
Contain-
ing all tho
Writings
OF
THOMAS
HOOD;
ALSO
MimorlalB
OF
TOM
HOOD
hy His
Son and
Daughter.

"It is with peculiar pleasure we notice the new edition of the completo works 1
of Hood, by Messrs. Ward and Lock. . . They are certainly lo be thanked |
for this re-issue, in a more satisfactory shape than any former one, of this wonder- .
fiil collection of good fun and true literature."—Saturday Review. J
WARDi LQCK & CO., London anc; New York,.
The Legends of King Arthur. From the
Traditions of the Mythical period of History, Old Chronicles, Legends and
Romances, later Ball id and Idyllic Poetry, fits. With 36 Magnificent Steel
Engravings by GOSTAVB DORE. In One Magnificent royal 410 Volume,
handsomely bound, cloth gilt, 42s.
The Dore Gift Book of Illustrations to
Tennyson's Idylls of the King. With Descriptive Letterfress and
Quotations from Tennvson's Poems, by permission. In One Magnificent
royal 4to Volume, containing 37 Engravings on Steel, from the Original
Drawings by QUSTAVS DORE. Cloth, richly gilt, gilt edges, price 42s.
Gustave Dore's Illustrations to the Ar-
thurian Legends. Royal 410, handsomely bound, cloth, richly gilt, gilt
edges, 12.1. each.
I. GUINEVERE. The Story of Kiso Arthur and Queen Guinevere.
With Nine Engravings on Steel from Drawings by Gustave Dore.
1. VIVIEN. The Story of Merlin the Enchanter and Vivien. With
Nine Engravings on Steel from Diawings by Gustave Dore.
3. ENID. The Story of Enid and Geraint. With Kino Engravings on
8teelfrom Drawings by Gustave Dore.
4. ELAINE. The Story of Elaine. With Nine Engravings on Stool
from Drawings by Gustave Dorb.
"As porinEnr gift-books tliey nre precisely vrhrat they nhonlil
be—beautifully printed on the ihir!tc»l paper, kandifomelr bound,
and moderate lit price."—The Times.
Dalziel's Illustrated Goldsmith. With a
Sretch op the Life of Goldsmith by H. W. Dulcreh, Ph.D. With 100
Pictures Drawn by G. J. Pinwell, Engraved by tho Brothers Dalziel.
Beautifully bound, cloth, full gilt, gilt edges, price 10s. Gd.
Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress. Wilh a
Memoir of the Author by H. W. Dulcrrn, Ph.D., and 100 Page and.
Other Illustrations by Thomas Dalziel, Engraved by the Brothers Dal-
ziel. Presentation Edition, on thick toned paper, 4to, cloth gilt, gilt
edges, price 10s, Gd. Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, cloth gilt, gilt edges,
3s. Gd.; cloth gilt, 2s. Gd.; cloth, 2s. Also Popular EniTion, thinner
paper, ornamental wrapper, Is.; cloth gilt, Is. Gd.; cilt edges, 2s. And
People's Edition, medium 4to, wrapper, Gd.; cloth, Is,
Washington Irving's Sketch Book. A
New Edition. Illustrated with One Hundred and Twenty Engravings
on Wool from Original Designs. Large demy 8vo, cloih gilt, 10s. Gil.
Thomas Hood, Illustrated by Dore. Wilh
Nine Engravings on Steel, from Drawings by Gustave Dore, and many
Woodcuts. Folio, cloth gilt, gilt edges, 21s.
Hood, Illustrated by Birket Foster.
Serins r and 2, each with Twanty-two Drawings by Birrrt Fosthr, en-
graved on Stocl. Large 4to, cloth gilt, cilt cd^es, 21$. each; the Two in
One handsome Volume, hali-morocco, 42s.
Dalziel's Illustrated Arabian Nights' En-
tertainments. With upwards of 200 Illustrations by J. 1-:. Mii.lais, R.A.,
j. Tenniel, J. D. Watson, A. B. Houghton, G.J. Pinwkli. and T. Dalziel,
Engraved by the Brothers Dalziel. In One handsome Volume, cloth, richly
gilt back, sides, and edges, price 21s.; half-morocco, 25s.
'W&JW.LOQK & CO., London and New York
A NEW EDITION OF PHELPS' SHAKESPEARE.
The Complete Works of Shakespeare,
Revised from the Original Text. With Introductory Remarrs and < »pious
Notes—Critical, General and Explanatory—by Samuel Phelps. With LUus-
trationa by H. K. Browne and other Artists. Royal 8vo, cloth gilt, 10s. Gd.
This edition ofShakespeart will be found satisfactory in everyway. The
Biography of the Poet, the Revision of the Text, the Explanatory Notes, and the
numerous //lustrations, have all received very careful attention.
Motley's Dutch Republic: The Rise of
the Dutch Republic. By John Lothrof Motley. A New Edition, with
Map and numerous full-page Illustrations. Royal 6vo, cloth gilt, 7s, Gd,
.This Netv Edition of a famous work is in a handsome and, at the same time,
handy form; and the price at which it is published will, it is hoped, introduce it to
a still larger circle of admirers than it has hitherto attained.
Bonnechose's History of France: The
History op France, to the Revolution of 1848. By Emile de Bonnechose.
With numerous full-pige Illustrations. Medium Svo, cloth gilt, 7a. Gd.
The detailed account of the Gallic Nation, and the intelligent studies of char
racier contained in Bonnechose's History of France, lead the Publishers to
believe t/uit the edition they r.cvo offer to the Public will meet with acceptance from
Students and General Renders, In addition to other advantages, it contains a full
complement cf Engravings to illustrate the text.
The Life of Napoleon Bonaparte. By
I. S. C. Abbott. With Biographies of the Bonaparte Family and of
Napoleon HI. A New Edition, with numerous full-page Illustrations.
Medium 8vo, cloth gilt, 7s. Gd,
Abbott's Life of Napoleon Bonaparte is well known to many readers as a
clear, concise, and extremely interesting work. The Supplementary matter now
added will be of great use to the Strident, while of interest to the General Reader;
and the numerous Illustrations will, it is hoped, be found of great assistance in
bringing forward the stirring events treated of.
Hallam's Literature of Europe: An In-
troduction to the Literature of Europe in the Fifteenth, Sixteenth, and
Seventeenth Centuries. By Henry Hallam. A New Edition, with Illus-
trations. Medium bvo, cloth gilt, 7s, Gd,
Also,just ready, uniform with the above, 7s. Gd. each.
Adam Smith's Wealth of Nations.
Hallam's Constitutional History of England.
Macaulay: Reviews, Essays, and Poems.
Rollin's Ancient History: The Ancient
History of the Egyptians, Carthaginians, Assyrians, Babylonians,
Medes and Persians, Grecians and Macedonians. By M. Rollin. A
New Edition, with Illustrations. Medium 8vo, cloth gilt, 7s. Gd,
D'Israeli's Curiosities of Literature. By
Isaac D'Israeli. A New Edition, with Portrait and Illustrations. Medium
8vo, cloth gilt, 7».Gd.
D'Israeli's Miscellanies of Literature. By
Isaac D'Israeli. A New Edition, with numerous full-page Illustrations.
Uniform with the above Edition of" Curiosities of Literature." Medium Svo,
cloth gilt, 7s. Gd,
WARP, LOCK & CO., London and New York.
THE CHEAPEST ENCYCLOPAEDIA EVER PUBLISHED.
New .Edition, re-written throughout.
Beeton's Illustrated Encyclopaedia
OF UNIVERSAL INFORMATION.
COMPRISING
GEOGRAPHY, HI8T0RY, BI0GBAPH7, SCIENCE, ART & LITERATURE.
In Four
Vols.
cloth cr
half-roan,
42s.
half-calf.
or
half-russia
63s.
Of all Works of Reference published of late years, not one has gained such general
approbation as Breton's Illustrated Encyclopedia. It is undoubtedly one of
the Most Comprehensive Works in existence, and having been entirely re-written
and brought down to the latest date, certainly forms Tub Cheapest E.ncyclo-
T.EPIA i* the World.
** We know of no book which in such small compass gives » ntnrh
'nformntion."—The Scotsman.
Royal 8vo, handsomely bound, cloth gilt, price 7*. 6d.
Sylvia's Young Ladies' Treasure Book
3 Complete CncToparfcU of
Practical Instruction & Direction for all, Indoor & Outdoor
Occupations and Amusements suitable for Young Ladies,


Indoor and
Outdoor
Amuse-
ments,
Dress, Nee-
dlework,
Appearance,
Science
for Girls,
Home Pets.
Profuse:? Illustrated with COLOURED PLATES & ENGRAVINGS in the Text.
TO l.i7 ,ish heip and guidance, and to give toevery English girl the opportunity
to fit herself for the high place to which she is iustly entitled—this book
Das been prepared by those who now offer it to the public. The obiect that has
been kept in view throughout, is to make THE YOUNG LADIES' TREA-
SURE BOOK a storehouse of knowledge and information on every subiect
that enters into Girl-life—a iudicious Counsellor and Helper, to whom all may
come with full confidence for advice and assistance, a'; to a friend who will not
fail the..), and who may be depended upon in every case, to tell the thing that
is ii(li' ai:d true.
WARD, LOCK & CO., London and New York.
THE SELECTED EDITION OF THE WAVERLEY NOVELS.
Imp. 8vo, cloth gilt, gilt top.
i.IVANHOE. 10s. Gd.
2. ROB ROY. 7 s.Gd.
3.KENILW0RTH.7s.6VJ.
4. WAVERLEY. 7s. Gd.

THE SELECTED EDITION OF THE WAVERLEY NOVELS.
Reduced Cut from Rob Roy.
MAGNIFICENTLY
ILLUSTRATED
With Original Designs by
Eminent Artists.
This edition of THE WAVERLEY NOVELS la the boat ever offered to the
publlo. // is printed from a new fount of typo, the paper la of extra quality
and fineness, ami the printing it conducted with the greatest care. J he IUUB-
tratlona are not mere fancy sketches, out present oorreot representations or
Localities, Historical Personagos, Costumes, Architectural details, go.
NEW AND IMPORTANT WORK ON THE VIOLIN.
Demy 8vo, cloth gilt, price 10s. Gd.
VIOLIN MAKING.
AS IT WAS, AND AS IT IS.
An Historical, Practical and Theo-
retical Treatise on the Science and Art
of Violin Making, for the use of Violin-
Makers and Players, Amateur and
Professional.
Preceded by an Essay on
The Violin, and its Position At
a Musical Instrument.
By EDWARD HERON ALLEN,
Author of " The Ancestry of the
Violin," &c.
WITH THREE PHOTOGRAPHS
FOLDING PLATES, AND
ABOUT TWO HUNDRED ENGRAVINGS IN THE TEXT.
WARr( LOCK Se CO., London and New Yoijf.

-
Haydn's Dictionary of Dates. Containing
about 12 000 distinct Articles, 120,000 Dates and Facts. Eighteenth
Edition, Enlarged, Corrected, and Revised, and brought dnwn to the
Summer of 1335. IS/t.; half-calf, 24s.; full or tree-calf, 31s. 6d.
** The most Universal IS00U 01 Xtcfervncc inn moderate com*
pnxs that wc know of in the Eii^Uih Ijaii^iiRge."—T.iE Times.
"It is by tin- the readiest and niost reliable Work of the
kind.''—The Standard.
Farm Management and Country Life
(Ward and Locr's Boor of). A Comim.rte Cyclopedia of Rural Occu-
pations and Am'jsrments. Including Maaagcnientof the Farm—The Crops
—Cows and the Dairy—The Horse—The Dos—The Garden—Tree Culture—
Field Sports, &c. with Coloured Platos and Hundrols of Illustration!.
Large crown 8vo, half-roan, 7s. Gil-; hall calf, 10s. Gd.
"It is an rxhnti -live and yii n popular work ( it is practical,
Haydn's Dictionary of Dates. Containing
be In the hands of every agriculturist."—Norwich Argus.
Haydn's Domestic Medicine. By lhe lale
Edwim Lanrester, M.D., F.R.S., Assisted by Distinguished Physicians and
Surgeons. Including an A I'l'ENDIX on SICK N URSING A ND MOTHERS'
MANAGEMENT. With 32 pages ol Engraving*, in One VoL, medium
•to, doth gilt, 7s. Od.; half calf, IS*.
«* The bent work of it» kind."—Medical Press and Circular.
"One of the mont complete aud Intelligible publications of its
kind."—Nottingham Guardian.
Beeton's Book of Needlework. Consist-
ingof 670 Neodiowork Patterns, with full Descriptions and Instructions
as to working them. Every stitch described and engraved with the utmost
accuracy, and the quantity of material requisite for each pattern stated.
Handsomely bound, cloth gilt, gilt edges, price 7*. Gdm
*»* Just as '* The Book of Househ ->ld Management" t,ike* due Precedence of
every other Cookery Book, so this extraordinary Collection of Necdlnvork Designs
has become the book, par excellence, for Ladies to consult, both for instruction in
Stitches and all kuuis of work, and Patterns of elegant style arid irreproachable
good taste.
NEW EDITION, INCLUDING THE NEW BANKRUPTCY ACT, &c.
Everybody's Lawyer. (Beeton's Law
Boor). Entirely New Edition, Revised by a Barrister. Comprising
upwards of 14.000 Statements of the Law. With a full Ind*x, 27,000
References, every numbered paragraph in its particular place and under its
general Lead. Crown Svo, 2,000 pp., cloth gilt, 7s* Gd.
Handy Book of Games for Gentlemen.
By Capt. Crawley, Author of "The Billiard Book." "The Card Player's
Manual," &c. Comprising Billl.iida, Bagatelle, Whist, Loo, Crlbbage,
Bound Games, Cac£S, &c. With many Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
g'' A HANDSOME GIFT BOOK FOR LADIES.
Art Needlework: A Complele Manual of
Embroidery in S.Iks and Crcwels. With full Instructions as to Stitches,
Materials, and Implements. With nun; Dostgns in the Text, and Foot
Valuable Folding Supplements. Demy 4to, cloth gilt, 10s. Gd.
Beeton's Book of Garden Management.
All kinds of Information connected with Fruit, Flower and Kitchen Garden,
Orchid Houses, &c. With Coloured Platea and many Engraving! in the
Text. Post Svo, cloth gilt, 7s. Gd.; lull-calf, lOs.Gd.
WARP, LOCK 4 CO, London and Now York.
Beeton's Great Book of Poetry: from
C.£dmon and King Alfred's Boethius to Browning and Tennyson; with a
separate Selection of American Poeni3. New Edition, with full-page Illus-
trations. Containing nearly Two Thousand of the Bost Pieces In the
English Language. With Sketches of the History of the Poetry of our
Country, ami Biographical Notices of the Poets. In One handsome
Volume, royal bvo, cloth gilt, gilt edges, price 'JIs. / or in half-calf, 25b*
Noble Thoughts in Noble Language: A
Collection of Wise and Virtuous Utterances, in Prose and Verse, from the
Writings of the Known Great and the Great Unknown. With an Index of
Authors. New Edition, with full-page Illustrations. Compiled and
Analytically Arranged by Henry Southgate. Royal 8vo, cloth gilt, gilt
edges, price 10s. Gd.; half-calf, 15s.; elegant morocco, bevelled boards, * Is.
Hood's Own; or, Laughter from Year to Year.
First and Second Serif.s in One Volume, Complete, with all tho Original
Iliustrations by Hood, Cruirshanr, Leech, &c., numbering about 890. In
handsome binding, royal 8vo, cloth gilt, 10s. Gd. Also U bt had in Two
Vols., cloth gilt, gilt edges, 7s. Gd. tach.
COMPLETE EDITION of HOOD'S POETICAL WORKSm Two Volumes.
Crown Svo, cloth gilt, Kili e Ircs, Bs. each; cloth, pit top, or veil urn, 6s.;
halt-morocco, extra, 10s. GtU
Hood's Comic Poems. Wilh Preface by Tom
Hood the Younger, and numerous lustrations.
Hood's Serious Poems. Wilh Preface by
Tom Hood the Younger, and numerous Illustrations.
Thi above Two Volumes form the only Complete Edition of Hood's Poetical
Works. .—
Great Thoughts on Great Truths; or, The
Christian Lipe, the Church, and the Ministry. Selected and C Inshifted
by the Rev. E. Davies. D.D., Editor of " Holy Thoughts on Holy Things,"
&c. Royal Svo, cloth gilt, 7.**- Gd.
More than a thousand authors are represent*** it the extracts* above three
thousand in number, in this book, in which, as the Editor remarks, a -whole
Library has been condensed into One Volume.
Holy Thoughts on Holy Things: A Selec-
tion from the Writings of the Good and Grhat ot all Arcs. Compiled,
Selected and Arranged by the Rev. Ildward Davies. D.D., Compiler of
"Other Men's Minds," &c. Royal 8vo, cloth gilt, Is. Gd.; gilt edges, 9s.;
half-calf, 12s.
"The careful and kindly compiler of this volume has opened to us a noble
tUorchonsc of thought."— Tke Daily Teleorapu.
A NEW AND HANDSOME BIBLE FOR THE YOUNG.
The Children's Pictorial Bible. Wilh
Questions and Explanations for the You 115. With Coloured Plates and
separate Pages of Engravings. 4to, cloth gilt, 10s. GtU
In this work is offered an Abridgment, not an Alteration or Dilution of the
Bible. Passages are omitted, but no word Is changod. The divisional headings
adopted will, it is hoped, make t/ie Bible narrative and teaching more easily
un<terstood; the Notes have been prepared with especial care for the explanation 0/
difficuities which a child might experience.
The Longfellow Birthday Book. Conlain-
ing Choice Extracts for Every Day, from the Works of Henry Wadsworth
Longfellow. With Birthday Record. Demy 32mn, cloth, gilt edges, 1m. /
full-calf, russia or morocco, lis. Gd.; morocco or calf, circuit, 4s.
W4UD, L0C5 & CO., London and New York,
The mosl complete and J
useful booh ever produced
half-calf, 12s.
on Amaleur Carpenlry,
Joinery, Building, Turn-
ing, Painting, Glazing,
Smilhs' Work. &c.

EVERY MAN HIS OWN MECHANIC.
A Complete Guide for Amateurs in
Household, Ornamental and Constructional Carpentry and
Joinery, Household Building Art and Practice.
WITH 750 ILLUSTRATIONS OF TOOLS, PROCESSES, &C.
From the DAILY TE LKO It A VII.—"The instructions giren
nrc of the iiiomi complete description, and it is conclusively shown bow
the cost of mending a broken window pane, if the work is done by the house-
holder himself, is just six times less than if he employs a skilled workman to do
it. . . . There is a fund of solid information of every kind in the work before us,
which entitles it to the proud distinction of being a complete Made mrciim'
of the subjects upon which it trcnts."
TO PARENTS, GOVERNESSES, AND ALL INTERESTED
JN THE EDUCATION OF THE YOUNG.
Royal 8vo, cloth gilt, price 7s. Gil,
THE CHILD'S INSTRUCTOR;
Or, LEARNING MADE EASY by means of TOYS, PICTURES and STORIES.
A New and Comprehensive Work for the Teaching of Young
Children, partially planned on the celebrated Kindergarten System,
teaching in an easy and attractive manner: The Alphabet, Spelling,
Reading, Writing, Arithmetic, History, Geography, Grammar,
Music and Singing, French, German, Drawing, &c.
WITH
HUNDREDS OF ENGRAVINGS,
AND
TWO FOLDING SUFFLEMENTS,
Comprising:— (t) The ncces- I
sary Materials
for the Toy
Teaching of the
Alphabet; and
(2) A Large Puz-
zle Map for
Teaching the
Elements of
Geography.
"WARD, LOCK & CO., London ajjd. New Tor*;.

Royal 8vo, cloth gilt, 78. 6d. ; half-calf, 128.
WORTHIES OF THE WORLD
LIVES OF GREAT MEN
Of all Countries and all Times.
With FOBTBAITS and ENGRAVINGS.
'Ward and Locr's WORTHIES
OF THE "WORLD is the most in-
teresting work ever attempted in con-
nection with the study of Biography, and
the Publishers recommend it with confi-
dence to the perusal of all ages and every
class of society.
The various lives have been entrusted
to writers well qualified to do them justice.
They will be found filled with pictur-
esque incident, and have in no case
been overloaded with uninteresting
details. The whole tone of the work is
that of vivacity and interest.
"The book Is an excellent one for Free Libraries and V'
Men's Institutions."—Tub Graphic.
"We know of nothing in the same class of literature equally rend
Impnrlinl, and vuhmble as these sketches."—Derby Mercury,
onus
able,


Royal 8vo, cloth gilt, price 7.1. 6d.; gilt edges, 9s.
EPOCHS AND EPISODES OF HISTORY
A BOOK OF MEMORABLE DA YS and NOTABLE EVENTS.
WITH ABOUT 200 ILLUSTRATIONS.
This work is not put forth
as a volume of history of any
Particular period. From
Free Trade to the Tem-
perance Movement—from ]
the Elizabethan Age to i
the era of Penny News- i
papers and the Penny Post,
the various events of Euro- J
pean and American history i
will be easily traced amid the \
various episodes here attrac- |
tively narrated.
"No more instructive or en-
tertaining book could be placed
in the hands of a youth thaa
'Epochs and Episodes of His-
tory.'" — Doscaster Fr«e
Press. J
WARD, LOCK & CO., London and New York.
A COMPLETE WORK ON HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE, &-C.
Founded on the Works of Graham, Reece, Cheyne, Paris, Hunter, &c.
Royal 8vo, 800 pp., cloth gilt, price 10a. Gd.; half-calf, 16*.
HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE.
a (Suite to
GOOD HEALTH, LONG LIFE, AND THE PROPER TREATMENT
OF ALL DISEASES AND AILMENTS.
FULLY AND ACCURATELY ILLUSTRATED.
Edited by GEOBGE BLACK, M.B. Edin., Author of " Sick Nursing."
The Contributors to Ward & Lock's Household Medicine occupy
the first rank in the profession, and the work may be consulted with
every confidence. The style is clear, and such language lias been chosen as
will be most readily understood by readers unacquainted with medical
terms. The Illustrations, numbering about 450, are accurate and simple.
From THE ATUEN^UM.
"Considerable is the care which Dr. Blacr has bestowed upon his work on
Household Medicine. He has gone carefully and ably into all the subiects which
can be included in such a volume. . . * On the whole, the work is
worthy of Mudy and attention, and likely to produce real good."
MOXON'S POPULAR POETS
New and Enlarged Editions, with Red Border Lines, Critical
Memoirs by William Michael Rossetti, and Illustrations.
Price lis. <lil. each.
The press and the public, alike in Great Britain and her Colonies,
and in the United States, unite in their testimony to the immense
superiority 0/ Moxon's Popular Poets over any other similar collections
Published by any other house. The possession by the Publishers of the
Copyright Works of Coleridge, Hood, Keats, Shelley, Words-
worth, and other great National Poets places this Series above
rivalry. .
z. Byron.
2. Longfellow.
3. Wordsworth.
4. Scott.
5. Shelley.
6. Moore.
7. Hood.
8. Keats.
9. Coleridge.
10. Barns.
It. Tupper'a Proverbial
Pmlotophy.
12. Milton.
13. Campbell.
14. Pope.
15. Cowper.
16. Humorous Poema.
17. American Poetry.
18. Mrs. Hemans.
19. Thomson,
so. Poetic Treasures.
91. Hood. 2nd Series.
22. Whitticr.
23. Lowell.
With Red Border Lines, Critical Memoir, and Illustrations,
iandsomcly bound, cloth gilt, gilt adges.
PRICE 3a. Gd. PER YOLVME.
A ho lo be had in the following varieties of binding .-—Half.parchment, 3a. Gd.;
Half-morocco, Gs.; Half-calf, Ga.; Morocco, 7a. Gd.; Wood-binding, 7*. Gd.;
Morocco extra, 8a.; Tree-calf, 10a, Gd.; Relief-leather, 13a. Gd.
24. Young.
25. Shakespeare.
26. Keble's Christian
Year.
27. Poe.
23. Rossettl's Lives of
Famous Poets.
20. Leigh Hunt.
30. Scott's Minstrelsyof
the Scottish Border.
31. Dodd's Beauties of
Shakespeare.
32. Poems of Ireland.
We-RD, LOCK 4 CO,, London and New York,
The Housewife's Treasury of Domestic
Information. A Companion Volume to " Mrs. Beeton's Boor of House-
hold Management." Including How to Build, Buy, Rent, and Furnish a
House—Taste in the House—Kconomical Housekeeping—Management of
Children—Home Needlework, D.essinaking, and Millinery—Fancy and Art
Needlework—The Toilet—Modern Ltiquette—Employment of Leisure Hours.
With numerous full-page Coloured and other Plates, and about 600 Illustra-
tions In the Text. Crown Svo, half-roan, ?.r. Gd.; half-calf, 10s. 6d.
"In the one thousand and fifty-six pages in this marvellous * Home-Book1
there is not one worthies* or iiuueccssary item, not one article we would
ever wish to forget."—The Court Journal.
Cottage Management: A Cyclopaedia of
Thrift and Domestic Economy. The Subjects treated of include: Choice of
a Home—Furnishing—Cookery and Housekeeping—Domestic Hygiene—
Dress and Clothing—Children—Household Pets and Amusements, &c, &c.
Medium Svo, cloih gilt, price Gs.
"The uio«*t important publication, so far as variety of subiects is
concerned, -which we hare yet nccu for the benefit of families of
•mall KieiiiiM."—Tut Saturday Review.
Mrs. Beeton's Every-day Cookery and
Housekeeping Book. Instructions tor Mistresses and Servants, and over
1,650 Practical Recipes. With Engravings and 142 Coloured Figures.
Crown Kvo, cloth gilt, price 3s, 6d.
Mrs. Beeton's All About Cookery. A Col-
lection of Practical Recipes, arranged in Alphabetical Order. and fully
Illustrated. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, price gs. 60.
The Cookery Instructor. By Edith A.
Barnrtt, Examiner to the National Training School for Cookery, &c.
Illustrated. Crown Svo, cloth gilt, price Us. 6a.
Good Plain Cookery. By Mary Hooper,
Author of " Little Dinners," " Everyday Meals," &c. Cr. 8vo, cl.gilt,** 60.
Mrs. Beeton's Englishwoman's Cookery
Book. An entirely New Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Containing up-
wards of 600 Reclpe3, ICO Engravings, and Four Coloured Plates. Post
Svo, clotn, price Is. ; cloth gilt. Is. CO.: on thick paper, Us.
Beeton's Complete Orator and Public
Speaker. Comprising "Curiosities of Orators and Oratory," "The Art of
Public Speaking," and " Great Orators and Great Orations." In One Volume,
crown 8vo, cloth, 3s. Gd.
Kirton's Standard Reciters. Ediled by J.
W. Kirton, LL.D., Author of "Buy your Own Cherries," &c. Fcap. 8vo.
neat cloth, Is. each j cloth gilt, Is. 60.
The following are some of He special features of this very Popular Series :—
Appropriate headings are placed over each subject, indicating the style in which it
should be riven; each piece is printed and marked so as to guide the most inexperi-
enced to a proper delivery; each volume is classified under an alphabetical arrange-
ment of subjects, and has a complete index; no piece appears more than once in the
Series; general hints and instructions are given to young beginners; and, finally,
each volume is printed in goo J clear type, and is strongly bound.
1. KIRTON'S STANDARD TEMPERANCE RECITER
2. KIRTON'S STANDARD SUNDAY SCHOOL RECITER
3. KIRTON'S STANDARD POPULAR RECITER.
4. KIRTON'S STANDARD COMIC RECITER.
5. KIRTON'S STANDARD SPEAKER AND ELOCUTIONIST.
6. KIRTON'S STANDARD BAND OF HOPE RECITER
7. KIRTON'S SCHOOL AND TEMPERANCE DIALOGUES.
S^KIKTON'S STANDARD POPULAR DIALOGUES.
WAED, LOCK <8s CO., London and New Ygric.
Complete in Three Vols., royal Svo, 78. (id. each, cloth gilt;
half-calf, 12s. each,
W AR D & LOCK'S
UNIVERSAL INSTRUCTOR;
Complete in Three Vols., royal Svo, 78. (id. each, cloth gilt;
THE
BEST WORK
OF ITS KIND,
FORMING
A COMPLETE
CYCLOPMDI A
OF
LEARNING
A ND SELF-
EDUCATION.

COMPRISING
A PERFECT
SYSTEM
OF
INTELLECTUAL
CULTURE
MEETING THE
REQUIREMENTS
OF ALL
CLASSES OF
STUDENTS.
WITH ABOUT 2,000 ILLUSTRATIONS.
"The work 1* excellent) nn<l 11 in to be hoped 11 mny meet
with the niu-ci'nw it deserves."—Athen-.euw.
Complete in Two Vols., royal Svo, cloth gilt, 7s. Oil. each.
THE ILLUSTRATED
HISTORY OF THE WORLD
FROM THE EARLIEST PERIOD TO THE PRESENT TIME.
With Hundreds
of Engravings.
Ancient,
Medieeval,
and Modern.
"Two hand-
some and mas-
sive volumes, in
which a vast field
of history is sur-
veyed. . . Well
suited for po
pular reading.
Illustrations,
which are almost
as numerous as
the pages, de-
serve special
praise. . . They
are really illus-
trative of the
text." — Daily
News.

"One ofllir
most valua-
ble and coin-
plrle exlani.
It is beautifully
printed and pro-
fuselyillustrated,
and has the
look as well as
the character of a
standard book.
The work will
form a valuable
addition to the
librarv. Useful
for reterenceand
instructive inde-
tails."-Norwich
Argus,
WARD, LOCK & CO., London and New York.
I. 00DEN AnD CO., PRInTERS, I72, ST. JOHn S1KEE.T, E-C
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
Of York, Mariner.
ILLUSTRATED WITH
ONE HUNDRED AND TEN WOOD ENGRAVINGS.

WARD, LOCK AND CO.
LONDON: WARWICK HOUSE. SALISBURY SQUARE, E.C.
NEW YORK : 10, BOND STREET.
SECTION I.
MM
Robinson's Family, Ac—Bis Elopement from his Parents 1
SECTION II.
First Adventures at Sea, and Experience of a Maritime Life.—Voyage to
Guinea.
SECTION III.
Robinson's Captivity at Bailee.—Escape with Xury.—Arrival at the Urazils. 11
SECTION IV.
lie settles in the Brazils as a Planter.—Hakes another Voyage, and is Ship-
wrecked ..mi, i—— 28
SECTION V.
Robinson finds himself in a Desolate Island.—Procures a Stock of Articles
from the Wreck.—Constructs his Habitation „ SI
SECTION VI.
Carries all his Riches, Provisions, 4c. into his Habitation,—Dreariness of
Solitude.—Consolatory Reflections 40
SECTION VII.
Robinson's Mode of Reckoning Time.—Difficulties arising from want of
Toole.—He arranges his Habitation . i3
SECTION VIII.
Robinson's Journal....Details of his Domestio Economy and Contrivances.
—Shock of an Earthau&ke
SECTION IX.
Robinson obtains more Articles from the Wreck.—His Illness and Affliction S3
SECTION X.
His Recovery .—His Comfort in Reading the Scriptures.—Makes an Excur-
sion into the Interior of the Island.—Forms his " Bower" -' ».. 57
SECTION XI.
Eubinson makes a Tour to Explore his Island - » 65
SECTION XII.
Be returns to Iris Care.—His Agricultural Labours and Success................ 69
SECTION XIII.
Mis Manufacture of Potter;, and Contrivance for baking Bread. 74
SECTION XIV.
Hi-tlitatcs his Escape from the Island.—Builds a Canoe.—Failure of his
Sdieme.—Resignation to his Condition.—Makes himself a new Dress 78
SECTION XV.
He makes a smaller Cauoe, iu which he attempts to cruise round the Island.
- ills perilous situation at Sea.—He returns home - 84
SECTION XVI.
He rears a Flock of Goats.—His Diary.—His Domestic habits and Style of
Living.—Increasing Prosperity 80
SECTION XVl,.
Unexpected Alarm and Cause for Apprehension.- He Fortifies his Abode>— 93
SECTION XVIII.
Precautions against Surprise.—Robinson discovers that his Island has been
visited by Cannibals ....„.......» 99
SECTION XIX.
Eo'..iiison discovers a Cave which serves him as a Retreat against the
Savages «.....- 103
SECTION XX.
Another visit of the Savages.—Robinson sees them 'lancing.—Perceives the
Wreck of a Vessel 106
SECTION XXI.
l!n visits the Wreck and obtains many Stores from it.—Again thinks of
quilting the Island.—Has a remarkable Dream 118
STCTION XXII.
Roinnsou rescues one of their Captives from the Savages, whom he names
Friday, and makes his Servant 113
SECTION XXIII.
RoMnson instructs snd civilizes his man Friday—Endeavours to give him
an Idea of Christianity 124
SECTION XXIV.
PI 01
Robinson and Friday build a Canoe to carry them to Friday's Country.—
Their Scheme prevented by the arrival or a Party of Savages 131
SECTION XXV.
Robinson releases a Spaniard.—Friday discovers his Father.—Accommoda-
tion provided for these new Guosts—who are afterwards sent to liberate
the other Spaniards.—Arrival of an English Vessel „ 137
SECTION XXVI.
Robinson discovers himself to the English Captain.—Assists him in reducing
his mutinous Crew,—who submit to him ;62
SECTION XXVII.
Atkins entreats the Captain to spare his Life.—The latter recovers his Vessel
from the Mutineers.—And Robinson leaves the Island 163
SECTION XXVIII.
Robinson goes to Lisbon, where he finds the Portuguese Captain, who renders
him an Account of his Property in the Brazils.—Sets out on his Return to
England by Laud „ 171
SECTION XXIX.
Friday's Encounter with a Hear.—Robinson and his fellow Travellers
attacked by a Flock of Wolves.— His Arrangement of his Affairs, and
Marriage after his Return to England 179
SECTION XXX.
He is seized with a Desire to revisit his Island.—Loses his Wife—is tempted
to go to Sea again.—Takes out a Cargo for his Colony 187
SECTION XXXI.
Robinson's Ship relieves the Crew of a French Vessel that bad caught Fire... 190
SECTION XXXII.
Believes the Crew of a Bristol Ship, who are starving.—Arrives at his
Island ..„...... ...„„.. 193
SECTION XXXIII.
Robinson and Friday go ashore.—The latter meets with his Father.—Account
of what pawed on the Island after Robinson's quitting it ....................,». 199
SECTION XXXIV.
The Account continued.—Quarrels between the Englishmen.—A Battle
between two Parties of Savages who visit the Island.—Fresh Mutiny
among the Settlers ..- „..- „ 2,j£
SECTION XXXV.
FAS!
The mutinous Englishmen are dismissed from the Island.—Return with
several captive Savages.—Take the FchmIwi m Wives „...—...„......... 223
SECTION XXXVI.
Several Savages killed; the Remainder leave the Island.—A Fleet of them
afterwards arrive.—A general Battle.—The Savages are overcome, and
tranquillity restored .....,...........„............, 233
SECTION XXXVII.
Robinson learns from the Spaniards the Difficulties they had to encounter.—
He furnishes the People with Tools, Ac—The French Ecclesiastic 248
SECTION XXXVIII.
Encounter with Savages at Sea.—Friday's Death.—Robinson finds his former
Partner in the Brazils.—Sails for the East Indies ................................... 2U
SECTION XXXIX.
The Vessel touehes at Madagascar.—Affray with the Natives,—who are mas-
sacred by the Crew.—The Sailors afterwards refuse to sail with Robinson,
who is left by his Nephew, the Captain, in Bengal - 250
SECTION XL.
Meets with an English Merchant with whom he makes some trading
Voyages.—They are mistaken for Pirates.—Vanquish their Pursuers.—
Voyage to China.—Recoutre with the Cochin-Chiiieso.—Island of Formosa.
—Gulf of Nanquin —Apprehension of falling into the Hands of the Dutch. 26S
SECTION XLI.
Journey to Pekin.—Robinson joins a Caravan proceeding to Moscow.—Ren-
contres with the Tartars 2 1
SECTION XLII.
Route through Muscovy.—Robinson and a Scots Merchant destroy an Idol.
—The whole Caravan in great Peril from the Pursuit of the Pagans.—
ToboUki.—Departure from Tobolsk!.—Encounter with a Troop of Robbers
In the Desert.—Robinson reaches Archangel, and finally arrives In England H)S
OF THE
AUTHOR OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
Daniel Depoe, the author of numerous works of fiction, among
which the "History of the Plague" has attained a certain popularity,
and " Robinson Crusoe" a lasting and world-wide renown, was boru
in the parish of St. Giles, Cripplegate, in the city of London, in the
year 1661. He was educated at a dissenting school at Newington
Green; his father, a strict dissenter, intending him for the priesthood.
But this project seems to have been abandoned, for some unknown
reason, and young Daniel became a tradesman, like his father. Some-
thing of the roving, restless nature, so admirably described in
"Kobinson Crusoe," seems to have been inherent in Defoe himself;
for his life is full of strange vicissitudes, and he appears continually
involved in trouble on one account or another. We find him taking.
part in the most ill-considered and unfortunate enterprise of his
time, the Rebellion of Monmouth, and narrowly escaping what the
cynical spirit of the time dubbed "a merry go-round at rope fair,"
namely, death by strangulation, for the oflence. In after-life he
was hotly embroiled in the political quarrels of his age. At one
time he was compelled to stand in the pillory, as a punishment for
writing a well-timed and thoughtful pamphlet on "The shortest wav
with the Dissenters." The populace, sympathizing with and ad-
miring him, crowned the pillory with flowers, and converted his
penance into a trinmph; but this could not relieve him from the
burden of the heavy fine he was compelled to pay, and which ham-
pered him for years afterwards. At another time he suffered a long
imprisonment, obtaining his release after two years by the interven-
tion of Harley, Earl of Oxford. But he had not the art of advancing
his fortunes, though his evident merit procured him employment in
several matters of consequence; and, at the end of his long life, he
was in poverty and neglect. He died in his native parish of St.
Giles, Cripplegate, April 24, 1731, at the age of seventy, and was
interred in Bunbili Fields burial-ground.
The political works of Defoe are numerous, and had a sensible
effect on the times in which he lived. A thorough Englishman, out-
spoken, vehement, and uncompromising, he shouted out lustily
against abuses and wrong-doing wherever he fonnd them; and in many
respects his ideas were greatly in advance of his time. Some of his
schemes may have been visionary and impracticable; but it is pleasant
to hear his sturdy voice raised, and to see his nervous pen wielded so
unflinchingly in advocacy of his principles, and to mark how unvaryingly
those principles point to moderation, merev and the law of kindness.
His llevicw, which he conducted for nine years, may certainly be
considered as the pioneer of the Spectator, Taller, Quardian, ana
other collections of essays which enriched the literature of the first
half of the eighteenth century.
His political writings, however, have mostly passed away with the
troublous times which gave them birth, and to which their interest
was confined. It was as a writer of fiction that Defoe was to
achieve more lasting fame. Two, at least, of his works have a value
and a significance quite irrespective of time and place,—the one as a
record of a national calamity, the other as a wonderful piece of ima-
ginary autobiographv. These two books are the "History of the
Plague of 1665," an5 the "Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
At the time when the scourge was decimating London, Daniel
Defoe was only four years old. It could not, therefore, be from
memory that he so vividly described its incidents; though, doubtless,
in his youth he heard many an anecdote about the pestilence and its
ravages, from men of maturer years, on whose memories it must have
made an indelible impression. But his chief talent lay in the
management of detail and accurate description; and it is difficult to
imagine, as we read the graphic record of the state of the terror-
stricken, desolate city, that we have not before us the real daily
notes of an actual indweller in the city of the plague. In Robinson
Crusoe the same marvellous power is shown, but in a much higher
degree. With matchless skill, the doubts and sorrows, the shifts
and expedients, the little domestic trinmphs and disappointments of
the ship-wrecked mariner in his solitary home are put before the
reader in the very form most caleulated to enlist his interest and
sympathies. So thoroughly has the author identified himself with the
hero of his romance, that Defoe disappears, and it is Robinson Crusoe
himself who becomes a living personality, and moves and speaks
before the reader, and becomes as clearly and distinctly personified
as any hero of real life.
The first edition of Robinson Crusoe was published in 1719. In
the century and a half that has since elapsed, hundreds of edi-
tions have appeared in all European languages. Everywhere the
book has worked its way; and as for the German version, "Robinson
de Jungcre" is chronicled as one of the greatest successes of the
eminent Hamburgh firm of Campc and Co.
In the present volume, the original text, slightly shortened, has
been adhered to. The operation of modernizing the language, ne-
cessary, perhaps, in a scientific work, would have taken away one of
the chief charms from the narrative of the simple sailor, who is
therefore left to te." his tale in )iis own rough, pathetie, old-fashioned
way. The drawings are from an eminent German pencil, and apart
from their artistic ralue, serve the purpose of thorovghly illustrating
the text.
SECTION I.
ROBINSON's FAMILY, ETC.—HIS ELOFEMENT FROM HIS FABENTS.
I was bor n in the year 1632, in the city of York, of a good family,
though not of that country, my father being a foreigner of Bremen,
named Kreutznaer, who settled first at Hull. He got a good estate
by merchandise, and leaving off his trade, lived afterwards at York;
from whence he had married my mother, whose relations were named
Robinson, a very good family in that country, and after whom I was
so called, that is to say, Kobinson Kreutznaer; but, by the usual
corruption of words in England, we are now called, nay, we call
ourselves, and write our name, Crusoe; and so my companions always
called me.
I had two elder brothers, one of whom was lieutenant-colonel to an
English regiment of foot in Elanders, formerly commanded by the
famous Colonel Lockhart, and was killed at the battle near Dunkirk
against the Spaniards. What became of my second brother, I never
knew, any more than my father and mother did know what was
become of me.
Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any trade, my
head began to be filled very early with rambling thoughts. My
father, who was very aged, had given me a competent share of
learning, as far as house education and a country free school generally
go, and designed me for the law; but I would be satished with
nothing but going to sea; and my inclination to this led me so
strongly against the will, nay, the commands of my father, and
Against all the entreaties and persuasions of my mother and other
friends, that there seemed to be something fatal in that propension of
nature, tending directly to the life of misery which was to befall me.
My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and excellent
counsel against what he foresaw was my design. He called me one
morning into his chamber, where he was confined by the gout, and
expostulated very warmly with me upon this subject; he asked me
what reasons, more than a mere wandeiing inclination, I had for
leaving his house, and my native country, where I might be well
introduced, and had a prospect of raising my fortune, by application
and industry, with a life of ease and pleasure. He told me it was
men of desperate fortunes, on one hand, or of superior fortunes, on
the other, who went abroad upon adventures, aspiring to rise by
enterprise, and make themselves famous in undertakings of nature
out of the common road; that these things were all either too far
above me, or too far below me; that mine was the middle state, or
what might be called the upper station of low life, which he had
found, by long experience, was the best state in the world, the most
suited to human happiness; not exposed to the miseries and hard-
ships, the labour and sufferings, of the mechanic part of mankind,
and not embarrassed with the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of
the upper part of mankind: he told me, I might judge of the happi
uess of this state by one thing, viz., that this was the state of life
which all other people envied; that kings have frequently lamented
the miserable consequences of being born to great things, and wished
they had been placed in the middle of two extremes, between the
mean and the great; lliat the wise man gave his testimony to this
as the just standard of true felicity, when he prayed to have "neither
poverty nor riches."
He bade me observe it, and I skould always find, that the calami
ties of life were shared among the upper and lower part of mankind;
but that the middle station had the fewest disasters, and was not
exposed to so many vicissitudes as the higher or lower part of man-
kind; nay, they were not subjected to so many distempers and
uneasinesses, either of body or mind, as those were, who, by vicious
living, luxury, and extravagancies, on one hand, or, by hard labour,
want of necessaries, and mean and insufficient diet, on the other hand,
bring distempers upon themselves by the natural consequences of
their way of living; that the middle station of life was caleulated for
all kind of virtues, and all kind of enjoyments; that peace and
plenty were the handmaids of a middle fortune; that temperance,
moderation, quietness, health, society, all agreeable diversions, and
all desirable pleasures were the blessings attending the middle
station of life; that this way men went silently and smoothly through
the world, and comfortably out of it, not embarrassed with the
labours of the hands o.r. of the head, not sold tu the life of slavery
for daily bread, or harassed with perplexed circumstances, which rob
the soul of peace, and the body of rest; not enraged with the passion
of envy, or secret burning last of ambitino for great things; but, in
easy circumstances, sliding gently through the world, .ind sensibly
tasting the sweets of living, without the bitter; feeling that they are
happy, and learning by every day'S experience, to Know it more
sensibly.
After this he pressed me earnestly, and in the most affectionate
manner, not to play the young man, nor to precipitate myself into
miseries which nature, and the station of life I was born w seemed
to have provided against; that I was under no necessity of seeking
my bread ; that he would do well for me, and endeavour to enter me
fairly into the station of life which he had been just recommending
to me; and that if I was not very easy and happy in the world, it
must be my mere fate, or fault, that must hinder it; and that he
should have nothing to answer for, having thus discharged his duty
in warning me against measures which he lcnew would be to my hurt;
in a word, that he would do very kind things for me if I would
stay a.jd settle at home as he directed; he told me I had my elder
brother for an example, who had run into the army, where he was
killed during the Low Country wars; that if I did take this foolish
step, God would not bless me; and I would have leisure, hereafter,
to reflect upon having neglected his counsel, when there might be
none to assist in my recovery.
I observed the tears run down his face very plentifully, especially
when he spoke of my brother who was killed; and that, when he
spoke of my having leisure to repent, and none to assist me, he was
so moved, that ho broke off the discourse, and told me his heart was
so full, he could say no more to me.
1 was sincerely affected with this discourse; as, indeed, who
could be otherwise ? and I resolved not to think of going abroad any
more, but to settle at home, according to my father's desire. But
alas! a few days wore it all off: and, in snort, to prevent any of
my father's further importunities, in a few weeks after I resolved
to run quite away from him. However, 1 did not act so hastily,
neither, as my first heat of resolution prompted; but I took my
mother, at a time when I thought her a little pleasanter than ordinary,
and told her that my thoughts were so entirely bent upon seeing
the world, that I should never settle to anything with resolution
enough to go through with it, and my father had better give me Iiis
consent than force me to go without it; that I was now eighteen
years old, which was too late to go apprentice to a trade, or clerk to
an attorney; that I was sure, if I did, snould never serve out
my time, and I should certainly run away from my master befo'j my
time was out, and go to sea; and if she would speak to my father to
let me make but one voyage abroad, it I came home again, anil did
not like it, I would go no more; and 1 would promise by a double
diligence, to recover the time I had lost.
This put my mother in a great passion: she told me she knew it
would be to no purpose to speak to my father upon any such a sub-
ject ; that he knew too well what was my interest to give his consent
to anything so much for my hurt; and that she wondered how I
could think of any such thing, after such a discourse as I had from
my father, and such kind and tender expressions as she knew my
father had used: that for her part, she would not have so much hand in
my destruction; and I should never have it to say, that my mother
was willing when my father was not.
Though my mother refused to move it to my father, yet, as 1 have
heard afterwards, she reported all the discourse to him; and that
my father, after showing a great concern at it, said to her with a sigh:
"That boy might be happy if he would stay at home; but if he goes
abroad, he will be the most miserable wretch that ever was born;
I cannot give consent to it."

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose; though
in the meantime I continued obstinately deaf to all proposals of
settling to business, and frequently expostulating with my father
and mother about their being so positively determined against what
they kuew my inclinations prompted me to. But being one day at
Hull, whether I went casually, and without any purpose of making
an elopement at that time, and one of my companions then going
to London by sea in his father's ship, and prompting me to go with
them by the common allurement of seafaring men, viz., that it should
cost me nothing for my passage, I consulted neither fattier nor
mother any more, nor so much as sent them word of it; but left
them to hear of it as they might, without asking God's blessing,
or my father's, without any consideration of circumstances or conse-
quences, and in an ill hour, God knows.
SECTION II.
FIRST ADVENTURES AT SEA, AND EXPERIENCE OF A MARITIME LIFE.
VOYAGE TO GUINEA.
On the 1st September, 1651, I went on board a ship bound for
London. Never any young adventurer's misfortunes, I believe,
began sooner, or continued longer, than mine. The ship had no
sooner got out of the Humber, than the wind began to blow, and the
waves to rise, in a most frightful manner; and as I had never been
at sea before, I was most inexpressibly sick in body, and terrified in
mind; I began now seriously to reflect upon what I had done, and
how justly I was overtaken by the judgment of Heaven, for wickedly
leaving my father's house. AH the good counsels of my parents, my
father's tears, and my mother's entreaties, came now fresh to my
mind; and my conscience, which was not yet come to the pitch of
hardness to which it has been since, reproached me with the con-
tempt of advice, and the abandonment of my duty.
All this while the storm increased, and the sea, which I had
never been upon before, went very high, though nothing like what
I have seen many times since; no, nor what I saw a few days after;
but, such as it was, enough to affect me then, who was but a young
sailor, and had never known anything of the matter. I expected
every wave would have swallowed us up, and that every time the
ship fell down, as I thought in the trough or hollow of the sea, we
should never rise more; and in this agony of mind I made many
vows and resolutions, that if it would please God to spare my life
this voyage, if ever I got my foot once on dry land, I would go
directly home to my father, and never set it into a ship again while
I lived; that I would take his advice, and never run myself into
such miseries as these any more. Now I saw plainly the goodness
of his observations about the middle station of life; how easy, how
comfortable, he had lived all his days, and never had been exposed
to tempests at sea or troubles on shore; and I resolved that I would,
like a true repenting prodigal, go home to my father.
These wise and sober thoughts continued during the storm, and
indeed sometime after; but the next day as the wind was abated,
and the sea calmer, I began to be a little inured to it. However, I
was very grave that day, being also a little sea-sick still; but towards
night the weather cleared up, the wind was quite over, and a charm-
ing fine evening followed: the sun went down perfectly clear, and
rose so the next morning; and having little or no wind, and a smooth
sea, the sun shining upon it, the sight was, as I thought, the most
delightful that I ever saw.
Inad slept well in the night, and was now no more sea-sick, but
very cheerful, looking with wonder upon the sea that was so rough
and terrible the day before, and could be so calm and pleasant in a
little time after.

And now, lest my good resolutions should continue, my companion.
who had indeed enticed me away, came to me, and said, " Well, Bob,"
clapping me on the shoulder, "how do you do after it? I warrant
you you were frightened, wa'n't you, last night, when it blew a cap-
lull of wind ?"—" A cap-full, do you call it?" said I; "'twas a terrible
storm."—" A storm you fool?" replies he, " do you call that a storm!
Why, it was nothing at all; give us but a good ship, and sea-room,'
and we think nothing of such a squall of wind as that; you are but
a fresh water sailor, Bob; come, let us make a bowl of punch, and
we'll forget all that. D'ye see what charming weather 'tis now?"
To make short this sad part of my story, we went the way of all
sailors; the punch was made, and I was made drunk with it ;* and in
one night's wickedness I drowned all my repentance, all my reflec-
tions upon my past conduct, and all my resolutions for the future.
In a word as the sea was returned to its smoothness of surface and
settled calmness by the abatement of the storm, so the hurry of
my thoughts being over, my fears and apprehensions of being
swallowed up by the sea forgotten, and the current of my former
desires returned, I entirely forgot the vows and promises I had
made in my distress.
The sixth day of our being at sea we came into Yarmouth Roads;
the wind having been contrary and the weather calm, we had
matle but little way since the storm. Here we were obliged to
come to an anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing contrary,
viz. at south-west, for seven or eight days, during which lime a great
many ships from Neweastle came into the same roads, as a common
harbour where the ships might wait for a wind for the river Thames.
We had not, however, rid here so long, but we should have tided up
the river, but that the wind blew too fresh; and, after we had lain
four or five days, blew very hard. However, the roads being reckoned
as good as a harbour, the anchorage good, and our ground tackle
very strong, our men were unconcerned, and not in the least appre-
hensive of danger, but spent the time in rest and mirth, after the
manner of the sea. But the eighth day, in the morning, the wind
increased, and we had all hands at work to strike our topmasts, and
make everything snug and close, that the ship might ride as easy as
possible. By noon the sea went very high indeed, and our ship rode
forecastle in, shipped several seas, and we thought, once or twice our
anchor had come home; upon which our master ordered out the sheet
anchor; so that we rode with two anchors ahead, and cables veered
out to the better end.
By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now I began to
see terror and amazement in the faces of even the seamen themselves.
The master was vigilant in the business of preserving the ship; but,
as he went in and out of his cabin by me, I could hear him softly
say to himself several times, "Lord, be merciful to us! we shall be
alt lost; we shall be all undone;" and the like.
The storm was so violent, that I saw what is not often seen, the
master, the boatswain, and some others, more sensible than the rest,
at their prayers, and expecting every moment the ship would go to
the botton.. In the middle of the night, and under all the rest of
our distresses, one of the men, that had been down on purpose to see,
cried out, "We have sprung a leak!" another man said " there was
four foot water in the hold." Then all hands were called to the
pump. At that very word my heart as I thought, died within me,
and I fell backwards upon the side of my bed, where I sat in the
cabin. However, the men roused me, aud told me that I, who was
able to do nothing before, was as well able to pump as another; at
which I stirred up and went to the pump, and worked very heartily.
While this was doing, the master seeing some light colliers, who,
not able to ride out the storm, were obliged to slip and run away to
sea, and would not come near us, ordered us to fire a gun as a signal
of distress. I, who knew nothing what that meant, was ao surprised,
that I thought the ship had broke, or some dreadful thing happened.
In a word, I was so surprised, that I fell down in a swoon. As this
was a time when everybody had his own life to thiDk of, no one
minded me, or what was become of me; but another man stepped
up to the pump, and thrusting me aside with his foot, let me Tie,
thinking I had been dead; and it was a great while before I came to
myself.
We worked on; but the water increasing in the hold, it was
apparent that the ship would founder; and though the storm began
to abate a little, yet as it was not possible she could swim till we
might run into a port;—so the master continued firing guns for help;
and a light ship, who had rid it out just ahead of us, ventured a boat
out to help us. It was with the utmost hazard the boat came near
us, but it was impossible for us to get on board, or for the boat
lie near the ship s side; till at last the men rowing very heartily,
and venturing their lives to save ours, our men cast them a rope
over our stern with a buoy to it, and then veered it out a great
length, which they, after great labour and hazard, took hold of, ana
we hauled them close under our stern, and got all into the boat.
It was to no purpose for them or us, after we were in the boat, to
think of reaching their own ship; so all agreed to let her drive, and
ouly to pull her in towards shore as much as we could; and our
master promised them, that if the boat were staved upon shore, he
would make it good to their master; so partly rowing and partly
driving, our boat went away to the northward, sloping towards the
shore almost as far as Winterton-Ness.
We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of our ship
when we saw her sink; and then I understood, for the first time,
what was meant by a ship foundering in the sea. I must acknow-
ledge, I had hardly eyes to look up when the seamen told me she was
sinking; for, from that moment, they rather put me into the boat
than that 1 might be said to go in.. My heart was, as it were, deaa
within me, partly with fright, partly with horror of mind, and the
thoughts of what was yet before me.
While we were in this condition, the men yet labouring at the oar
to bring the boat near the shore, we could. see (when, our boat
mounting the waves, we were able to see the shore) a great many
Deople running along the strand, to assist us when we should come
near; but we made out slow way towards the shore; nor were we
able to reach it, till being past the lighthouse at Winterton, the
shore falls off to the westward, towards Cromer, and so the land
broke off a little the violence of the wind. Here we got in, and,
though not without much difficulty, got all safe on shore, and walked
afterwards on foot to Yarmouth; where, as unfortunate men, we were
used with great humanity, as well by the magistrates of the town, who
assigned us good quarters, as by the "^rticvlfc- »acrchants and owners
of ships; and had money given us sufficient to carry us either to
London or back to Hull, as we thought fit.
Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull, and have
gone home, I had been happy: and my father, an emblem of our

blessed Saviour's parable, had even killed the fatted calf for me; for,
hearing the ship I went in was cast away in Yarmouth Roads, it was
a great while before he had any assurance that I was not drowned.
My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and who was
the master's son, was now less forward than I; the first time he spoke
to me after we were at Yarmouth, which was not till two or three
days, for we were separated in the town to several quarters ; I say the
first time he saw me, it appeared his tone was altered, and, looking
very melancholy, and shaking his head, he asked me how I did,
telling his father who I was, and how I had come this voyage only
for a trial, in order to go farther abroad. His father talked very
gravely to me ; exhorted me to go back to my father, and not tempt
Providence to my ruin; told me, I might see a visible hand of
Heaven against me; 'and, young man," said he, "depend upon it, if
yon do not go back, wherever you go, you will meet with nothing but
disasters and disappointme»ts, till your father's words are fulfilled
upon you."
We parted soon after, for I made him little answer, and I saw him
no more; which way he went, I know not; as for me, having some
money in my pocket, I travelled to London by land; and there, as
well iis on the road, had many struggles with myself what course of
life I should take, and whether I should go home or go to sea. As
to going home, shame opposed the best motions that offered to my
thoughts ; and it immediately occurred to me how I should be laughed
at among the neighbours, and should be ashamed to see, not my
father and mother only, but even everybody else. From whence I
have often observed, how incongruous and irrational the common
temper of mankind is, especially of youth, to that reason which
ought to guide them in such cases, viz., that they are not ashamed to
sin, and yet arc ashamed to repent; not ashamed of the action fo
which they ought justly to be esteemed fools; but are ashamed ol
the returning, which only can make them be esteemed wise men.
I went on board a vessel bound to the coast of Africa; or as the
sailors vulgarly call it, a voyage to Guinea.
It was my lot, first of all, to fall into pretty good company in Lon-
don; I became acquainted with the master of a ship, who had been
on the coast of Guinea, and who having had very good success there,
was resolved to go again. He, taking a fancv to my conversation,
which was not at all disagreeable at that time, and hearing me say I
had a mind to see the world, told me, that if I would go that voyage
with him, I should be at no expense; I should be his messmate and
his companion; and if I could carry anything with me, I should have
all the advantage of it the trade would admit, and perhaps I might
meet with some encouragement. I embraced the offer, and, entering
into strict friendship with this captain, who was an honest and plain-
dealing man, I went the voyage with him, and carried a small adventure
with me; which, by the disinterested honesty of my friend the cap-
tain, I increased very considerably; for I carried about forty pounds
in such toys and trifles as the captain directed me to buy. This
forty pounds I mustered together by the assistance of some of my
relations whom I corresponded with; and who I believe, got my
father, or at least, my mother, to contribute so much as that to my
first adventure. This was the only voyage which I may say was
successful in all my adventures, and which I owe to the integrity and
honesty of my friend the captain; under whom also I got a
competent knowledge of mathematies and the rules of navigation,
learned how to keep an account of the ship's course, take an observa
tion, and, in short, to undci stand some things that were needful to
be understood by a sailor; for, as he took delight to instruct me, I
took delight to learn; and, in a word, this voyage made me both a
sailor and a merchant; for I brought home five pounds nine ounces
of gold dust for my adventure, which yielded me in London, on
my return, almost tnrce hundred pounds, and this filled me with
those aspiring thoughts which have since so completed my ruin. Yet
even in this voyage I had my misfortunes, too; particularly, that I
was continually sick, being thrown into a violent calenture by the ex-
cessive heat of the climate; our principal trading being upon the coast
from the latitude of fifteen degrees north, even to the line itself
SECTION III.
kobinson's captivity at sallee—ESCAFE with XURY—AHR1VAL
AT THE BRAZLLS.
I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my friend, to my great
misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I resolved to go the same
voyage again; and I embarked in the same vessel with one who was
his mate in the former voyage, and had now got the command of the
ship. This was the unhappiest voyage that ever man made; for
though I did not carry quite a hundred pounds of my new-gained
wealth, so that I had two hundred pounds left, and which I lodged
with my friend's widow, who was very just to me, yet I fell into
terrible misfortunes in this voyage; and the first was this, viz.—our
ship, making her course towards the Canary Islands, or rather
between those Islands and the African shore, was surprised, in the
grey of the morning, by a Turkish rover, of Sallee, who gave chase
to us, with all the sail she could make. We crowded also as much
canvass as oiir yards would spread, or our masts carry, to get clear;
but finding the pirate gained upon us, and would certainly come
up with us in a few hours, we prepared to fight, our ship having
twelve guns and the rover eighteen. About three in the afternoon
he came up with us; and bringing to, by mistake, just athwart our
quarter, instead of athwart our stern, as he intended, we brought
eight of our guns to bear on that side, and poured in a broadside
upon him, which made him sheer off again, after returning our fire,
and pouring in also his small shot from near two hundred men
whom he had on board. However, we had not a man touched, all
our men keeping close. He prepared to attack us again, and we tl
defend ourselves; but laying us on board the next time upon our
other quarter, he entered sixty men upon our decks, who immediately
fell to cutting and hacking the sails and rigging. We plied them
with small shot, half-pikea, powder-chests, and such like, and cleared
our decks of them twice. However, to cut short this melancholy
part of our story, our ship being disabled, and three of our men
killed, and eight wounded, we were obliged to yield, and were
carried all prisoners into Sallee, a port belonging to the Moors.
The usage I had there was not so dreadfui as at first I appre-
hended; nor was I carried up the country to the emperor's court,
as the rest of our men were, but was kept by the captain of the
rover as his proper prize and made his slave, being young and nimble,
and fit for his business. At this surprising change of my circum-
stances, from a merchant to a miserable slave, 1 was perfectly over-
whelmed; and now looked back upon my father's prophetic discourse
to me, that I should be miserable, and have none to relieve me;
which I thought was now so effectuallv brought to pass, that it could
not be worse; that now the hand of Heaven had overtaken me, and
I was undone, without redemption. But, alas! this was but a taste
of the misery I was to go through, as will appear in the sequel of
this story.
As my new patron, or master, had taken me home to his house,
so I was in hopes he would take me with him when he went to sea
again, believing that it would, some time or other, be his fate to be
taken by a Spanish or Portuguese man of war, and that then I
should be set at liberty. But this hope of mine was soon taken
away, for when he went to sea he left me on shore to look after his
little garden, and do the common drudgery of slaves about his house;
and when he came home again from his cruise, he ordered me to lie
in the cabin, to look after the ship.
Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what method I
might take to effect it, but found no way that had the least proba-
bility in it. Nothing presented to make the supposition of it rational;
for 1 had nobody to communicate it to that would embark with me;
no fellow-slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotchman there but
mysell; so that for two years, though I often pleased myself with
the imagination, yet I never had the least encouraging prospect of
putting it in practice.
After about two years, an odd circumstance presented itself,
which put the old thought of making some attempt for my liberty
again into my head. My patron lying at home longer than usual,
without fitting out his ship, which, as I heard, was for want of
money, he used constantly, once or twice a week, sometimes oftener,
if the weather was fair, to take the ship's pinnacle, and go out into
the road a fishing; and as he always took me and a young Moresco
with him to row the boat, we made him very merry, and I proved
13
very dexterous in catching fish,.insomuch that sometimes he would
send me with a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the youth, the
Moresco, as they called him, to catch a dish of fish for him.
It happened one time, that going a fishing in a stark calm
morning, a fog rose so thick, that though we were not half a league
from the shore, we lost sight of it; and rowing, we knew not
whither, or which way, we laboured all day, and all the next night,
and when the morning came, we found we had pulled off to sea,

instead of pulling in for the shore, and that we were at least two
leagues from the shore; however, we got well in again, though with
a great deal of lahour, and some danger, for the wind began to blow
pretty fresh in the morning; but particularly we were all very
hungry.
But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take more
care of himself for the future; and having lying by him the long-
boat of our English ship he had taken, he resolved he would not go
a fishing any more without a compass and some provision; so he
ordered the carpenter of the ship, who was an English slave, to
build a little state-room or cabin in the middle of the longboat, like
that of a barge, with a place to stand behind it, to steer and haul
home the main sheet, and room before for a hand or two to stand
and work the sails. She sailed with what we called a leg-of-mutton
sail, and the boom jibbed over the top of the cabin, which lay very
snug and low, and had in it room for him to lie, with a slave or two,
and a table to eat on, with some small lockers to put in some bottles
of such liquor as he thought fit to drink, and particularly his bread,
rice, and coffee.
We went frequently out with this boat a fishing, and as I was
most dexterous to catch fish for him, he never went without me.
It happened that he had appointed to go out in this boat, either
for pleasure or for fish, with two or three Moors of some distinction
in that place, aud for whom he had provided extraordinarily, and
had therefore sent on board the boat, overnight, a larger store of
provisions than ordinary, and had ordered me to get ready three
fusees, with powder and shot, which were on board his ship, for that
they designed some sport of fowling as well as fishing,
i I got all things ready as he directed, and waited the next morning
with the boat washed clean, her ensign and pendants out, and every-
thing to accommodate his guests: when, by and by, my patron came

on board alone, and told me his guests had put off going, upon some
business that fell out, and ordered me, with a man and boy, as
usual, to go out with the boat, and catch them some fish, for that
his friends were to sup at his house; and commanded, that as soon
as I had got some fish, I should bring it home to his house; all
which I prepared to do.
This moment my former notions of deliverance darted into my
thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a little ship at my
command; and my master being gone, I prepared to furnish myself,
not for a fishing business, but for a voyage; though I knew not,
neither did I so much as consider, whither I should steer; for any
where, to get out of that place, was my way,
My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak to this Moor,
to get something for our subsistence on board; for I told him we
must not presume to eat of our patron's bread; he said, that was
true; so he brought a large basket of rusk or biscuit, of their kind,
and three jars with fresh water, into the boat. I knew where my
patron's case of bottles stood, which it was evident, by the make,
were taken out of some English prize, and I conveyed them into the
boat while the Moor was on shore, as if they had been there before
.or our master. I conveyed also a great lump of bees-wax into the
boat, which weighed above half a hundred-weight, with a parcel of
twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all which were of
great use to us afterwards, especially the wax, to make candles.
Another trick I tried upon him, which he innocently came into also;
his name was Ishmacl, whom they call Muley, or Moley; so I called to
him; "Moley," said I, *' our patron's guns are on board the boat, can
you not get a little powder and shot? It may be we may kill some
aleamies (fowls like our curlews)for ourselyes.and I know he keeps the
gunner's stores in the ship."—" Yes," says he, " I will bring some;"
and accordingly he brought a great leathern pouch, which held about
a pound and a half of powder, or rather more, and another with shot,
that had five or six pounds, with some bullets, and put all into
the boat; at the same time I found some powder of my master's in
the great cabin, with which I filled one of the large bottles in the
case, which was almost empty, pouring what was in it into another;
and thus furnished with every thing needful, we sailed out of port to
fish. The castle, which is at the entrance of the port, knew who we
were, and took no notice of us; and we were not above a mile out
of the port, when we hauled in our sail, and set us down to fish.
The wind blew from NN. E., which was contrary to my desire; for,
had it blown southerly, I had been sure to have made the coast of
Spain, and at last reached to the bay of Cadiz; but my resolutions
were, blow which way it would, I would be gone from the horrid
place where I was, and leave the rest to fate.
After we had fished some time and caught nothing, for wnen I
nad fish on my hook I would not pull them up, that he might not see
them, I said to the Moor: "This will not do; our master will not be
thus served; we must stand further off." He, thinking no harm,
agreed; and being at the head of the boat, set the sails ; and as I
had the helm, I run the boat near a league farther, and then brought
to, as if 1 would fish. Then giving the boy the helm, I stepped tor-
ward to where the Moor was, and I took him by surprise, with my
arm under his waist, and tossed him clean overboard into the sea.
He rose immediately, for he swam like a cork, and called to me,
begged to be taken in, and told me he would go all the world over
with me. He swam so strong after the boat, that he would have
reached me very quickly, there being but little wind; upon which
I stepped into the cabin, and fetchmg one of the fowliug-pieces,
I presented it at him, and told him, I had done him no hurt, and
if he would be quiet, I would do him none. "But," said I, "you
swim well enough to reach the shore, and the sea is calm; make the
best of your way to shore, and I will do you no harm; but if you
come near the boat, I will shoot you through the head; for I am
resolved to have my liberty." So he turned himself about, and swam
for the shore; and I make no doubt but he reached it with ease, for
he was an excellent swimmer.
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
I could have been content to have taken this Moor with me and
have drowned the boy, but there was no venturing to trust him.
When he was gone, 1 turned to the boy, whom they called Xury,
and said to him, "Xury, if you will be faithful to me I will make you
a great man; but if you will not stroke your face to be true to me
(that is, swear by Mahomet and his father's beard), I must throw you
into the sea too.' The boy smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently,
that 1 could not mistrust him; and swore to be faithful to me, and
go all over the world with inc.

While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming, I stood out
directly to sea with the boat, rather stretching to windward, that
they might think me gone towards the Straits' mouth (as indeed any
one that had been in their wits must have been supposed to do); for
who would have supposed we were sailing on to the southward, to the
truly Barbarian coast, where whole nations of negroes were sure to
surround us with their canoes, and destroy us; where we could never
once go on shore but we should be devoured by savage beasts, oi
more merciless savages of human kind?
But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed my course,
and steered directly south and by east, bending my course a little
towards the cast, that I might keep in with the shore ; and having a
fair fresh gale of wind, and a smooth quiet sea, I made such sail,
that I believe by the next day, at three o'clock in the afternoon,
v hen 1 made the land, I could not be less thau one hundred and
fifty miles south of Sallee, quite beyond the Emperor of Morocco's
dominions, or indeed of any other king thereabout; for we saw no
people.
Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, and the dread'ul
apprehensions I had of falling into their hands, that I would not stop,
or go on shore, or come to an anchor, the wind continuing fair, till I
had sailed in that manner five days; and then the wind shifting to
the southward, I concluded also that if any of our vessels were in
chase of me, they also would now give over; so I ventured to make
to the coast, and came to an anchor in the mouth of a little river;
1 knew not what or where, neither what latitude, what country,
what nation, or what river. I neither saw, nor desired to see, any
people; the principal thing I wanted was fresh water. We came
into this creek in the evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon
as it was dark, and discover the country; but as soon as it was
quite dark, we heard such dreadful noises of the barking, roaring,
and howling of wild creatures, of we knew not what kinds, that the
poor boy was ready to die with fear, and begged of me not to go on
shore till day. "Well, Xury," said I, "then Twill not; but it may be
we shall see men by day, who will be as bad to us as those lions."
"Then we may give them the shoot-gun," says Xury, laughing, " make
them run away. Such English Xury spoke by conversing among
ns slaves. However, I was glad to see the hoy so cheerful, and 1
gave him a dram out of our patron's case of bottles to cheer him up.
After all, Xury's advice was good, and I took it. We droppejl our
little anchor, and lay still all night; I say still, for we slept none; for in
two or three hours we Saw vast creatures (we knew not what to call
them), of many sorts, come down to the sea-shore, and run into the
water, wallowing and washing themselves, for the pleasure of cooling
themselves; and they made such bowlings and yellings, that I never
indeed heard the like.
Xury was ireadfully frightened, and indeed so was I too; but we
were both more frightened when we heard one of these creatures
swimming towards our boat; and we could hear by his blowing that
lie was a monstrous^ huge and furious beast. Poor Zury cried to mo
to weigh the anchor and row away. "No," says I, "Xury, we can slip
our cable with a buoy to it, and go off to sea; they cannot follow us
far." I had no sooner said so, but I perceived the creature within two
oars' length, which surprised me; however, I immediately stepped
to the cabin door, and taking up my gun, fired at him; upon
which he immediately turned about, and swam to the shore
again.
It is impossible to describe the horrible noises, and hideous cries
ana bowlings that were raised, as well upon the edge of the shore as
higher within the country, upon the noise or report of the gun ; a
thing, I believe, those creatures had never heard before. This con-
vinced me there was no going on shore for us in the night upon that
coast; and how to venture on shore-in the day, was another question
too; for to have fallen into the hands of any of the savages, had
been as bad as to have fallen into the paws of lions and tigers; at
least, we were equally apprehensive of the danger of it.
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore somewhere or
other for water, for we had not a pint left in the boat ; when and
where to get it was the point. Xury said, if I would let him go on
shore with one of the jars, he would find if there was any water, and
bring some to me. I asked him why he would go; why I should
not go, and he stay in the boat- The bov answered with so much

affection, that he made me love him ever after. Says he, "If wild
mans come, they eat me, you go away.—" Well, Xury," said I, " we
will both go ; and if the wild mans come, we will kill them; they shall
cat neither of us." So I gave Xury a piece of rusk bread to cat, and
a dram out of our patron's case of bottles, which I mentioned before;
and we hauled in the boat as near the shore as we thought was
proper, and so waded to shore, carrying nothing but our arms, and
two jars for water.
I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing the coming
of canoes with savages down the river; but the boy, seeing a low
place about a mile up the country, rambled to it; and, by and by,
I saw him come running towards me. I thought he was pursued by
some savage, or frightened by some wild beast, and I therefore ran
forwards to help him; but when I came nearer to him, I saw some-
thing hanging over his shoulders, which was a craature that he had
shot, like a hare, but different in colour and longer legs; however,
we were very glad of it, and it was very good meat; but the great
joy that poor Xury came with, was to tell me he had found good
water, ana seen no wild mans.
A* I had been one voyage to this coast before, I knew very well
that the islands of the Canaries, and the Cape de Vcrd Islands also,
lay not far from the coast. But as I had no instruments to take an
observation, to find what latitude we were in, and did not exactly
know, or at least remember, what latitude they were in, I knew not
where to look for them, or when to stand off to sea towards them,
otherwise I might now have easily found some of these islands. But
my hope was that if I stood alou^ this coast till I came to the part
where the English traded, I should find some of their vessels upon
their usual design of trade, that would relievo and take us in.
By the best of. my caleulation, the place where I now was, must
be that country which, lying between the Emperor of Morocco's
dominions and the Negroes, lies waste, and uninhabited, except by
wild beasts; the Negroes having abandoned it, and gone farther
south, for fear of the Moors, and the M 'ors not thinking it worth
inhabiting, by reason of its barrenness; nd, indeed both forsaking
it because of the prodigious numbers of tigers, lions, leopards, and
other furious creatures which harbour there; so that the Moors use
it for their hunting only, where thev go like an army, two or three
thousand men at a time; and, indeed for near a hundred miles
together upon this coast, we saw nothing but a waste, uninhabited
country by day, and heard nothing but bowlings and roaring of
wild beasts by night.
Once or twice, in the day-time, I thought I saw the Pico of
Teneriffe, being the top of the mountain Teneriffe, in the Canaries,
and had a great mind to venture out, in hopes of reaching thither;
but having tried twice, I was forced in again by contrary winds; the
sea also going too high for my little vessel; so I resolved to pursue
my first assign, and keep along the shore.
After this stop we made ou to the southward continually, for ten
or twelve days, living very sparingly on our provisions, which began
to abate very much, and going no oftener into shore than we were
obliged to for fresh watei. My design in this, was to make the
river Gambia, or Senegal; that is to say, anywhere about the Cape
dc Verd, where I was in hopes to meet some European ship; and if
I did not, 1 knew not what course I had to take, but to seek for the
islands or perish among the Negroes. I knew that all the ships from
Europe, which sailed either to the coast of Guinea, or to Brazil, or
to the East Indies, made this Cape, or those islands; and in a word
I put the whole of my fortune upon this single point, cither that I
must meet some ship, or perish.
When I had pursued this resolution about ten days longer,
I began to see that the land was inhabited; and in two or three
places, as we sailed by, we saw people stand upon the shore to
look at us; we could also perceive they were quite black and stark
naked. I was once inclined to have gone on shore to thein; but
Xury was my better counsellor, and said to me, "No go, no go." How-
ADVENTURES OF liUBINSON CBUSOE.
ever, I hauled in nearer the shore, that I might talk to them; and 1
found they ran along the shore by me a good way. I observed
they had no weapons in their hands, except one, who had a Ions
slender stick, which Xury said was a lance, and that they would
throw them a great way with good aim; so I kept at a distance, but
talked to them by signs, as well as I could, and particularly made
signs for something to eat. They beckoned to me to stop my boat,
and they would fetch me some meat; upon this I lowered the top of
my sail, and lay by, and two of them ran up into the country; and
in less than half an hour came back, and brought with them two
pieces of dry flesh and some corn, such as the produce of their
country; but we neither knew what the one or the other was; how-
ever, we were willing to accept it. But how to come at it was our
next dispute, for I was not for venturing on shore to them, and
they were as much afraid of us; but they took a safe way for us all,
for they brought it to the shore, and laid it down, and went and
stood a great way off till we fetched it on board, and then came
close to us again.
We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to make
them amends; but an opportunity offered that very instant to oblige
them wonderfully; for while we were lying by the shore, came two
mighty creatures, one pursuing the other (as we took it) with great
fury, from the mountains towards the sea; whether it was the male
pursuing the female, or whether they were in sport or in rage, we
could not tell, any more than we could tell whether it was usual or
strange; but I believe it was the latter, because, in the first place,
these ravenous creatures seldom appear but in the night; and, in the
second place we found the people terribly frightened, especially the
women. The man that had the lance, or dart, did not fly from them,
but the rest did; however, as the two creatures ran directly into the
water, they did not seem to offer to fall upon any of the Negroes,
but plunged themselves into the sea, and swam about, as if they had
come for their diversion; at last, one of them began to coinc nearer
our boat than I at first expected; but I lay ready for him, for I had
loaded my gun with all possible expedition, and bade Xury load both
the others. As soon as he came fairly within my reach, I fired, and
shot him directly in the head; immediately he sunk down into the
water, but rose instantly, and plunged up and down, as if he was
straggling for life, and so indeed he was; he immediately made to
the shore; but between the wound which was his mortal hurt, and the
strangling of the water, he died just before he reached the shore.
It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor crea-
tures, at the noise and fire of my gun; some of them were even
ready to die for fear, and fell down as dead with the very tewor;
but when they saw the creature dead, and sunk ip the water, and
fiat I made signs for them to come to the shore, they took heart
>ad came to the shore, and began to search for the creature. I
found him by his blood staining the water; and by the help of a
rope, which I slung round him, and gave the Negroes to haul, they
dragged him on shore, and found that it was a most curious leopara,
spotted, and fine to an admirable degree; and the Negroes held up
their hands with admiration, to think what it was I had killed him
with.
The other creature, frightened with the flash of fire, and the noise
of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up directly to the mountains
from whence they came; nor could I, at that distance, know what
it was. I found quickly the Negroes were for eating the flesh of this

creature, so I was willing to have them take it as a favour from me;
which, when I made signs to them that they might take him, they
were very thankful for. Immediately they fell to work with him;
and though they had no knife, yet with a sharpened piece of wood,
they took off his skin as readily, and much more readilv, than we
could have done with a knife. They offered me some of the flesh,
which I declined, making as if I would give it them, but made
signs for the skin, which they gave me very freely, and brought me a
great deal more of their provisions, which, though 1 did not under-
stand, yet I accepted. I then made signs to them for some water,
and held out one of my jars to them, turning it bottom upwards, to
show that it was empty, and that I wanted to have it filled. They
called immediately to some of their friends, and there came two
women, and brought a great vessel made of earth, and burnt, as I
suppose, in the sun; this they set down to me, as before, and 1 sent
Xury on shore with my jars, and filled them all three.
I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it was, and
water; and leaving my friendly Negroes, I made forward for eleven
days more, 'without offering to go near the shore, till I saw the land
run a great length into the sea, at about the distance of four
or five leagues before me; and the sea being very calm, I kept a
large offing, to make this point. At length, doubling the point, at
about two leagues from the land, I saw plainly land on the other
side, to "seaward; then I concluded, as it was most certain indeed,
that this was the Cape do Verd, and those the islands, called, from
thence, Cape de Vera Islands. However, they were at a great dis-
tance, and I could not well tell what I Lad best to do; for if I
should be taken with a gale of wind, I might reach neither.
In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped into the cabin
and sat me down, Xury having the helm; when, on a sudden, the
ooy cried out, "Master, master, a ship with a sail!" and the foolish
boy was frightened out of his wits, thinking it must needs be some
of his master's ships sent to pursue us, when I knew we were
gotten far enough out of their reach. I jumped out of the cabin,
and immediately saw, not only the ship, but what she was, viz. that
it was a Portuguese ship, and, as 1 thought, was bound to the
Coast of Guinea, for Negroes.
With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be able to
come in their way; but after I had crowded to the utmost,
and began to despair, they, it seems, saw me, by the help nf their
perspective glasses, and that it was some European boat, which, they
supposed, must belong to some ship that was lost; so they shortened
sail; and in about three hours' time I came up with them.
They asked me what I was iD Portvguese, and hi Spanish, and in
French; but I understood none of them; but, at last, a Scotch
sailor who was on board, called to me, and I answered him, and told
him I was an Englishman, that I had made my escape out of slavery
from the Moors, at Sallcc; they then bade me come on board, ana
very kindly took me in, and all my goods.
It was an inexpressible joy to me, which any one will believe, that
I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a miserable, and
almost hopeless condition as I was in; and I immediately offered all
I had to the captain of the ship, as a return for my deliverance; but
he generously told roe, he would take nothing from me, but that all
I had should be delivered safe to me, when I came to tic Brazils.
[ will carry you thither in charity, and these things will I f.lp to buy
your subsistence there, and your passage home again.

SECTION IV.
ni SETTLES IN THE BRAZILS AS A FLANTER—MAKES ANOTHER
VOYAGE, AND IS SHIFWRECKED.
As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was just in the perform-
ance, to a tittle : for he ordered the seamen, that none should offer
to touch anything I had.- then he took everything into his own
possession, and gave me back an exact inventory of them, that I
might have them, even so much as my three earthen jars.
We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and arrived ili the Bay
ds Todos los Santos, or all Saints' Bay, in about twenty-two days
after. And now I was once more delivered from the most miserable
of all conditions of life; and what to do next with myself, I was now
to consider.
The generous treatment the captain gave me, I can never enough
remember : he would take nothing of me for my passage, gave me
twenty ducats for the leopard's skin, and forty for the lion's skin,
which I had in my boat, and caused everything I had in the ship to
be punctually debvered to me; and what I was willing to sell, he
bought of me ; such as the case of bottles, two of my guns, and a
piece of the lump of bees-wax,—for I had made candles of the rest;
in a word, I made about two hundred and twenty pieces of eight of
all my cargo; and with this stock, I went on shore in the Brazils.
I had not been long here, before I was recommended to the house
of a good honest man, like himself, who had an ingenio as they call
it (that is, a plantation and a sugar-house.) I lived with him some
time, and acquainted myself, by that means, with the manner of
planting and of making sugar; and seeing how well the planters
jved, and how they got rich suddenly, I resolved, if I could get x
license to settle there, I would turn planter among them: endeav-
ouring, in the meantime, to find out some way to get my money,
which I bad left in London, remitted to me. To this purpose,
getting a kind of letter of naturalization, I purchased as much land
I hat was uncured as my money would reach, and formed a plan for
my plantation and settlement; such a one as might be suitable to
the stock which I proposed to myself to receive from England.
I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born of English
farcnts, whose name was Wells, and in much such circumstances as
was. I call him my neighbour, because his plantation lay next to
mine, and we went on very sociably together. My stock was but
low, as well as his; and we rather planted for food than anything
else, for about two years. However, we began to increase, and our
land began to come into order; so that the third year we planted
some tobacco, and made each of us a large piece of giound ready for
planting canes the next year.-
I was, in some degree, settled in my measure for carrying on the
plantation, before my kind friend, the captain of the ship that took
me up at sea, went back ; for the ship remained there, in providing
his landing, and preparing for his voyage, near three months; when
telling him what little stock I had left behind me in London, he
gave me this friendly and sincere advice: " Senhor Inglez," says he
(for so he always called me,) "if you will give me letters, and a pro-
curation here in form to me, with orders to the person who had your
money in London, to send your effects to Lisbon, to such persons
as I shall direct, and in such goods as are proper for this country, I
will bring you the produce of them, God willing, at my return: but
since human affairs are all subject to changes and disasters, I
would have you give orders for but one hundred pounds sterling,
which, you say, is half your stock, and let the hazard be run for the
first, so that if it come safe, you may order the rest the same way;
and, if it miscarry, you may have the other half to have recourse to
for your supply." This was so wholesome advice, and looked so
friendly, that I could not but be convinced it was the best course I
could take; so I accordingly prepared letters to the gentlewoman
with whom I left my money, and a procuration to the Portuguese
captain, as he desired me.
I wrote the English captain's widow a full account of all my
adventures; whereupon she not only delivered the money, but, out
of her own pocket, sent the Portuguese captain a very handsome
present for his humanity and charity to me.
The merchant in London, vesting this hundred pounds in English
f;oods, such as the captain had written for, sent them directly tc
liin at Lisbon, and he brought them all safe to me at the Brazils: I
found means to sell them to a very great advantage; so that I
might say, 1 had more than four times the value of my first cargo
Z&
and was now infinitely beyond my poor neighbour, I mean in the
advancement of my plantation; for the first thing I did, I bought
me a Negro slave, and a European servant also , 1 mean another
besides one whom the captain brought me from Lisbon.
Having lived almost four years in the Brazils, and beginning to
thrive and prosper very well upon my plantation, T had not only
learned the language, but had contracted an acquaintance and
friendship among my fellow-planters, as well as among the mer-
chants at St. Salvador, which was our port; and that, in my dis-
courses among them, I had frequently given them an account of mv
two voyages to the coast of Guinea, the manner of trading with
the Negroes there, and how easy it was to purchase on the coast for
trifles—such as beads, toys, knives, scissars, hatchets, bits of glass,
and the like—not only gold dust, Guinea grains, elephants' teeth,
Ac., but Negroes, for the service of the Brazils, in great numbers.

They listened always very attentively to my discourses on these
heads, but especially to that part which related to the buying
Negroes; whicn was a trade, at that time, not only not far entered
into, but, as far as it was, had been carried on by the assientos, or
permission of the kings of Spain and Portugal, and engrossed from
the public; so that few Negroes were bought, and those excessively
dear.
It happened, being in company with some merchants and planters
of my acquaintance, and talking of those things very earnestly, three
of them came to me the next morning, and told me they had been
musing very much upon what I had discoursed with them of the
last night, and they came to make a secret proposal to me: and,
after enjoining me to secrecy, they told me that they had a mind to
fit out a ship to go to Guinea; that they had all plantations as well
as I, and were straitened for nothing so much as servants; that at
it was a trade that could not be carried on, because they could not
publicly sell the Negroes when they came home, so they desired to
make but one voyage, to bring the Negroes on shore privately, and
divide them among their own plantations; and, in a wordj the
question was, whether I would go as their supercargo in the ship, to
manage the trading part upon the coast of Guinea; and they offered
me that I should have an equal share of the Negroes, without pro-
viding any part of the stock.
1, that was born to be my own destroyer, could no more resist the
offer, than I could restrain mv first rambling designs. In a word, I
told them I would go with all my heart, if they would undertake to
look after my plantation in my absence, and would dispose of it as I
should direct, if I miscarried. This they all engaged to do, and en-
tered into writings or covenants to do so, iu case of my death;
making the captain of the ship that had saved my life, as before, my
universal heir; but obliging him to dispose of my effects as I had
directed in my will; one-half of the produce being to himself, and the
other to be shipped to England.
The ship being fitted out, and the cargo furnished, and all things
done as by agreement, by partners in the voyage, I went on board in
an evil hour again, the first of September, 1659, being the same day
eight years that I went from my parents at Hull, in order to act the
rebel to their authority, and the fool to my own interest.
We passed the Line in about twelve days' time, and were, by our
last observation, in seven degrees twenty-two minutes northern lati-
tude, when a violent tornado, 'or hurricane, took us quite out of our
knowledge; it began from the south-east, came about to the north-
west, and then settled in the north-east ; from whence it blew in
26 ADVXNTU&ES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
nothing but drive, and, scudding away before it, let it carry it
whithersoever fate and the fury of the winds directed; and, during
these twelve days, I need not say that I expected every day to be
swallowed up; nor, indeed, did any in the ship expect to save theii
lives.
About the twelfth day, the weather abating a little, the maste;
made an observation as well as he could. He fouud that he had got
upon the coast of Guiana, or the north part of Brazil, beyond the
river Amazon, toward that of the Oronoco, commonly called the
Great Biver; and as the ship was leaky and very much disabled he
was for going back to the coast of Brazil.
I was positively against that; and looking over the charts of the
isea-coast of America with him, we concluded there was no inhabited
country for us to have recourse to, till we came within the circle of
the Carribee islands, and therefore resolved to stand away for Barba
does; which by keeping off to sea, to avoid the indraft of the bay or
gulf of Mexico, we might easily perform, as we hoped, in about
fifteen days' sail; whereas we could not possibly make our voyage to
the coast of Africa without some assistance, both to our ship and
ourselves.
With this design, we changed our course, and steered away N. W.
by W. in order to reach some of our English islands, where I hoped
for relief; but our voyage was otherwise determined; for in the
latitude of twelve degrees eighteen minutes a second storm came
upon us, which carried us away with the same impetuosity westward,
and drove us so out of the very way of all human commerce, that
had all our lives been saved, as to the sea, we stood a greater chance
of being devoured by savages than ever returning to our owu
country.
In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one of our men
early in the morning, cried out," Land!" and we had no sooner run out
of the cabin to look out, in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the world
we were, than the ship struck upon a sand, and in a moment, her
motion being so stopped, the sea woke over her in such a mannir,
that we expected we should all have perished immediately; and we
were immediately driven into our close quarters, to shelter us from
the very foam and spray of the sea.
The ship having thus struck upon fne sand, and sticking too fast
for us to expect lier getting off, we were in a dreadful condition
indeed, and had nothing to do, but to think of saving out lives as
well as we could. We had a boat at our stern just before the storm,
but she was first staved by dashing against the ship's rudder, and, in the
next place, she broke away, and either sunk, or was driven off to
sea; so there was no hope from her; we had another boat on board,
but how to get her off into the sea was a doubtful thing; however,
there was no room to debate, for we fancied the ship would break in
pieces every minute, and some told us she was actually broken
already.
In this distress, the mate of our vessel laid hold of the boat, and
with the help of the rest of the men, they got her flung over the
ship's side; and getting all into h«, we let go, and committed our-
selves, being eleven in number, to God's mercy, and the wild sea;
for though the storm was abated considerably, yet the sea went
dreadfully high upon the shore, and might be well called den wild
zee, as the Butch call the sea in a storm.
After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league and a half,
as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-like, came rolling aster*
af us, and plainly bade us expect the covp de grace. In a word, h.
took us with such fury, that it overset the boat at once; and separa-
ting us, as well from the boat as from one another, gave us tint*
hardly to say, "0 God!" for we wer; all swallowed up in a
moment.
Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt, when
I sunk into the water; for though I swam very well, yet I could not
deliver myself from the waves so as to draw my breath, till that
wave having driven me, or rather carried me, a vast way on towards
the shore, and having spent itself, went back, and left me upon the
land almost dry, but half dead with the water I took in. I had so
much presence of mind, as well as breath left, that seeing myself
nearer the maiii land than I expected, I got upon my feet, and
endeavoured to make on towards the land as fast as I could, before
another wave should return and take me up again; but I soon found
it was impossible to avoid it; for I saw the sea come after me as
lii^h as a great hill, and as furious as an enemy which I had no
'.(C.'Jis or strength to contend with; my business was to hold my
hrcalh, and raise myself upon the water, if I could; aud so, by swim-
ming, to preserve my breathing, and pilot myself towards the shore, if
possible ; my greatest concern now being, that the wave, as it would
carry me a great way towards the shore when it came on, might not
earry me back again with it when it gave back towards the sea.
The wave that came upon me again buried me at onec twenty or
thirty feet deep in its own body; and I could feel myself carried
with a mighty force and swiftness towards the shore, a very great
way; but 1 held my breath, aud assisted myself to swim still forward
with all my might. I was ready to burst with holding my breath,
when, as I felt myself rising up, so, to my immediate relief, I found
i-iy head and hands shoot out above the surface of the water; and
though it was not two seconds of time that 1 could keep myself so,
yet it relieved me greatly, gave me breath and new courage. I was
covered again with water a good while, but not so long but I held it
out; and finding the water had spent itself, and began to return, I
struck forward against the return of the waves, and felt ground
again with my feet. I stood still a lew moments, to recover breath,
and till the water went from me, and tLen U><»k to my heels, and ran
with what strength I had farther towards tue shore. But neither
would this deliver me from the fury of the sea, which came pouring
in after me again; and twice more I was lifted up by the waves and
carried forwards as before, the shore being very flat.
The hist time of these two had well nigh been fatal to me ; for the
sea, having hurried me along, as before, landed me, or rather dashed
me, against a piece of rock, and that with such force, that it left me
senseless, and indeed helpless, as to my own deliverance; for the
blow, taking my side and breast, beat the breath, as it were, Quite
out of my body; and had it returned again immediately, I must nave
been strangled in the water; but I recovered a little before the
return of the waves; and, seeing I should again be covered with the
water, I resolved to hold fust by a piece of rock, and so to hold my
breath, if possible, till the wave went back. Now .as the waves wera
not so high as the first, being nearer land, I held my hold till th«
20
wave abated, and then fetched another run, which brought me so
near the shore, that the next wave, though it went over Die, yet did
not so swallow me up as to carry me away ; and the next run I took,
I got to the main land! where, to my great comfort, I clambered up
the cliffs of the shore, and sat me down upon the grass, free from
danger, and quite out of the reach of the water.
I was now landed, and safe on shore; and began to look up and
thank God that my life vras saved, in a case wherein there was,
some minutes before, scarcely any room to hope. I believe it is im-
possible to express, to the lile, what the eestasies and transports of
the soul are, when it is so saved, as I may say, out of the grave ; and

I did not wonder now at the custom, viz., that when a malefactor,
who has the halter about his neck, is tied up, and just going to be
turned off, and has a reprieve brought to him—I say, I do not
wonder that they bring a surgeon with it, to let blood that ve>y
moment they tell him of it, that the surprise may not drive the
animal spirits from the heart, and overwhelm him.
For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first.
I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands, and my whole
being, as I may say, wrapped up in the contemplation of my deliver-
ance ; making a thousand gestures and motions, which I cannot des-
cribe; reflecting upon my comrades that were drowned, and that
there should not be one soul saved but myself; for, as for them, I
never saw them afterwards, or any sign of them, except three of
their hats, one cap, and two shoes that were not fellows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel—when the breach and froth
of the sea being so big I could hardly see it, it lay so far off—and
"considered, Lord ! how was it possible I could get on shore ?",

I began to look around me to see what kind of a place I was
in, and what was next to be done; and I soon found my comforts
abate, and that, in a word, I had a dreadful deliverance ; for I was
wet, had no clothes to shift me, nor anything either to eat or drink,
to comfort me; neither did I see any prospect before me, but that
of perishing with hunger, or being devourea by wild beasts; and that
which was particularly afflicting to me was, that I had no weapon
either to hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance, or to defend
myself against any other creatures that might desire to kill me for
theirs. In a word, I had nothing about me but a knife, a tobaeco-
ipe, and a little tobacco. Night coming upon me, I began, with a
eavy heart, to consider what would be my lot if there were any
ravenous beasts in that country.
All the remedy that offered to my thoughts, was, to get up into a
thick bushy tree. I walked about a furlong from the shore, to see
if I could find any fresh water; which I did, to my great joy; and
having drunk, and put a little tobacco into my mouth to prevent
hunger, I went to the tree, and getting up into it, endeavoured to
place myself so as that, if I should fall asleep, 1 might not fall; and
having cut me a stick, for my defence, I took up my lodging; and
having been excessively fatigued, I fell asleep, and slept as com-
fortable as, I believe, few could have done in my condition; and
found myself much refreshed.
P
li<
SECTION V.
ROBINSON FINDS HIMSELF IN A DESOLATE ISLAND—FROCURES A
STOCK OF ARTICLES FROM THE WRECK — CONSTRUCTS HIS
HABITATION.
When I woke it was broad day, the weather clear, and the storm
abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell as before; but that
which surprised me most was, that the ship was lifted off in the
night from the sand where she lay, by the swelling of the tide, and
was driven up almost as far as the rock which I at first mentioned,
where I had been so bruised by the wave dashing me against it.
This being within about a mile from the shore where I was, and the
ship seeming to stand upright still, I wished myself on board, that
at least I might save some necessary things for my use.
When I came down from my apartment in the tree, I looked about
me again, and the first thing I found was the boat; which lay, as
the wind and sea had tossed Tier up, upon the land, about two miles
on my right hand. I walked as far as I could upon the shore to
have got to her; but found a neck, or inlet, of water, between me
and the boat, which was about half a mile broad; so I came back
for the present, being more intent upon getting at the ship, where I
hoped to find something for my present subsistence.
A little after noon, I found the sea very calm, and the tide ebbed
so far out, that I could come within a quarter of a mile of the ship:
and here I found a fresh renewing of my grief; for I saw evidently,
that if we had kept on board, we had been all safe; that is to say,
we had all got safe on shore, and had not been so miserable as to be
left entirely destitute of all comfort and company, as I now was.
This forced tears from my eyes again; but as there was little relief
in that, I resolved, if possible, to get to the ship: so I pulled off
my clothes, for the weather was hot to extremity, and took the
water: but when I came to the ship, my difficulty was still greater
to know how to get on board: for as she lay aground, and high out
of the water, there was nothing in my reach "to lay hold of. I swam
round her twice, and the second time I spied a small piece of rope,
which I wondered I did not see at first, hang down bv the fore-
chains so low, as that with great difficulty I got hold of it, and by
the help of that rope got into the forecastle of the ship. Here I
found that the ship was bilged, and had a great deal of water in her
hold ; but that she lay so on the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather
earth, that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head low,
almost to the water. By this means all her quarter was free, nnd
all that was in that part was dry; for you may be sure my first work
was to search and to see what was spoiled and what was free: and,
first, I found that all the ship's provisions were dry and untouched
oy the water; and being very well disposed to eat, I went to the
bread-room, and filled my pockets with biscuit, and ate it as I went
about other things, for I had no time to lose. I also found some
rum in the great cabin, of which I took a large dram, and which I
had indeed need enough of, to spirit me for what was before me.
Now 1 wanted nothing but a boat, to furnish myself with many
things which I foresaw would be very necessary to me.
It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be had,
and this extremity roused my application: we had several spare
yards, and two or three large spars of wood, and a spare topmast or
two in the ship; I resolved to fall to work with these, and flung as
many overboard as I could manage for their weight, tying every one
with a rope, that they might not drive away. When this was done,
I went down the ship's side, and pulling them to me, I tied four of
them fast together at both ends, as well as I could, in the form of a
raft, and laying two or three short pieces of plank upon them, cross-
ways, I found I could walk upon it very well, but that it was not
able to bear any great weight, the pieces being too light: so I went
to work, and with the carpenter's saw I cut a spare topmast into
three lengths, and added them to my raft, with a great deal of labour
and pains. But the hope of furnishing myself with necessaries,
encouraged me to go beyond what 1 should have been able to have
done upon another occasion.
My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable weight.
My next care was what to load it with, and how to preserve what I
laid upon it from the surf of the sea; but I was not long considering
this. I first laid all the planks or boards upon it that I could get,
and having considered well what I most wanted, I got three of the
seamen's chests, which I had broken open and emptied, and lowered
them down upon my raft; these I filled with provisions, viz. bread,
rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried goats' flesh (which we
lived much upon), and a little remainder of European corn, which
had been laid Dy for some fowls which we had brought to sea with
us, but the fowls were killed. There had been some barley and
wheat together, but, to my great disappointment, I found afterwards
that the rats had eaten or spoiled it all. As for liquors, I found
several cases of bottles belonging to our skipper, in which were
some cordial waters; and, in all, hve or six gallons of rack. These
I stowed by themselves, there being no need to put them into the
chests, nor any room for them. While I was doing this, I found
the tide began to flow, though very calm; and I had the mortifica-
tion to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left on shore,
upon the sand, swim away; as for my breeches, which were only
linen, and open-kneed, I swam on board in them, and my stockings.
However, this put me upon rummaging for clot hes, of which I found
enough, but took no more than I wanted for present use, for I had
other things which my eye was more upon; as, first, tools to work .
with on shore: and it was after long searching that I found the
carpenter's chest, which was indeed a very useful prize to me, and
much more valuable than a ship-lading of gold would have been
at that time. I got it down to my raft, even whole as it was,
without losing time to look into it, for I knew in general what it
contained.
My next care was for some ammunition and arms. There were
two very good fowling-pieces in the great cabin, and two pistols;
these 1 secured first, with some powder-horns and a small bag of
shot, and two old rusty swords. I knew there were three barrels of
powder in the ship, but knew not where our gunner had stowed
them; but with much search I found them, two of them dry and
good, the third had taken water. Those two I got to my raft, with
the arms. And now I thought myself pretty well freighted, and
began to think how I should get to shore with them, having neither
sail, oar, nor rndder; and the least capful of wind would have over-
set all my navigation. I hoped to find some creek or river winch 1
might make use of as a port to get to land with my cargo.
As I imagined, so it was; there appeared before me a little
opening of the land, and I found a strong current of the tide set
into it; so I guided my raft, as well as I could, to get into the
middle of the stream. But here I had like to have suffered a second
shipwreck, which, if 1 had, I think it verily would have broken my
heart; for, knowing nothing of the coast, my raft ran aground at
one end of it upon a shoal, and, not being aground at the other end,
it wanled but a little that all my cargo bad slipped off towards the
end that was afloat, and so fallen into the water. I did my utmost,
by setting my back against the chests, to keep them in their places,
but could not thrust off the raft with all my strength; neither durst
I stir from the posture I was in, but holding np the chests with all
my might, I stood in that manner near half an hour, in which time
the rising of the water brought me a little more upon a level; and
a little after, the water still rising, my raft floated again, and I
thrust her off with the oar I had into the channel, and then driving
up higher, I at length found myself in the mouth of a little river,
with land on both sides, and a strong current or tide running up.
I looked on both sides for a proper place to get to shore, for I was
not willing to be driven too high up the river; hoping, in time, to
see some ship at sea, and therefore resolved to place myself as near
the coast as I could.
At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the creek, to
which, with great pain and difficulty, I guided my raft, and at last
got so near, as that, reaching ground with my oar, I could thrust
her directly in; but here I had like to have dipped all my cargo into
the sea again; for that shore lying pretty steep, that is to say,
sloping, there was no place to land, out where one end of my float,
if it ran on shore, wouJd lie so high, and the other sink lower, as
before, that it would endanger my cargo again. All that I could do
was to wait till the tide was at the highest, keeping the raft with my
oar like an anchor, to hold the side of it fast to the shore, near a
flat piece cf ground, which I expected the water would flow over;
and so it did. As soon as I found water enough, for my raft drew
about a foot of water, I thrust her upon that flat piece of ground,
and there fastened or moored her, by sticking my two brokeu oars
into the ground, one on one side, near one end, and one on the other
side, near the other end: and thus I lay till the water ebbed away,
and left my raft and all my cargo safe on shore.
My next work was to view the country, and seek a proper place
for my habitation, and where to stow my goods, to secure them from
whatever might happen. Where I was I yet knew not; whether
on the continent, or on an island; whether inhabited, or not in-
habited; whether in danger of wild beasts, or not. There was a
hill, not above a mile from me, which rose up very steep and high,
and which seemed to overtop some other hills, which lay as in a
ridge from it, northward. I took out one of the fowling-pieces, and
one of the pistols, and a horn of powder; and thus armed, I travelled
for discovery up to the top of that hill; where, after I had, with
great labour and difficulty, got up to the top, I saw my fate, to my
great affliction, viz. that I was in an island, environed in every way
with the sea, no laud to be seen, except some rocks, which lay a
grout Way off, and two small islands, less than this, which lay about
three leagues to the west.
I found also that the island I was in was barren, and, as I saw
good reason to believe, uninhabited, except by wild beasts, of whom,
however, I saw none; yet I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not
their kinds; neither, when I killed them, could I tell what was fit
for food, and what not. At my coming back, I shot at a great bird,
which I saw sitting upon a tree, on the side of a great wood. I
believe it was the first gun that had been fired there since the
creation of the world: I nad no sooner fired, but from all parts of
the wood there arose an innumerable number of fowls, of many
sorts, making a confused screaming, and crying, every one according
to his usual note; but not one of them of any kind that I knew.
As for the creature I killed, I took it to be a kind of a hawk, its
colour and beak resembling it, but it had no talons or claws more
than common. Its flesh was carrion, and fit for nothing.
I now began to consider that I might yet get a great many things
out of the ship, which would be useful to me, and particularly some
of the rigging and sails, and such other things as might come to
land; and I resolved to make another voyage on board the vessel,
if possible. And as I knew that the first storm that blew must
necessarily break her all in pieces, I resolved to set all other things
apart, till I got everything out of the ship that I could get. Then
I called a council, that is to say, in my thoughts, whether I should
take back the raft; but this appeared impracticable: so I resolved
to go as before, when the tide was down; and I did so, only that I
stripped before I went from my hut; having nothing on but a
chequered shirt, a pair of linen drawers, and a pair of pumps on my
feet.
I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second raft;
and having had experience of the first, I neither made this so un-
wieldy, nor loaded it so hard, but yet I brought away several things
very useful to me; as, first, in the carpenter's stores, I found two
or three bags of nails and spikes, a great screw-jack, a dozen or two
of hatchets; and, above all, that most useful thing called a grind-
stone. All these I secured together, with several things belonging
to the gunner; particularly, two or three iron crows, and two barrels
of musket bullets, seven muskets, and another fowling-piece, with
lome small quantity of powder more; a large bag full of small shot,
and a great roll of sheet lead; but this la3t was so heavy, I could
not hoist it up to get it over the ship's side. Besides these things,
I took all the men's clothes that I could find, and a spare fore-top-
sail, a hammock, and some bedding; and with this I loaded my
second raft, and brought them all safe on shore, to my very great
comfort.
Having got my second cargo on shore—though I was fain to open
the barrels of powder, and bring them by parcels, for they were too
heavy, being large casks—I went to work to make a little tent, with
the sails, and some poles which I cut for that purpose; and into
ADVENTURES OF BOBINSON CRUSOE.
this tent I brought every tiiing that I knew would spoil either with
rain or sun; and I piled all the empty chests and casks up in a circle
round the tent, to fortify it from any sudden attempt either from
man or beast.
When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent with
some boards within, and an empty chest set up on end without;
and spreading one of the beds upon the ground, laying my two pistols
just at my head, and my gun at length by me, I went to bed lor the
lirst time, and slept very quietly all night, for I was very weary and
heavy; for the night before I had slept little, and had laboured very
hard all day, as well to fetch all those things from the ship, as to get
them on shore.

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever was laid
up, I believe, for one man: but I was not satisfied still; for while
the ship sat upright in that posture, I thought I ought to get every
thing out of her that I could; so every day, at low water, I went
on board, and brought away something or other: but particularlv
the third time I went, I brought away as much of the rigging as 1
could, as also all the small ropes and rope-twine I could get, with a
piece of spare canvass, which was to mend the sails upon occasion,
and the barrel of wet gunpowder. In a word, I brought away all
the sails first and last; onlv that I was fain to cut them in pieces,
and bring as much at a time as I could; for they were no more
useful to be sails, but as mere canvass only.
But that which comforted me still more was, that, last of all, after
I had made five or six such voyages as these, and thought I had
nothing more to expect from the ship that was worth my meddling
with; I say, after all this, I found a great hogshead of bread, and
three large runlets of rum or spirits, and a box of sugar, and a barrel
of fine flour; this was surprising to me, because I had given over
expecting any more provisions, except what was spoiled by the
water. I soon emptied the hogshead of that bread, and wrapped it
up, parcel by parcel, in pieces of the sails, which I cut out; and, in
a word, I got all this safe on shore also.
The next day I made another voyage, and now having plundered
the ship of what was portable and fit to hand out, I began with the
cables, and cutting the great cable into pieces such as I could move,
I got two cables and a hawser on shore, with all the iron work 1
could get; and having cut down the spritsail-yard, and the mizen-
yard, and everything I could, to make a large raft, I loaded it with
all those heavy goods, and came away: but my good luck began now
to leave me; for this raft was so unwieldy, and so overladen, that
after I was entered the little cove, where I had landed the rest of
my goods, not being able to guide it so handily as I did the other, it
overset, and threw me and all my cargo into the water; as for
myself, it was no great harm, for I was near the shore; but as to
my cargo, it was a great part of it lost, especially the iron, which 1
expected would have been of great use to me: however, when the
tide was out, I got most of the pieces of cable ashore, and some of
the iron, though with infinite labour; for I was fain to go for it into
the water, a work which fatigued me very much. After this 1 went
every day on board, and brought away what I could get.
I had been now thirteen days ashore, and had been eleven times
on board the ship; in which time I had brought away all that one
>tair of hands covdd well be supposed capable to bring; though I
believe verily, had the calm weather hela, I should have brought
away the whole ship, piece by piece, but preparing the twelfth time,
to go on board, I tound the wind began to rise: however, at low
water, I went on board; and though I thought I had rummaged the
cabin so effectually, as that nothing could be found, yet I discovered
a locker with drawers in it, in one of which I found two or three
razors, and one pair of large scissars, with some ten or a dozen of
good knives and forks; in another I found about thirty-six pounds
in money, some European coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight,
some gold, and some silver.
I smiled to myself at the sight of this money; "0 drug!" I ex-
claimed, " what art thou good for? Thou art not worth to me, no,
not the taking off the ground; one of those knives is worth all this
heap: I have no manner of use for thee; e'en remain where thou
art, and go to the bottom, as a creature whose life is not worth
saving." However, upon second thoughts, I took it away; and
wrapping all this in a piece of eauvass, I bogan to think of making
another raft; but while I was preparing this, I found the sky over-
cast, and the wind began to rise, and in a quarter of an hour it blew
a fresh gale from the shore. It presently occurred to me, that it
was in vain to pretend to make a raft with the wind off shore; and
that it was my ousiness to be gone before the tide of flood began, or
otherwise I might not be able to reach the shore at all. Accordingly
I let myself down into the water, and swam across the channel
which lay between the ship and the sands, and even that with
difficulty enough, partly with the weight of the things I had about
me, and partly the roughness of the water; for the wind rose very
hastily, and before it was quite high water it blew a storm.

But I was got home to my little tent, where I lay, with all my
wealth about me very secure. It blew very hard all that night, and
in the morning, when I looked out, behold no more ship was to be
seen! I was a little surprised, but recovered myself with this
satisfactory reflection, viz., that I had lost no time, nor abated no
diligence, to get everything out of her, that could be useful to me,
and that, indeed, there was little left in her that I was able to bring
away, if I had had more time.
I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of anything
out of her, except what might drive on shore, from her wreck; as,
indeed, divers pieces of her afterwards did; but those things were
of small use to me.
My thoughts were now wholly employed about securing myself
against cither savages, if any should appear, or wild beasts, if any
were in the island; and I had many thoughts of the methed how to
do this, and what kind of dwelling to make, whether I should make
a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth; aud, in short, I resolved
upon both; the manner and description of which, it may not be
improper to give an account of.
I soon found the place I was in was not for my settlement, par-
ticularly because it was upon a lowv moorish ground, near the sea,
and I believed it w «dd not be wholesome; and more particularly
because there was n > fresh water near it: so I resolved to find a
more healthy and con lenient spot of ground.
I consulted severa, things in my situation, which I found would
be proper for me; firs t, air and fresh water, I just now mentioned:
secondly, shelter fron. the heat of the sun: thirdly, security from
ravenous creatures, w aether men or beasts: fourthly, a view to the
sea, that if God sent any ship in sight, I might not lose any advan-
tage for my deliverer ce, of which 1 was not willing to banish all my
expectation yet.
in search for a pi ice proper for this, I found a little plain on the
side of a rising hill, whose front towards this little plain was steep
as a house-side, so that nothing could come down upon me from the
top. On the side of this rock, there was a hollow place, worn a
little way in, like the entrance or door of a cave; but there was not
really any cave, or way into the rock, at all.
On the flat of the green, just before this hollow place, I resolved
to pitch my tent. This plain was not above one hundred yards
broad, and about twice as long, and lay like a green before my door;
and, at the end of it, descended irregularly every way down into the
low ground by the seaside. It was on the N.N.W. side of the hill;
so that it was sheltered from the heat every day, till it came to a
W. and by S. sun or thereabouts, which, in those countries, is near
the setting.
Before I set up my tent, I drew a half-circle before the hollow
place, which took in about ten yards in its semi-diameter from
the rock, and twenty yards in its diameter, from its beginning and
ending.
In this half-circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes, driving
them into the ground till they stood very firm like piles, the biggest
end being out of the ground, about five feet and a half, and
sharpened on the top. The two rows did not stand above six inches
from one another.
Then I took the pieces of cable which I cut in the ship, and laid
them in rows, one upon another, within the circle, between these
two rows of stakes, up to the top, placing other stakes in the inside,
leaning against them, about two feet and a half high, like a spur to
a post; and this fence was so strong, that neither man nor beast
could get into it or over it. This cost me a great deal of time and
labour, especially to cut the piles in the woods, bring them to the
place, ana drive them into the earth.
The entrance into this place I made to be not by a door, but by a
short ladder to go over the top; which ladder, when I was in, I
lifted over after me; and so I was completely fenced in and fortified,
as I thought, from all the world, and consequently slept secure in
the night, which otherwise I could not have done; though, as it
appeared afterwards, there was no need of all this caution against
the enemies that I apprehended danger from.
SECTION VI.
CAHRIES ALL HIS RICHES, FROVISIONS, ETC. INTO HIS HABITATION—
DREARINESS OF SOLITUDE—CONSOLATORY REFLECTIONS.
Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite labour, I carried all my
riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and stores, of which you have
the account above; and I made a large tent, which, to preserve me
from the rains, that in one part of the year are verv violent there, I
made double, viz., one smaller tent within, and one larger tent above
it, and covered the uppermost with a large tarpaulin, which 1 had
saved among the sails.
And now I lay no more for a while in the bed which I had brought
on shore, but in a hammock, which was indeed a very good one, and
belonged to the mate of the ship.
Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and eventhing that
would spoil by the wet; and having thus enclosed all my goods, I
made up the entranee, which till now I had left open, and so passed
and repassed, as I said, by a short ladder.
When I had done this I began to work my way into the rock, and
bringing all the earth and stones that I dug down out through my
tent, I laid them up within my fence in the nature of a terrace, so
that it raised the ground within about a foot and a half; and thus I
made me a cave, just behind my tent, which served me like a cellar
to my house. It cost me much labour and many days, before all
these things were brought to perfection; and therefore, I must go
back to some other things which took up some of my thoughts. At
the same time it happened, after I had laid my scheme for the
setting up of my tent, and making the cave, that a storm of rain
falling from a thick, dark cloud, a sudden flash of lightning happened,
and after that, a great clap of thunder, as is naturally the effect of
it. 1 was not so much surprised with the lightning as I was with
a thought which darted into my mind as swift as the lightning
itself: O my powder! My very heart sunk within me when I thought,
that at one blast all my powder might be destroyed; on which not
my defence only, but the providing me food, as I thought, entirely
depended. I was nothing near so anxious about my own danger,
though, had the powder taken fire, I should never have known who
had hurt me.
Such impressions did this make upon me, that after the storm was
over, I laid aside all my works, my building and fortifying, and
applied myself to make bags and boxes to separate the powder, and
to keep it a little and a little in a parcel, in hope that whatever
might come, it might not all take fire at once; and to keep it so
apart, that it should not be possible to make one part fire another.
I finished this work in about a fortnight; and I think my powder,
which in all was about two hundred and forty pounds weight, was
divided into not less than a hundred parcels. As to the barrel that
had been wet, I did not apprehend any danger from that; so I placed
it in my new cave, which, i n my fancy, I called my kitchen, and the
rest I hid up and down in holes among the rocks, so that no wet
might come to it, marking very carefully where I laid it.
In the interval of time while this was doing, I went out at least
once every day with my gun. One day I killed a she-goat, which
had a little kid by her, which she gave suck to, which grieved me
heartily; but when the old one fell, the kid stood stock still by her,
till I came and took her up; and not only so, but when I carried the
old one with me, upon my shoulders, the kid followed me quite to
my enclosure; upon which I laid down the dam, and took the kid
in my arms, and carried it over my pale, in hopes to have bred it up
tame; but it would not eat; so I was forced to kill it, and eat it
myself. These two supplied me with flesh a great while, for I eat
sparingly, and preserved my provisions (my bread especially) as
much as possibly I could.
And now being about to enter into a melancholy relation of a
scene of silent life, such perhaps, as was never heard of in the world
before, I shall take it from its beginning, and continue it in its
order. It was, by my account, the 30th of September, when, in the
manner as above said, I first set foot upon this horrid island; whep
the sun being to us in its autumnal equinox, was almost just over
my head: for I reckoned myself, by observation, to be in the latitud*
of nine degrees twenty-two minutes north of the Line.
SECTION VII.
ROBINSON S MODE OF RECKONING TIME—DIFFICULTIES ARISING FROM
WANT OF TOOLS—ILE ARRANGES HIS HABITATION.
'After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came into my
thoughts that I should lose my reckoning of time for want of books,
and pen and ink, and should even forget the Sabbath days from the
working days: but, to prevent this, I cut it with my knife into a
large post, in capital letters; and making it into a great cross, I set
it up on the shore where I first landed, viz., "I came on shore here
on the 30th of September, 1G59." Upon the sides of this square
post I cut every day a notch with my knife, and every seventh notch
was as long again as the rest, and every first day of the month as
long again as that long one: and thus I kept my calendar, or weekly,
monthly, and yearly reckoning of time.
But it happened, that among the many things which I brought out
of the ship, in the several voyages which, as above mentioned, I
made to it, I got several things of less value, but not at all less
useful to me, which I found some time after, in rummaging the chests:
as in particular, pens, ink, and paper; several parcels in the captain's,
mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's keeping; three or four compasses,
some mathematical instruments, dials, perspectives, charts, and books
of navigation; all of which I huddled together, whether I might
want them or no; also I found three very good Bibles, which came to
me in my cargo from England, and which* I had packed up among my
things; some Portuguese books also, and, among them, two or three
popish prayer-books, and several other books, all which I carefully
secured. And I must not forget, that we had in the ship a dog, and
two cats, of whose eminent history I may have occasion to say some-
thing, in its place; for I carried both the cats with 'me; and as for
the dog he jumped out of the ship himself, and swam on shore the
day after I went on shore with my first cargo, and was a trusty ser-
vant to me for many years: I wanted nothing that he could fetch
me, nor any company that he could make up to me, 1 only wanted
to have him talk to me, but that he could not do. As I observed
before, 1 found pens, ink, and paper, and I husbanded them to the
utmost; and I snail show that wnile my ink lasted, I kept things
very exact, but after that was gone I could not; for I could not
make any ink by any means that I could devise.
And this put me in mind that I wanted many things, notwithstand-
ing all that I had amassed together; and of these, this of ink was
one; as also a spade, pickaxe, and shovel, to dig or remove the
earth; needles, pins, andf thread; as for linen, I soon learned to want
that without much difficulty.
This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily: and it
was nearly a whole year before I nad entirely finished my little pale,
or surrounded my habitation. The piles or stakes, which were as
heavy as 1 could well lift, were a long time in cutting and preparing
in the woods, and more by far in bringing home; so that I spent
sometimes two days in cutting and bringing home one of those posts,
and a third in driving it into the ground; for which purpose, I got a
heavy peace of wood at first, but at last bethought me of one of the
iron crows; which, however, though I found it answer, made driving
these posts or piles very laborious and tedious work. But what
need I have been concerned at the tediousnesS of anything I had
to do, seeing I had time enough to do it in; nor had I any other
employment, if that had been over, at least that I could foresee,
except the ranging the island to seek for food; which I did more or
less, every day.
I have already described my habitation, which was a tent under
the side of a rock, surrounded with a strong pale of posts and cables;
but I might now rather call it a wall, for I raised a kind of wall
against it of turfs, about two feet thick on the outside: and after
some time (I think it was a year and a half) I raised rafters from it,
leaning to the rock, and thatched or covered it with boughs of trees,
and such things as I could get, to keep out the rain; which I found,
at some times of the year, very violent.
I have already observed how I brought all my goods into this pale,
and into the cave which I had made behind me. But I must ob-
serve, too, that at first this was a confused heap of goods, which, as
they lay in no order, so they took up all my place; I had no room to
turn myself: so I set myself to enlarge my cave, and work further
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
into the earth; for it was a loose sandy rock, which yielded easily to
the labour I bestowed upon it; and when I found I was pretty
s;il'e as to the beasts of prey, I worked sideways, to the right hand,

into the rock, and then turning to the right again, worked quite
out, and made me a door to come out in the outside of my pale or
fortification.
This gave me not only egress and regress, as it were, a back way
to my tent and to my storehouse, but gave me room to stow my
goods.
And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary things as
I found I most wanted, particularly a chair and a table; for without
these I was not able to enjoy the few comforts I had in the world;
I could not write, or eat, or do several things with so much pleasure,
without a table; so I went to work. And here I must need ob-
serve, that as reason is the substance and original of mathematies,
so that by stating and squaring everything by reason, and by making
the most rational judgment of things, every man may be, in time,
master of every mechanic art. I had never handled a tool in my
life; and yet. in time, by labour, application, and contrivance I found
at last, that I wanted nothing but I could have made, especially if I
had had tools. However, I made abundance of things, even without
tools; and some with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet, which
perhaps vrere never made that way before, and that with infinite
labour. For example, if I wanted a board, I had no other way but
to cut down a tree, set it on an edge before me, and hew it flat on
cither side with my axe, till I had brought it to be as thin as a plank,
and thcn dub it smooth with my adze. It is true, by this method, I
could make but one board of a whole tree; but this I had no remedy
for but patience, any more than I had for a prodigious deal of time
and labour which it took me up to make a plank or board: but my
;ime or labour was little worth, and so it was as well employed one
way as another.
I made me a table and a chair, in the first place; and this Idid
out of the short piecct of boards that I brought on my raft from the
ship. But when I wro Jght out some boards, as above, 1 made large
shelves, of the breadth of a foot and a half, one over another, all
along one side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails. and iron work
on; and, in a word, 1o separate every thing at large in their
places, that I might easily come at them. I knocked pieces into
the wall of the rock, to hang my guns, and all tiiings that would
hang up; so that had my cave been seen, it looked like a general
magazine of all necessary things; and I had every thing so readv
at my hand, that it was a great pleasure to me to see all my good's
in such order, and especially to find my stock of all necessaries so
great.
And now it was that I began to keep a journal of every day's em-
ployment; for, indeed, at first, I was in too much hurry, and not
only as to labour, but in much discomposure of mind; and my
journal would, too, have been full of many dull things.
Some days after this, and after I had been on board the ship and
got al that I could out of her, I could not forbear getting up to the
top of a little mountain, and looking out to sea, in hopes of seeing a
ship: then fancy that, at a vast distance, I spied a sail, please my-
self with the hopes of it, and, after looking steadily, till I was almost
blind, lose it quite, and sit down and weep like a child, and thus
increase my misery by my folly.
But having got over these things in some measure, and having
settled my household stuff and habitation, made me a table and a
chair, and all about me as handsome as I could, I began to keep my
journal: of which I shall here give you the copy (though in it will be
told all these particulars over again) as long as it lasted; for, having
no more ink, I was forced to leave it off.

SECTION VIII.
Robinson's journal—details of ins domestic economy and
CONTRIVANCES—SHOCK OF AN EARTHQUAKE.
THE JOURNAL.
September 30th, 1659. I, poor miserable Robinson Crusoe, being
shipwrecked, during a dreadful storm, in the offing, came on shore
on this dismal unfortunate island, which I called the Island op
Despair; all the rest of the ship's company being drowned, and
myself almost dead.
October 1. In the morning I saw, to my great surprise, the ship
had floated with the high tide, and was driven on shore again much
nearer the island. I hoped, if the wind abated, I might get on
board, and get some food and necessaries out of her for my relief.
I spent great part of this day in pc^ilexing myself on these things;
but, at length, seeing the ship almost dry, I went upon the sand as
near as I could, and then swam on board. This day also it continued
raining, though with no wind at all.
From the 1st of October to the 24th. All these days entirely
spent in many several voyages to get all I could out of the ship;
which I brought on shore, every tide of flood, upon rafts. Much rain
also in these days, though with some intervals of fair weather: but
it seems this was the rainy season.
Oct. 25. It rained all night and all day, with some gusts of
wind; during which time the ship broke in pieces (the wind mowing
a little harder than before) and was no more to be seen, except the
wreck of her, and that only at low water. I spent this day in
covering and securing the goods which I had saved, that the rain
might not spoil them.
From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in carrying all my
goods to my habitation, though some part of the time it rained ex-
ceedingly hard.
The 31st, in the morning, I went out into the island with my gun,
to see^for some food, and discover the country; when I killed a she-
goat, and her kid followed me home, which I afterwards killed also,
because it would not feed.
November 1. I set up my tent under a rock, and lay there for
the first night; making it as large as I could, with stakes driven in
to swing my hammock upon.
Nov. 4. This morning I began to order my times of work, of
going out with my gun, time of sleep, and time of diversion; viz.,
every morning I walked out with my gun for two or three hours, if
it did not rain; then employed myself to work till about eleven
o'clock; then eat what I had to live on; and from twelve to two I
lay down to sleep, the weather being excessively hot; and then, in
the evening, to work again. The working part of this day and the
next was wholly employed in making my table, for I was yet but
a very sorry workman: though time and necessity made me a
complete natural mechanic soon after, as I believe they would any
one else.
Nov. 13. This day it rained; which refreshed me exceedingly,
and cooled the earth: but it was accompanied with terrible thunder
and lightning, which frightened me dreadfully, for fear of my
powder. As soon as it was over I resolved to separate my stock
of powder into as many little parcels as possible, that it might not
be in danger.
Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent, into the rock,
to make room for my further convenience.
Note. Three things I wanted exceedingly for this work, vix., a
pickaxe, a shovel, and a wheelbarrow, or basket: so I desisted from
my work and began to consider how to supply these wants, and make
me some tools. As for pickaxe, I made use of the iron crows, which
were proper enough, though heavy: but the next thing was a
shovel or spade; this was so absolutely necessary, that, indeed, I
could do nothing effectually without it; but what kind ol one to
make I knew not.
Nov. 18. The next day, in searching the woods, I found a tree of
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
that wood, or like it, which, in the Brazils, they call 1he iron tree,
from its exceeding hardness: of this, with great labour, and almost
spoiling my axe, I cut a piece; and brought it home, too, with diffi-
culty enough, for it was exceeding heavy. The excessive hardness
of the wood, and my having no other way, made me a long while
upon this machine: "for I worked it effectually by little and little,
into the form of a shovel or spade; the handle exactly shaped
like ours in England, only that the broad part having no iron shod
upon it at the bottom, it would not last me so long; however, it
served well enough for the uses which I had occasion to put it to;
but never was a shovel, 1 believe, made after that fashion, or so long
in making.

Nov. 23. My other work having now stood still, because of my
making these tools, when they were finished I went on; and working
every day, as my strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen days
entirely i n widening and deepening my cave, that it might hold my
goods commodiously.
December 10. I began now to think my cave or vault finished;
when on a sudden (it seems I had made it too large) a great quantity
of earth fell down from the top and one side; so much, that, in short,
it frightened me, and not without reason too; for if I had been under
it, I should never have wanted a grave-digger. Upon this disaster,
I had a great deal of work to do over again, for I had the loose
earth to carry out; and, which was of more importance, I had
the ceiling to prop up, so that I might be sure no more would come
down.
Dec. 11. This day I went to work with it accordingly; and got
Iwo shores or posts pitched upright to the top, with two pieces of
board across over each post: this I finished the next day; and
setting more posts up with boards, in about a week more I had the
roof secured; and the posts standing in rows, served me for parti-
tions to part off my house.
Dec. 17. From this day to the 20th, I placed shelves, and knocked
up nails on the posts, to hang everything up that could be hung up:
and now I began to be in some order within doors.
Dec. 20. I carried everything into the cave, and began to furnish
my house, and set up some pieces of boards, like a dresser, to order
my victuals upon; but boards began to be very scarce with me; also
I made me another table.
Dec. 28, 29, 30, 81. Great heats and no breeze; so that there
was no stirring abroad, except in the evening, for food; this time I
spent in putting all my things in order within doors.

January 1. Very hot still; but I went abroad early and late with
my gun, and lay still in the middle of the day. This evening, going
further into the valleys which lay towards the centre of the island,
I found there were plenty of goats, though exceedingly shy, and hard
to come at; however, I re«olved to try if I could not bring my dog
to hunt them down. Accordingly, the next day, I went out with my
dog, and set him upon the goats: but I was mistaken, for they all
faced about upon the dog: and he knew his danger too well, for he
would not come near them.
Jan. 3. I began my fence or wall; which, being still jealous of
my being attacked by somebody, I resolved to make very thick and
strong.
During this time, I made my rounds in the woods for game every
day when the rain permitted me, and made frequent discoveries, in
these walks, of something or other to my advantage; particularly, I
found a kkid of wild pigeons, who build, not as wood-pigeons, in a
tree, but rather as house-pigeons, in the holes of the rocks: and,
taking some young ones, I endeavoured to breed them up tame, and
did so; but when they grew older, they flew all away; which, per-
haps, was, at first, for want of feeding them, for I had nothing to
give them; however, I frequently found their nests, and got their
young ones, which were very good meat. In the middle of all my
labours it happened, that in rummaging my things, I found a little
bag; which, as I hinted before, haa been filled with corn, for the
feeding of poultry; not for this voyage, but before, as I suppose,
when the ship came from Lisbon. What little remainder of corn
had been in the bag was all devoured by the rats, and I saw nothing
in the bag but husks and dust: and being willing to have the bag
for some other use (I think it was to put powder in, when I divided
it for fear of the lightning, or some such use), I shook the husks of
corn out of it, on one side of my fortification, under the rock.
It was a little before the great rain now mentioned, that I threw
this stuff away; taking no notice of anything, and not so much .as
remembering that I had thrown anything there: when, about a month
after, I saw some few stalks of something green shooting out of the
ground, which I fancied might be some plant I had not seen; but I
was surprised, and perfectly astonished, when, after a longer time, I
saw about ten or twelve cars come out, which were perfect green
barley, of the same kind as our European, nay, as our English
barlej.
I at first thought these the pure productions of Providence for my
support; and, not doubting that there was more in the place, I went
over all that part of the island where I had been before, searching in
every corner, and under every rock, for more of it; but I could not
find any. At last it occurred to my thoughts, that I had shaken out
a bag of chicken's-meat in that place, and then the wonder began to
cease; and I must confess, my religious thankfulness to God's
providence began to abate, too, upon the discovering that all this
was nothing but what was common; though I ought to have been
as thankful for so strange and unforeseen a providence, as if it had
been miraculous: for it was really the work of Providence, as to me,
that should order or appoint that ten or twelve grains of corn should
remain unspoiled, when the rats had destroyed all the rest, as if it
had been dropped from heaven; as also, that I should throw it
out in that particular place, where, it being in the shade of a
high rock, it sprang up immediately; whereas, if I had thrown
it anywhere else, at that time, it would have been burned up and
destroyed.
I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may '.e sure, in their
season, which was about the end of June; and, laying up every corn,
I resolved to sow them all again; hoping, in time, to have soma
quantity sufficient to supply me with bread. But it was not till ths
fourth year that I could allow myself the least grain ot this corn
to eat, and even then but sparingly, as I shall show afterwards in its
order; for I lost all that I sowed the first season, by not observing
the proper time; as I sowed just before the dry season, so that it
never cume up at all, at least not as it would nave done: of which
ill its place.
Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or thirty stalks
of rice, which I preserved with the same care; ana whose use was
of the same kind, or to the same purpose, viz., to make me bread,
or r»ther food; for I found ways to cook it up without baking,
though I did that also after some time.—But to return to my Journal.
I worked excessively hard these three or four months, to get my
wall done; and the 14th of April I closed it up; contriving to get
into it, not by a door, but over the wall, by a ladder, that there
might be no sign on the outside of my habitation.
Aphil 16. I finished the ladder; so I went up with the ladder
to the top, and then pulled it up after me, and let it down in the
inside: this was a complete enclosure to me; for within I had room
enough, and nothing could come at me from without, unless it could
first mount my wall.
The very next day after this wall was finished, I had almost all
my labour overthrown at once, and myself killed; the case was
thus:—As I was busy in the inside of it, behind my tent, just at the
entrance into my cave, I was terribly frightened by a shock of an
earthquake!
I was so much amazed with the thing itself (having never felt the
like, nor discoursed with any one that had) that I was like one dead
or stupified; and the motion of the earth made my stomach sick, like
one that was tossed at sea: but the noise of the falling of the rock
awaked me, as it were, and rousing me from the stupifled condition
I was in, filled me with horror, ana I thought of nothing but the hill
falling upon my tent and my household goods, and burying all at
once; this sunk ray very soul within me a second time.
After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some time,
I began to take courage; yet I had not heart enough to go over uij
wall again, for fear of being buried alive; but sat still upon the
ground greatly cast down and disconsolate, not knowing what to do.
All this while I had not the least serioun religious thought; nothing
but the common " Lord, have mercy on me! and when it was over
that went away too.
This set me thinking about what I had best do; conclud
ing, that if the island was subject to earthquakes, there would be
no living for me in a cave, but I must consider of building me some
little hut in an open place, which I might surround with a wall, as 1
had done here, and so make myself secure from wild beasts or men;
for if I staid where I was, I should certainly, one time or other, be
buried alive,
With these thoughts, I resolved to remove my tent from the place
where it now stood, being just under the hanging precipice of the
hill, and which, if it should be shaken again, would certainly fall
upon my tent. I spent the next two days, being the 19th and 20th
of April, in contriving where and how to remove my habitation. I
resolved that I would go to work with all speed to "build me a wall
with piles and cables, &c. in a circle as before, and set my tent in it
when it was finished; but that I would venture to stay where I was
till it was readv, and fit to remove to. This was the 21st.
April 22. The next morning 1 began to consider of means to put
this measure into execution; and 1 was at a great loss about the

tools. I had three large axes, and abundance of hatchets (for we
carried the hatchets for traffic with the Indians); but with much
chopping and cutting knotty hard wood, they were all full of notches,
and dull: and though I had a grindstone, I could nor turn it and
grind my tools too. This caused me as much thought as a states-
man would have bestowed upon a grand point of polities, or a judge
upon the life and death of a man. At length I contrived a wheel
with a string, to turn it with my foot, that I might have both my
hands at liberty.
April 28, 29. These two whole days I took up in grinding my
tools, my machine for turning my grindstone performing very well.
April 30. Having perceived that my bread had been low a great
while, I now took a survey of it, and reduced myself to one biscuit-
cake a day, which made my heart very heavy.
SECTION IX.
ROBINSON OBTAINS MORE ARTICLES FROM THE WRECK.—
ILLNESS AND AFFLICTION.
May 1. In the morning, looking towards the sea-side, the tide
being low, I saw something lie on the shore bigger than ordinary,
and it looked like a cask; when I came to it I found a small barrel,
and two or three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were driven
on shore by the late hurricane ; and looking towards the wreck itself,
I thought it seemed to lie higher out of the water than it used to do.
I examined the barrel that was driven on shore, and soon found it
was a barrel of gunpowder; but it had taken water, and the powder
was caked as hard as a stone; however, I rolled it farther on the
shore for the present, and went on upon the sands, as near as I could
to the wreck of the ship, to look for more.
When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely removed.
The forecastle, which lay buried in the sand, was heaved up at least
six feet; and the stern (which was broke to pieces, and parted from
the rest, by the force of the sea, soon after I had left rummaging her)
was tossed, as it were, up, and cast on one side: and the sand was
thrown so high on that side next her stern, that I could now walk
quite up to her when the tide was out.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of removing my
habitation; and I busied myself mightily, that day especially, in
searching whether I could make any way into the ship; but I iound
nothing was to be expected of that kind, for all the inside of the ship
was choked up with sand. However, as I had learned not to despair
of anything, I resolved to pull everything to pieces that I could of
the ship, concluding that everything I could get from her would be
of some use or other to me.
Mat 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of abeam through,
which I thought held some of the upper part or quarter-deck to-
gether; and when I had cut it through, I cleared away the sand as well
as I could from the side which lay highest; but the tide coming in, I
was obliged to give over for that time.
May I. I went a fishing, but caught not one fish that I durst eat
of, till I was weary of my sport; when just going to leave off, I
caught a young dolphin. I had made a lone line of some rope-yarn,
but I had no hooks; yet I frequently caught fish enough, as much
as I cared to cat; all of which I dried in the sun, and ate them dry.
May 5 to 24. Every day, to this day, I worked on the wreck;
and with hard labour I loosened some things so much, with the crow,
that the first blowing tide several casks floated out, and two of the
seamen's chests; but the wind blowing from shore, nothing came to
land that day but pieces of timber, ana a hogshead, which had some
Brazil pork in it. I continued this work every day to the 15th of
June, except the time necessary to get food; which I always
appointed, during this part of my employment to be when the tide
was up, that I might be ready when it was ebbed out; and by this
time I had gotten timber, and plank, and iron work, enough to have
built a good boat, if I had known how; and I also got, at several
times, and in several pieces, near one hundred weight of the sheet-
lead.
June 16. Going down to the seaside, I found a large tortoise, or
turtle. This was the first I had seen; which, it seems, was only to
my misfortune, not any defect of the place or scarcity; for had I
happened to be on the other side of the island, I might have had
hundreds of them every day, as I found afterwards; but perhaps had
paid dear enough for them.
June 17. I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in her three-
score eggs; and her flesh was to me, at that time, the most savoury
and pleasant that I ever tasted in my life; having had no flesh, but
of goats and fowls, since I landed in this horrid place.
June 18. Rained all day, and I stayed within. I thought at
this time, the rain felt cold, and I was somewhat chilly; which I
knew was not usual in that latitude.
June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather had been
cold.
June 20. No rest all night; violent pains in my head, and feverish.
June 21. Very ill; frightened almost to death with the apprehen-
sions of my sad condition, to be sick, and no help; prayed to God,
for the first time since the storm off Hull; but scarce knew what I
said, or why, my thoughts being all confused.
June 28. A little better; but under dreadful apprehensions of
sickness.
June 83. Very bad again; cold and shivering, and Lhen a violent
headache.
June 24. Much bettor.
June 85. An ague very violent; the fit held mo seven hours;
cold tit, and hot, with faint sweats after it.
June 26. Better; and having no vituals to eat, took my gun, but
found myself very weak ; however, I killed a she-goat, and with
much difficulty got it home, and broiled some of it, and ate. I
would fain have stewed it, and made some broth, but had no pot.
June 27. The ague again so violently that I lay a-bed all day,
and neither ate nor drank. I was ready to perish for thirst; but so
weak, I had not the strength to stand up, or get myself any watei
to drink. Prayed to God again, but was light-headed; and when 1
was not, I was so ignorant that I knew not what to say; only lay
and cried, "Lord, look upon me! Lord, pity me! Lord, have mercy
upon me!" I suppose I did nothing else for two or three hours; till
the fit wearing off, I fell asleep, ana did not wake till far in the night.
When I awoke, I found myself much refreshed, but weak, and
exceeding thirsty; however, as I had no water in my whole habita-
tion, 1 was forced to lie till morning.
I had, alas! no divine knowledge: what I had received by the
good instruction of my father was then worn out, by an uninterrupted
series, for eight years, of seafaring wickedness, and a constant
conversation with none but such as were, like myself, ^wicked and
?irofane to the last degree. I do not Remember that I had, in all
hat time, one thought that so much as tended either to looking
upward towards God, or inward towards a reflection upon my owe
ways; but a certain stupidity of soul, without desire of good, or
consciousness of evil, had entirely overwhelmed me; and I was all
that the most hardened, unthinking, wicked creature among our
common sailors, can be supposed to be; not having the least sense,
either of the fear of God, in danger, or of thankfulness to him, in
deliverances.
It is true, when I first got on shore here, and found all my ship's
crcv drowned, awl myself spared, I was surprised with a kind of
eestacy, and some transports of soul, which, had the grace of God
assisted, might have come up to true thankfulness; but it ended
where it b«gan, in a mere common flight of joy, or, as I may say,
being glad I was alive, without the least reflection upon the distin-
guished goodness of the hand which had preserved me, and had
singled me out to be preserved when all the rest were destroyed, or
an inquiry why providence had been thus merciful to me; just the
same common sort of joy which seamen have, after they are got safe
ashore from a shipwreck; which they drown all in the next bowl of
punch, and forget almost as soon as it is over; and all the rest of my
life was like it, Even when I was, afterwards, on due consideration,
made sensible of my condition,—how 1 was cast off on this dreadful
place, out of the reach of human kind, o<it of all hope of relief, or
prospeot of redemption, —as soon as I saw but a prospect of living,
ADVENTUIUSS OF ROBINSON CHUSOE.
and that I should not starve and perish for hunger, all the sense of
affliction wore off, and I became to be very easy, applied myself to
the works proper for my preservation and supply, and was far enough
from being afflicted at my condition, as a judgment from heaven, or
as the hand of God against me; these were thoughts which very
seldom entered into my head.

But now, when I began to be sick, and a leisure view of the
miseries of death came to place itself before me; when my spirits
began to sink under the burden of a strong distemper, and nature
was exhausted with the violence of the fever; conscience, that had
slept so long, began to awake; and I reproached myself with my
past life, in which I had so evidently, by uncommon wickedness,
provoked the justice of God to lay me under uncommon strokes, and
to deal with me in so vindictive a manner.
"Now," said I, aloud, " my dear father's words are come to pass;
God's justice has overtaken me, and I have none to help or hear me.
I rejected the voice of Providence, which had mercifully put me in a
station of life wherein I might have been happy and easy; but I
would neither see it myself, nor learn from my parents the blessing
of it. I left them to mourn over my folly; and now I am left to
mourn under the consequences of it." Then I cried out," Lord, be nvy
help, for I am in great distress." This was the first prayer, if I may
call it so, that I had made for tnauy years. But I return to my
Journal.
SECTION X.
HIS RECOVERY—HIS COMFORT IN READING THE SCRIFTURES—
MAKES AN EXCURSION INTO THE INTERIOR OF THE ISLAND—
FORMS HIS "BOWER."
June 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with the sleep I had
had, and the fit being entirely off, I got up, and considered now
was my time to get something to refresh and support myself
when I should be ill. The first thing I did was to fill a large
case-bottle with water, and set it upon my table, in reach of my bed;
and to take off the chill or aguish disposition of the water, I put
about a quarter of a pint of rum into it, and mixed them together.
Then I got me a piece of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals,
but could eat very little. I walked about, but was very weak, and
withal very sad and heavy-hearted in the sense of my miserable con-
dition, dreading the return of my distemper the next day.
Now, as the apprehension of the return of my distemper terrified
me very much, it occurred to my thought, that the Brazilians take
no physic but their tobacco for almost all distempers; and I had a
piece of a roll of tobacco in one of the chests, which was quite
cured; and some also that was green, and not quite cured.
I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt: for in this chest I found a
cure both for soul and body. I opened the chest, and found what I
looked for, viz., the tobacco; and as the few books I had saved hiy
there too, I took out one of the Bibles which I mentioned before,
and which, to this time, I had not found leisure or so much as
inclination, to look into. I say, I took it out, and brought both
that and the tobacco with me to the table. What use to make of
the tobacco I knew not, as to my distemper, nor whether A was
good for it or not; but I tried several experiments with it, as if 1
was resolved it should hit one way or other. I first took a piece of
a leaf, and chewed it in my mouth; which, indeed, at first, almost
st unified my brain; the tobacco being green and strong, and such
as I had not been much used to. Then I took some and steeped it
an hour or two in some rum, and resolved to take a dose of it when
I lay down: and lastly, I burnt some upon a pan of coals, and held
my nose close over the smoke of it as long as I could bear it; as
well for the heat, as almost for suffocation. In the interval of this
operation, I took up the Bible, and began to read: but my head was
too much disturbed by the tobacco to bear reading, at least at that
time; only, having opened the book casually, the first words that
occurred to me were these: "Call on me in the day of trouble, and
I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me." These words were
very apt to my case; and made some impression upon my thoughts
at the time of reading them, though not so much as they did after-
wards; for, as for being delivered, the word had no sound, as I may
say, to me; the thing was so remote, so impossible in my appre-
hension of things, that, as the children of Israel said when they
were promised flesh to eat, "Can God spread a table in the wilder-
ness?" so I began to say, "Can even God himself deliver me from
this place?" And as it was not for many years that any hopes
appeared, this prevailed very often upon my thoughts: but, however,
the words made a great impression upon me, and I mused upon
them very often. It now grew late: and the tobacco had, as I said,
dozed my head so much, that I inclined to sleep: so I left my lamp
burning in the cave, lest I should want anything in the night, and
went to bed. But before I lay down, I did what 1 never had done
in all my life: I kneeled down, and prayed to God to fulfil the
promise to me, that if I called upon him in the day of trouble, he
would deliver me. After my broken and imperfect prayer was over,
I drank the rum in which I had steeped the tobacco; which was so
strong and rank of the tobacco, that indeed I could scarce get it
down; immediately upon this I went to bed. I found presently the
mm flew up into mynead violently; but I fell into a sound sleep,
and waked no more till by the sun, it must necessarily be near three
o'clock in the afternoon the next day; nay, to this hour, I am partly
of opinion, that I slept all the next day and night, and till almost
three the day after; for otherwise, I know not how I should lose a
day out of my reckoning in the days of the week, as it appeared
some years after I had done; for if I bad lost it by crossing and
re-crossing the Line, I should have lost more than one day; but
certainly I lost a day in my account, and never knew which way.
Be that, however, one way or the other, when I awaked I found
myself exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful:
wnp.n I got up I was stranger than I was the day before, and mj
stomach better, for I was hungry: and, in short, I had no fit the
next day, but continued much altered for the better. This was the
29th.
The 30th was my well day, of course; and I went abroad with
my gun, but did not care to travel too far. I killed a seafowl or

two, something like a brand goose, and brought them home; but
was not very forward to eat them; so I ate some more of the turtle's
eggs, which were very good. This evening I renewed the medicine,
which I had supposed did me good tiie day before, viz. the tobacco
steeped in rum; only I did not take so much as before, nor did I
chew any of the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke: however, I
was not so well the next day, which was the 1st of July, as I hoped
I should have been; for I fiad a little of the cold fit, but it was not
much.
July 2 and 3. I renewed the medicine all the three ways; and
dosed myself with it as at first, and doubled the quantity which I
drank.
July 4. In the morning I took the Bible; and beginning at the
New Testament, I began seriously to read it; and imposed upon
myself to read a while every morning and every night; not binding
myself to the number of chapters, but as long as my thoughts
should engage me. It was not long after I set seriously to this
work, that I found my heart sincerely affected with the wickedness of
my past life. The words, "All these things have not brought thee to
repentance," ran seriously in my thoughts. I was earnestly begging
of God to give me repentance, when it happened providentially, the
very same day, that, reading the scripture, I came to these words,
"He is exalted a Prince and a Saviour; to give repentance and to
ADVENTURES OF ROBISSON CRUSOE.
give remission." I threw down the hook; and with my heart as
well as my hands lifted up to heaven, in a kind of eestasy of joy, I
cried out aloud, "Jesus, thou son of David! Jesus, thou exalted
Prince and Saviour! give me repentance." This was the first time
in all my life I could say, in the true sense of the words, that I
prayed; for now I prayed with a sense of my condition, and with a
true scripture view of hope, founded on the encouragment of the
word of God: and from this time, I may say, I began to have hope
that God would hear me.

From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly employed in
walking about with my gun in my hand, a little and a little at a
time, as a man that was gathering up his strength after a fit of sick-
ness: for it is hardly to be imagined how low I was, and to what
weakness I was reduced. The application which I made use of was
perfectly new, and perhaps what had never cured an ague before:
neither can I recommend it to any one to practise, by this experi-
ment: and though it did carry off the fit, yet it rather contributed
to weakening me; for 1 had frequent convulsion in my nerves and
limbs for some time: I learned from it also this, in particular; that
being abroad in the rainy season was the most pernicious thing to my
health that could be, especially in those rains which came attended
with storms and hurricanes of wind; for as the rain which came in
the dry season was almost always accompanied with such storms, so
I found that this rain was much more dangerous than the rain which
fell in September and October.
I had now been in this unhappy island above ten months: all
possibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to be entirely
taken from me; and I firmly believed that no human shape had ever
set foot upon that place. Having secured my habitation, as I
thought, fully to my mind, I had a great desire to make a more
perfect discovery of the Island, and to see what other production!
I might find, which I yet knew nothing of.
It was on the 15th of July that I began to take a more particular
survey of the island itself. I went up the creek first, where, as I
hinted, I brought my rafts on shore. I found, after I came about
two miles up, that the tide did not flow any higher; and that it was
no more than a little brook of running water, very fresh and good:
but this being the dry season, there was hardly any water in some
parts of it; at least, not any stream. On the Banks of this brook
1 found many pleasant savannahs or meadows, plain, smooth, anj
covered with grass; and on the rising parts of them, next to the
higher grounds (where the water, as it might be supposed, never
overflowed), I found a great deal of tobacco, green, and growing to
a very great and strong stalk: and there were divers other plants,
which I had no knowledge of, or understanding about, and that
might, perhaps, have virtues of their own, which I could not find
out. I searched for the cassava root, which the Indians, in all that
climate, make their bread of; but I could find none. I saw large
plants of aloes, but did not understand them. I saw several sugar-
canes, but wild; and, for want of cultivation, imperfect. I con-
tented myself with these discoveries for this time; and came back,
musing with myself what course I might take to know the virtue
and goodness of any of the fruits or plants which I should discover;
but could bring it to no conclusion; for, in short, I had made so
little observation while I was in the Brazils, that I knew little of the
plants in the fields; at least, very little that might serve me to any
purpose now in my distress.
Ihe next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again; and after
going something farther than I had gone the day before, I found the
brook and the savannahs begin to cease, and the country become
more woody than before. In this part I found different fruits; and
particularly I found melons upon the ground in great abundance,
and grapes upon the trees: the vines, indeed, had spread over the
trees, and the clusters of grapes were now just in their prime, very
ripe and rich. This was a surprising discovery, and I was ex-
ceedingly glad of them, but I was warned by my experience to eat
sparingly of them, remembering that when I was asiiorc in Tiarbary,
the eating of grapes killed several of our Englishmen, who were
slaves there, by tin-owing them into fluxes and fevers. I found,
however, an excellent use for these grapes; and that was to cure or
dry them in the sun, and keep them as dried grapes or raisins are
kept; which I thought would be (as indeed they were) as whole-
some and as agreeable to eat, when no grapes were to be had.
Having spent three days in this journey, I came home, so I must
now call my tent and my cave.
When I came home from this journey, I contemp,ated with great
pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley, and the plsoaantness of the
situation; the security from storms on that side; the water and the
wood; and concluded that I had pitched upon a place to fix my
abode in, which was by far the worst part of the country. Upon
the whole, I began to consider of removing my habitation, and to

look out for a place equally safe as where 1 was now situate; if
possible, in that pleasant fruitful part of the island.
I was so enamoured of this place, that I spent much of my time
there for the whole remaining' part of the month of July; and
though, upon second thoughts, 1 resolved not to remove, yet I built
uie a little kind of a bower, and surrounded it at a distance with a
strong fence, being a double hedge, as high as I could reach, well
staked, and filled between with brushwood. Here I lay very secure
sometimes two or three nights together; always troing over it with
a ladder, as before: so that I fancied now I had my couutry and
my sea-coast house. This work took me up to the beginning of
August.
About the beginning of August, I had finished my bower, and
began to enjoy myself. The 3rd of August, 1 found the grapes I
had hung up were perfectly dried, and indeed were excellent good
raisins of the sun; so I began to take them down from the trees;
and it was very happy that I did so, as the rains which followed
would have spoiled them, and I should have lost the best part of my
winter food; for I had above two bundled large bunches of them.
No sooner had I taken them all down, and carried most of them
home to my cave, but it begau to rain: and from hence, which was
the 14th of August, it rained, more or less, every day till the middle
of October; and sometimes so violently, that I could not stir out of
my cave for several days.
In this season, I was much surprised with the \ncrease of my
family. I had been concerned for the loss of one of my cats, who
ran away from me, or, as I thought, had been dead; and I heard no
more of her, till, to my astonishment, she came home with three
kittens. This was the more strange to me, because, about the end

of August, though I had killed a wild cat, as I called it, with my
gun, yet I thought it was quite a different kind from our European
cats: yet the young cats were the same kind of house-breed as the
old one; and both of my cats being females, I thought it very
strange. But from these three, I afterwards came to be so pestered
with cats that I was forced to kill them like vermin, or wild beasts,
and to drive them from my house as much as possible.
From the 14th of August to the 2Cth, incessant rain; so that I
could not stir, and was now very careful not to be much wet. In
this confinement, I began to be straitened for food, but venturing out
twice, I one day killed a goat, and the last day, which was the 24th,
found a very large tortoise, which was a treat to me. My food was
now regulated thus: I ate a bunch of raisins for my breakfast; a
piece of the goat's flesh, or of the turtle, broiled for my dinner, (for,
to my great misfortune, I had no vessel to boil or stew anything,)
and two or three of the turtle's eggs for my supper.
During this confinement in my cover from the rain, I worked daily
two or three hours at enlarging my cave; and by degrees worked it
on towards one side, till I came to the outside of the hill: and made
a door, or way out, which came beyond my fence or wall; and so I
came in and out this way. But I was not perfectly easy at lying so
open: for as I had managed myself before, I was m a perfect
enclosure; whereas now, I thought I lay exposed; and yet I could
not perceive that there was any living thing to fear, the biggest
creature that I had as yet seen upon the island being a goat.
September 30. I was now come to the unhappy anniversary of
my landing: I cast up the notches on my post, and found I "had
been on shore three hundred and sixty-five days. I kept this day as
a solemn fast! setting it apart for religious exercise, prostrating
myself on the ground with the most serious humiliation, confessing
my sins to God, acknowledging his righteous judgments upon me,
and praying to him to have mercy on me through Jesus Christ; ana
having not tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours, even till
the going down of the sun, I then ate a biscuit and a bunch of
grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day as I began it. I had all
this time observed no sabbath-day; for as at first I had no sense of
religion upon my mind, I had, after some time, omitted to distinguish
the weeks, by making a longer notch than ordinary for the sabbath-
day, and so did not really Know what any of the days were: but
now having cast up the days, as above, I found I had been there a
year; so I dividedit into weeks, and set-«part every seventh day for
a sabbath: though I found, at the end of my account, I had lost a
day or two in my reckoning. A little after this, my ink beginning
to fail me, I contented myself to use it more sparingly; and to
write down only the most remarkable events of my life.
The rainy season and the dry season began now to appear regular
to me, and I learned to divide them so as to provide for them
accordingly; but I bought all my experience before I had it.
While my corn was growing, I mado a little discovery, which was
of use to me afterwards. As soon as the rains were over, and the
weather began to settle, which was about the month of November,
I made a visit up the country to my bower; where, though I had
not been for some months, yet I found all things just as I had left
them. The circle or double hedge that I had made was not only firm
and entile, but the stakes which I had cut out of some trees that grew
thereabouts, were all shot out and grown with long branches, as
much as a willow-tree usually shoots the first year after lopping its
head; but I could not tell what tree to call it that these stakes were
cut from. I was surprised, and yet very well pleased, to see the
young trees grow; and I pruned them, and led them to grow as
much alike as I could: and it is scarce credible how beautiful a
figure they grew into in three years: so that, though the hedge
made a circle of about twenty-five yards in diameter, yet the trees,
for such I might now call them, soon covered it, and it was a com-
plete shade, sufficient to lodge under all the dry season. This made
me resolve to cut some more stakes, and make me a hedge like this, in
a semicircle round my wall (I mean that of my first dwelling), which
I did: and placing the trees or stakes in a double row, at about eight
yards distance from my fence, they grew presently; and were at
first a fine cover to my habitation, and afterwards servnd for a
^stance also; as I shall observe in its order.
THl ANNIVERSARY OF CRUBOK s LANDING.
SECTION XI.
ROBINSON MAKES A TOUR 10 EXFLORE HIS ISLAND.
I fousd now that the seasons of the year might generally be divided,
not into summer and winter as in Europe, but into the rainy seasons
and the dry seasons, which were generally thus: From the middle
of February to the middle of April, rainy; the sun being then on
or near the equinox. From the middle of April till the middle of
August, dry; the sun being then north of the Line. From the middle
August till the middle of October, rainy; the sun being then come
back to the Line. From the middle of October till the middle of
February, dry; the sun being then to the south of the Line.
The rainy seasons held sometimes longer and sometimes shorter,
as the winds happened to blow ; but this was the general observation
I made. After I had found, by experience, the ill consequences of
being abroad in the rain, I took care to furnish myself with provisions
beforehand, that I might not be obliged to go out; and I sat within
doors as much as possible during the wet months. In this time I found
much employment, and very suitable also to the time; as I found
great occasion for many things which I had no way to furnish myself
with, but by hard labour and constant application; particularly, I
tried many ways to make myself a basket; but all the twigs I could
get for the purpose proved so brittle that they would do nothing. It
proved of excellent advantage to me now, that when I was a boy, I
used to take great delight in standing at a baskot-maker's in the
town where my father lived, to see them make their wicker-ware;
ADVENTURES OP BOBINSON CHUSOE.
and being, as boys usually are, very officious to help, and a great
observer of the manner how they worked those things, and sometimes
lending a hand, I had by these means full knowledge of the methods
of it, so that I wanted nothing but the materials; when it came into
my mind, that the twigs of that tree from whence I cut my stakes
that grew, might possibly be as tough as the sallows, willows, and
osiers, in England, and I resolved to try. Accordingly, the next
day, I went to my country-house, as I called it, and cutting some of
the smaller twigs, I found them to my purpose as much as I could

desire; whereupon I came the next time prepared with a hatchet to
cut down a quantity, which I soon found, for there was great plenty
of them. These I set up to dry within my circle or hedge; and
when they were fit for use, I carried them to my enve; and there,
during the next season, I employed myself in making, as well as
I could, several baskets; both to carry earth, or to carry or lay up
anything I had occasion for. Though I did not finish them very
handsomely, yet I made them sufficiently serviceable for my purpose;
and thus, afterwards, I took care never to be without them; and as
my wicker-ware decayed, I made more; especially strong deep
baskets to place my cor n in, instead of sacks, when I should come
to have any quantity of it.
I mentioned before, that I had great mind to sec the whole island;
and that I had travelled up the brook, and so on to where I had
built my bower, and where I had an opening quite to the sea, on the
other side of the island. I now resolved to travel quite across to
the sea-shore, on that side; so taking my gun, a hatchet, and my
dog, and a larger quantity of powder and shot than usual, with two
biscuit-cakes, and a great bunch of raisins in my pouch, for my store,
I began my journey. When I had passed the vale where my bower
stood, as above, I came within view of the sea, to the west; and it
being a clear day, I fairly descried land, whether an island or con-
tinent I could not tell; but it lay very high, extending from W. to W.
S.W. at a very great distance; by my guess, it could not be less
than fifteen or twenty leagues off.

I could not tell what part of the world this might be; otherwise
than that I knew it must be part of America, and as I concluded
by all my observations, must be near the Spanish dominions; and
perhaps was all inhabited by savages, where, if I should have landed,
I had been in a worse condition than I was now. I therefore ac-
quiesced in the disposition of Providence, which I began now to
own and to believe ordered everything for the best; I say, I quieted
my mind with this, and left off afflicting myself with fruitless wishes
of being there. Besides, after some reflection upon this affair,
I considered that if this land was the Spanish coast, I should certainly
one time or other, see some vessel pass or repass one way or other;
but if not, then it was a savage coast between the Spanish country
and the Brazils, whose inhabitants are indeed the worst of savages;
for they are cannibals, or men-eaters, and fail not to murder and
devour all human beings that fall into their hands.
With these considerations, walking very leisurely forward, I found
this side of the island, where I now was, much pleasanter than mine;
the open or savannah fields sweetly adorned with flowers and grass,
and full of very fine woods. I saw abundance of parrots; and fain
would have caught one, if possible, to have kept it to be tame, and
taught it to speak to me. I did, after taking some pains catch a
young parrot; for I knocked it down with a stick, and, having recov-
ered it, I brought it home; but it was some years before I could
make him spea*; however, at last I taught him to call me by my
name very familiarly.
I was exceedingly amused with this journey. 1 found in the low
grounds hares, as I thought them to be, and foxes; but they differed
greatly from all the other kinds I had met with; nor could I satisfy
myself to eat them, though I killed several. But I had no need to
be venturous; for I had no want of food, and of that which was very
good too, especially these three sorts, viz. goats, pigeons, and turtle,
or tortoise.
As soon as I came to the sca-shore, I was surprised to see that I
had taken up my lot on the worst side of the island; for here indeed
the shore was covered with innumerable turtles; whereas, on the
other side I had found but three in a year and a half. Here was
also an infinite number of fowls of many kinds; some of which I had
not seen before, and many of them very good meat, but such as I knew
not the names of, except those called penguins.
I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter than mine;
yet I had not the least inclination to remove; for as I was fixed in my
habitation, it became natural to me, and I seemed all the while I was
here to be as it were upon a journey, and from home. However, I
travelled along the seashore towards the east, I suppose about twelve
miles, and then setting up a great pole upon the seashore for a mark,
I concluded I would go home again; and that the next journey I
took should be on the other side of the island, east from my dwelling,
and so round till I came to my post again; of which in its place.
I took another way to come back than that I went, thinking I could
easily keep so much of the island in my view, that I could not miss
finding my first dwelling by viewing the country; but I found myself
mistaken; for being come about two or three miles, I found myself
descended in a very large valley, but so surrounded with hills, aud
those hills covered with wood, that I could not see which was my way
by any direction but that of the sun, nor even then, unless I knew
very well the position of the sun at that time of the day. And it
happened to my farther misfortune, that the weather proved hazy for
three or four days while I was in this valley; and not being able to
see the sun, I wandered about very uncomfortable, and at last was
obliged to find out the seaside, look for my post, aud come back the
same way I went; and then by easy journeys I turned homeward,
the weather being exceeding hot, and my gun, ammunition, hatchet,
ind "ther things very heavv


CRTT80E AWD HIS GOiT.
SECTION XII.
HE RETURNS TO HIS CAVE—HIS AGRICULTURAL LABOURS ANI)
SUCCESS.
In this journey, my dog surprised a young kid and seized upon it;
and I running to take hold of it, caught it and saved it alive from
the dog. I had a great mind to bring it home if I could; for I had
often been musing whether it might not be possible to get a kid or
two, and so raise a breed of tame goats, which might supply me with
food when my powder and shot were all spent. I made a collar for
this little creature, and with a string which I had made of some rope
yarn, which I always carried about me, I led him along, though with
some difficulty, till I came to my bower, and there I enclosed him
and left him; for I was very impatient to be at home, from whence
I had been absent above a month.
I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale myself after my long
journey; during which, most of the time was taken up in the weighty
affair of making a cage for my Poll, who began now to be more do-
mestie, and to be mighty well acquainted with me. Then I began to
think of the poor kia which I had penned within my little circle, and
resolved to fetch it home, or give it some food; accordingly I went,
and found it where I left it (for indeed it could not get out,) but was
almost starved for want of food. I went and cut boughs of trees,
and branches of such shrubs as I could find, and having fed
it, I tied it as I did before, to lead it away; but it was so tame
with being hungry, that I had no need to have tied it, for it
followed me like a dog; and as I continually fed it, the creature be-
came so loving, so gentle, and so fond, that it was from that time
one of my domesties also, and would never leave we afterwards.
It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much more happy the
life I now led was, with all its miserable circumstances, than the
wicked, cursed, abominable life I led all the past part of my days;
and now having changed both my sorrows and my joys: my very
desires altered, my affections, changed and my delights were per-
fectly new from what they were at my first coming, or indeed for the
two years past. Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting,
or for viewing the country, the anguish of my soul at my condition
would break out upon me on a sudden, and my very heart would die
within me, to think of the woods, the mountains, the deserts I was
in; and how I was a prisoner, locked up with the eternal bars and
holts of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness, without redemption.
In the midst of the greatest composures of my mind this would
break out upon me like a storm, and make me wring my hands and
weep like a child: sometimes it would take me in the middle of my
work, and I would immediately sit down and sigh, and look upon the
ground for an hour or two together: and this was still worse to me;
but if I could burst into tears, or give vent to my feelings by words,
it would go off; and my grief haying exhausted itself would abate.
Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third year; and
though I have not given tha reader the trouble of so particular an
account of my works this year as the first, yet in general it may be
observed, that I was very seldom idle, having regula/ly divided my
time, according to the several daily employments that were before me;
such as, first, My duty to God, and reading the scriptures, which
I constantly set apart some time for, thrice every day: secondly,
Going abroad with my gun for food, which generally took me up three
hours every morning, when it did not rain: thirdly, The ordering,
curing, preserving, and cooking what I had killed or catched for my
supply; these took up great part of the day, when the sun was in
the zenith the violence of the heat was too great to stir out; so that
about four hours in the evening was all the time I could be supposed
to work in; with this exception, that sometimes I changed my hours
of hunting and working, and went to work in the morning, and
abroad with my gun in the afternoon.
To this short time allowed for labour, I desire may be added the
exceedingly laboriousness of my work; the many hours which, for
want of tools, want of help, and want of skill, everything I did took
up out of my time: for example, I was full two ana forty days
making me a board for a long shelf, which I wanted in my cave;
whereas, two sawyers, with their tools and a sawpit, would cut six
of them out of the same tree in half a day.
My case was this; it was a large tree that was to be cut down,
because my board was to be a broad one. This tree I was three
days cutting down, and two more in cutting off the boughs, and
reducing it to a log, or piece of timber. With inexpressible hacking
and hewing, I reduced both the sides of it into chips, till it was light
enough to move; then I tarned it, and made one side of it smooth
and flat as a board, from end to end; then turning that side down-
ward, cut the other side, till I brought the plank to be about three
inches thick, and smooth on both sides. Any one may judge the
labour of my hands in such a piece of work ; but labour and patience
carried me through that, and many other things; I only observe
this in particular, to show the rcasou why so much of my time went
away with so little work, viz. that what might be a little to be done
with help and tools, was a vast labour, and required a prodigious
time to do alone, and by hand. Notwithstanding this, with patience
and labour I went through many things; and, indeed, everything
that my circumstances made necessary for me to do, as will appear
by what follows.

I was now, in the months of November and December, expecting
my crop of barley and rice. The ground I had manured or dug up
for them was not great; for, as I observed, my seed of each was not
more than half a peck, having lost one whole crop by sowing in the
dry season : but now my crop promised very well; when, on a sudden,
I found I was in danger of losing it again by enemies of several
sorts, which it was scarce possible to keep from it; as, first, the
goats, and wild creatures which I called hares, who, tasting the
sweetness of the blade, lay in it night and day, as soon as it came
up, and ate it so close. that it could get no time to shoot up into
stalk.
I saw no jemedy for this, but by making an enclosure about it
ADVENTUBES OF 110BINSON CRTJSOE.
with a hedge, which I did with a great deal of toil; and the more,
because it required speed. However, as my arable land was but
small, suited to my crop, I got it tolerably well fenced in about
three weeks' time; and shooting some of the creatures in the day-
time, I set my dog to guard it at night, tying him up to a stake at
the gate, where he would stand and bark all night long; so in a
little time the enemies forsook the place, and the corn grew very
Btrong and well, and began to ripen apace.

But as the beasts ruined me before, while my cor n was in the
blade, so the birds were likely to ruin me now, when it was in the
car; for going along by the place to see how it throve, I saw my
little crop surrounded with fowls, I know not of how many sorts, who
stood, as it were, watching till I should be gone. I immediately let
fly among them, for I always had my gun with me, and killed three
of them. 1 took them up, and served them as we serve notorious
thieves in England, viz. hanged them in chains, for a terror to others.
It is impossible to imagine that this should have such an effect as it
had; for the fowls not only never came to the corn, but, in short,
they forsook all that part of the island, and I could never see a bird
near the place as long as my scarecrows hung there. This I
was very glad of, you may be sure; and about the latter end of
December, which was oar second harvest of the year, I reaped my
corn.
I was sadly put to it for a scythe or sickle to cut it down: and all
I could do was to make one as well as I could, out of one of the
broad swords, or cutlasses, which I saved among the arms out of the
ship. However as my first crop was but small, I had no great
difficulty to cut it down: in short, I reaped it my way, for I cut
nothing off but the ears, and carried it away in a great basket which
I had made, and so rubbed it out with my hands; and at the end of
all my harvesting, I found that out of my half peck of seed I had
Bear two bushels of rice, and above two bushels and a half ol
barley; that is to say, by my guess, for I had no measure.
However, this was great encouragement to me; and I foresaw
that, in time, it would please God to supply me with bread; yet here .
1 was perplexed again; for I neither Knew how to grind, or make
meal of my corn, or indeed how to clean it and part it; nor if mada
into meal, how to make bread of it; and if how to make it, yet I
knew not how to bake it; these things being added to my desire of
having a good quantity for store, and to secure a constant supply, I
resolved not to taste any of this crop, but to preserve it all for seed
against the next season; and, in the meantime, to employ all my
study and hours of working to accomplish this great work of provid-
ing myself with corn and bread.
It might be truly said, that now I worked for my bread. It is a
little wonderful, and what I believe few people have thought much
upon, viz. the strange multitude of little things necessary in the pro-
viding, producing, curing, dressing, making, and finishing this one
article of bread. I that was reduced to a mere state of nature,
found this to my daily discouragement, and was made more sensible
of it every hour, even after I had got the first handful of seed corn,
which, as I have said, came up unexpectedly, and indeed to a
surprise.
First, I had no plough to turn up the earth; no spade or shovel
to dig it; well, this I conquered by making a wooden spade, as I
observed before; but this did my work in but a wooden manner. The
corn was sown; I had no harrow, but was forced to go over it myself,
and drag a great heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch it, as it
may be called, rather than rake or harrow it. Then.I wanted a mill
to grind it, sieves to dress it; yeast and salt to make it into bread,
ana an oven to bake it; and yet all these things I did without, as
shall be observed; and the cor n was an inestimable comfort and
advantage to me; and as I resolved to use none of the corn for bread
till I had a greater quantity by me, I had the next six months to
apply myself wholly, by labour and invention, to furnish myself with
utensils proper fcr the performing all the operations necessary for
tiaking corn fit for my vse.

SECTION XIII.
HIS MANUFACTURE OF FOTTERY, AND CONTRIVANCE FOR BARING
BREAD.
But now I was to prepare more land; for I had seed enough to sow
above an acre of ground. Before I did this, I had a week's work at
least to make me a spade; which, when it was done, was but a sorry
one indeed, and very heavy, and required double labour to work with
it; however, I went through that, and sowed my seed in two large
flat pieces of grouud, as near my house as J could find them to my
mind, and fenced them in with a good hedge; the stakes of which
were all cut off that wood which I had set before, and knew it would
grow; so that, in one year's time, I knew I should have a quick or
living hedge, that would want but little repair. This work took me
up full three months ; because a great part of the time was in the wet
season, when I could not go abroad. Within doors, that is, when it
rained, and I could not go out, I found employment on the following
occasions: always observing, that while I was at work, I diverted
myself with talking to my parrot, and teaching him to speak; and I
quickly taught him to know his own name, and at last to speak it
out pretty loud, Poll; which was t he first word I ever heard spoken,
in the island by any mouth but my own. This, therefore, was not
my work, but an assistant to my work; for now, as I said, I had a
great employment upon my hands, as follows: I had long studied,
by some means or ol her, to make myself some earthen vessels, which
indeed I wanted much, but knew not where to come at them; how-
ever, considering the heat of the climate, I did not doubt but if I
could find out an; clay, I might botch up some such pot as might,
being dried in the sun, be hard and strong enough to bear handling,
and to hold anything that was dry, and required to be kept so; and
as this was necessary in preparing corn, meal, &c., which was the
thing I was upon, I resolved to make some as large as I could, and
fit only to stand like jars, to hold what should be put into them.
It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me, to tell
how many awkward ways I took to raise this paste; what odd, mis-
shapen ugly things I made; how many of them fell in, and how
many fell out, the clay not being stiff enough to bear its own weight;
how many cracked by the over violent heat of the sun, being set out
too hastily; and how many fell in pieces with only removing, as well
before as after they were dried; and, in a word, how, after having
laboured hard to find the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it
home, and work it, I could not make above two large earthern ugly
things (I cannot call them jars) in about two months' labour.
However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard, I lifted
them very gently up, and set them down again in two great wicker
baskets, which I had made on purpose for them, that they might not
break; and as betwean the pot and the basket there was a little
room to spare, I stuffed it lull of the rice and barley straw; and
these two pots being to stand always dry, I thought would hold my
dry corn, and perhaps the meal, when the corn was bruised.
Though I miscarried so much in my design for large pots, yet I
made several smaller things with better success ; such as little round
pots, flat dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, asd everything my hand turned
to; and the heat of the sun baked them very hard.
iut all this would not answer my end, which was to get an earthen
?ot to hold liquids, and bear the fire, which none of these could do.
t happened some time after, making a pretty large fire for cooking
my meat, when I went to put it out alter I had done with it, I
found a broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels in the fire,
burnt as hard as a stone, and red as a tile. I was agreeably sur-
prised to see it; and said to myself, that certainly they might be
made to burn whole, if they would burn broken.
This set me to study how to order my fire, so as to make it burn
some pots. I had no notion of a kiln, such as the potters burn in,
or of glazing them with lead, though 1 had some lead to do it with;
but I placed three large pipkins and two or three pots in a pile, one
upon another, and placed my fire-wood all round it, with a great
heap of embers under them. I plied the fire with fresh fuel round
the outside, and upon the top, till I saw the pots in the inside red-
hot quite through, and observed that they did not crack at all; when
I saw them clear red, I let them stand in that heat about five or six
hours, till I found one of them, though it did not crack, did melt or
run; for the sand which was mixed with the clay melted by the
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
violence of the heat, and would have run into glass, if I had gone on;
so I slacked my fire gradually, till the pots began to abate of the red
colour; and watching them all night, that I migbt not let the fire
abate too fast, in the morning I had three very good, 1 will not say
handsome, pipkins, and two other earthcrn pots, as hard burnt as
could be desired; and one of them perfectly glazed with the running
of the sand.
My next concern was to get a stone mortar to beat some cor n in;
for as to the mill, there was no thought of arriving to that perfection
of art with one pair of hands. To supply this want I was at a great
loss; for, of all trades in the world, I was as perfectly unqualified
for a stone-cutter as for any whatever; neither had I any tools to go
about it with. I spent many a day to find out a great stone big
enough to cut hollow, and make fit for a mortar; but could find none

'at all, except what was in the solid rock, and which I had no way
to dig or cut out; nor, indeed, were the rocks in the island of
sufficient hardness, as they were all of a sandy crumbling stone, which
would neither bear the weight of a heavy pestle, nor would break
the corn without filling it with sand; so, after a great deal of time
lost in looking for a stone, I gave it over, and resolved to look out
for a block of hard wood, which I found indeed much easier; and
getting one as big as I had strength to stir, I rounded and formed
it on the outside with my axe and hatchet; and then with the
help of the fire, and infinite labour, made a hollow in it, as the
Indians in Brazil make their canoes. After this, I made a great
heavy pestle, or beater, of the wood called iron-wood; and this I
prepared and laid by against I had my next crop of corn, when
I proposed to myself to grind, or rather pound, my corn into
meal, to make my bread.
The baking part was the next thing to be considered, and how I should
make bread when I came to have corn; for, first, I had no yeast;
as to that part, there was no supplying the want, so I did not con-
cern myself much about it; but for an oven I was indeed puzzled.
At length I found oat an expedient for that also, which was this: I
made some earthen vessels very broad, but not deep, that is to say,
about two feet diameter, and not above nine inches deep; these I
burned in the fire, as I had done the other, and laid them by; and
when I wanted to bake, I made a great fire upon my hearth, which
I had paved with some square tiles, of my own making and burning
also; but I should not call them square. When the firewood was
burned into embers, or live coals, I drew them forward upon the
hearth, so as to cover it all over, and there let them lie till the hearth
was very hot; then sweeping away all the embers, I set down my
loaf, or loaves, and covering them with the earthen pot, drew the
embers all round the outside of the pot, to keep in and add to the
heat; and thus, as well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my
barley loaves, and became, in a little time, a good pastrycook into
the bargain; for I made myself several cakes and puddings of the
rice; but made no pies, as I had nothing to put into them except
the flesh of fowls or goats.
And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I really wanted to
build my barns bigger; I wanted a place to lay it up in; for the
increase of the corn now yielded me so much, that I had of the
barley about twenty bushels, and of rice as much, or more, insomuch
that now I resolved to begin to use it freely; for my bread had
been quite gone a great while; I resolved also to see what quantity
would be sufficient for me a whole year, and to sow but once a
year.
Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of barley and rice
were much more than I could consume in a year; so I resolved to
bow just the same quantity every year that I sowed the last, in
hopes that such a quantity would fully provide me with bread, &c.


SECTION XIV.
MEDITATES HIS ESCArE FROM TIIE ISLAND—BUILDS A CANOE—
FAILURE OF HIS SCHEME—RESIGNATION TO HIS CONDITION—|
MAKES HIMSELF A NEW DRESS.
All the while these things were doing, you may be sure my thoughts
run many times upon the prospect of land which I had seen from the
other side of the island; and I was not without some secret wishes
that I was on shore there; fancying, that seeing the main land, and
an inhabited country, I might find some way or other to convey
myself farther, and perhaps at last find some means of escape.
Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat with the
shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed above a thousand miles
on the coast of Africa; but this was in vain; then I thought I
would go and look at our ship's boat, which, as I have said, was
blown up upon the shore a great way, in the storm, when we were
first cast away. She lay nearly where she did at first, but not quite,
having turned by the force of the waves and the winds, almost
bottom upward, against a high ridge of beaohy rough sand; but no
water about her as before. If I had had hands to have refitted her,
and to have launched her into the water, the boat would have done
very well, and I might have gone back into the Brazils with her
easily enough; but I might have foreseen that I could no more turn
her and set her upright upon her bottom, than I could remove the
island; however, I went to the woods, and cut levers and rollers,
and brought them to the boat, resolving to try what I could do;
suggesting to myself, that if I could but turn her down, and repair
the damage she nad received, she would be a very good boat, and I
might venture to sea in her.
I spared no pains, indeed in this piece of fruitless toil, and spent
1 think, three or four weeks about it; at last, finding it impossible
to heave her up with my little strength, 1 fell to digging away the
sand, to undermine her, and so as to make her fall down, setting
pieces of wood to thrust and guide her right in the fall. But when
[ had done this, I was unable to stir her up again, or to get undc*
her, much less to move her forward towards the water; so I wai
forced to give it over; and yet, though I gave over the hopes of the
boat, my desire to venture over the main increased, rather than
diminished, as the means for it seemed impossible.
At length, I began to think whether it was not possible to make
myself a canoe, or periagua, such as the natives of those climates
make, even without tools, or, as I might say, without hands, of the
trunk of a great tree. This I not only thought possible, but easy,
and pleased myself extremely with the idea of making it, and with
my having much more convenience for it than any of the Negroes or
Indiana; but not at all considering the particular inconvenience
which I lay under more than the Indians did, viz. the want of hands
to move it into the water when it was made.
I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that ever man
did, who had any of his senses awake. I pleased myself with the
design, without determining whether I was able to undertake it; not
but that the difficulty of launching my boat came often into my head;
but I put a stop to my own inquiries into it, by this foolish answer:
Let us first make it; I warrant I will find some way or other to
get it along when it is done.
This was a most preposterous method; but the eagerness of my
fancy prevailed, and to work I went. I felled a cedar tree, and I
question much whether Solomon ever had such a one for the building
of the Temple at Jerusalem; it was five feet ten inches diameter at
the lower part next the stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter
at the end of twenty-two feet, where it lessened and then parted into
branches. It was not without infinite labour that I felled this tree;
I was twenty days hacking and hewing at the bottom, and fourteen
more getting the branches aild limbs, and the vast spreading head of
it, cut off; after this, it cost me a month to shape it and dub it to a
proportion, and to something like the bottom of a boat, that it might
swim upright as it ought to do. It cost me near three months more
to clear the inside, and work it out so as to make an exact boat of it;
ttiia 1 did, indeed, without fire, by mere mallet and chisel, and by
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CBTJSOE.
the dint of hard labour, till I had brought it to be a very hand-
some periagua, and big enough to have carried me and all my
cargo. .'
But all my devises to get it into the water failed me; though they
cost an inexpressible labour too. It lay about one hundred yards
from the water, and not more; but the first inconvenience was, it
was up hill towards the creek. Well, to take away this discourage-
ment, I resolved to dig into the surface of the earth, and so make a
declivity; this I began, and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains;
but who grudge pains that have their deliverance in view? When
this was worked through, and this difficulty managed, it was still
much the same, for I could no more stir the canoe than I could the
other boat. Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved

to cut a dock, or canal, to bring the water up to the canoe, seeing 1
could not bring the canoe down to the water. Well, I began this
work; and when I began to enter upon it, and caleulate how deep
it was to be dug, how broad, how the stuff was to be throwu out, I
found by the number of hands I had, having none but my own, that
it must have been ten or twelve years before I could have gone
through with it; for the shore lay so high, that at the upper end it
must have been at least twenty feet deep; this attempt, though with
great reluctancy, I was at length obliged to give over also.
This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though too late, the
folly of beginning a work before we count the cost, and before we
judge rightly of our own strength to go through with it.
hi the middle of this work, 1 finished my fourth year in this place,
81
and kept mv anniversary with the same devotion and with as much
comfort as before; for, by a constant study and serious application
to the word of God, and by the assistance of his grace, I gained a
different knowledge from what I had before; I entertained different
notions of things; I looked now upon the world as a thing remote,
which I had nothing to do with, no expectation frum, and indeed, no
desires about: in a word, I had nothing to do with it, nor was even
likely to have; I thought it looked, as we may perhaps look upon
it hereafter, viz. as a place I had lived in, but was come out or it
and well might I say, as father Abraham to Dives, " Between me and
thee is a great gulf fixed."

I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in representing to
myself, in the most lively colours, how I must have acted if I had
got nothing out of the ship. I could not have so much as got any
food, except fish and turtles ; and that, as it was long before I found
any of them, I must have perished, like a mere savage ; that if I had
killed a goat or a fowl, by any contrivance, I had no way to flay or
open it, or part the flesh from the skin and the bowels, or to cut it
np, but must gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it to pieces with my
claws, like a beast.
These reflections made me very sensible of the goodness of Provi-
dence to me, and very thankful for my present condition, with all its
hardships and misfortunes; and this part also I cannot but recommend
to the reflection of those who are apt, in their misery, to say, "Is
any affliction like mine?" Let them consider how much worse the
ADVBNTVRES OF ROBIKSON CRUSOE.
cases of some people are, and their case would have been, if Provi-
dence had thought fit.
With these reflections I worked my mind up, not only to a resig-
nation to the will of God in the present disposition of my circum-
stances, but even to a sincere thankfulness for my condition; and
that I, who was yet a living man, ought not to complain, seeing
I had not the due punishment of my sins; that I enjoyed so many
mercies that I had no reason to have expected in that place, that 1
ought never more to repine at my condition, but to rejoice, and to
give daily thanks for that daily bread, which nothing but a crowd

of wonders could have brought; that I ought to consider I had been
fed by a miracle (even as great as that of feeding Elijah by ravens),
nay, by a long series of miracles; and that I could hardly have
named a place, in the uninhabited part of the world, where I
could have been cast more to my advantage; a place where, as I
had no society, which was my affliction on one hand, so I found no
ravenous beasts, no furious wolves or tigers, to threaten my life; no
venomous or poisonous creatures, which 1 might feed on to my hurt;
no savages to murder and devour me. In a word, as my life was a
life of sorrow one way, so it was a life of mercy another; and I
wanted nothing to make it a life of comfort, but to make myself
sensible of God's goodness to me, and care over me in this condition;
and after I did make a just improvement of these things, I went
away, and was no more sad.
My clothes now began to decay mightily; as to linen, I had
none for a great while, except some chequered shirts which 1
found in the chests of the other seamen, and which I carefully
preserved, because many times I could bear no clothes on but a
shirt, and it was a very great help to me that I had, among all
the men's clothes of the ship, almost three dozen of shirts.
I began to consider about putting the few rags I had, which I
called clothes, into some order. I had worn out all the waistcoats
I had, and my business was now to try if I could not make jackets
out of the great watch-coats that I, had by me, and with sucn other
materials as I had; so I set to work a tailoring, or rather, indeed, a
botching, for I made most piteous work of it. However, I made
shift to make two or three new waistcoats, which I hoped would
serve me a great while.
I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the creatures that
I killed, I mean four-footed ones; and I had hung them up, stretched
out with sticks, in the sun, by which means sonic of them were so
dry and hard that they were fit for little, but others I found very
useful. The first thing I made of these was a great cap for my
bead, with the hair on the outside, to shoot off the rain; and this I
performed so well, that after this I made me a suit of clothes wholly
of the skins, that is to say, a waistcoat, and breeches open at the
knees, and both loose; for they were rather wanting to keep me cool
than warm. I must not omit to acknowledge that they were
wretchedly made; for if I was a bad carpenter, I was a worse tailor
However, they were such as I made very good shift with _; and when
I was abroad, if it happened to rain, the hair of my waistcoat and
cap being uppermost, I was kept very dry.
After this, I spent a great deal of tinie and pains to make me an
umbrella. I made one and covered it with skins, the hair upwards,
so that it cast off the rain like a pent-house, and kept off the sun
so effectually, that I could walk out in the hottest of the weather
with greater advantage than I could before in the coolest; and
when I had no need of it, could close it and carry it under my
arm.
Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being entirely com-
posed by resigning to the will of God, and 'throwing myself
wholly upon the disposal of his providence. This made my life
better than sociable; for when I began to regret the want of
conversation, I would ask myself, whether thus conversing mutu-
ally with my own thoughts, and as I hope I may say with even
God himself, by ejaculations, was not better than "the utmost
enjoyment of human society in the world?

SECTION XV.
HE MAKES A SMALLER CANOE, IN WHICH HE ATTEMPTS TO CRUISE
BOUND THE ISLAND—nlS FERILOUS SITUATION AT SEA—HE
RETURNS HOME.
I cannot say that after this, for five years, any extraordinary thing
happened to me, but I lived on in the same course, in the same pos-
ture and place, just as before ; the chief things I was employed in,
besides my yearly labour of planting my barley and rice, and curing
my raisins, of both which I always kept up just enough to have suffi-
cient stock of one year's provision beforehand; I say, besides this
^yearly labour, and my daily pursuit of going out with my gun, I had
one labour, to make me a canoe, which at last I finished; so that by
digging a canal to it six feet wide, and four feet deep, I brought it
into the creek, almost half a mile.
However, though my little periagua was finished, yet the size of
it was not at all answerable to the design which I had in view when
I made the first; I mean, of venturing over to the terra firma, where
it was above forty miles broad; accordingly, the smallness of my
boat assisted to put an end to that design, and now I thought no
more of it. As I had a boat, my next design was to make a cruise
around the island; for as I had been on the other side in one place,
crossing, as I have already described it, over the land, so the dis-
coveries I made iu that little journey made me very eager to see
other parts of the coast: and now I had a boat, I thought of nothing
but sading round the island.
It was on the sixth of November, in the sixth year of my reign, or
my captivity, which you please, that I set out on this voyage, and I
found it much longer than I expected ; for though the island itseli
was not very large, yet when I came to the east side of it, I found a
great ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues into the sea, some
above water, some under it; and beyond that a shoal of sand, lying
dry half a league more, so that I was obliged to go a great way out
to sea to double the point.
When first I discovered them, I was going to give over my enter-
prise, and come back again, not knowing how far it might oblige me
to go out to sea, and above all, doubting how I should get back
again; so I came to an anchor with a piece of a broken grappling
which I got out of the ship.
Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on shore, climb-
ing up on a hill, which seemed to overlook that point, where I saw
the full extent of it, and resolved to venture.
In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, 1 perceived a
strong, and indeed a most furious current, which ran to the east, and
even came close to the point; and I took the more notice of it,
because I saw there might be some danger that, when I came into
it, I might be carried out to sea by the strength of it, and not be
able to make the island again; and, indeed, had I not got first upon
this hill, I believe it would have been so; for there was the same
current on the other side of the island, only that it set off at a farther
distance, and I saw there was a strong eddy under the shore; so I
had nothing to do but to get out of the first current, and I should
presently be in an eddy.
I lay nere, however, two days, because Mie wind blowing pretty
fresh at B. S. E., and that being just contrary to the said current,
made a great breach of the sea upon the point; so that it was not
safe for me to keep too close to the shore, Tor the breach, nor to go
too far off, because of the stream.
The third day, in the morning, the wind having abated overnight,
the sea was calm, and I ventured; but I am a warning piece again to
all rash and ignorant pilots; for no sooner was I come to the point,
when I was not even my boat's length from the sh»re, but I found
myself in a great depth of water, and a current like the sluice of a
mill; it carried my boat along with it with such violence, that all I
could do could not keep her so much as on the edge of it; but I
found it hurried me farther and farther out from the fcady, which was
on my left hand. There was no wind stirring to help me, and all I
could do with my paddles signified nothing; and now I began to give
myself over for lost; for as the current was on both sides of the
island, I knew in a few leagues' distance they must join again, and
then I was irrecoverably gone; nor did I see any possibility of avoid-
ing it; so that I had no prospect before me hut of perishing, not by
the sea, for that was calm enough, but of starving for hunger. I
Iiad indeed found a tortoise on the shore, as big almost as I could
lift, and had tossed it into the boat; and I had a great jar of fresh
water, that is to say, one of my earthen pots ; but what was all this
to being driven into the vast ocean, where there was no shore, no
main laud or island, for a thousand leagues a I least?
It is scarce possible to imagine the consternation I was now in,
being driven from my beloved island (for so it appeared to me now
to be) into the wide ocean, almost two leagues, and in the utmost
despair of ever recovering it again. However, I worked hard, till
indeed my strength was almost exhausted, and kept my boat as
much to the northward, that is, towards the side of the current
which the eddy lay on, as possibly I could; when about noon, as the
sun passed the meridian, I thought I felt a little breeze of wind in
my (ace, springing up from S.S.E. This cheered my heart a little,
and especially when, in about half an hour more, it blew a pretty
gentle gale. By this time I was got at a frightful distance from the
island, and had the least cloudy or hazy weather intervened, I had
been undone another way too; for I haa no compass on board, and
should never have known how to have steered towards the island, if
I had but once lost sight of it; but the weather continuing clear, I
applied myself to get up my mast again, and spread my sail, stand-
ing away to the north as much as possible, to get out of the
current.
Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began to stretch
away, I saw even by the clearness of the water some alteration of
the current wa» near; for where the current was so strong, the
water was foul; but perceiving the water clear, 1 found the current
abate; and presently I found to the east, at about half a mile, a
breach of the sea upon some rocks ; these rocks I found caused the
current to part again, and as the main stress of it ran away more
southerly, leaving the rocks to the north-east, so the other returned
by the repulse of the rocks, and made a strong eddy, which ran back
again to the north-west, with a very sharp stream.
They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to them
upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves just going to murder
them, or who have been in such-like extremities, may guess what
my present surprise of joy was, and how gladly I put my boat into
the stream of this eddy; and the wind also freshening, how gladly 1
spread my sail to it, running cheerfully before the wind, ana with a
strong tide or eddy under foot.
Tins eddy carried me about a league in my way back again directly
towards the island, but about two leagues more to the northward
than the current which carried me away at first; so that when 1
came near the island, I found myself open to the northern shore of
it, that is to say, the other end of the island, opposite to that which
I went out from.
When I had made som»Oiing more than a league of way by tha
S7
help of this current or eddy, I found it was spent, and served me no
farther. However, I found that being between two great currents,
viz. that on the south side, which had hurried me away, and that on
the north, which lay about a league on the other side; I say,
between these two, in the wake of the island, I found the water at
least still, and running no way; and having still a breeze of wind
fair for me, I kept on steering directly for the island, though not
making such fresh way as I did before.
About four o'clock in the evening, being then within a league of
the island, I found the point of the rocks which occasioned this dis-
aster stretching out, as is described before, to the southward, and
casting off the current more southerly, had, of course, made another

eddy to the north; and this I found very strong, but not directly
setting the way my course lay, which was due west, but almost full
north. However, having a fresh gale I stretched across this eddy,
slanting north-west; and, in about an hour, came within about a
mile of the shore, where, it being smooth water, I soon got to
land.
When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God thanks
for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside all thoughts of my deliver-
ance by my boat; and refreshing myself with such tiiings as I had, I
brought my boat close to the shore, in a little eovc that I had spied
under some trees, and laid me down to sleep, being quite spent with
the labour and fatigue of the voyage.
1 now had enough of rambling to sea for some time, and had
enough lo do for many days to sit still, and to reflect upon the
danger 1 had been in. I would have been very glad to have had my
boat again on my side of the island; but I knew not how it was
fractieable to get it about. As to the east side of the island, which
had gone round, I knew well enough there was no venturing that
way ; my very heart would shrink, and my very blood run chill, but
to think of it; and as to the other side of the island, I did not know
how it might be there; but supposing the current ran with the same
force against the shore at the east as it passed by it on the other, 1
might run the same risk of being driven down the stream, and
carried by the island, as I had been before of being carried away
from it; so, with these thoughts, I contented myself to be without
any boat, though it had been the product of so many months' labour
to make it, and of so many more to get it into the sea.
In this government of my temper I remained near a year, lived a
very sedate, retired life, as you may well suppose; and my thoughts
being very much composed, as to my condition, and fullv comforted
in resigning myself to the dispositions of Providence, I thought I
lived really very happily in all things, except that of society.
I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic exercises which
my necessities put me upon applying myself to; and I believe I could,
upon occasion, have made a very good -earpenter, especially consider-
ing how few tools I had.
Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my earthen-
ware, and contrived well enough to make them with a wheel, which
I found infinitely easier and Detter; because I made tiiings round
and sliapcable, which before were filthy things indeed to look upon.
But I think I was never more vain of my performance, or more joy-
ful for anything I found out, than for my being able to make a
tobacco-pipe: and though it was a very ugly clumsy thing when it
was done, and only burned red, like other earthenware, yet it was
hard and firm, and would draw the smoke, I was exceedingly com-
forted with it, for I had always been used to smoke.
I began now to perceive my powder abated considerably ; this was
a want which it was impossible for me to sunplv, and I began ser-
iously to consider what I must do when I should have no more
powder, that is to say, how I should do to kill any goats. I had, as
is observed, in the third year of my being here, kept a young kid,
and bred her up tame, and I was in hopes of getting a he-goat; but
I could not bv any means bring it to pass, till my kid grew an old
goat, and as I could never find in my heart to kill her, she died at
last of mere age.

SECTION XVL
HE REARS A FLOCK. OF GOATS—111s DAIRY—HIS DOMESTIC HABITS
AND STYLE OF LIVING INCREASING I'IIOSFEIIITY.
Being now in the eleventh year of my residence, and as I have said
my ammunition growing low, I set myself to study some art to trap
and snare the goats, to see whether I could not catch some of them
alive. I dug several large pits in the earth, in places where I had
observed the goats used to feed, and over those pits I placed hurdles,
of my own making too, with a great weight upon them; and several
times I put ears of barley and dry rice, without setting the trap ; and
I could easily perceive that the goats had gone in and eaten up the
corn, for I could see the marks of their feet. At length I set three
traps in one night, and going the next morning, I found them all
standing, and yet the bait eaten and gone. This was very discourag-
ing: however, I altered my traps; and one morning I found in one
of them a larg^e old he-goat, and in one of the others three kids, a
male and two females.
As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him; he was so
fierce, I durst not go into the pit to him; that is to say, to go about
to bring him away alive, which was what I wanted. I could have
killed him, but that was not my business, nor would it answer my
end: so I even let him ouf, and he ran away, as if he had been
frightened out of his wits. I went to the three kids, and taking them
one by one, I tied them with strings together, and with some difficulty
brought them all home.
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
It was a good while before they would feed; but throwing them
some sweet corn, it tempted them, and they began to be tame. And
now I found that if I expected to supply myself with goats' flesh
when I had no powder or shot left, breeding some up tame was my
only way; when, perhaps, I might have them about my house like a
flock of sheep. But then it occurred to me, that I must keep the
tame from the wild, or else they would always run wild when they
grew up; and the only way for this was, to have some enclosed piece
of ground, well fenced, either with hedge or pale, to keep them in so

effectually, that those within might not break out, or those without
break in.
But this was not all; for now I not only had goats' flesh to feed
on when I pleased, but milk too; a thing which, indeed, in the be-
ginning, I did not so much as think of, and which, when it came into
my thoughts, was really an agreeable surprise; for now I set up my
dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a day. And as
Nature, who gives supplies of food to every creature, dictates even
naturally how to make use of it, so I, that had never milked a cow,
much less a goat, or seen butter or cheese made, only when I was a
boy, after a great many essays and miscarriages, made me both butter
and cheese at last, and also salt (though I found it partly made to my
hand by the heat of the sun upon *ome of tue rocks of the sea), and
never wanted it afterwards.
cbusoe's family.
It arould have made a stoic smile to have seen me and my little
family sit down to dinner. There was my majesty, the prince and
lord of the whole island; I had the lives of all my subjects at my
absolute command; I could hang, draw, give liberty, and take it
away; and no rebels among all my subjects.
Then to see how like a lung I dined too, all alone, attended by mj
servants; Poll, as if he had Tbeen my favourite, was the only person
permitted to talk to me. My dog, who was now grown very old and
crazy, and two cats, one on one side of t he table, and one on the
other, expecting now and then a bit from my hand, as a mark of
special favour. w
My own figure was ancouth enough. I had a great high shapeless
cap, made of a goal's skin, with a flap hanging down behind, as well
to keep the sun from me as to shoot the rain off from running into
my neck; nothing being so hurtful in these climates as the rain upon
the flesh, under the clothes.
I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming down to
about the middle of the thighs, and a pair of open-kneed breeches of
the same; the breeches were made of the skin of an old he-gont,
whose hair hung down such a length on either side, that, like panta-
loons, it reached to the middle of my legs; stockings and shoes I
had none, but had made me a pair of somethings, I scarce know what
to call them, like buskins, to flap over my legs, and lace on either
side like spatterdashes, but of a most barbarous shape, as indeed
were all the rest of my clothes.
I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I drew together
with two thongs of the same, instead of buckles; and in a kind ot
frog on either side of this, instead of a sword and dagger, hung a
little saw and a hatchet; one on one side and one on the other. I
had another belt, not so broad, and fastened in the same manner,
which hung over my shoulder; and at the end of it, under my left
arm, hung two pouches, both made of goat's skin too; in one 01
which hung my powder, in the other my shot. At my back I carried
my basket, and on my shoulder my gun; and over my hkad a great
clumsy ugly goat's skin umbrella, but which, after all, was the most
necessary thing I had about me, next to my gun. As for my face,
the colour of it was not so mulatto-like as one might expect from a
man not at all careful of it, and living within nine or ten degrees ot
the equinox. My beard I had once suffered to grow till it was about
a quarter of a yard long; but as I had both scissars and razors
sufficient, I had cut it pretty short, except what grew on my upper lip,
which I had tr m i ed into a large pair of Mahometan whiskers, such
as I had seen worn by some Turks at Sallee; for the Moora did not
wear such, though the Turks did; of these mustachios or whiskers.
I will not say they were long enough to hang my hat upon them, but
they were of a length and shape monstrous enough, and such as, in
England, would have passed for frightful.
You are to understand, that now I had, as I may call it, two
plantations in the island; one my little fortification or tent with the
wall about it, under the rock, with the cave behind me, which, by
this time, I had enlarged into several apartments or caves, one within
another. One of these, which was the driest and largest, and had a
door out beyond my wall or fortification, that is to say, beyond
where my wall joined to the rock, was all filled up with the large
earthen pots, of which I have given an account, and with fourteen or
fifteen great baskets, which would hold five or sis bushels each,
where I laid up my stores of provision, especially my corn, some in
the ear, cut off short from the straw, and the other rubbed out with
my hand.
As for my wall, made, a? before, with long stakes or piles, those
piles grew all like trees, and were by this time grown so big, and
spread so very much, that there was not the least appearance, to
any one's view, of any habitation behind them.
Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther within the land,
and upon lower ground, lay my two pieces of cor n land, which I
kept duly cultivated and sowed, and which duly yielded me their
harvest in its season; and whenever I had occasion for more corn, I
had more land adjoining as fit as that.
Besides this, I had my country seat; and I had now a tolerable
plantation there also: for, first, I had my little bower, as I called it,
which I kept in repair; that is to say, I kept the hedge which
encircled it in constantly fitted up to its usual height, the ladder
standing always in the inside: I kept the trees, which at first were
no more than my stakes, but were now grown very firm and tall,
always cut so, that they might spread and grow thick and wild, and
make the more agreeable shade, which they did effectually to my
mind. In the middle of this I had my tent always standing, being a
piece of a sail spread over poles, set up for that purpose, and which
never wanted any repair or renewing; and under this I had made
me a squab or couch, with the skins of the creatures I had killed,
and with other soft things; and a blanket laid on them, such as be-
longed to our sea bedding, which I had saved, and a great watch-
coat to cover me; and here, whenever I had occasion to be absent
from my ehie: seat, I took up my country habitation.

SECTION XVII.
UNEXFECTED ALARM AND CAUSE FOR AFFREHENSION—HE FORTI-
FIES HIS ABODE.
It happened one dav, about noon, going towards my boat, I was
exceedingly surprised with the print of a man's naked foot on the
shore, which was very plain to be seen in the sand. I stood like one
thunderstruck, or as if I had seen an apparition ; I listened, I looked
round me, but I could hear nothing, nor see anything; I went up to
a rising ground, to look farther; I went up the shore and down the
shore, but it was all one ; I could see no other impression but that
one. I went to it again to see if there were any more, and to
observe if it might not be my fancy; but 'lierc was no room for
that, for there was exactly the print of a f jot, toes, heel, and every
part of a foot: how it came thither I knew not, nor could I in the
least imagine; but, after innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a
man perfectly confused and out of myself, I came home to my forti-
fication, not feeling, as we say, the ground I went on, but terrified
to the last degree; looking behind me at every two or three steps,
mistaking every bush and tree, and fancying every stump at a dis-
tance to be a man. Nor is it possible to describe how many various
shapes my affrighted imagination represented things to me in, how
many wild ideas were found every moment in my fancv, and what
strange unaccountable whimsies came into my thoughts oy the way.
When I came to my castle (for so I think I called it ever after
this), I fled into it like one pursued; whether I went over by the
ladder, as first contrived, or went in at the hole in the rock, which I
had called a door, I cannot remember; no, nor could I remember
the next morning; for never frightened hare fled to cover, or fox to
earth with more terror of mind than I to this retreat.
I presently concluded that it must be some of the savages of the
main land over against me, who had wandered out to sea in their
canoes, aud, cither driven by the currents or by contrary winds, had
made the island, and had been on shore, but were gone away again
to sea; being as loth, perhaps, to have stayed in this desolate island
as I would have been to have had them.

While these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was very
thankful in my thoughts that I was so happy as not to be thereabouts
at that time, or that they did not see my boat, by which they would
have concluded that some inhabitants had been in the place, and
perhaps have searched farther for me: then terrible thoughts racked
my imagination about their having found my boat, and that there
were people here; and that if so, I should certainly have them come
again in greater numbers, and devour me: that if it should happen
so that they should not find me, yet they would find my enclosure,
destroy all my corn, and carry away all my flock of tame goats, and
I should perish at last for mere want.
Thus my fear banished all my religious hope, all that former con-
fidence in God, which was founded upon such wonderful experience
as I had had of ifis goodness, as if He that had fed me by miracle
hitherto could not preserve. bv His power, the provision which He
had made for me by His goodness. I reproached myself with my
laziness, that would not sow any more corn one year than would
just serve me till the next season, as if no accident would intervene
to prevent my enjoying the crop that was upon the ground; and
this I thought so just a reproof, that I resolved for the future to
have two or three year's corn beforehand, so that, whatever might
come, I might not perish for want of bread.
In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and reflections,
it came into my thoughts one day, that all this might be a mere
chimera of my own, and that this foot might be the print of my
foot, when f came on shore from my boat; this cheered me up

a little too, and I began to persuade myself it was all a delusion,
that it was 'nothing else but my own foot: and why might I not
come that way from the boat, as well as I was going that way to
the boat? Again, I considered also, that I could by no means tell
for certain, where I had trod, and where I had not: and that if, at
last, this was only the print of my own foot, I had played the part
of those fools, who try to make stories of spectres and apparitions,
and then arc frightened at them more than anybody.
Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again, for I
had not stirred out of my castle for three days and nights, so that I
began to starve for provisions; for I had little or nothing within
doors but some barley cakes and water: then I knew that my goats
wanted to be milked too, which usually was my evening diversion;
and the poor creatures were in great pain and inconvenience for
want of it: and, indeed, it almost spoiled some of them and almost
dried up their milk. Encouraging myself, therefore with the belief
that this was nothing but the print of one of my own feet,
and that 1 might be truly said to start at my own shadow, I began
to go abroad again, and went to my country "house to milk my flock:
but to see with what fear I went forward, how often I looked be-
hind me, how I was ready, every now and then, to lay down my
basket, and run for my life, it would have made any one think I
was haunted with an evil conscience, or that I had been lately most
terriblv frightened; and so, indeed, I had. However, as I went
down thus two or three days, and having seen nothing, I began to
be a little bolder, and to think there was really nothing in it but
.ny own imagination; but I could not persuade myself fully of this
till I should go down to the shore again, and see this print of a foot,
and measure it by my own, and see if there was any similitude or
fitness, that I might be assured it was my own foot: but when I
came to the place, first, it appeared evidently to me, that when I
.aid up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore anywhere there-
about: secondly, when I came to measure the mark with my own
foot, I found my foot not so large by a great deal. Both these
things filled my head with new imaginations, and gave me the
vapours again to the highest degree, so that I shook with cold like
one in an ague; and I went home again, filled with the belief that
some man or men had been on shore there; or, in short, that the
island was inhabited, and I might be surprised before I was aware;
and what course to take for my security, I knew not.
O what ridiculous resolutions men take when possessed with fear!
It deprives them of the use of those means which reason offers for
their relief. The first thing I proposed to myself was, to throw
down my enclosures, and turn all my tame cattle wild into the
woods, lest the enemy should find them, and then frequent the
island in prospect of the same or like booty; then to the simple
thing of digging up my two corn fields, lest they should find such a
grain there, and still he prompted to frequent the island; then to
demolish my bower and tent, that they might not see any vestiges of
habitation, and be prompted to look farther, in order to find out the
persons inhabiting.
These were the subject of the first night's cogitations, after I was
come home again, while the apprehensions which had so overrun my
mind were fresh upon me, and my head was full of vapours, as above.
Thus fear of danger is ten thousand times more terrifying than
danger itself when apparent to the eyes; and we find the burden of
anxiety greater, by much, than the evil which we are anxious about;
and, which was worse than all this, I had not that relief in this
trouble from the resignation I used to practise, that I hoped to have
I looked, I thought, like Saul, who complained not only that the
Philistines >rere upon him, but that God had forsaken him; for I did
not now take due ways to compose my mind, by crying to God in my
distress, and resting upon his providence, as 1 had done before, for
my defence and deliverance; which, if I had done, I had at least
been more cheerfully supported under this new surprise, and perhaps
carried through it with more resolution.
This confusion of my thoughts kept me awake all night; but in
the morning I fell asleep; and having, by the amusement of my
mind, been as it were tired, and my spirits exhausted, I slept very
soundly, and waked much better composed than I had ever been
before.
Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave so large as
to bring a door through again, which door, as I said, came out be-
yond where my fortification joined to the rock: upon maturely con-
sidering this, therefore, I resolved to draw me a second fortification,
in the same manner of a semicircle, at a distance from my wall,
just where I had planted a double row of trees about twelve years
before, of which I made mention: these trees having been planted
so thick before, they wanted but few piles to be driven between
them, that they might be thicker and stronger, and my wall would
be soon finished: so that I had now a double wall; and my outer
was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and everything I
could think .of, to make it strong, having in it seven little holes,
about as big as I might put my arm out at. In the inside of this
I thickened my wall to about ten feet thick, with continually bring-
ing earth out of my cave, and laying it at the foot of the wall, and
walking upon it; and through the seven holes I contrived to plant
the muskets, of which I took notice that I had got seven on shore
out of the ship: these I planted like my cannon, and fitted them
into frames, that held them like a carriage, so that I could fire all
the seven guns in two minutes' time: this wall I was many a weary
month in finishing, and yet never thought myself safe till it was
done.
When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my wall, for
a great length every way, as full with stakes, or sticks, of the osier
like wood, which I found so apt to grow, as they could well stand
insomuch, that I believe I might set in near twenty thousand or
them, leaving a pretty large space between them and my wall, that
I might have room to see an enemy, and they might have no shelter
from the young trees, if they attempted to approach my outer wall.
Thus, in two years' time, I had a thick grove; and in five or six
years' time I had a wood before my dwelling, growing so monstrous
thick and strong, that it was indeed perfectly impassable; and no
men of what kind soever, would ever imagine that there was anything
beyond it, much less a habitation. As for the way in which I proposed
to myself to go in and out (for I left no avenue,) it was by setting
two ladders, one to a part of the rock which was low, and then
broke in, and left room to place another ladder upon that; so when
the two ladders were taken down, no man living could come down
to me without doing himself mischief; and if they had come down,
they were still on the outside of my outer wall.
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
Thus I took all the measures human prudence could suggest for
my own preservation; and it will be seen, at length, that they were
not altogether without just reason, though I foresaw nothing at
that time more than my mere fear suggested to me.
While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of my other
affairs; for I had a great concern for my little herd of goats; they
were not only a ready supply to me on every occasion, and began to
be sufficient for me, without the expense of powder and shot, but
also without the fatigue of hunting after the wild ones; and I was
loth to lose the advantage of them, and to have them all to nurse up
over again.
For this purpose, after long consideration, I could think of but
two ways to preserve them; one was, to find another convenient

"^f-**,
place to dig a cave under ground, and to drive them into it every
night; ana the other was, to enclose two or three little bits of land,
remote from one another, and as much concealed as 1 could, where
I might keep about half a dozen young goats in each place; so that
if any disaster happened to the flock in general, I might be able to
raise them again with little trouble and time; and this, though it
would require a great deal of time and labour, I thought was the
most rational design.
Accordingly, I spent some time to find out the most retired parts
of the island; and I pitched upon one, which was as private, indeed,
as my heart could wish for; it was a little damp.piece of ground, in
the middle of the hollow and thick woods, where as is observed, I
almost lost myself once before, eudeavourin^ to come back that way
from the eastern part of the island. Here 1 found a clear piece of
land, near three acres, so surrounded with woods, that it was almost
an enclosure by nature; at least it did not want near so much
labour to make it so as the other pieces of ground I had worked so
hard at.
section xvm.
PRECAUTIONS AGAINST SURFUISE—ROBINSON DISCOVERS THAT HIS
ISLAND HAS BEEN VISITED BY CANNIBALS.
I immediately went to work with this piece of ground, and in less
than a mouth's time I had so fenced it round, that my flock, or herd,
call it which you please, who were not so wild now as at first they
might be supposed to be, were well enough secured in it; so, with-
out any further delay, I removed ten young she-goats, and two he-
goats to this piece ; and when they were there I continued to perfect
the fence, till I had made it as secure as the other, which, however,
I did at more leisure, and it took me up more time by a great deal.
All this labour I was at the expense of purely from my apprehen sious
ou the account of the print of a man's foot which 1 had seen; for,
as yet, I never saw any numan creature come near the island; and I
had now lived two years under this uneasiness, which, indeed, made my
life much less comfortable than it was before, as may be well imagined
by any one who knows what it is to live in the constant snare of the
fear of man.
After I had thus secured one part of my little living stock, I went
about the whole island, searching for another private place to make
such another deposit; when, wandering more to the west point of
the island than I had ever done yet, and looking out to sea, I
thought I saw a boat upon the sea, at a great distance. I had
found a perspective glass or two in one of the seamen's chests,
which I saved out of our ship, bat I had it not about me; and
this was so remote, that I could not tell what to make of it, though
I looked at it till my eyes were not able to look any longer;
whether it was a boat or not, I did not know, but as I "descended
from the hill I could see no more of it, so I gave it over; only I
resolTed to go no more out without a perspective glass in my pocket.
When I was come down the hill to the end of the island, where,
indeed, I had never heen before, I was presently convinced that the
seeing the print of a man's foot was not such a strange thing in the
island as I imagined; and, but that it was a special providence that
1 was cast upon the side of the island where the savages never came,
I should easily have known that nothing was more frequent than for
the canoes from the main, when they happened to be too far out at
sea, to shoot over to that side of the island for harbour; likewise, as
they often met and fought in their canoes, the victors having taken
any prisoners, would bring them over to this shore, where, according
to their dreadful customs, being all cannibals, they would kill and
eat them; of which hereafter.
When I was come down the hill to the shore as I said above,
being the south-west point of the island, I was perfectly con-
founded and amazed; nor is it possible for me to express the
horror of my mind, at seeing the shore spread with skulls, hands,
feet, and other bones of human bodies; and, particularly, I ob-
served a place where there had been a fire made, and a circle
dug in the earth, like a cockpit, where I supposed the savage
wretches had sat down to their inhuman feastings upon the bodies
of their fellow-creatures.
I was so astonished with the sight of these things, that I enter-
tained no notions of any danger to myself from it for a long while:
all my apprehensions were buried in the thoughts of such a pitch of
inhuman brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of human
nature, which, though I had heard of it often, yet I never had so
near a view of before.
When I came a little out of that part of the island, I stood still
awhile, as amazed, and then recovering myself, I looked up with the
utmost affection of my soul, and with a flood of tears in my eyes,
gave God thanks, that had cast my first lot in a part of the world
where I was distinguished from such dreadful creatures as these;
and that, though I had esteemed my present condition very miser-
able, had yet given me so many comforts in it, that I had still more
to give thanks for than to complain of: and this, above all, that I
had, even in this miserable condition, been comforted with the
knowledge of Himself, and the hope of His blessing, which was a
felicity more than sufficiently equivalent to all the misery I had
suffered or could suffer.
I could not think of ever making any more attempts to bring the
other boat round the island to me, lest I should meet with some of
these creatures at sea: in which if I had happened to have fallen
into their hands, I knew what would have been my lot.
Time, and the satisfaction I had that I was in no danger of being
discovered by these people, began to wear off my uneasiness about
them; and I oegan to live just in the same composed manner as
before, only with this difference, that I used more caution, and kept
my eyes more about me, than I did before, lest I should happen to
be seen by any of them; and particularly, I was more cautious of
firing my gun, lojst any of them being on the island should happen
to hear it.
It would take up a larger volume than this whole work is intended
to be, to set down all the contrivances I hatched, or rather brooded
upon, in my thoughts, for the destroying these creatures, or at least
frightening them so as to prevent their coming hither any more.
Sometimes I thought of digging a hole under the place where
they made their fire, and putting in five or six pounds of gunpowder,
which, when they kindled their fire, would consequently take fire,
and blow up all that was near it; but as, in the first place, I should
be unwilling to waste so much powder upon them, my store being
now within the quantity of one barrel, so neither could I be sure
of its goin£ off at a certain time, when it might surprise them:
and, at best, that it would little more than just blow the fire about
their ears and fright them, but not sufficient to make them forsake
the place: so I laid it aside; and then proposed that I would place
myself in ambush in some convenient place, with my three guns all
double-loaded, and, in the middle of their bloody ceremony, let fly
at them, when I should be sure to kill or wound perhaps two or
three at every shot: aud then falling in upon them with my three
pisto's and my sword, I made no doubt but that if there were twenty
J should kill them all. This fancy pleased my thoughts for some
weeks; and I was so full of it, that I often dreamed of it, and
sometimes that I was just going to let fly at them in my sleep. I
went so far with it in my imagination, that I employed myself
several days to find out proper places to put myself in ambuscade,
as I said, to watch for them; and I went frequently to the place
itself, which was now grown more familiar to me: but while my
mind was thus filled with thoughts of revenge, and a putting twenty
or thirty of them to the sword as I may call it, the norror I
had at the place, and the signals of the barbarous wretches devour-
ing one another, abetted my malice. Well, at length, I found a
place in the side of the hill, where I was satisfied I might securely
wait till I saw any of their boats coming; and might then, even
before they would be ready to come on shore, convey myself, unseen,
into some thickets of trees, in one of which there was a hollow
large enough to conceal me entirely; and there I might sit and
observe all their fearful doings, and take my full aim at their heads,
when they were so close together, as that it would be next to
impossible that I should miss my shot, or that I should fail wounding
three or four of them at the first shot. In this place, then, I
resolved to fix my design; and, accordingly, I prepared two
muskets and my ordinary fowling-piece. The two muskets I loaded
with a brace of sings each, and four or five smaller bullets, about
the size of pistol-bullets; and the fowling-piece I loaded with near
a handful of swan-shot, of the largest size: I also loaded mj
pistols with four bullets each; and in this posture, well provided
with ammunition for a second and third charge, I prepared myself
for my expedition.
After I had thus laid the scheme of my design, and, in my
imagination, put it in practice, I continually made my tour every
morning up to the top of the hill, which was from my castle, as I
called it, about three miles, or more, to see if I could observe any
boats upon the sea, coming near the island, or standing over
towards it; but I began to tire of this hard duty, after I had,
for two or three months, constantly kept my watch, but came
always back without any discovery: there having not, in all that
time, been the least appearance, not only on or near the shore, but
on the whole ocean, so far as my eyes or glasses could reach every
way-
As long as I kept my daily tour to the hill to look out, so long
also I kept up the vigour of my design, and my spirits seemed to be
all the while in a suitable form for so outrageous an execution as the
killing twenty or thirty naked savages, for an offence, which I had
not at all entered into a discussion of in my thoughts, any further
than my passions were at first fired by the horror I conceived at the
unnatural custom of the people of that country; who, it seems, had
been suffered by Providence, in his wise disposition of the world, to
have no other guide than that of their own abominable and vitiated
passions; and, consequently, were left, and perhaps had been so for
some ages, to act such horrid things, and receive such dreadful cus-
toms, as nothing but nature, entirely by Heaven, and actuated by
some hellish degeneracy; could have run them into. But now, when,
as I have said, I began to be weary of the fruitless excursion, which
I had made so long and so far every morning in vain, so my opinion
of the action itself began to alter; and I began, with cooler and
calmer thought', to consider what I was going to engage in: what
authority '.t call I had to pretend to be judge and executioner
- -vmi these men as criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit, for so
many ages, to suffer, unpunished, to go on, and to be, ar it were, the
executioners of bis judgments one upon another

SECTION XIX.
ROBINSON DISCOYERS A CAVE, WHICH SERVES HIM AS A RETREAT
AGAINST THE SAVAGES.
In this disposition I continued for near a year after this. I kept
myself more retired than ever, and seldom went from my cell, except
upon my constant employment, viz. to milk my she-goats, and man-
age my little flock in the wood, which, as it was quite on the other
part of the island, was quite out of danger; for certain it is, that
these savage people, who sometimes haunted this island, never car.ie
with any thoughts of finding anything here, and consequently never
wandered off from the coast; and I doubt not but they might have
been several times on shore after my apprehensions of them had
made me cautions, as well as before.
I believe the reader of this will not think it strange if I confess
that these anxieties, these constant dangers I lived in, and the con-
cern that was now upon me, put an end to all invention, and to all
the contrivances that I had laid for my future accommodations and
conveniences. I had the care of my safety more now upon my hands
than that of my food. I cared not to drive a nail, or chop a stick
of wood now, for fear the noise I might make should be heard;
much less would I fire a gun, for the same reason: and, above all, I
was intolerably uneasy at making any fire, lest the smoke, which 1:
visible at a great distance in the day, should betray me. For this
reason, I removed that part of my business which required fire,
such as burning of pots, pipes, &c. into my new apartment in the
woods i where, after I had been some time, I found, to my unspeak-
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
able consolation, a mere natural cave in the earth, which went in a
vast way, and where, I dare say, no savage, had he been at the
mouth of it, would be so hardy as to venture in: nor, indeed, would
any man else, but one who, like me, wanted nothing so much as a
safe retreat.
While I was cutting down some wood here, I perceived that be-
hind a very thick branch of low brushwood, or underwood, there was
a kind of hollow place : I was curious to look in it, and getting with
difficulty into the mouth of it, I found it was pretty large: that is
to say, sufficient for me to stand upright in it, and perhaps another

with me: but I must confess to you that I made more haste out
than I did in, when, looking farther into the place, and which was
perfectly dark, I saw two broad shining eyes of some creature, which
twinkled like two stars, the dim light from the cave's mouth shining
directly in, and making the reflection. Plucking up my courage, 1
took up a firebrand, and in I rushed again, with the stick flaming in
my hand: I had not gone three steps in, but I was almost as much
frightened as I was before; for I heard a very loud sigh, like that of
a man in some pain, and it was followed by a broken noise, as of
words half expressed, and then a deep sigh again. I stepped back,
and was indeed struck with such a surprise, that it put me into a
cold sweat; and if I had had a hat on my head, I will not answer
for it, that my hair might not have lifted it off. But still plucking
up my spirits as well as I could, and encouraging myself a little with
considering that the power and presence of God was everywhere, and
was able to protect me, upon this I stepped forward again, and by
the light of the firebrand, holding it up a little over my head, I saw
lying on the ground a most monstrous, frightful old he-goat, just
making his will, as we say, and gasping for life, and dying, indeed,
of mere old age. I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out,
and he essayed to get up, but was not able to raise himself; and I
thought with myself he might even lie there; for if he had frightened
me, so he would" certainly fright any of the savages, if any of them
should be so hardy as to come in there while he had any life in him.
I was now recovered from my snrprise, and began to look round
me, when I found the cave was but very small, that is to say, it
might be about twelve feet over, but in no manner of shape, neither
round nor square, no hands having ever been employed in making it
but those of Nature. I observed also that there was a place at the
farther side of it that went in farther, but was so low that it re-
quired me to creep upon my hands and knees to go into it, and
whither it went I knew not: so having no candle, I gave it over for
that time; but resolved to come again the next day, provided with
candles and a tinder-box, which I had made of the lock of one of the
muskets, with some wild-fire in the pan.
Accordingly, the next day I came pre/vided with six large candles
of my own making (for I made very good candles now of goat's tal-
low, but was hard set for candle-wick, using sometimes rags or
rope-yarn, and sometimes the dried rind of a reed like nettles); and
going into this low place, I was obliged to creep upon all fours, as I
have said, almost ten yards; which, by the way, I thought was a
venture bold enough, considering that I knew not how far it might
jo, nor what was beyond it. "When I had got through the strait, I
ound the roof rose higher up, I believe near twenty feet; but never
was such a glorious sight seen in the island, I dare say, as it was, to
look round the sides and roof of this vault or cave; the wall reflected
a hundred thousand lights to me from my two candles. What it
was in the rock, whether diamonds, or any other precious stones, or
gold, which I rather supposed it to be, I knew not. The place I
was in was a most delightful cavity or grotto of its kind, as could
be expected, though perfectly dark; the floor was dry and level, and
had a sort of a small loose gravel upon it, so that there was no
nauseous or venomous creature to be seen, neither was there any
damp or wet on the sides or roof: the only difficulty in it was
the entrance; which, however, as it was a place of security, and
such a retreat as I wanted, I thought that was a convenience; so
that I was really rejoiced at the discovery, and resolved, without any
delay, to bring some of those things which I was most anxious about
to this place; particularly, I resolved to bring hither my magazine
of powder, and all my spare arms, viz. two fowling-pieces, for 1 had
three in all, and three muskets, for of them I had eight in all: so I
kept at my castle only five, which stood ready mounted like pieces
of cannon on my outmost fence, and were ready also to take out upon
any expedition. Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition, I
happened to open the barrel of powder which I took up out of the
sea, and which had bren wet; and I found that the water had pene
E
ADVENTURES OF HOBINSON CRUSOE.
trated about three or four inches into the powder on every side,
which caking and growing hard, had preserved the inside like a ker-
nel in the shell; so that I had near sixty pounds of very good pow-
der in the centre of the cask: this was a very agreeable discovery to
me at that time; so I carried all away thither, never keeping above
two or three pounds of powder with me in my castle, for fear of a
surprise of any kind: I also carried thither all the lead I had left for
bullets.
I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants, which were
said to live in caves and holes in the rocks, where none could come
at them; for I persuaded myself, while I was here, that if five
hundred savages were to hunt me, they could never find me out; or,
if they did, they would not venture to attack me here. The old
goat, whom I found expiring, died in the mouth of the cave next
day after I made tliis discovery: and I found it much easier to dig
a great hole there, and throw trim in and cover him with earth, than
to drag him out; so I interred him there, to prevent offence to my
nose.

I was now in the twenty-third year of my residence in this island;
and was so naturalised to the place, and the manner of living, that
could I have but enjoyed the certainty that no savages would come
to the place to disturb me, I could have been content to have capitu-
lated for spending the rest of my time there, even to the lasl
moment, till I had laid me down and died, like the old goat in the
cave. I had also arrived to some little diversions and amusements,
which made the time pass a great deal more pleasantly with me than
it did before; as, first, I had taught my Poll, as I noted before, to
speak; and he did it so familiarly, and talked so articulately and
plain, that it was very pleasant to me: for I believe no bird ever
spoke plainer; and he lived with me no less than six-and-twenty
vears: how long he might have lived afterwards I know not, though
1 know they have a notion in the Brazils that they live a hundred
years. My dog was a very pleasant and loving companion to me for
no less than sixteen years of my time, and then died of mere old
age. As for my cats, they multiplied to that degree, that I was
obliged to shoot several of them at first, to keep them from devour-
ing me and all I had; but, at length, when the two old ones I
brought with me were gone, and after some time continually driving
them from me, and letting them have no provision with me, they afl
ran wild into the woods, except two or three favourites, which I
kept tame, and whose young, when they had any, I always drowned;
and these were part of my family. Besides these, I always kept two
or three household kids about me, whom I taught to feed out of my
hand; and I had two more parrots, which talked pretty well, and
would all call Robin Crusoe, but none like my first; nor, indeed,
did I take the pains with any of them that I had done with him. 1
had also several tame sea-fowls, whose names I knew not, that I
caught upon the shore, and cut their wings; and the little stakes
which I had planted before my castle wall Deing now grown up to a
food thick grove, these fowls all lived among these low trees, and
red there, which was very agreeable [to me: so that, as I said
above, I began to be very well contented with the life I led, if I
could have been secured from the dread of the savages. But it was
otherwise directed; and it may not be amiss for all people who shall
meet with my story, to make this just observation from it, viz. How
frequently, in the course of our lives, the evil which in itself we seek
most to shun, and which, when we are fallen into, is the most dread-
ful to us, is oftentimes the very means or door of our deliverance, by
which alone we can be raised again from the affliction we are fallen
into. I could give many examples of this in the course of my un-
accountable life, but in nothing was it more particularly remarkable
than in the circumstances of my last years of solitary residence ra
this island.

SECTION XX.
ANOTHER VISIT OF TIIE SAVAGES—ROBINSON SEES TIIE1T DXNCING
FERCEIVES TIIE WRECK OF A VESSEL.
It was now the month of December, as I said above, in my twenty-
third year; and this being the southern solstice (for winter I can-
not call it), was the particular time of my harvest, and required my
being much abroad in the fields; when going out pretty early
in the morning, even before it was thorough daylight, I was
surprised with seeing a light of some fire upon the sliore, at a dis-
tance from me of about two miles, towards the end of the island
where I had observed some savages had been, as before; and lot
on the other side, but, to my great affliction, it was on my side of
the island.
I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped short
within mv grove, not daring to go out, lest I might be surprised;
and yet I liad no more peace within, from the apprehensions I
had that if these savages, in rambling over the island, should find
my corn standing or cut, or any of my works and improvements,
they would immediately conclude that there were people in the
Jace, and would then never give over till they had found me out.
11 this extremity, I went back directly to my castle, pulled up the
ladder after me, and made all things without look as wild and as
natural as I could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a posture of
I
defence: I loaded all my caunon, as I called them, that is to say,
my muskets, which were mounted upon my new fortification, and
all my pistols, and resolved to defend myself to the last gasp; not
forgetting seriously to commend myself to the divine protection,
and earnestly to pray to God to deliver me out of the hands of
the barbarians. I continued in this posture about two hours; and
began to be mighty impatient for intelligence abroad, for I had
no spies to send out. After sitting awhile longer, and musing
what I should do in this case, I was not able to bear sitting in ig-
norance any longer; so setting up my ladder to the side of the hill,
where there was a flat place, as I observed before, and then pull-
ing the ladder up after me, I set it up again, and mounted to the
top of the hill; and pulling out my perspective glass, which I had
taken on purpose, I kid me down flat on the ground, and began
to look for the place. I presently found there were no less than
nine naked savages, sitting round a small fire they had made, not
to warm them, for they had no need of that, the weather being
extremely hot, but, as I supposed, to dress some of their barbar-
ous diet of human flesh, which they had brought with them, whe-
ther alive or dead I could not tell.
They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled up upon
the shore; and as it was then tide of ebb, they seemed to me to
wait for the return of the flood tr go away again. It is not easy
to imagine what confusion this sight put me into, especially seeing
them come on my side of the island, and so near me too; but
when I considered their coming must be always with the current of
the ebb, I began, afterwards, to be more sedate in my mind, being
satisfied that I might go abroad witii safety all the time of the tide
of flood, if they were not on shore before; and having made this
observation, I went abroad" about my harvest work with the more
composure.
As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the tide made to the
westward, I saw them all take boat, and row (or paddle, as we call
it) away. I should have observed, that for an hour or more before
they went off, they went a dancing; and I could easily discern their
postures and gestures by my glass. I could not perceive, by my
nicest observation, but that they were stark naked, and had not the
least covering upon them; but whether they were men or women,
1 could not distinguish.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two guns upon
my shoulders, and two pistols in my girdle, and my great swora by
my side, without a seaboard, and with all the speed I was able to
make, went away to the hill where I had discovered the first appear-
ance of all; and as soon as I got thither, which was not in less than
two hours (for I could not go apace, being so loaden with arms as
I was), I perceived there had been three canoes more of savages at
that place; and looking out farther, I saw they were all at sea to-
gether, making over for the main. This was a dreadful sight to roe,
especially as, going down to the shore, I could see the marks of
horror, which the dismal work they had been about had left behind
it, viz. the blood, the bones, and part of the flesh, of human bodies,
eaten and devoured by those wretches with merriment and sport.
I wore out a year and three months more before I ever saw any
more of the savages.
The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen months*
interval, was very great; I slept unquiet, dreamed always fright-
ful dreams, and often started out of my sleep in the night; in the
day, great troubles overwhelmed my mind; and in the night,
I dreamed often of killing the savages, and of the reasons why I
might justify the doing of it. It was in the middle of May, on the
sixteenth day, I think, as well as my poor wooden calendar would
reckon, for I marked all upon the post still; I say, it was on the
sixteenth of May that it blew a very great storm of wind all day,
with a great deal of lightning and thunder, and a very foul night it
was after it. I knew not what was the particular occasion of it,
but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken up with very serious
thoughts about my present condition, I was surprised with the noise
of a gun, as I thouglit, fired at sea. This was, to be sure, a surprise
quite of a different nature from any I had met with before; for the
notions this put into my thoughts were quite of another kind. I
started up in the greatest haste imaginable, and, in a trice, clapped
my ladder to the middle place of the rock, and pulled it after me;
and mounting it the second time, got to the top of the hill the very
moment that a flash of fire bid me listen for a second gun, which
accordingly, in about half a minute, I heard; and, by the sound,
knew that it was from that part of the sea where I was driven down
the current in my boat. I immediately considered that this mus<.
be some ship in distress, and that they nad some comrade, or some
other ship in company, and fired these guns for signals of distress,
and to obtain help. I had the presence of mind, at that minute, to
think that thougn I could not help them, it might be they might
help me: so I brought together all the dry wood I could get at
nand, and making a good handsome pile, I set it on fire upon the
hill. The wood was dry, and blazed freely; and though the wind
blew very hard, yet it burnt fairly out: so that I was certain, if
there was any such thing as a ship, they must needs see it; and nc
doubt they did; for as soon as ever my fire blazed up I heard another
gun, and after that several others, all from the same quarter. I plied
my fire all night long, till daybreak; and when it was broad day,
asd the air cleared up, I saw something at a great distance at sea,
full east of the island, whether a sail or a hull I could not distin-
guish, no, not with my glass; the distance was so great, and the
weather still something hazv ilso; at least it was so out at sea.
I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon perceived that it
did not move; so I presently concluded that it was a ship at anchor;
and being eager, you may be sure, to be satisfied, I took my gun in
my hand, and ran towards the south side of the island, to the rocks
where I had formerly been carried away with the current; and get-
ting up there, the weather by this time being perfectly clear, I could
plainly see, to my great sorrow, the wreck of a ship, cast away in
the night upon those concealed rocks which I found when I was out
in my Doat; and which rocks, as they checked the violence of the
stream, and made a kind of counter-stream, or eddy, were the occa-
sion of my recovering from the most desperate, hopeless condition
that ever I had been in, in all my life. Thus, what is one man's
safety is another man's destruction; for it seems these men, who-
ever they were, being out of their knowledge, and the rocks being
wholly under water, had been driven upon them in the night, the
wind blowing hard at E.N.E. Had they seen the island, as I must
necessarily suppose they did not, they must, as I thought, have en-
deavoured to have saved themselves on shore by the help of their
boat; hut their firing off guns for help, especially when they saw, as
I imagined, my fire, filled me with many thoughts: First, I imagined
that upon seeing my light, they might have put themselves into their
boat, and endeavoured to make the shore; but that the sea going
very high, they might have been cast away: other times 1 imagined
that they might have lost their boat before, as might be the
case many ways; as particularly, by the breaking of the sea upon
their ship, which many times obliges men to stave, or take in
pieces, their boat, and sometimes to throw it overboard with their
own hands: other times I imagined they had some other ship or
ships in company, who, upon the signals of distress they had made,
nad taken them up and carried them off: other times I fancied they
were all gone off to sea in their boat, and being hurried away by the
current that I had been formerly in, were earned out into the great
ocean, where there was nothing but misery and perishing; and that
perhaps, they might by this tune be starving, and in a condition to
think of eating one another.

SECTION XXI.
1IE VISITS THE WRECK AND OBTAINS MANY STORES FROM IT—
AGAIN THINKS OF QUITTING THE ISLANT).
Till the last year of my being on tbis island, I never knew whether
any were saved out of that ship or no; and had only the affliction,
some days after, to see the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore
at the end of the island which was next the shipwreck. He had no
clothes on but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair of open-kneed linen
drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but nothing to direct me so much
as to guess what nation he was of: he had nothing in his pockets
but two pieces-of-eight and a tobacco pipe :—the last was to me of
ten times more value than the first.
It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out in my
boat to this wreck, not doubting but 1 might find something on
board that might be useful to me: but that did not altogether
press me so much, as the possibility that there might be yet some
living creature on board, whose life I might not only save, but
might, by saving that life, comfort my own to the last degree. And
this thought clung so to my heart, that I could not be quiet night
or day, but I must venture out in my boat on board this wreck;
and committing the rest to God's providence, I thought the im-
pression was so strong upon my mind that it could not be resisted,
that it must come from some invisible direction, and that I should
be wanting to myself if I did not go.
Under the power of this impression, I hastened back to my castle,
prepared everything for my voyage took a quantity of bread, a great
pot of fresh water, a compass to steer by, a bottle of rum (for I
had still a great deal of that left) and a basket of raisins; and thus
loading myself with everything necessary, I went down to my boat,
got the water out of her, put her afloat, loaded all my cargo in her,
and then went home again for more. My second cargo was a great
bag of rice, the umbrella to set up over my head for a shade, another
large pot of fresh water, and about two dozen of my small loaves,
or barley-cakes, more than before, with a bottle of goat's milk and a
cheese: all which, wit h great labour and sweat, I carried to my boat;
and praying to God to direct my voyage, I put out; and rowing, or
paddling, the canoe along the shore, came at last to the utmost
point ot the island on the north-east side.
Having hauled my boat into a little creek on the shore, I stepped
out, and sat me dowu upou a rising bit of ground, very pensive and

anxious, between fear and desire, about my voyage: wlieu, as I was
musing, I could perceive that the tide was turned, and the flood
come on; upon which my going was impracticable for so many
hours.
I resolved, the next morning, to set out with the first of the tide;
and reposing myself for the night in my canoe, under the great
watch-coat I mentioned, I launched out. I went at a great rate directly
for the wreck, and in less than two hours I came up to it. It was a
dismal sight to look at: the ship, which, by its building-, was Spanish,
stuck fastjammed in between two rocks; all the stern and quarter of her
were beaten to pieces with the sea; and as her forcastle, which
stuck in the rocks, had run on with f»reat violence, her mainmast
and foremast was brought by the board, that is to say, broken short
off; but her bowsprit was sound, and the head and bow appeared
firm. When I came close to her, a dog appeared upon her, who,
seeing me coming, yelped and cried; and as soon as I called him
jumped into the sea to come to me. I took him into the boat, but
found him almost dead with hunger and thirst. I gave him a cake
of my bread, and he devoured it like a ravenous wolf that had been
starving a fortnight in the snow. I then gave the poor creature
some fresh water, with which, if I would have let him, he would
have burst himself. After this, I went on board; but the first sight
I met with was two men drowned in the cook room, or forecastle of

the ship, with their arms fast about one another. I concluded, as
indeed probable, that when the ship struck, it being in a storm, the
sea broke so high, and so continually over her, that the men were
not able to bear it, and were strangled with the constant rushing in
of the water, as much as if they had been under water. Besides
the dog, there was nothing left in the ship that had life; nor any
goods, that I could see, but what were spoiled by the water.
I found, however, besides several chests, a little cask full of liquor,
of about twenty gallons, which I got into my boat with much
difficulty. There were several muskets in the cabin, and a great
powder-|jprn, with about four pounds of powder in it: as for the
muskets, I had no occasion for them, so I left them, but took the
powder-horn. I took a fire-shovel and tongs, which I wanted ex-
tremely; as also two little brass kettles, a copper pot to make
chocolate, and a gridiron: and with this cargo, and the dog, I came
away, the tide beginning to make home again; and the same evening,
about an hour within night, I reached the island again, weary and
fatigued to the last degree. I reposed that night in the boat; and
in the morning 1 resolved to harbour what I had got in my new
cave, and not carry it home to my castle. After refreshing myself,
I got all my cargo on shore, and began to examine the particulars.
I found on emptying the chest among other things some very good
shirts, which were very weleome to me; and about a dozen and a
half of white linen handkerchiefs and coloured neckcloths; the
former was also very weleome, being exceeding refreshing to wipe
my face in a hot day. Upon the whole, Igot very little by this voy-
age that was of any use to me: for, as to some money, I had found
Iliad no manner of occasion for it; it was to me as the dirt under
my feet; and I would have given it all for three or four pair of
English shoes and stockings, which were things I greatly wanted,
but had none on my feet for many years.
I lived in this condition near two years more; all the time filled
with projects and designs, how, if it were possible, I might get away
from this island; and I believe verily, if I had the boat that I went
from Sallee in, I should have ventured to sea, bound any where, I
knew not whither.
It was one of the nights of the rainy season in March, the four-
and-twentieth year of my first setting foot in this island of solitari-
ness, I was laying in my bed awake. I had no uneasiness of mind
more than ordinary, but could by no means close my eyes, that is, so
as to sleep; no, not a wink all night long, otherwise than as
follows:
I ran over the whole history of my life by abridgment, as I may
call it, to my coming to this island; and slso since I came to this
island. In my reflections upon the state of my case, since I came
here, I was comparing the nappy posture of my affairs in the first
years of my habitation, with the life of anxiety, fear, and care, which
I had lived ever since I had seen the print of a foot in the sand.
Then I came to reflect seriously upon the real danger I had been
in for so many years; and how I had walked about in the greatest
security, and with all possible tranquility, when perhaps nothing
but the brow of a hill, a great tree, or the casual approach of night,
had been between me and the worst kind of destruction, viz. that of
falling into the hands of cannibals and savages. I would unjustly
slander myself, if I should say I was not sincerely thankful to my
great Preserver, to whom all these unknown deliverances were due.
I made this conclusion, however, that my only way to go about
an attempt for an escape, was, if possible, to get a savage into my
possession; and, if possible, it should be one of their prisoners
whom they had condemned to be eaten, and should bring thither to
kill; but these thoughts were still attended with thls difficulty, that
it was impossible to effect this without attacking a whole caravan of
them, and killing them all; and my heart trembled at the thoughts
of shedding so much blood, though it was for my deliverance.
However, after many disputes with myself, I determined, if
possible, to get one of the savages into my hands, cost what it would:
so I resolvea to put myself upon the watch to see them when they
came on shore, and leave the rest to the event.
SECTION XXII.
ROBINSON HESCUES ONE Or THEIR CAFTIVES FROM THE SAVAGES,
WHOM HE NAMES FRIDAY, AND MAKES HIS SERVANT.
About a year and a half after I entertained these notions (and by
long musing had, as it were, resolved them into nothing, for want
of an occasion to put them into execution), I was surprised, one
morning early, with seeing no less than five canoes all on shore
together on my side the island, and the people who belonged to
them all landed, and out of my sight. The number of them broke
all my measures; for seeing so many, and knowing that they
always came four or six, or sometimes more, in a boat, I could not
tell what to think of it, or how to take my measures, to attack
twenty or thirty men single-handed; so lay still in my castle, per-
plexed and discomforted: however, I put myself into all the same
postures for an attack that I had formerly provided, and was just
ready for action, if anything had presented. Having waited a good
while, listening to hear if they made any noise, at length, being
very impatient, I set my guns at the foot of my ladder, and clam-
bered up to the top of the hill, by my two stages, as usual; stand-
ing so, however, that my head did not appear above the hill, so that
they could not perceive me by any means. Here I observed, by the
help of my perspective glass, that they were no less than thirty in
number; that they had a fire kindled, and that they had meat
dressed. How they had cooked it I knew not, or what it was; but
they were all dancing, in I know not how many barbarous gestures
and figures, their own way, round the fire.
While I was thus looting on them, 1 perceived, by my perspec-
tive, two miserable wretches dragged from the boats, where, it
seems, they were laid by, and were now brought out for the
slaughter. I perceived one of them immediately fall, being knocked
down, I suppose, with a club or wooden sword, for that was their
way, and two or three others were at work immediately, cutting
him open for their cookery, while the other victim was left standing
by himself, till they should be ready for him. In that very moment,
this poor wretch seeing himself a little at liberty, and unbound,
nature inspired him with hopes of life, and he started away from
them, and ran with incredible swiftness along the sands, directly
towards me, I mean towards that part of the coast where my habi-
tation was. I was dreadfully frightened, I must acknowledge, when
I perceived him run my way, and especially when, as I thought, I
saw him pursued by tlie whole body. However, I kept my station,
and my spirits began to recover, when I found that there was not
above three men that followed him; and still more was I encouraged
when I found that he outstripped them exceedingly in running, and
gained ground of them, so that if he could but hold it for half an
hour, I saw easily he would fairly get away from them all.
There was between them and my castle the creek, which I men-
tioned often in the first part of my story, where I landed my
cargoes out of the ship; and this I saw plainly he must necessarily
swim over, or the poor wretch would be laken there: but when the
savage escaping came thither, he made nothing of it, though the
tide was then up; but plunging in, swam through in about thirty
strokes, or thereabouts, landed, and ran on with exceeding strength
and swiftness. When the three persons came to the creek, I found
that two of them could swim, but the third could not, and that,
standing on the other side, he looked at the others, but went no
farther, and soon after went softly back again; which, as it hap-
pened, was very well for him in the end. I observed that the two
who swam were jet more than twice as long swimming over the
creek as the fellow was that fled from them. It came now very
warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now was
the time to get me a servant, and perhaps a companion or assistant,
and that I was called plainly by Providence to save this poor
creature's life. I immediately ran down the ladders with all
possible expedition, fetched my two guns, for they were both at the
foot of the ladders, as I observed above, and getting up again, with
the same haste, to the top of the hill, I crossed toward the sea, and
having a very short cut, and all down hill, placed myself in the way
between the pursuers and the pursued, hallooing aloud to him that
fled, who, looking back, was at first, perhaps, as much frightened at
me as at them; but I beckoned with my hand to him to eome back j
and, in the meantime, I slowly advanced towards the two that fol-
lowed: then rushing at once upon the foremost, I knocked him
down with the stock of my piece. I was loth to fire, because 1
would not have the rest hear; though, at that distance, it would
not have been easily heard, and being out of sight of the smoke too,
they would not have easily known what to make of it. Having
knocked this fellow down, the other who pursued him stopped, as 2
he had been frightened, and I advanced apace towards him: but as
I came nearer, I perceived presently he had a bow and arrow, and
was fitting it to snoot at me: so I was then necessitated to shoot at
him first, which I did, and killed him at the first shot. The poor
savage who fled but had stopped, though he saw both his enemies
fallen and killed, as he thought, yet was so frightened with the fire
and noise of my piece, that he stood stock still, and neither came
forward nor went backward, though he seemed rather inclined to
fly than to come on. I hallooed again to him to come forward,
which he easily understood, and came a little way; then stopped
again, and then a little further, and then stopped again; and I
could then perceive that he stood trembling, as if he had been taken
frisoner, and had just been to be killed, as his two enemies were,
beckoned to him again to come to me, and gave him all the signs
of encouragement that I could think of; and he came nearer and
nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve steps, in token of
acknowledgment for having saved his life. I smiled at him, and
looked pleasantly, and beckoned to him to come still nearer: at
length he came close to me; and then he kneeled down again,
kissed the ground, and laid his head upon the ground, and taking
me by the foot, set my foot upon his head: this, it seems, was in
token of swearing to be my slave for ever. I took him up, and
made much of him, and encouraged him all I could. But there
was more work to do yet; for I perceived the savage whom I
knocked down was not killed but stunned with the blow, and began
to come to himself: so I pointed to him, and showed him the
savage, that he was not dead: upon this he spoke some words to
me, and though I could not understand them, yet I thought they
were pleasant to hear; for they were the first sound of a man's
voice that I had heard, my own excepted, for above twenty-five
years. But there was no time for reflections now; the savage who
was knocked down recovered himself so far as to sit up on the
ground, and I perceived that my savage began to be afraid; but
when I saw that, I presented my other piece at the man, as if I
would shoot him: upon this my savage, for bo I call him now, made
a motion to me to lend him my sword which hung naked in a belt
by my side, which I did He no sooner had it, but he runs to his
enemv, and, at one blow, cut off his head so cleverly, no execu-
t oner in Germany could have done it sooner or better; which I
CBUsOE MBETINO WITH FBIDAT.
thought very strange for one who, I had reason to believe, never
saw a sword in his life before, except their own wooden swords:
however, it seems, as I learned afterwards, they make their wooden
swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so hard, that they will
cut off heads even with them, ay, and arms, and that at one blow
too. When he had done this, he comes laughing to me, in sign of
triumph, and brought me the sword again, and with abundance of
gestures, which I did not understand, laid it down. But that which
astonished him most was to know how I killed the other Indian so
far off: so pointing to him, he made signs to me to let him go to
him; so I bade him go as well as I could. When he came to him,
he stood like one amazed, looking at him, turning him first on one
side, then on the other, looked at the wound the bullet had made,
which, it seems, was just in his breast, where it had made a hole,
and no great quantity of blood had followed, but he had bled in-
wardly, for he was quite dead. He took up his bow and arrows,
and came back; so I turned to go away, and beckoned him to
follow me, making signs to him that more might come after them.
Upon this he made signs to me that he should bury them with
sand, that they might not be seen by the rest, if they followed; and
so I made signs to him again to do so. He fell to work; and, in
an instant, he had scraped a hole in the sand with his hands, big
enough to bury the first in, and then dragged him into it, and
covered him; and did so by the other also: I believe he had
buried them both in a quarter of an hour. Then calling him away,
I conveyed him, not to my castle, but quite away, to my cave, on the
farther part of the island. Here I gave him bread and a bunch of
raisins to cat, and a draught of water, which I found he was
indeed in great distress for, by his running; and having refreshed
him, I made signs for him to go and lie down to sleep, showing him
a place where I had laid some rice straw, and a blanket upon it,
which I used to sleep upon myself sometimes; so the poor creature
lay down and went to sleep.
He was a comely, handsome follow, perfectly well-made, with
straight, strong limbs, not too large, tall, and well-shaped, and, as I
reckon, about twenty-six years of age. He had a very good coun-
tenance, not a fierce and surly aspect; but seemed to have some-
thing very manly in his face; and yet he had all the sweetness and
softness of an European in his countenance too, especially when he
smiled. His hair was long and black, not curled like wool; his
forehead very high and large; and a great vivacity and sparkling
sharpness in his eyes. The colour of his skin was not quite black,
Dut very tawny; and yet not an ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny, as the
Brazilians and Virginians, and other natives of America are, but of
a bright kind of a dun olive-colour, that had something in it very
agreeable, though not very easy to describe. His face was round
and plump; his nose small, not flat like the Negroes; a very good
mouth, thin lips, and his fine teeth well set, and as white r.3
ivory.
After he had slumbered, rather than slept, about half an hour, he
awoke again, and c"ame out of the eave to me, for I had been milking
my goats, which I had in the enclosure iust by: when he espied mej
he came running to me, laying himself down again upon the ground,
with all the possible signs of an humble, thankful disposition, making
a great many antic gestures to show it. At last, he lays his head
flat upon the ground, close to my foot, and sets my other foot upon
his head, as he had done before; and after this made all the signs to
me of subjection, servitude, and submission imaginable, to let me
know how he would serve me as long as he lived. I understood

him in many things, and let him know I was very well pleased with
him. In a little time I began to speak to him and teach him to
speak to me; and, first, I let him know his name should be Friday,
which was the day I saved his life: I called him so for the memory
of the time. I likewise taught him to say Master: and then let him
know that was to be my name: I likewise taught him to say Yes
and No, and to know the meaning of them. I gave him s0me milk
in an earthen pot, and let him see me drink it before him, and sop
my bread in it; and gave him a cake of bread to do the like, which
he quickly complied with, and made signs that it was very good for
him. I kept there with him all that night; but as soon as it was
day, I beckoned to him to come with me, and let him know that I
would give him some clothes: at which he seemed very glad, for he
was stark naked. As we went by the place where he had buried
the two men, he pointed exactly to the spot, and showed me the
marks he had made to find them again, making signs to me that we
should dig them up again, and eat them. At this I appeared very
angry, expressed my abhorrence of it, and beckoned with my hand
ADVENTtJRES OS1 ROBINSON CRUSOE. 191
sion. I then led him up to the top of the hill, to see it his enemies
were gone; and pulling out my glass, I looked, and saw plainly the
iace where they had been, tut no appearance of them or their
canoes: so that it was plain they were gone, and had left their
two comrades behind them, without any search after them.
But I was not content with this discovery; but having now more
courage, and consequently more curiosity, I took my man Friday
witli me, giving him the sword in his hand, with the bow and
arrows at his back, which I found he could use very dexterously,
making him carry one gun for me, and I two for myself; and away
we marched to the place where these creatures had been, for I hail
a mind now to get some further intelligence of them. When I
came to the place, my very blood ran chill in my veins, and my
heart sunk within me, at the horror of the spectaole: indeed, it
was a dreadful sight, at least it was so to me, though Friday made
nothing of it. The place was covered with human bones, the
ground dyed with their blood, and great pieces of flesh left here
and there, half-eaten, mangled, and scorched; and, in short, all the
tokens of the trinmphant feast they had been making there, after a
victory over their enemies. I saw three sculls, five hands, and the
bones of three or four legs and feet, and abundance of other parts
of the bodies; and Friday, by his signs, made me understand that
they brought over four prisoners to feast upon; that three of them
were eaten up, and that he, pointing to himself, was the fourth;
that there had been a great Dattle between them and their next
king, whose subjects, it seems, he had been one of, and that they
had taken a great number of prisoners; all which were carried to
several places by those who had taken them in the fight, in order to
feast upon them, as was done her2 by these wretches upon those
they brought hither.
I caused Friday to gather up all the sculls, bones, and flesh, and
whatever remained, and lay them together in a heap, and make a
great fire upon it, and burn them all to ashes. I found Friday had
still a hankering stomach after some of the flesh, and was still a
cannibal in Ids nature; but I discovered so much abhorrence at the
very thoughts of it, and at the least appearance of it, that he durst
not discover it: for I had, by some means, let him know that I
would kill him if he offered it.
When he had done this, we came back to our castle; and there I
fell to work for my man Friday: and, first of all, I gave him a pair
of linen drawers, which I had out of the poor gunner's chest ]
mentioned which I found in the wreck; and which, with a little
alteration, fitted him very well, and then I made him a jerkin o<
goat's skin, as well as my skill would allow (for I was now grown t
tolerable good tailor); and I gave him a good cap, which I made ol
Dare's skin, very convenient and fashionable enough; and thus at
was clothed for the present, tolerably well, and was mighty well
pleased to see himself almost as wrcll clothed as his master. It is
true, he went awkwardly in those clothes at first: wearing the
drawers was very awkward to him, and the sleeves of the waistcoat
galled his shoulders, and the inside of his arms; but after a little
easing them where he complained they hurt him, and using himself
to them, he took to them at length very well.
The next day after I came home to my hutch with him, 1 began
to consider where I should lodge him; and that I might do well for
him, and yet be perfectly easy myself, I made a little tent for him
in the vacant place between my two fortifications, in the inside of
the last and in the outside of the first. As there was a door or
entrance there into my cave, I made a formal framed door-case,
and a door to it of boards, and set it up in the passage, a little
within the entrance; and causing the door to open in the inside, I

barred it up in the night, taking in my ladders too; so that Friday
could in no way come at me m the inside of my innermost wall,
without making so much noise in getting over that it must needs
waken me: for my first wall had now a complete roof over it of
long poles, covering all my tent, and leaning up to the side of the
hill; which was again laid across with smaller sticks, instead of
laths, and then thatched over a great thickness with the rice-straw,
which was strong, like reeds; and at the hole or place which was
left to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed a kind of trap door,
which, if it had been attempted on the outside, would not have
opened at all, but would have fallen down, and made a great noise:
as to weapons, I took them all into my side every night. But I
needed none of all this precaution; for never man had a more faith-
ful, loving, sincere servant than Friday was to me; without pas-
sions^ sullenness, or desigus, perfectly obliged and engaged—his very
affections were tied to me, like those of a child to a father; and I
dare say, he would have sacrificed his life for the saving mine upon
any occasion whatsoever: the many testimonies he gave me of this
put it out of doubt, and soon convinced me that I needed to use no
precautions as to my safety on his account.
This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that with
wonder, that however it had pleased God, in his providence,
and in the government of the works of his hands, to take from
so great a part of the world of his creatures the best uses to which
their faculties and the powers of their souls are adapted, yet that he
has bestowed upon them the same powers, the same reason, the
same affections, the same sentiments of kindness and obligation, the
same passions and resentments of wrongs, the same sence of grati-
tude, sincerity, fihelity, and all the capacities of doing good, and
rcceaving good, that he has given to us; and that when he pleases
to offer them occasions of exerting these they are as ready, nay, more
ready, to apply them to the right uses for which they were bestowed,
than we are.
With my new companion I was greatly delighted, and made it my
business to teach him everything that was proper to make him use-
ful, handy, and helpful; but especially to make him speak, and
understand me when I spoke: and he was the aptest scholar that
ever was; and particularly was so merry, so constantly diligent, and
so pleased when he could but understand me, or make me under-
stand him, that it was very pleasant to me to talk to him. Now
my life began to be so easy, that I began to say to myself, tht.t
could I have been safe from more savages, I cared not if I vu
ntivar to remove from the place where I lived.

SECTION XXIII.
ROBINSON INSTRUCTS AND CIVILIZES HIS MAN FRIDAY—ENDEAVOURS
TO GIVE HIM AN IDEA OF CHRISTIANITY.
After I had been two or three days returned to my castle, I thought
that, in order to bring Friday off from his horrid way of feeding,
and from the relish of a cannibal's stomach, 1 ought to let him taste
other flesh; so 1 took him out with me one morning to the woods.
I went, indeed, intending to kill a kid out of my own flock, and
bring it home and dress it; but as I was going, I saw a she-goat
lying down in the shade, and two young kids sitting by her. I
caught hold of Friday;—" Hold," said I; "stand still;" and made
signs to him not to stir: immediately I presented my piece, shot, and
killed one of the kids. The poor creature, who had, at a distance,
indeed, seen me kill the savage, his enemy, but did not know, nor
could imagine, how it was done, was sensibly surprised, trembled
and shook, and looked so amazed, that I thought he would have
sunk down. He did not see the kid I shot at, or perceived 1 had
killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat, to feel whether he was not
wounded, and, as I found presently, thought I was resolved to kill
him: for he came and kneeled down to me, and embracing my knees,
said a great man; tiiings I did not understand; but I could easily
see the meaning was, to pray me not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him that I would do him no
harm; and taking him up by the hand, laughed at him, and pointing
to the kid which I had killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it,
which he did; and while he was wondering, and looking to see how
the cieature was killed, I loaded my gun again. By and by, I saw
a grea^ fowl, like a hawk, sitting upon a tree, within shot; so to let
Friday understand a little what I would do, I called him to me again,
pointed at the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, though I thought it
had been a hawk, I say, pointing to the parrot, and to my gun, and
to the ground under the parrot, to let him see I would make it fall,
I made him understand that I would shoot and kill that bird:
accordingly, I fired, and bade him look, and immediately he saw
the parrot fall. He stood like one frightened again, notwithstanding
all I had said to him; and I found he was the more amazed, because
he did not see me put any thing into the gun, but thought that there
must be some wonderful fund of death and destruction in that thing,
able to kill man, beast, or bird, or any thing. near or far off; and
the astonishment this created in him was such, as could not wear
off for a long time; and I believe, if I would have let him, he would
have worshipped me and my gun. As for the gun itself, he would
not so much as touch it for several days after; but he would speak
to it, and talk to it, as if it had answered him, when he was by
himself; which, as I afterwards learued of him, was to desire it not
to kill him. Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this,
I pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I had shot, which he did,
but stayed some time; for the parrot, not being quite dead, had
fluttered away a good distance from the place where she fell: how-
ever, he found her, took her up, and brought her to me; and as [
had perceived his ignorance about the gun before, I took this advan-
tage to charge the gun again, and not to let him see me do it, that
I might be ready for any other mark that might present; but
nothing more offered at that time: so I brought Lome the kid, and
the same evening I took the skin off, and cut it out as well as I
could; and having a pot fit for that purpose, I boiled or stewed
some of the flesh, and made some very good broth. After I had
begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed very glad
of it, and liked it very well: but that which was strangest to him,
was to see me eat salt with it. He made a sign to me that the
salt was not good to cat; and putting a little into his mouth, he
seemed to nauseate it, and would spit and sputter at it, washing
his mouth with fresh water after it: on the other hand, I took
some meat into my mouth without salt, and I prctenled to spit and
sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had done at the salt; but it
would not do; he would never care for salt with his meat or in his
broth; at least, not a great while, and then but very little.
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
Having* thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was resolved
to feast him the next day with roasting a piece of the kid: this I did,
by hanging it before the fire on a string, as I had seen many people
do in England, setting two poles up one each side of the fire, and
one across on the top, ana tying the string to the cross stick,
letting the meat turn continually. This Friday admired very much:
but when he came to taste the flesh, he took so many ways to tell
mo how well he liked it, that I could not but understand him; and at
last he told me, as well as he could, that he would never eat man's
flesh any more, which I was very glad to hear.
The next day I set him to work to beating some cor n out, and
sifting it in the manner I used to do, as I observed before; and he

soon understood how to do it as well as I, especially after he had
seen what the meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread of
it: for after that I let him sec me make my bread, and bake it too;
and in a little time Friday was able to do all the work for me, as
well as I could do it myself.
I began now to consider, that having two mouths to feed instead
of one, I must provide more ground for my harvest, aud plant a
larger quantity of cor n than I used to do: so I marked out a larger
piece of land," and began the fence in the same manner as before,
in which Friday worked not only very willingly and very hard, but
did it very cheerfully: and I told him what it was for; that it was
for cor n to make more bread, because he was now with me, and
that I might have enough for him and myself too. He appeared
very sensible of that part, and let me know that he thought I
had much more labour upon me on his account than I had for
myself; and that he would work the harder for me, if T would tell
him what to do.
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this place.
Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the names of
almost every thing I had occasion to call for, and of every place I
had to send him to, and talked a great deal to me; so that, in
short, I began now to have some use for my tongue again, which,
indeed, I had very little occasion for before, that is to say, about
speech. Besides the pleasure of talking to him, I had a singular
satisfaction in the "fellow himself: his simple, unfeigned honesty
appeared to me more and more every day, and I began really to
love the creature; and, on his side, I believed he loved me more
than it was possible for him ever to love any thing before.
I had a mmd once to try if he had any hankering inclination to
his own country again; and having taught him English so well
that he could answer me almost any question, I asked him "whethci
the nation that he belonged to never conquered in battle?" At
which he smiled, aud said, "Yes, yes, we always fight the belter:"
that is, he meant, always get the better in fight; and so we began
the following discourse:—
Master. "You always fight the belter? how came you to be
taken prisoner then, Friday .J"
Friday. "My nation beat much, for all that."
Master. "How beat? If your nation beat them, how came
vou to be taken?"
Friday. "They more money than my nation in the place where
me was; they take one, two, three, and me; my nation overheat
them in the yonder place, where me no was; there my nation take
one, two, great thousand."
Master. "But why did not your side recover you from the
hands of your enemies, then?"
Friday. "They run one, two, three, and me, and make go in
the canoe; my nation have no canoe that time."
Master. "Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with
the men they take? Do they carry them away and eat them,
as these did?"
Friday. "Yes, my nation eat man's too; eat all up."
Master. "Where do they carry them?"
Friday. "Go to other place, where they think."
Master. "Do they come hither?"
Friday. "Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else place."
Master. "Have you been here with them?"
Friday. "Yes, I nave been here ;" (points to the N.W. side of
the island, which, it seems, was their side.)
By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly been among
the savages who used *o come on shore on the farther part of the
island, on the same man-eating occasions he was now brought for:
and some time after, when I took the courage to carry bim to that
side, being the same [ formerly mentioned, he presently knew the
place, and told me he was there once when they ate up twenty men,
two women, and one child . he could not tell twenty in English, but
he numbered them, by laying so many stones in a row, and pointing
to me to tell them ov^r.
1 have told this passage, hecausc it introduces what follows; that
after I had this discourse with him, I asked him how far it was from
our island to the shore, and whether the canoes were not often lost.
He told me there was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but that, after
a little way out to sea, there was a current and wind, always one
way in the morning, the other in the afternoon. This I understood
to fee no more than the sets of the tide, as going out or coming in;
but I afterwards understood it was occasioned by the great draft
and reflux. of the mighty river Oroonoko, in the mouth or gulf of
which river, as I found afterwards, our island lay; and that this
land which I perceived to the W. and N.W. was the great island
Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth of the river. I asked
Fridav a thousand questions about the country, the inhab-tants, the
sea, tlie coast, and what nations were near: he told me all he knew,
with the greatest openness imaginable. I asked him the names of
the several nations of his sort of people, but could get no other
name than Caribs: from whence I easily understood, tha*, these were
Caribbees, which our maps place on the part of America which
reaches from the mouth of the river Oroonoko to Guiana, and on-
wards to St. Martha. He told me that up a great way beyond the
moon, that was, beyond the setting of the moon, which must be
west from their country, there dwelt white bearded men, like me,
and pointed to my great whiskers, which I mentioned before; ana
that they had killed much mans, that was his word: by all which I
understood, he meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties in America had
been spread over the whole country, and were remembered by all
the nations, from father to son.
I inquired if he could tell me how I might go from this island ant.
get among those white men; he told me: *' les, yes, you may go in
two canoe." I could not understand what he meant, or make him
describe to me what he meant by two canoe; till, at last, with great
difficulty, I found he meant it must be in a iarge boat, as big as two
canoes. This part of Friday's discourse began to relish with me
very well: and from this time I entertained some hopes that, one
time or other, I might find an opportunity to make my escape from
this place, and that this poor savage might be a means to help me.
During the long time that Friday had now been with me, and that
he began to speak to me, and understand me, I was not wanting to
lay a foundation of religious knowledge in his mind; particularly I
asked him, one time, who made him? The poor creature did not
understand me at all, but thought I had asked him who was his
father; but I took it up by another handle, and asked him who
made t>« sea, the ground we walked on, and the hills and woods P
He told me, it was one old Benamuckee, that lived beyond all; he
could describe nothing of this great person, but that he was very
old, much older, he said, than the sea or the land, than the moon or
the stars. I asked him then, if this old person had made all things,
whv did not all things worship him? lie looked very grave, and
with a perfect look of innocence, said: "All tiiings say O to him."
I asked him "if the people who die in his country went away any
where?" He said, " Yes: they all went to Benamuckee;" then I
asked him "whether these they ate up went thither too?" He
said, "Yes."
From these things I began to instruct him in the knowledge of
the true God: I told him that the great Maker of all tiiings lived
up there, pointing up towards heaven; that he governed the world

by the same power and providence by which he made it; and that
he was omnipotent, and could do everything for us, give everything
to us, take everything from us; and thus, by degrees, I opened his
eyes. He listened with great attention, and received with pleasure
the notion of Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us, and of the
manner of making our prayers to God, and his being able to hear us,
even in heaven. He told me one day, that if our God could hear us
up beyond the sun, he must needs be a greater God than their Ben-
amuckee, who lived but a little way off, and yet could not hear till
they went up to the great mountains where he dwelt to speak to
him. I asked him if ever he went thither to speak to him? He
said: "No;" they never went that were young men; none went
thither but the old men, whom he called their Oowookakee: that is,
a3 I made him explain to me, their religious, or clergy; and that
they went to say 0 (so he called saying prayers), and then came
back, and told them what Benamuckee said.
I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man Friday; and told
him, that the pretence of their old men going up to the mountains
to say O to their god Benamuckee was a cheat: and that their
bringing word from thence what he said was much more so; that if
they met with any answer, or spake with any one there, it must be
an evil spirit; and then I entered into a long discourse about the
devil, the original of him, his rebellion against God, his enmity to
man, the reason of it, his setting himself up in the dark parts of Hie
world to be worshipped instead of God, and as God, and the many
stratagems he made use of to delude mankind to their ruin; how he
had a secret access to our passions and to our affections, and to
adapt his snares to our inclinations, so as to cause us even to be our
own tempters, and run upon our destruction by our own choice.
I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in all the
methods I took for this poor creature's instruction, and must
acknowledge, what I believe all that act upon the same principle
will find, that in laying things open to him, I reallv informed and
instructed myself in many things that either I did not Know, or nad
not fully considered before, but which occurred naturally to my
mind upon searching into them, for the information of this poor
savage: and I had more affection in my inquiry after things upon
this occasion than ever I felt before: so that, whether this poor wild
wretch was the better for me or no, I had great reason to be thank-
ful that fiver he came to me; my grief sat lighter upon me; my
habitation grew comfortable to me ocyond measure; and when I
reflected, that in this solitary life vhich I had been confined to, I
had not only been moved to look up to Heaven myself, and to seek
to the hand that had brought me here, but was now to be made an
instrument, under Providence, to save the life, and, for aught I
knew, Hie soul, of a.poor savage, and bring him to the true know-
ledge of religion, and of the Christian doctrine, that he might know
Christ Jesus, in whom is life eternal; I say, when I reflected upon
all these things, a secret joy ran through eveiy part of my soul, and
I frequently rejoiced that ever 1 was brought to this place, which
I had so often thought the most dreadful of all affiictions that could
odssibly have befallen me.

SECTION XXIV.
ROBINSON AND FRIDAY BUILD A CANOE TO CARRY THEM TO FRIDAY S
COUNTRY—THEIR SCHEME FREVENTED BY THE ARRIVAL OF A
FARTY OF SAVAGES.
After Friday and I became more intimately acquainted, and that he
could understand almost all I said to him, and speak pretty fluently,
though in broken English, to me, I acquainted him with my own
history, or at least so much of it as related to my coming to this
place; how 1 had lived here, and how long; I let him into the mys-
tery, for such it was to him, of gunpowder and bullet, and taught
him how to shoot. I gave him a knife, which he was wonderfully
delighted with; and I made him a belt with a frog hanging to it,
such as in England we wear hangers in ; and in the trog, instead of
a hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only as good a
weapon, in some cases, but much more useful upon other occasions.
I described to him the country of Europe, particularly England,
which I came from; how we lived, how we worshipped God, how we
behaved to one another, and how we traded in ships to all parts of
the world. I gave him an account of the wreck which I had been
on board of, and showed him, as near as I could, the place where she
lay; but she was all beaten in pieces before, and gone. I showed
him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when we escaped, and
which I could not stir with my whole strength then; but was now
fallen almost all to pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood
musing a great while, and said nothing. I asked him what it was
he studied upon? At last, he says: "Me see such boat like come
to place at my nation." I did not understand him a good while;
but, at last, when I had examined farther into it, I understood by
him, that a boat such as that had been, came on shore upon the
country where he lived; that is, as he explained it, was driven
thither by stress of weather. I presently imagined that some
European ship must have been cast away upon their coast, and the
boat might get loose, and drive ashore ; but was so dull, that I never
once thought of men making their escape from a wreck thither,
much less whence they might come; so I only inquired after a
description of the boat.
Friday described the boat to me well enough; but brought me
better to understand him when he added with some warmth. "We
save the white mans from drown." Then I presently asked him, if
there were any white mans, as he called them, in the boat? "Yes,"
he said; "the boat full of white mans." I asked him how many?
He told upon his fingers seventeen. I asked him then what became
of them; He told me, "They live, they dwell at iny nation."
This put new thoughts into my head; for I presently imagined
that these might be the men belonging to the ship that was cast
away in the sight of my island, as I now called it; and who, after
the ship was struck on the rock, and they saw her inevitably lost,
had saved themselves in their boat, and were landed upon that wild
shore among the savages. Upon this, I inquired of him more criti-
cally what was become of them; he assured me they lived still there
that they had been there about four years; that the savages let them
alone, and gave them victuals to live on. I asked lain how it came
to pass they did not kill them, and eat them, He said, "No, they
make brother with them;" that is, as I understood him, a truce; and
then he added, " They no cat mans but when make the war fight:"
that is to say, they never eat any men hut such as come to fight
with them, and are taken in battle.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my design of
going over with him to the continent, that I told liim we would go
and make a boat as big as that, and he should go home in it. He
answered not one word, but looked very grave and sad. I asked
him what was the matter with him ? He asked me again, "Why you
angry mad with Friday? What me done P" I asked him what he
meant ? I told him I was not angry with him at all. "No angry?"
says he, repeating the words several times; " Why send Friday home
away to my nation ?"—" Why," says I, "Friday, did not you say you
wished you were there ?"—" Yes, yes," says he, "wish be both there;
no wish Friday there, no master there." In a word, he would not think
of going there without me. "I go there, Friday !" says I;"what shall I
do there?" He returned very quick upon me at this : "Y'ou do great
deal much good," says he; "you teach wild mans be good, sober, tame
mans; you tell them know God, pray God, and live new life."—"Alas!
Friday," says I, "thou snowest not what thou sayest; I am but an
ignorant man myself."—" Yes, yes," says he, "you teachee me good,
yon teachee them good."—"No, no, Iriday," says 1, "you shall go
without me, leave me here to live by myself, as I did before." He
FRIDAV INSTEUCTED IS BOAT BUILDINO.
,ooked confused again at that word; and running to one of the hatchets
which he used to wear, he takes it up hastily, and gives it to me. "What
must I do with this ?" savs I to him. "You take Kill Friday," says he.
"What must I kill you for?" said I again. He returns very qv:ck,
"What you send Friday away for? Take kill Friday, no send 1 riday
away." This he spoke so earnestly, that I saw tears stand in his
eyes: in a word, I so plainly discovered the utmost affection in him
to me, and a iirm resolution in him, that I told him then, and often
after, that I would never send him away from me, if he was willing
to stay with me.
Upon the whole, as I found, by all his discourse, a settled affec-
tion to me, and that nothing should part him from me, so I found all
the foundation of his desire to go to his own country was laid in his
ardent affection to the people, and his hopes of my doing them good;
a thing, which as I had no notion of myself, so I had not the least
thought, or intention, or desire, of undertaking it. But still I found
a strong inclination to my attempting an escape, as above, founded
on the supposition gathered from the discourse, viz. that there were
seventeen bearded men there: and, therefore, without any more
delay, I went to work with Friday, to find out a g-reat tree proper to
fell, and make a large periagua, or canoe, to undertake the voyage.
There were trees enough in the island to have built a little fleet, not
of periaguas, or canoes, but even of good large vessels; but the
main thing I looked at was, to get one so near the water that we
might launch it when it was made, to avoid the mistake I committed
at first. At last, Friday pitched upon a tree; for I found he knew
much better than I what kind of wood was fittest for it; nor can I
tell, to this day, what wood to call the tree we cut down, except
that it was very like the tree we call fustie, or between that and the
Nicaragua wood, for it was much of the same colour and smell.
Friday was for burning the hollow or cavity of this tree out, to
make it for a boat, but I showed him how to cut it with tools;
which, after I had showed him how to use, he did very handily : and
in about a month's hard labour we finished it, and made it very
handsome; especially when, with our axes, which I showed him how
to handle, we cut and hewed the outside into the true shape of a
boat. After this, however, it cost us near a fortnight's time to get
her along, as it were inch by inch, upon great rollers, into the water;
but when she was in, she would have carried twenty men with great
ease
I was near two months rigging and fitting my mast and sails; for
I finished them very complete, making a small stay, and a sail, or
foresail, to it, to assist, if we should turn to windward; and, which
was more than all, I fixed a rudder to the stern of her to steer with.
I was but a bungling shipwright, yet, as I knew the usefulness, and
even necessity of such a thing, I applied myself with so much pains
to do it, that at last I brought it to pass; though, considering the
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
many dull contrivances I had for it that failed, I think it cost KiJ
almost as much labour as making the boat.
When the settled season began to come in, as the thought of my
design returned with the fair weather, I was preparing daily for the
voyage, and the first thing I did was to lay by a large quantity of
provisions, being the stores for our voyage; and intended, in a week
or a fortnight's time, to open the dock, and launch out our boat. I
was busy one morning upon something of this kind, when I called to
Friday, and bid him go to the sea-shore, and see if he could find a
turtle, or tortoise, a thing we generallv got once a week, for the sake
of the eggs as well as the flesh. Friday had not been long gone,
when he came running back, and flew over my outer wall, or fence,
like one that felt not the ground, or the steps he set his feet on; and

before I had time to speak to him, he cries out to me, "Oh master!
0 master! 0 sorrow! 0 bad!"—"What's the matter, Friday?"
says I. "0 yonder, there, "says he, "one, two, three canoe: one,
two, three!" By this way of speaking, I concluded there were six;
but, on inquiry, I found it was but three. "Well Friday," says I,
"do not be frightened!" So I heartened him up as welt as I could:
however, I saw the poor fellow was most terribly scared : for nothing
ran in his head but that they were come to look for him, and would
cut him in pieces, and eat him ; and the poor fellow trembled so that
1 scarce knew what to do with him. I comforted him as well as I
could, and told him I was in as much danger as he, and that they
would eat me as well as him. "But," says I, "Friday, we must
resolve to fight them." "Can you fight, Friday?"—"Me shoot,"
says he ; "but there come many great number."—"No matter for
that," said I, again, "our guns will fright them that we do not
13?
kill." So I asked him whether, if I resolved to defend him, he
would defend me, and stand by me; and do just as I bid him. He
said, "Me die, when you bid die, master." So I went and fetched a
good dram of rum and gave him; for I had been so good a husband
of my rum, that I had a great deal left. When he had drank it, I
made him take the two fowling-pieces, which we always carried, and
loaded them with large swan-shot, as big as small pistol-bullets ; then
I took four muskets, and loaded them with two slugs, and five small
bullets each; and my two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets
each; I hung my great sword, as usual, naked by my side ; and gave
Friday his hatchet. When I had thus prepared myself, I took my
perspective glass, and went up to the side of the hill, to sec what I
could discover; and I found quickly by my glass, that there were
^ -^.

one-and-t wenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes; and that
their whole business seemed to be the trinmphant banquet upon
these three human bodies; a barbarous feast indeed! but nothing
more than, as I had observed, was usual with them. I observed
also, that they were landed, not where they had done when Friday
made his escape, but nearer to my creek, where the shore was low,
and where a thick wood came almost close down to the sea. This,
with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these wretches came
about, filled me with such indignation, that I came down again to
Friday, and told him that I was resolved to go down to them and
kill them all; and asked him if he would stand by me. He had now
fot over his fright, and his spirits being a little raised with the dram
had given him, he was very cheerful, and told me, as before, he
would die when I bid die.
In this fit of fury, I took and divided the arms which I had
charged, as before, between us; I gave Friday one pistol to stick in
Iiis girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder; and I took one pistol,
and the other three guns myself; and in Ihil posture we marched
out. I took a small oottle of rum in my pocket, and gave Friday a
large bag with more powder and bullets ; and, as to orders, I charged
him to keep close behind me, and not to stir, or shoot, or do any-
thing, till I bid him; and, in the mean time, not to speak a word.
In this posture, I fetched a compass to my right hand of near a mile,
as well to get over the creek as to get into the wood, so that I might
come within shot of them before I should be discovered, which I had
seen, by my glass, it was easy to do.
1 entered the wood; and, with all possible wariness and silence,
Friday following close at my heels, I marched till I came to the skirt
of the wood, on the side which was next to them, only that one
comer of the wood, lay between me and them. Here I called softly
to Friday, and showing him a great tree, which was just at the cor-
ner of the wood, 1 bade him go to the tree, and bring me word if he
could see there plainly what they were doing. He did so ; and came
immediately back to me, and told me they might be plainly viewed
there; that they were all about their fire, eating the flesh of one of
their prisoners, and that another lay bound upon the sand, a little
from them, which, he said they would kill next, and which fired all
the very soul within me. He told me it was not one of their nation,
but one of the bearded men he told me of, that came to their
country in the boat. I was filled with horror at the very naming
the white bearded man; and, going to the tree, I saw plainly, by my
glass, a white man, who lay upon the beach of the sea, with his
hands and his feet tied with flags or things like rushes, and that he
was an European and had clothes on.
There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it, about fifty
yards nearer to them than the place where I was, which by going a little
way about, I saw I might come at undiscovered, and that then I
should be within half a shot of them: so I withheld my passion,
though I was indeed enraged to the highest degree; and going back
about twenty paces, I got behind some bushes, which held all the
way till I came to the other tree; and then came to a little rising
ground, which gave me a full view of them, at the distance of about
eighty yards

SECTION XXV.
ROHINSON RELEASES A SPANIARD—FRIDAY DISCOVERS HIS FATHER
ACCOMMODATION FROVIDED FOR THESE NEW GUESTS—WHO
ARE AFTERWARDS SENT TO LIBERATE THE OTHER SFANIARDS—
ARRIVAL OF AN ENGLISH VESSEL.
I had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the dreadful
wretches sat upon the ground, all close-huddled together, and had
just sent the other two to butcher the poor Christian, and bring him
perhaps, limb by limb, to their fire ; and they were stooping down to
untie the bands at his feet. I turned to Friday—" Now, Friday," said
I, " do as I bid thee." Friday said he would. "Then, Friday," said I,
"do exactly as you see me do; fail in nothing." So I set down one
of the muskets and the fowling-piece upon the ground, and Friday
did the like by his; and with the other musket I took my aim at
the savages, bidding him to do the like; then asking him if he was
ready, he said, "Yes." "Then fire at them," said 1; and the same
moment I fired also.
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the side that
he shot, he killed two of them, and wounded three more; and on my
side, I killed one, and wounded two. They were, you may be sure,
in dreadful consternation; and all of them who were not hurt
jumped up upon their feet, but did not immediately know which way
to run, or which way to look, for they knew not from whence their
destruction came. Friday kept his eyes close upon me that, as I
had bid him, he might observe what I did; so, as soon as the first
shot was made, I threw down the piece, and took up the fowling-
piece, and Friday did the like: he saw me cock and present; he did
the same again. "Are you ready, Friday?" said I. "Yes," says he.
"Let fly, then," says 1, "in the name of God!" And with that I
fired again among the amazed wretches, and so did Fridav; and as our
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
pieces were now loaden with what I called swan-shot, or small pistol
bullets, we found only two drop, but so many were wounded, that
they ran about yelling and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody,
and most of them miserably wounded, whereof three more fell quickly
after, though not quite dead.
"Now, Friday,"said I, laying down the discharged pieces, and taking
up the musket which was yet loaden, " follow me;" which he did with
a great deal of courage; upon which I rushed out of the wood, and
showed myself, and Friday close at my foot. As soon as I perceived
they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday do so
too; and running as fast as I could, which by the way was not very
fast, being loaded with arms as I was, I made directly towards the
poor victim, who was, as I said, lying upon the beach, or shore,

between the place where they sat and the sea. The two butchers,
who were just going to work with him, had left him at the surprise
of our first fire, and fled in a terrible fright to the sea-side, and had
jumped into a canoe, and three more of the rest made the same way.
I turned to Friday, and bade him step forward, and fire at them ; he
understood me immediately, and running about forty yards, to be
nearer them, he shot at them, and I thought he had killed them all,
for I saw them all fall of a heap into the coat, though I saw two of
them up again quickly: however, he killed two of them, and
wounded the third, so that he lay down in the bottom of the boat as
if he had been dead.
While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out my knife, and
cut the flags that bound the poor victim; loosing his hands and feet,
I lifted him up and asked him in the Portuguese tongue, what he was.
He answered in Latin, Christianus; but was so weak and faint that
he could scarce stand or speak. I took my bottle out of my pocket,
and gave it him, making signs that he should drink, which he did;
and I gave him a piece of bread which he ate. Then I asked hin
what countryman he was : "Espaguiole;" and being a little recovered,
let me know, by all the signs he could possibly make, how much he
was in my debt for his deliverance. "Siguor," said I, with as much
Spanish as I could make up, "we will talk afterwards, but we must
fight now; if you have any strength left, take this pistol and sword,
and lay about you. He took them very thankfully; and no sooner
had he the arms in his hands, but, as if they had put new vigour into
him, he flew upon his murderers like a fury, and had cut two of them
in pieces in an instant; for the truth is the whole was a surprise to
them, so the poor creatures were so much frightened with the noise
of our pieces, that they fell down for mere amazement and fear, and
had no more power to attempt their own escape than their flesh had
to resist our shot: and that was the case of those five that Friday
shot at in the boat; for as three of them fell with the hurt they had
received, so the other two fell with the fright.
I kept my piece in my hand still without firing, being willing to
keep my charge ready, because I had given the Spaniard my pistol and
sword; so I called to Friday, and bade him run up to the tree from
whence we first fired and fetch the arms which lay there that had been
discharged, which he did with great swiftness; and then giving him
my musket, 1 sat down myself to load all the rest again, and bade
them come to me when they wanted. While I was loading these
pieces, there happened a fierce engagement between the Spaniard
and one of the savages, who made at him with one of their great
wooden swords, the same-like weapon that was to have killed him be-
fore, if I had not prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as bold and
brave as could be imagined, though weak, had fought this Indian a good
while, and had cut him two great wounds on his head; but the
savage being a stout, lusty fellow, closing in with him, had thrown
him down, being faint, and was wringing my sword out of his hand;
when the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quitted the sword,
drew the pistol from his girdle, shot the savage through the body,
and killed him upon the spot, before I, who was running to help
him, could come near him.
Friday being now left to his liberty, pursued the flying wretches,
with no weapon in bis hand but his hatchet; and with that he
dispatched those three, who, as I said before, were wounded at first,
and fallen, and all the rest he could come up with; and the Spaniard
coming to me for a gun I gave him one of. "the fowling-pieces, with
which he pursued two of the savages, and wounded them both; but,
as he was not able to run, they both got from him into the wood,
where Friday pursued them, and killed one of them, but the other
was too nimble for him; and though he was wounded, yet had
plunged himself into the sea, and swam, with all his might, off to
those who were left in the canoe, which three in the canoe, with one
ADVENTURES 01 ROBINSOJf CRUSOE.
wounded, that we know not whether he died or no, were all that
escaped our hands of one-and-twenty. The account of the whole is
as follows: three killed at our first shot from the tree; two
killed at the next shot; two killed by Friday in the boat; two killed
by Friday of those at first wounded; one killed by Friday in the
wood; three killed by the Spaniard; four killed, being found dropped
here and there of their wounds, or killed by Friday in his chase
of them; four escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded if not dead.
—Twenty-one in all.
Those who were in the canoe worked hard to get out of gun-shot,
and though Friday made two or three shots at them, I did not find
that he hit any of them. Friday would fain have had me take one
of their canoes, and pursue them; and indeed I was very anxious
about their escape, lest, carrying the news home to their people,
they should come back perhaps with two or three hundred of the

canoes, and devour us by mere multitude; so I consented to pursue
them by sea, and running to one of their canoes, I jumped in, and
bade Friday follow me; but when I was in the canoe I was surprised
to find another poor creature lie there, bound hand and foot, as the
Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and almost dead with fear, not
knowing what was the matter; for he had not been able to look
up over the side of the boat, he was tied so hard neck and heels, and
had been tied so long, that he had really but little life in him.
I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which they had
bound him with, and would have helped him up; but he could not
stand or speak, but groaned most piteously, believing, it seems, still,
that he was only unbound to be killed. When Friday came to hiin,
I bade him speak to him, and tell him of his deliverance; and,
pulling out my bottle, made him give the poor wretch a dram}
which, with the news of his being delivered, revived him, and he sat
np in the boat. But when Friday came to hear him speak, and look
in his face, it would have moved any one to tears to have seeu how
Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed,
t'umped about, danced, sung; then cried again, wrung his hands,
teat his own face and head; and then sang and jumped about again,
like a distracted creature. It was a good while before I could make
him speak to me, or tell me what was the matter; but when he came
a little to himself, he told me that it was his father.
It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to see what
eestacy and filial affection had worked in this poor savage at the
sight of his father, and on his being delivered from death; nor indeed
can I describe half the extravagancies of his affection after this; for
he went into the boat, and out of the boat a great many times: when
he went in to him, he would sit down by him, open his breast, and
hold his father's head close to his bosom for many minutes together,
to nourish it; then he took his arms and ancles which were numbed
and stiff with the binding, and chafed and rubbed them with his
hands: and I, perceiving what the matter was, gave him some rum
out of my bottle to rub them with, which did them a great deal of
good.
This affair put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the other
savages, who were now almost out of sight; and it was happy for us
that we did not, for it blew so hard within two hours after, and
before they could have got quarter of their way, and continued
blowing so hard all night, and that from the north-west, which was
against them, that I could not suppose that their boat could live, or
that they ever reached their own coast.
But, to return to Friday, he was so busy about his father, that I
could not find in my heart to take him off for some time: but after
I thought he could leave him a little, I called him to me, and he
came Jumping and laughing, and pleased to the highest extreme;
then I asked him if he had given his father any bread. He shook
his head, and said, "None; ugly dog eat all up self." I then gave
him a cake of bread, out of a little pouch I carried on purpose; I
also gave him a dram for himself, but he would not taste it, but
carried it to his father. I had in my pocket two or three bunches of
raisins, so I gave him a handful of them for his father. He had no
sooner given his father these raisins, but I saw him come out of the
boat, and run away, as if he had been bewitched, he ran at such a
rate; for he was the swiftest fellow on his feet that I ever saw: I
say, he ran at such a rate, that he was out of sight, as it were, in
an instant; and though I called, and hallooed out too, after him, it
was all one, away he went; and in a quarter of an hour I saw him
come back again, though not so fast as he went; and as he came
nearer I found his pace slacker, because he had something in his
hand. When be came up to me, I found he had been quite home
for an earthen jug, or pot, to bring his father some fresh water, and
that he had two more cakes or loaves of bread; the bread he gave
me, but the water he carried to his father; however, as I was very
thirsty too, I took a little sup of it. The water revived his father
more than all the ruin or spirits I had given him, for he was just
fainting with thirst.
When his father had drunk, I called to him to know if there was
any water left; he said "Yes;" and 1 bade him give it to the poor
Spaniard, who was in as much want of it as his father; and I sent
one of the cakes that Friday brought to the Spaniard too, who was
indeed very weak, and was reposing himself upon a green place
under the shade of a tree; and whose limbs were also very stiff, and
very much swelled with the rude bandage he had been tied with.
When I saw that, upon Friday's coming to him with the water, he
sat up and drank, and took the bread, and began to eat, I went to
him and gave him a handful of raisins; he looked up in my face
with all the tokens of gratitude and thankfulness that could appear
in any countenance; but was so weak, notwithstanding he had
so exerted himself in the fight, that he could not stand up upon his
feet; he tried to do it two or three times, but was really not able,
his ankles were so swelled and so painful to him; so I bade him sit
still, and caused Friday to rub his ankles, and bathe them with rum.,
as he had done his father's.
I observed the poor affectionate creature, every two minutes, or
perhaps less, all the while he was here, turn his "head about to see
if his father was in the same place and posture as he left him
sitting: and at last he found that he was not to be seen; at which
he started up, and, without speaking a word, flew with that swift-
ness to him, that one could scarce perceive his feet to touch the
ground as he went; but when he came he only found he had lain
himself down to ease his limbs, so Friday came back to me pre-
sently; and then I spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help him up,
if he could, and lead him to the boat, and then he should carry him
to our dwelling, where I would take care of hiin; but Friday, a
lusty strong fellow, took the Spaniard quite up upon his back, and
carried him away to the boat, and set him down softly upon the side
or gunnel of the canoe, with his feet in the inside of it; and then,
lifting him quite in, he set himself close to his father; and pre-
sently stepping out again, launched the boat off, and paddled it
along the shore faster than 1 could walk, though the wind blew
pretty hard too: so he brought them both safe into our creek, and
leaving them in the boat, ran away to fetch the other canoe. As
he passed me, I spoke to him, and asked him whither he went. He
told me, " Go fetch more boat:" so away he went like the wind, for
sure never man or horse ran like him; and he had the other canoe
in the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land; so he wafted me
over, and then went to help our new guests out of the boat, which
fie did; but they were neither of them able to walk, so that poor
Friday knew not what to do.
To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and calling to
Friday to bid them sit down on the bank while he came to me, I
soon made a kind of hand-barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I
carried them both up together upon it, between us. But when we
got them to the outside of our wall, or fortification, we were at a
worse loss than before, for it was impossible to get them over, and
I was resolved not to break it down: so I set to work again; and
Friday and I, in about two hours' time, made a very handsome
tsnt, covered with old sails, and above that with bougns of trees,
being in the space without our outward fence, and between that and
the grove of young wood which I had planted; and here we made

them two beds of such things as I had, viz. of good rice straw,
with blankets laid upon it, to lie on, and another to cover them, on
each bed.
My island was now peopled, and I thought myself rich in sub-
jects; and it was a merry reflection, which I frequently made, how
like a king I looked. First of all, the whole country was my own mere
property, so that I had an undoubted right of dominion. Secondly,
my people were perfectly subjected: I was absolutely lord and
lawgiver; they all owed their lives to me, and were ready to lay
down their lives, if there had been occasion for it, for me. It was
remarkable, too, I had but three subjects, and they were of three
different religions: my man Friday was a Protestant, his father was
a Pagan and a cannibal, and the Spaniard was a Papist: however,
I allowed liberty of conscience throughout my dominions.—But
this is by the way.
As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued prisoners, and
given them shelter, and a place to rest them upon, I began to think
of making some provision for them; and the first thing I did, I
ordered Frida) to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat,
out of my particular flock, to be killed; when I cut off the hinder
quarter, and chopping it into small pieces, I set Friday to work to
boiling and stewing, and made them a very good dish, I assure yon,
of flesh and broth, having put some barley and rice also into the
broth; and as I cooked it without doors, for I made no fire within
my inner wall, so I carried it all into the new tent, and having set a
table for them, 1 sat down, and ate my dinner also with them, and, as
well as I could, cheered them and encouraged them. Friday was my
interpreter, especially to his father, and, indeed, to the Spaniard
too: for the Spaniard spoke the language of the savages pretty well.
After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to take
one of the canoes, and go and fetch our muskets and other fire-
arms, which, for want of time, we had left upon the place of battle;
and, the next day, I ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies of
the savages, which lay open to the sun, and would presently be
offensive. I also ordered him to bury the horrid remains of tneir
barbarous feast, and which I could not think of doing myself; nay,
1 could not bear to see them, if I went that way; all which he
jiunctually performed, and effaced the very appearance of the savages
being there; so that when I went again, I could scarce know
where it was, otherwise than by the corner of the wood pointing
to the place.
I then began to enter into a little conversation with my two new
subjects; and first, I set Friday to inquire of his father what he
thought of the escape of the savages in that canoe, and whether we
might expect a return of them, with a power too great for us to
resist. His first opinion was that the savages in the boat could
never live out the storm that blew that night they went off, but
must of necessity be drowned, or driven south to those other shores,
where they were as sure to be devoured as they were to be drowned,
if they were cast away: but, as to what they would do if they came
safe on shore, he said he knew not; but it was his opinion, that they
were so dreadfully frightened with the manner of their being
attacked, the noise, and the fire, that he believed they would tell
the people they were all killed by thunder and lightning, not by the
hand of man; and that the two which appeared, viz. Iriday and I,
were two heavenly spirits, or furies, come down to destroy them,
and not men with weapons. This, he said, he knew: because he
heard them all cry out so, in their language, one to another; for it
was impossible for them to conceive that a man could dart fire, and
speak thunder, and kill at a distance, without lifting up the hand, as
was done now: and this old savage was in the rignt; for, as I
understood since, by other hands, the savages never attempted to go
over to the island afterwards, they were so terrified by the accounts
given by those four men (for, it seems, they did escape the sea),
that they believed whoever went to that enchanted Wand would b«
destroyed by fire from the gods. This, however, I knew not; and
therefore was under continual apprehensions for a good while, and
kept always upon my guard, with all my army: for, as there were
now four of us, I would have ventured upon a hundred of them,
fairly in the open field, at any time.
In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing, the fear of
their coming wore off, and I began to take my former thoughts of a
voyage to the main into consideration; being likewise assured by
Friday's father that I might depend upon good usage from their
nation, on his account, if I would go. But my thoughts were a
little suspended when I had a serious discourse with the Spaniard,
and when I understood that there were sixteen more of his country-
men and Portuguese, who, having been cast away, and made their
escape to that side, lived there at peace, indeed, with the savages,
but were very sore put to it for necessaries, and indeed for life. I
asked him all the particulars of their voyage, and found they were a
Spanish ship, bound from the Bio de la Plata, to the Havannah,
being directed to leave their loading there, which was chiefly hides
and silver, and to bring back what European goods they could meet
with there; that they had five Portuguese seamen on board, whom
they took out of anot^r wreck; that five of their own men were
drowned, when first the ship was lost, and that these escaped
through infinite dangers and hazards, and arrived, almost starved, on
the cannibal coast, where they expected to have been devoured
every moment. He told me they had some arms with them, but
they were perfectly useless, for that they had neither powder nor
ball, the washing of the sea having spoiled all their powder, but a
little, which they used at their first landing, to provide themselves
some food.
I asked him what he thought would become of them there, and
if they had formed no design of making their escape. He said they
had many consultations about it; but that having neither vessel,
nor tools to build one, nor provisions of any kind, their councils
always ended in tears and despair. I asked him how he thought
they would receive a proposal from me, which might tend towards an
escape; and whether, if they were all here, it might not be done. I
told him, with freedom, I feared mostly their treachery and ill-usage
of me, if I put my life in their hands, for that gratitude was no in-
herent virtue in the nature of man, nor did men always square their
dealings by the obligations they had received, so much as they did
bv the advantages they expected.
He answered with a great deal of candour and ingenuousness,
that their condition was so miserable, and they were so sensible ot
it, that he believed they would abhor the thought of using any man
unkindly that should contribute to their deliverance; ana that, if I
pleased, ho would go to them with the old man, and discourse with
them about it, and return again, and bring me their answer; that
he would make conditions with them upon their solemn oath, that
they should be absolutely under my leading, as their commander and
captain: and that they should swear, upon the holy sacraments and
gospel, to be true to me, and go to such Christian country as that I
should agree to, and no other, and to be directed wholly and abso-
lutely by my orders, till they were landed safely in such country as
I intended; and that he would bring a contract for them, under
their hands, for that purpose.
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve them, if
possible, and to send the old savage and this Spaniard over to them
to treat. But when we had got all things in readiness to go, the
Spaniard himself started an objection, which had so much prudence
in it, on one hand, and so much sincerity, on the other hand, that I
could not but be very well satisfied in it; and, by his advice, put off
the deliverance of his comrades for at least half a year. The case
was thus: He had been with us now about a month, during which
time I had let him see in what manner I had provided, with the
assistance of Providence, for my support; and he saw evidently
what stock of corn and rice 1 had laid up; which, though it wai
more than sufficient for myself, yet it was not sufficient, without
good husbandry, for my family, now it wac increased to four; but
much less would it be sufficient if his countrymen, who were, as he
said, sixteen, still alive, should come over; and least of all would it
be sufficient to victual our vessel, if we should build one, for a voy-
age to any of the Christian colonies of America; so he told me he
thought it would be more advisable to let him and the other two dig
and cultivate some more land, as much as I could spare seed to sow,
and that we should wait another harvest, that we might have a
supply of corn for his countrymen, when they should come; for
want might be a temptation to them to disagree, or not to think
themselves delivered, otherwise than out of one difficulty into an-
other. "You know," says he, "the children of Israel, though they
rejoiced at first for being delivered out of Egypt, yet rebelled even
against God himself, that delivered them, when they came to want
bread in the wilderness."
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good, that I
could not but be very well pleased with his proposal, as well as I
was satisfied with his fidelity: so we fell to digging, all four of us, as
well as the wooden tools we were furnished with permitted; and in
« month's time, by the end of which it was seed-time, we had got as
'Juch land cured and trimmed up as we sowed two and twenty
bushels of barley on, and sixteen jars of rice; which was, in short,
all the seed we had to spare: nor, indeed, did we leave ourselves
barley sufficient for our own food, for the six months that we had
to expect our crop; that is to say, reckoning from the time we set
our seed aside for sowing; for it is not to be supposed it is six months
in the ground in that country.
14/
At the same time, I contrived to increase my little flock of tame
goats as much as I could; and, for this purpose, I made Friday and
the Spaniard go out one day, and myself with Friday the next day
(for we took ourl turns), and by this means we got about twenty
young kids to breed up with the rest; for whenever we shot the
dam, we saved the kids, and added them to our flock. But, above
all, the season for curing the grapes coming on, I caused such a pro-
digious quantity to be hung up in the sun, that, I believe, had we
been at Alicant, where the raisins of the sun are cured, we could
have filled sixty or eighty barrels: and these, with our bread, was a
great part of our food, and was very good living, too, I assure you,
for it is exceedingly nourishing.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order: it was not the

most plentiful increase I had seen in the island, but, however, it was
enougn to answer our end; for from twenty-two bushels of barley
we brought in and threshed out above two hundred and twenty
bushels, and the like in proportion of the rice; which was store
enough for our food to the nexe harvest, though all the sixteen
Spamards had been on shore with me ; or if we had been ready for a
voyage, it would very plentifully luwe victualled our ship to have
carried us to any part of the world, that is to say, any part of Ame-
rica. When we had thus housed and secured our magazine of corn,
we fell to work to make more wickerware, viz. great baskets, in
which we kept it; and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous
at this part, and often blamed me that I did not make some things
for defence of this kind of work; but I saw no need of it.
And now, having a full supply of food for all the guests I ex-
pected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the main, to see
what he could do with those he had left behind him there. I gave
hitn a strict charge not to bring any man with him who would not
first swear, in the presence of himself and the old savage, that he
would no way injure, fight with, or attack the person he should find
in the island, who was so kind as to send for them in order to their
deliverance; but that they would stand by him, and defend him
against all such attempts, and wherever they went, would be entirely
under and subjected to his command; and that this should be put
in writing, and signed with their hands. How they were to have
done this, when I knew they had neither pen nor ink, was a ques-
tion which we never asked. Under these instructions, the Spaniard
and the old savage, the father of Friday, went away in one of the
canoes which they might be said to come in, or rather were brought

in, when they came as prisoners to be devoured by the savages. I
gave each of them a musket, with a firelock on it, and about eight
charges of powder and ball, charging them to be very good husbands
of both, and not to use either of them but upon urgent occasions.
This was a cheerful work, being the first measures used by me, in
view of my deliverance, for now twenty-seven years and some days.
I gave them provisions of bread, and of dried grapes, sufficient for
themselves for many days, and sufficient for alt the Spaniards for
about eight days' time; aud wishing them a good voyage, I saw
them go; agreeing with them about a signal they should nang out
at their return, bv which I should know them again, when they
came back, at a distance, before they came on shore. They went
away with a fair gale, on the day that the moon was at full, by my
account in the month of October; but as for an exact reckoning of
days, after I had once lost it, I could never recover it again; nor
had I kept even the number of years so punctually as to be sure I
was right; though, as it proved, when 1 afterwards examined my
account, I found I had kept a true reckoning of years,
149
It was no less than eight days I had waited for them, when a
strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the like has not
perhaps been heard of in history. I was fast asleep in my hutch
one morning, when my man Friday came running in to me, and
called aloud, " Master, master, they are come, they are come!" I
jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I went out as soon as I could
get my clothes on, through my little grove, which, by the way, was
by this time grown to a very thick wood; I say, regardless of dan-

pcr, I went without my arms, which it was not my custom to do;
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
saw a boat about a league and a half distance, standing in for the
shore, with a shoulder-of-mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind
blowing fair to bring them in: also I observed presently, that thcy
did not come from that side which the shore lay on, but from the
southernmost end of the island. Upon this, I called Friday in, and
bade him lie close, for these were not the people we looked for, and
that we might not know yet whether they were friends or enemies.
In the next, place, I went in to fetch my perspective glass, to sec
what I could make of them; and having taken the ladder out, I
climbed up to the top of the hill, as I used to do when I was appre-
hensive of anything, and to take my view the plainer without being
discovered. I had scarce set my foot upon the hill, when my eye
plainly discovered a ship lying at anchor, at about two leagues and a
half distance from me, S.S.E., but not above a league and a half
from the shore. By my observation, it appeared plainly to be an
English ship, and the boat appeared to be an English long-boat.
I cannot express the confusion I was in; chough the joy of
seeing a ship, and one that I had reason to believe was manned
by my own countrymen, and, consequently, friends, was such as I
cannot describe ; but yet I had some secret doubts hang about me—
I cannot tell from whence they came, bidding me keep upon my
guard. In the first place, it occurred to me to consider what busi-
ness an English ship could have in that part of the world, since it
was not the way to or from any part of the world where the English
had any traffic; and I knew there had been no storms to drive them
in there, as in distress; and that if they were really English, it was
most probable that they were here upon no good design; and that I
had better continue as I was, than fall into the hands of thieves and
murderers.
I had not kept myself .ong in tnis posture, but I saw the boat
draw near the shore, as if they looked for a creek to thrust in at,
for the convenience of landing; however, as they did not come
quite far enough, they did not see the little inlet where I formerly
landed my rafts, but run their boat on shore upon the beach, at
about half a mile from me, which was very happy for me; for other-
wise they would have landed just at my door, as I may say, and
would soon have beaten me out of my castle, and perhaps have plun-
dered me of all I had. When they were on shore, I was fully satis-
fied they were Englishmen, at least most of them; one or two I
thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so; there were in all
eleven men, whereof three I found were unarmed, and, as I thought,
bound; and when the first four or five of them were jumped on
shore, they took those three out of the boat, as prisoners; one of
the three I could perceive using the most passionate gestures of
entreaty, affliction, and despair, even to a kind of extravagance; the
other two, 1 could perceive, lifted np their hands sometimes, and
appeared concerned, indeed, but not to such a degree as the first.
I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not what the
meaning of it should be. Friday called out to me in English, as
well as ne could, "0 master! you see English rcans cat prisoner as
well as savage mans."—" Why, Friday," says I, " do you think they
are going to eat them then ?"—" Yes," says Friday, "thev will eat
them." "No, no," says T, "Friday; I am afraid they will murder
them, indeed, but you ma} be sure they will not eat them."
151
All this while I had no thought of what the matter really was,
but stood trembling with the horror of the sight, expecting every
moment when the three prisoners should be killed; nay, once I saw
one of the villains lift up his arm with a great cutlass, as the seamen
call it, or sword, to strike one of the poor men; and I expected to
see him fall every moment; at which all the blood in my body
seemed to run chill in my veins. I wished heartily now for my
Spaniard, and the savage that was gone with him, or that I had any
way to have come undiscovered within shot of them, that I might
have rescued the three men, for I saw no fire-arms they had among
them: but it fell out to my mind another way. After I had observed
the outrageous usage of the three men by the insolent seamen, I
observed the fellows run scattering about the island, as if they
wanted to see the country. I observed that the three other men

had liberty to go also where they pleased; but they sat down all
three upon the ground, very pensive, and looked like men in despair.
This put me in mind of the first time when I came on shore, anp
began to look about me: how I gave myself over for lost; how
wildlv I looked around me; what dreadful apprehensions I had; and
how I lodged in the tree all night, for fear of being devoured by wild
beasts. As I knew nothing that night of the supply I was to re-
ceive by the providential driving of the ship nearer the laud by the
storms and tide, by which I have been so long nourished and sup-
ported; so these three poor desolate men knew nothing how certain .
of deliverance and supply they were. So little do we see before us
in the world, and so much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon
the great Maker of the world, that He does not leave His creatures
so absolutely destitute, but that, in the worst circumstances, they
have always something to be thankful for, and sometimes are nearer
their deliverance than they imagine; nay, are even brought to their
deliverance by the means bv which they seem to be brought to their
destruction.
SECTION XXVI.
ROBINSON DISCOVERS HIMSELF TO THE ENGLISH CAFTAIN—ASSISTS
HIM IN SEDUCING HIS MUTINOUS CREW—WHO SUBMIT TO HIM.
It was just at the top of high water when these people came on
shore; and partly while they rambled about to see what kind of a
place they were in, they had carelessly stayed till the tide was spent,
and the water was ebbed considerably away, leaving their boat
aground. They had left two men in the boat, who, as I found after-
wards, having drunk a little too much brandy, fell asleep; however,
one of them waking a little sooner than the other, and finding the
boat too fast aground for him to stir it, hallooed out for the rest,
who were straggling about; upon which they all soon came to the
boat: but it was past all their strength to launch her, the boat being
very heavy, and the shore on that side being a soft oozy sand, almost
like a quicksand. In this condition, like true seamen, who are
perhaps the least of all mankind given to forethought, they gave it
over, and away they strolled about the country again; and I heard
one of them say aloud to another, calling them off from the boat,
"Why, let her alone, Jack, can't you? she'll float next tide:" by
which I was fully confirmed in the main inquiry of what country-
men they were. All this while I kept myself very close, not once
daring to stir out of my castle, any farther than to my place of
observation, near the top of the hill; and very glad I was to think
how well it was fortified. I knew it was no less than ten hours
before the boat could float agnin, and by that time it would be dark,
Mid I might be at more liberty to see their motions, and to hear
their discourse, if they had any. In the meantime, I fitted myself
up for a battle, as before, though with more caution, knowing I
had to do with another kind of enemy than I had at first. I ordered
Friday also, whom I had made an excellent marksman with his gun,
to load himself with arms. I took myself two fowling-pieces, and
I gave him three muskets. My figure, indeed, was very fierce; I
had my formidable goats' skin coat on, with the great cap I have
mentioned, a naked sword by my side, two pistols in my belt, and a
gun upon each shoulder.
It was my design, as I said above, not to have made any attempt
till it was dark: but about two o'clock, being the heat of the day,
I found that, in short, they were all gone straggling into the woods,
and as I thought, laid down to sleep. The three poor distressed
men, too anxious for their condition to get any sleep, were, however,
sat down under the shelter of a great tree, at about a quarter of a
mile from me, and, as I thought, out of sight of any of the rest.
Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them, and learn some-
thing of IJieir condition; immediately I marched in the figure aa
above, my man Friday at a good distance behind me, as formidable
for his arms as I, but not making quite so staring a spectre-like
figure as I did. I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and
then, before any of them saw me, I called aloud to them in Spanish,
"What are ye, gentlemen?" They started at the noise; hut were
ten times more confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth
figure that I made. They made no answer at all, but I thought I
perceived them just going to fly from me, when I spoke to them in
English: "Gentlemen," said I, "do not be surprised at me; per-
haps you may have a friend near, when you did not expect it."
"lie must he sent directly from Heaven then," said one of them
very gravely to me, and pulling off his hat at the same time to me;
"for our condition is past the help of man."—" All help is from
Heaven, sir," said I: "But can you put a stranger in the way how
to help you? for you s em to be in some great distress. I saw yon
when you landed; and when you seemed to make supplication to
the brutes that came with you, I saw one of them lift up his sword
to kill you."
The poor man, with tears running down his face, and trembling,
lookine like one astonished, returned, "Is it a real man or an
angelP*—"Be in no fear about that, sir," said I; "if God had sent
an angel to relieve you, he would have come better clothed, and
armed after another manner than you see me: pray lay aside your
fears; I am a man, an Englishman, and disposed to assist you: you
see I have one servant only; we have arms and ammunition; tell
us freely, can we serve you? What is your case ?"—" Our case,"
said he, "sir, is too long to tell you, while our murderers are so
near us; but, in short, sir, I was commander of that ship, my men
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
have mutinied against me ; they have been hardly prevailed on not to
murder me; and at last have set me on shore in this desolate place,
with these two men with me, one my mate, the other a passenger,
where we expected to perish, believing the place to be uninhabited,
and know not yet what to think of it."—"Where are these brutes,
your enemies?" said I: "Do you know where they are goneP "—
"There they lie, sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of trees; "my
heart trembles for fear they have seen us, and heard you speak; if
they have, they will certainly murder us all."—"Have they any
fire-arms?" said I. He answered, "They had only two pieces, one
of which they left in the boat."—"Well then," said I, "leave the
rest to me; I see they are all asleep, it is an easy thing to kill them
all: but shall we rather take them prisoners?" He told me there
were two desperate villains among them, that it was scarce safe to

show any mercy to; but if they were secured, he believed all the
rest would return to their duty. I asked him which they were?
He told me he could not at that distance distinguish them, but he
would obey my orders in anything I would direct. "Well," says I,
"let us retreat out of their view or hearing, lest they awake, and
we will resolve further." So they willingly went back with me, till
the woods covered us from them.
"Look you, sir," said I, "if I venture upon your deliverance,
are you willing to make two conditions with me?" He anticipated
my proposals, dv telling me, that both he and the ship, if recovered,
should be wholly directed and commanded by me in every thing;
and, if the ship was not recovered, he would live and die with me
in what part of the world soever I would send him; and the two
other men said the same. "Well," says I, "my conditions are but
two: first, That while you stay in this island with me, you will not
pretend to any authority here; and if I put arms in your hands,
you will, upon all occasion, give them up to me, and do no prejudice
to me or mine upon this island; and, in the mean time, be governed
by my orders: secondly, That if the ship is, or may be recovered,
you will carry me and my man to England, passage free."
He gave me all the assurances that the invention or faith of man
could devise, that he would comply with these most reasonable
demands; and, besides, would owe his life to me, and acknowledge
it upon all occasions, as long as he lived. "Well then," said I,
"here are three muskets for you, with powder and ball: tell me
next what you think is proper to be done." He showed me all the
testimonies of his gratitude that he was able, but offered to be
wholly guided by me. I told him I thought it was hard venturing
anything; but the best method I could think of was to fire upon
them at once, as they lay, and if any was not killed at the first
volley, and offered to submit, we might save them, and so put it
wholly upon God's providence to direct the shot." He said very
modestly, "that he was loth to kill them, if he could help it: but
that those two were incorrigible villains, and had been the authors
of all the mutiny in the ship, and if they escaped, we should be
undone still; for they would go on board and bring the whole ship's
company and destroy us all. "Well then," says I, "necessity
legitimates my advice, for it is the only way to save our lives.
However, seeing him still cautious of shedding blood, I told him
they should go themselves and manage as they found convenient."
In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them awake,
and soon after we saw two of them on their feet. I asked him "if
either of them were the heads of the mutiny?" He said "no."
"Well then," said I, "you may let them escape; and Providence
seems to have awakened them on purpose to save themselves.
Now," says I, "if the rest escape you, it is your fault." Animated
with this, he took the musket I had given him in his hand, and a
pistol in his belt, and his two comrades with him, with each a piece
m his hand; the two men who were with him going first, made
some noise, at which one of the seamen who was awake turned
about, and seeing them coming, cried out to the rest; but it
was too late then, for the moment he cried out they fired; 1 mean
the two men, the captain wisely reserving his own piece. They had
so well aimed their shot at the men they knew, that one of them
was killed on the spot, and the other very much wounded; but not
being dead, he started up on his feet, and called eagerly for help to
the others; but the captain stepping to him, told him it was too
late to cry for help, he should call upon God to forgive his villany;
and with that word knocked him down with the stock of his musket,
so that he never suolfc more; but there were three more in the
company, and one of them was also slightly wounded. By this time
I was come; and when they saw their danger, and that it was in
vain to resist, they begged for mercy. The captain told them he
would spare their lives, if they would give him any assurance of
their abhorrence of the treachery they had been guilty of, and would
swear to be faithful to him in recovering the ship, and afterwards
in carrying her back to Jamaica, from whence they came. They
gave him all the protestations of their sincerity that could be
desired, and he was willing to believe them, and spare their lives,
which I was not against, only that I obliged him to keep them
bound hand and foot while they were on the»island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's mate to
the boat, with orders to secure her and bring away the oars and
sails, which they did: and by and by three straggling men, that
were (happily for them) parted from the rest, came back upon
hearing the guns fired, and seeing the captain, who before was their
prisoner, now their conqueror, they submitted to be bound also;
and so our victory was complete.
It now remained that the captain and I should inquire into one
another's circumstances; I began first, and told him my whole his-
tory, which he heard with an attention even to amazement; and
particularly at the wonderful manner of my being furnished with
provisions and ammunition; and, indeed, as my story is a whole
collection of wonders, it affected him deeply. But when he reflected
from thence upon himself, and how I seemed to have been preserved
there on purpose to save his life, the tears ran down his face, and
he could not speak a word more.' After this communication was at
an end, I carried him and his two men into my apartment, leading
them in just where I came out, viz. at the top of the house, where I
refreshed them with such provisions as I had, and showed them all
the contrivances I had made, during my long, long inhabiting of
that place.
All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly amazing; but
above all, the captain admired my fortification, and how perfectly I
had concealed my retreat with a grove of trees, which, having been
now planted near twenty years, and tfie trees growing much faster
than in England, was become a little wood, and so thick, that it was
impassable m any part of it, but at that one side where I had reserved
my little winding passage into it. I told him this was my castle and
my residence, but that I had a seat in the country, as most princes
have, whither I could retreat upon occasion, and I would show him
that too another time; but at present our business was to consider
how to recover the ship. He agreed with me as to that; but told
me he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take, for that there
were still six-and-twenty hands on board, who having entered into a
cursed conspiracy, by which they had all forfeited their lives to the
law, would be hardened in it now by desperation, and would carry it
on, knowing that, if they were subdued, they would be brought to the
gallows, as soon as they came to England, or to any of the English
colonies; and that, therefore, there would be no attacking them with
80 small a number as we were.
I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found it was a
very rational conclusion, and that, therefore, something was to be
resolved on speedily, as well to draw the men on board into some
snare for their surprise, as to prevent their landing upon us, and
destroying us. Upon this it presently occurred to me, that in a
little while the ship's crew, wondering what had become of their
comrades, and of the boat, would certainly come on shore in their
other boat, to look for them: and that then, perhaps, they might
come armed, and be too strong for us; this he allowed to be rational.
Upon this, I told him the first thing we had to do was to stave the
boat, which lay upon the beach, so that they might not carry her
off; and taking everything out of her, leave her so far useless as not
to be fit to swim; accordingly we went on board, took the arms
which were left onboard out or her, and whatever eise we found there.
Then we knocked a great hole in her bottom, that if they had
come strong enough to master us, yet they could not carry off the
boat.
While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first, by main
strength, heaved the boat upon the beach so high, that the tide would
not float her off at high-water mark, and besides, had broke a hole
in her bottom too big to be quickly stopped, and were musing what
we should do, we heard the ship fire a gun, and saw her make a waft
with her ensign as a signal for the boat to come on board; but no
boat stirred; and they fired several times, making other signals for
the boat. At last when all their signals and firing proved fruitless,
and they found the boat did not stir, we saw them, by the help of
my glasses, hoist another boat out, and row towards the shore; and
we found, as they approached, that there were no less then ten men
in her, and that they had fire-arms with them.
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we had a full
view of them as they came, and a plain sight even of their faces;
because the tide having set them a little to the east of the other
boat, they rowed up under shore, to come to the same place where
the other had landed, and where the boat lay; by this means, I say,
we had a full view of them, and the captain knew the persons and
characters of all the men in the boat, of whom he said there were
three very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led into this con-
spiracy by the rest, being overpowered and frightened; but that as
for the boatswain, who, it seems, was the chief officer among them,
and all the rest, they were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew,
and were no doubt made desperate in their new enterprrse; and
terribly apprehensive he was that they would be too powerful for us.
I smiled at him, and told him that men in our circumstances were
past the operation of fear; that seeing almost every condition that
could be was better than that which we were supposed to be in, ve
ought to expect that the consequence, whether death or life, would
be sure to be a deliverance.
We had, upon the first appearance of the boat's coming from the
ship, considered of separating out prisoners; and we had, indeed,
secured them effectually. Two of them, of whom the captain was
less assured than ordinary, I sent with Friday, and one of the three
delivered men, to my cave, were they where remote enough,
and out of danger of being heard or discovered, or of finding their
way out of the woods if they could have delivered themselves: here
they left them bound, but gave them provisions; and promised them
if they continued there quietly, to give them their liberty in a day
or two; but that if they attempted their escape, they should be put
to death without mercy. They promised faithfully to bear their con-
finement with patience, and were very thankful that they had such
good usage as to have provisions and light left them; for Friday
gave them candles (such as we made ourselves) for their comfort;
and they did not know but that he stood sentinel over them at the
entrance.
The other prisoners had better usage; two of them were kept
pinioned, indeed, because the captain was not free to trust them:
but the other two were taken into my service, upon the captain's
recommendation, and upon their solemnly engaging to live and die
with us; so with them and the three honest men, we were seven men
well armed; and I made no doubt we should be able to deal well
enough with the ten that were coming, considering that the captain
had said that there were three or four honest men among them also.
As soon as they got to the place where their other boat lay, they ran
their boat into the beach, and came on shore, hauling the boat up
after them, which I was glad to see; for I was afraid they would
rather have left the boat at an anchor, some distance from the shore,
with some hands in her to guard her, and so we should not be able
to seize the boat. Bcinf on shore, the first thing they did, they
ran all to their other boat; and it was easy to see tliey were under
a great surprise to find her stripped, as above, of all that was in her,
and a great hole in her Dottom. After they had mused awhile upon
this, they set up two or three great shouts, hallooing with all their
might, to try if they could make their companions hear, but all wss
to no purpose; then they came all close in a ring, and fired a volley
of their small arms, which, indeed, we heard, and the echoes made
the woods ring; but it was all one; those in the cave we were sure
could not hear; and those in our keeping, though they heard it weli
enough, yet durst give no answer to them. They were so astonished
at the surprise of this, that, as they told us afterwards, they resolved
to go all on board again to their ship, and let them know that the
men were all murdered, and the long-boat staved; acccordingly,
they immediately launched their boat again and got all of them on
board.
The captain was terribly amazed and even confounded at this,
believing they would go on board the ship again, and set sail, giving
their comrades over for lost, and so he should still lose the ship,
which he was in hopes we should have recovered; but he was
quickly as much frightened the other way.
They had not been long put off with the boat, but we perceived
them all coming on shore again; but with this new measure in their
conduct, which it seems they consulted together upon, viz. to leave
three men in the boat, and the rest to go on shore, and go up into
the country to look for their fellows. This was a great disappoint-
ment to us, for now we were at a loss what to do; as our seizing
those seven men on shore would be no advantage to us, if we let the
boat escape; because they would then row away to the ship, and

then the rest of them would be sure to weigh and set sail, and so our
recovering the ship would be lost. However we had no remedy but
to wait and see what the issue of things might present. The seven
men came on shore, and the three who remained in the boat put her
off to a good distance from the shore, and came to an anchor to wait
for them; so that it was impossible for us to come at them in the
boat. Those who came on shore kept close together, marching
towards the top of the little hill under which my habitation lay; and
we could see them plainly, though they could not perceive us. We
could have been very glad if they would have come nearer to us, so
that we might have fired at them, or that they would have gone
farther off, that we might have come abroad. But when they were
come to the brow of the hill, where they could see a great way into
the valleys and woods, which lay towards the north-east part, and
where the island lay lowest, they shouted and hallooed till they were
weary; and not caring, it seems, to venture far from the shore, nor
far from one another, they sat down together under a tree, to con-
sider of it. Had they thought fit to have gone to sleep there, as the
other part of them had done, they had done the job for us; but they
were too full of apprehensions of danger to venture to go to sleep
though they could not tell what the danger was they had to fear.
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this consultation
of theirs, viz. that perhaps they would all fire a volley again, to en-
deavour to make their fellows hear, and that we should all sally upon
them, just at the juncture when their pieces were all discharged, and
they would certainly yield, and we should have them without blood-
shed, I liked this proposal, provided it was done while we were near
enough to come up to them before they could load their pieces again.
But this even did not happen; and we lay still a long time, very
irresolute what course to take. At length I told them there would
be nothing done, in my opinion, till night; and then, if they did not
return to the boat, perhaps we might find a way to get between them
and the shore, and so might use some stratagem with them in the
boat to get them on shore. We waited a great while, though very
impatient for their removing; and were very uneasy, when, after long
consultations, we saw them all start up, and march down towards the
sea: it seems they had such dreadful apprehensions upon them of the
danger of the place, that they resolved to go on board the ship again,
give their companions over for lost, and so go on with their intended
voyage with the ship.
As soon as I perceived them to go towards the shore, I imagined
it to be, as it really was, that they had given over their search, and
were for going back again; and the captain, as soon as I told him
my thoughts, was ready to sink at the apprehensions of it: but I
presently thought of a stratagem to fetch them back again, and
which answered my end to a tittle. I ordered Friday and the cap-
tain's mate to go over the little creek westward, towards the place
where the savages came on shore when Friday was rescued, and as
soon as they came to a little rising ground, at about half a mile dis-
tance, I bade them halloo out, as loud as they could, and wait till
they found the seamen heard them; that as soon as ever they heard
the seamen answer them, they should return it again; and then keep-
ing out of sight, take a round, always answering when the others
hallooed, to draw them as far into the island, and among the woods,
as possible, and then wheel about again to me, by such ways as I
directed them.
They were just going into the boat when Friday and the mate
hallooed: and they presently heard them, and answering, run along
the shore westward, towards the voice they heard, when they were
presently stopped by the creek, where the water being up, they could
not get over, and called for the boat to come up and set them over;
161
is, indeed, I expected. When they had set themselves over, I
observed that the boat being gone a good way into the creek, and, as
it were, in a harbour within the land, they took one of the three men
»ut of her, to go along with them, and left only two in the boat,
having fastened ner to the stump of a little tree on the shore. This
was what I wished for; and immediately leaving Friday and the cap-
tain's mate to their business, I took the rest with me, and crossing
the creek out of their sight, we surprised the two men before they
were aware; one of them lying on the shore, and the other being in
the boat. The fellow on shore was between sleeping and waking,
and going to start up; the captain, who was foremost, ran in upon
him, and Knocked him down; and then called out to him in the boat
to yield, or he was a dead man. There needed very few arguments
to persuade a single man to yield, when he saw five men upon him,
and his comrade knocked down; besides, this was, it seems, one of
the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as the rest of the
crew, and thereforo was easily persuaded not only to yield, but after-
wards to join very sincerely with us. In the mean time, Friday and
the captain's mate so well managed their business with the rest, that
they drew them, by hallooing and answering, from one hill to another,
and'from one wood to another, till they not only heartily tired them,
but left them where they were very sure they could not reach back to
the boat before it was dark; and, indeed, they were heartily tired
themselves also, by the time they came back to us.
We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in the dark and
to fall upon them, so as to moke sure work with them. It was
several hours after Friday came back to me before they came back
to their boat; and we could hear the foremost of them, long before
they came quite up, calling to those behind to come along; and could
also hear them answer, and complain how lame and tired they were,
and not able to come any faster, which was very weleome news to
us. At length they came up to the boat; but it is impossible to
express their confusion when they found the boat fast aground in the
creek, the tide ebbed out, and their two men gone. I resolved to
wait, to see if they did not separate; and, therefore, to make sure of
them, I drew my ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday and the cap-
tain to creep upon their hands and feet, as close to the ground as
they could, that they might not be discovered, and get as near them
as they could possibly, before they offered to fire.
They had not been long in that posture, when the boatswain, who
was the principal ringleader of the mutiny, and had now shown him-
self the most dejected and dispirited of all, came walking towards
them, with two more of the crew; the captain was so eager at having
this principal rogue so mucn in his power, that he could hardly have
patience to let him come so near as to be sure of him, for they only
heard his tongue before: but when they came nearer, the captain and
Friday, starting up on their feet, let fly at them. The boatswain was
ABVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
killed upon the spot; the next man was shot in the body, and fell
just by him, though he did not die till an hour or two after; and the
third ran for it. At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced
with my whole army, which was now eight men, viz. myself, general-
issimo; Friday, my lieutenant-general; the captain and his two men,
and the three prisoners of war, whom we had trusted with arms.
We came upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that they could not see
our number; and I made the man they had left in the boat, who was
now one of us, to call them by name, to try if I could bring them to
a parley, and so might rr' 'laps reduce them to terms ; which fell out
just as we desired; for, indeed, it was easy to think, as their condi-
tion then was, they would be willing tc Tapitulate. So he calls out
as loud as he could, to one of them, "Tom Smith! Tom Smith!"
Tom Smith answered immediately, "Is that Robinson?" For it
seems, he knew the voice. The other answered, "Ay, ay; for God's
sake, Tom Smith, throw down your arms and yield, or you are all
dead men this moment."—" Who must we yield to ? Where are they?"
gays Smith again. "Here they are," says he; "here's our captain
and fifty men with him, have been hunting yon these two hours: the
boatswain is killed, Will Fry is wounded, and I am a prisoner; and
if you do not yield, you are all lost."—" Will they give us quarter
then ?" says Tom Smith, "and we will yield."—" 1 will go and ask,
if you promise to yield," says Robinson: so he asked trie captain;
and the captain himself then calls out, "You, Smith, you know my
voice; if you lay down your arms immediately, and submit, you shall
have your lives, all but Will Atkins."

SECTION XXVII.
ATKINS ENTREATS THE CAFTAIN TO SFARE HIS LITE—THE LATTER
RECOVERS HIS VESSEL FROM THE MUTINEERS—AND ROBINSON
LEAVES THE ISLAND.
Upon this Will Atkins cries out, "Tor God's sake, captain, give me
quarter; what have I done? They have all been as bad as I:"
which, by the way, was not true; for it seems, this Will Atkins was
the first man that laid hold of the captain when they mutinied,
and used him barbarously, in tying his hands, and giving him inju-
rious language. However, the captain told him he must lay down
his arms at discretion, and trust to the governor's mercy; by which
he meant me, for they all called me governor. In a word they all
laid down their arms, and begged their lives; and I sent the man
that had parleyed with them, and two more, who bound them all;
and then my great army of fifty men, which particularly with those
three, were in all but eight, came up and seized upon them, and upon
their boat; only that I kept myself and one more out of sight for
reasons of state.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of seizing the
ship: and as for the captain, now he had leisure to parley with them,
he expostulated with them upon the villany of their practices with
him, and at length upon the further wickedness of then* design, and
how certainly it must bring them to misery and distress in the end,
and perhaps to the gallows. They all appeared very penitent and
begged hard for their lives. As for that he told them that they
were none of his prisoners, but the commander's of the island; that
they thought they had set him on shore on a barren, uninhabited
island; but it had pleased God so to direct them, that it was inhabit-
ed, and that the goyernor was an Englishman; that he might hang
them all there, if he pleased; but as he had giveu them alf quarter,
he supposed he would send them all to England, to be dealt with
there as justice required, except Atkins, whom he was commanded
by the governor to advise to prepare for death, for that he would be
hung in the morning.
Though all this was but a fiction of his own, yet it had the desired
effect: Atkins fell upon his knees, to be" the captain to intercede
with the governor for his life; and all the rest begged of him, foi
God's sake, that they might not be sent to England.

It now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance was come,
and that it would be a most easy thing to bring these fellows in to
be hearty in getting possession of the ship; so I retired in the dark
from them, that they might not see what kind of a governor they
had, and called the captain to me: when I called, as at a good
distance, one of the men was ordered to speak again, and say to the
captain, *' Captain, the commander calls for you;" and presently the
captain replied, "Tell his excellency I am just a-coming." This more
perfectly deceived them, and they all believed that the commander
was just by with his fifty men. Upon the captain's coming to me, I
told him my project for seizing the ship, which he liked wonderfully
well, and resolved to put it into execution the next morning. But,
in order to execute it with more heart, and to be secure of success,
I told him we must divide the prisoners, and then he should go and
take Atkins and two more of the worst of them, and send them
pinioned to the cave where the others lay. This was committed to
Friday and the two men who came on shore with the captain. They
were conveyed to the cave as to a prison: and it was indeed a dis-
mal place, especially to men in their condition. The ethers 1
ordered to my bower, as I called it, of which I have given a full
description: and as it was fenced in and they pinioned, the place
was secure enough, considering they were upon their behaviour.
To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was to enter into
a parley with them; in a word, to try them, and tell me whether Le
thought they might be trusted or no to go on board and surprise the
ship. He talked to them of the injury done him, of the condition
they were brought to, and that though the governor had given them
quarter for their lives as to the present action, yet that if they were
sent to England, they would all be hanged .in chains, to be sure: but
that if they would join in so just an attempt as to recover the ship,
he would have the governor's engagement for their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be ac-
cepted by men in their condition; they fell down on their knees to
the captain, and promised, with the deepest imprecations, that they
would be faithful to him to the last drop, and that they should owe
their lives to him, and would go with him all over the world: that
they would own him as a father as long as they lived. "Well," says
the captain, " I must go and tell the governor what you say, and see
what I can do to bring him to consent to it." So he brought me an
account of the temper he had found them in, and that he verily be-
lieved they would be faithful. However, that we might be very
secure, I told him he should go back again and choose out those five,
and tell them that they might see he did not want men, that he
would take out those five to be his assistants, and that the governor
would keep the other two, and the three that were sent prisoners to
the castle (my cave) as hostages for the fidelity of those five; and
that if they proved unfaithful in execution, the five hostages should
be hanged in chains alive on the shore. This looked severe, and
convinced them that the governor was in earnest: however, they
had no way left them but to accept it; and it was n6w the business
of the prisoners, as much as of the captain, to persuade the other
five to do their duty.
Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition: first the
captain, his mate, and passenger; second, the two prisoners of the
first gang, to whom, having their character from the captain, I had
given their liberty, and trusted them with arms: third, the other two
that I had kept till now in my bower, pinioned, but, on the captain's
motion, had now released; fourth, these five released at last; so that
i^ese were twelve in all, besides five we kept prisoners in the cav
for hostages.
When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with the cap-
tain, who told them I was the person the governor had ordered to
look after them ; and that it was the governor's pleasure they should
not stir any where but by my direction; that if they did, they would
be fetched into the castle and laid in irons: so that as we never
suffered them to see me as the governor, I now appeared as another
person, and spoke of the governor, the garrison, the castle, and the
like, upon all occasions.
The captain now had no difficulty before him, but to furnish his
two boats, stop the breach of one, and man them. He made his
passenger captain of one, 'with four of the men; and himself, his
mate, and five more, went in the other; and they contrived their
business very well, for they came up to the ship about midnight.
As soon as they came within call of the ship, he made Robinson nail
them, and tell them they had brought off the men and the boat, but
that it was a long time before they had found them, and the like,
holding them in a chat till they came to the ship's side; when the
captain and the mate entering first with their arms, immediately

knocked down the second mate and carpenter with the but end of
their muskets, being very faithfully seconded by their men; they se-
cured all the rest that were upon the main and quarter decks, and
began to fasten the hatches, to keep them down that were below;
when the other boat and their men entering at the fore-chains,
secured the forecastle of the ship, and the scuttle which went down
into the cook-room, making three men they found there prisoners.
When this was done, and all safe upon deck, the captain ordered the
mate, with three men, to break into the round-house, where the new
rebel captain lay, who having taken the alarm, had got up, and with
two men and a boy had got fire arms in their hands; and when the
mate, with a crow, split open the door, the new captain and his men
fired boldly among them, and wounded the mate with a musket ball,
which broke his arm, and wounded two more of the men, but killed
nobody. The mate calling for help, rushed, however, into the round-
house, wounded as he was, and with his pistol shot the new captain
through the head, upon which the rest yielded, and the ship was
taken effectually, without any more lives lost.
As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered seven
guna to be fired, which was the signal agreed upon with me to give
me notice of his success, which you may be sure I was very glad to
hear, having sat watching upon the shore for it till near two o'clock
in the morning. Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid ma
down; and it naving been a day of great fatigue to me, I slept very
sound, till I was something surprised with the noise of a gun; and
presently starting up, I heard a man call me by tne name of " Governor,
Governor," and presently I knew the captain's voice; w'aen climbing
up to the top of the hill, there he stood, and pointing to the ship, he
embraced me in his arms. "My dear friend and deliverer," says he,
"there's your ship, for she is all yours, and so are we, and all that
belong to her." I cast my eyes to the ship, and there she rode
within little more than half a mile of the shore; for they had weigh-
ed her anchor as soon as they were masters of her, and the weather
being lair, had brought her to an anchor just against the mouth of
the little creek; and the tide being up, the captain had brought the
Cnace in near the place where I at first landed my rafts, and so
ded just at my door. I was at first ready to sink down with the
surprise; for I saw my deliverance, indeed, visibly put into my hands,
all things easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me away whither
I pleased to go. At first, for some time, I was not able to answer
him one word; but as he had taken me in his arms, I held fast by
him, or I should have fallen to the ground. I embraced him as my
deliverer, and we rejoiced together.
When we had talked a while, the captain told me he had brought
me some little refreshment, such as the ship afforded, and such as
the wretches that had been so long his masters had not plundered
him of. Upon this he called aloud to the boat, and bade his men
bring the things ashore that were for the governor; and, indeed, it
was a present as if I had been one that was not to be carried away
with them, but as if I had been to dwell upon the island still. First,
he had brought me a case of bottles full of excellent cordial waters,
six large bottles of Madeira wine (the bottles held two quarts each),
two pounds of excellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the
ship's beef, and six pieces of pork, with a bag of peas, and about a
hundred weight of biscuits: he also brought me a box of sugar, a
box of flour, a bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime juice, and
abundance of other things. But, besides these, and what was a
thousand times more useful to me, he brought me six new clean
shirts, six very good neckcloths, two pair of gloves, one pair of shoes,
a hat, and one pair of stockings, with a very good suit of clothes of
his own, which had been worn but very little; in a word, he clothed
me from head to foot. It was a very kind and agreeable present, as
any one may imagine, to one in my circumstances; but never was
any thing in the world of that kind so unpleasant, awkward, and un-
easy, as it was to me to wear such clothes at first.
After these ceremonies were past, and after all his good things
were brought into my Utile apartment, we began to consult what
was to be done with the prisoners we had; for it was worth
considering whether we might venture to take them away with
us or no, especially two of them, whom we knew to be incorrigible
and refractory to the last degree : and the captain said he knew they
were such rogues, that there was no obliging them; and if he did
carry them away, it must be in irons, as malefactors, to be delivered
over to justice at the first English colony he could come at; and I
found that the captain himself was very anxious about it. Upon
this I told him, that if he desired it, I would undertake to bring the
two men he spoke of to make it their own request that he should

leave them upon the island. "I should be very glad of that," says
the captain, "with all mv heart." "Well," says I, "Iwill send for
them up, and talk with them for you." So I caused Friday and the
two hostages, for they were now discharged, their comrades havhi"
performed their promise: I say, 1 caused them to go to the cave and
bring up the five men, pinioned as they were, to the bower, and keep
them there till I came. After some time, I came thither dressed in
my new habit; and now I was called the governor again. Being all
met, and the captain with mo, I caused the men to be brought before
me, and I told them I had got a full account of their villanous
behaviour to their captain, and how they had rur away with the ship,
and were preparing to commit farther robberies, but that Providence
had ensnared them in their own ways, and that they were fallen into
the pit which they had dug for others. I let them know that by my
direction the ship had been seized; that she lay now in the road:
and they might see by and bv, that their new captain had received
the reward of his villany, and that they would see him hanging at
the yard-arm: that as to them, I wanted to know what they liad to
say wny 1 should not execute them as pirates, taken in ttie lact, as
by my commission they could not doubt but I had authority so to do.
One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they had
nothing to say but this, that when they were taken, the captain
promised them their lives, and they humbly implored my mercy/
But I told them I knew not what mercy to show them; for as for
myself, I had resolved to quit the island with all my men, and had
taken a passage with the captain to go to England; and as for the
captain, he could not carry them to England other than as prisoners,
in irons, to be tried for mutiny, and running away with the ship: the
consequence of which, they must needs know, would be the gallows;
so that I could not tell what was best for them, unless they had a
mind to take their fate in the bland; if they desired that, as I had
liberty to leave the island, I had some inclination to give them their
lives, if they thought they could shift on shore. They seemed very
thankful for it, and said they would much rather venture to stay there
than be carried to England to be hanged; so I left it on that issue.
When they had all declared their willingness to stay, I then told
them I would let them into the story of my living there, and put
them into the way of making it easy to them: accordingly, I gave
them the whole history of the place, and of my coming to it; showed
them my fortifications, the way I made my bread, planted my corn,
cured my grapes; and, in a word, all that was necessary to make
them easy. I told them the story also of the seventeen Spaniards
that were to be expected, for whom I left a letter, and made them
promise to treat them in common with themselves. Here it may be
noted, that the captain had ink on board, who was greatly surprised
that 1 never hit upon a way of making ink of charcoal and water, or
of something else, as I had done things much more difficult.
However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty of it, as if
he durst not leave them there. Upon this I seemed a little angry
with the captain, and told him that they were my prisoners, not his;
and seeing that I had offered them so much favour, I would be as
food as my word: and that if he did not think fit to consent to it,
would set them at liberty, as I found them; and if he did not like
it he might take them again, if he could catch them. Upon this
they appeared vei-y thankful, and I accordingly set them at liberty,
and bade them retire into the woods to the place whence they came,
and I would leave them some fire-arms, some ammunition, and some
directions how they should live very well, if they thought fit. Upon
this I prepared to go on board the ship; but told the captain I would
stay that night to prepare my tiiings, and desired him to go on board,
in the mean time, and keep all right in the ship, and send the boat
on shore next day for me; ordering him, at all events, to cause the
new captain, who was killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that
tnese men might see him.
I left them my fire-arms, viz. five muskets, three fowling-pieces.
and three swords. I had above a barrel and a half of powder left;
for after the first year or two I used but little, and wasted none. I
gave them a description of the waj I managed the goats, and
directions to milk and fatten them, and to make both butter and
cheese: in a word, I gave them every part of my own story, and
told them I should prevail with the captain to leave them two
barrels of gunpowder more, and some garden seeds, which I told
them I would have been very glad of: also I gave them the bag of
peas which the captain had brought me to eat, and bade them be
sure to sow and increase them.
Having done all this, 1 left them the next day, and went on board
the ship. We prepared immediately to sail, but did not weigh that
night. The next morning early, two of the five men came swimming
to the ship's side, and making a most lamentable complaint of the
other three, begged to be taken into the ship, for God's sake, for they
should be murdered, and begged the captain to take them on board,
though he hanged them immediately. Upon this, the captain pre-
tended to have no power without me; but after some difficulty, and
after their solemn promises of amendment, they were taken on board,
and were some time after soundly whipped ana pickled: after which
they proved very honest and quiet fellows.
Some time after this, the boat was ordered on shore, the tide
being up, with the things promised to the men; to which the cap-
tain, at my intercession, caused their chests and clothes to be added,
which they took, and were very thankful for. I also encouraged
them, by telling them that if it lay in my power to send any vessel
to take them in, I would not forget them.
When I took leave of this island, I carried on board, for reliques,
the great goat-skin cap I had made, my umbrella, and one of my
parrots; also I forgot not to take the money I formerly mentioned,
which had lain by me so long useless that it had grown rusty
»r tarnished, and could hardly pass for silver, till it had oeen a little
rubbed and handled; as also the money I found in the wreck of the
Spanish ship. And thus I left the island, the 19th of December, as
I found by the ship's account, in the year 16S6, after I had been
upon it eight-and-twenty years, two months, and nineteen days;
being delivered from this second captivity the same day of the month
that I first made my escape in the long boat, from among the Moors
of Sallec. In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in England
the 11th of June, in the year 16S7, having been thirty-five year*
absent.

SECTION XXVIII.
ROBINSON GOES TO LISBON, (THERE HE FINDS THE FORTUGUESE
CAFTAIN, WHO RENDERS HIM AN ACCOUNT OF HIS FROFERTY IN
THE BRAZILS.—SETS OUT ON HIS RETCRN TO ENGLAND BY LAND.
When I came to England, I was as perfect a stranger to all the
world as if I had never been known there. My benefactor and
faithful steward, whom I left my money in trust with, was alive, but
had had great misfortunes in the world; was become a widow the
second time, and very low in the world. I made her very easy as to
what she owed me, assuring her I would give her no trouble ; but on
the contrary, in gratitude for former care and faithfulness to me, I
relieved her as well as my little stock would afford; which, at the time,
would allow me to do but little for her; but I assured her I would
never forget her former kindness to me; nor did I forget her when
I had sufficient to help her, as shall be observed in its proper place.
I went down afterwards into Yorkshire: butmy father and mother
were dead, and all the family extinct, except that I found two sisters
and two of the children of one of my brothers, and as I had been
long ago given over for dead, there had been no provision made for
me: so that in a word, I found nothing to relieve or assist me: and
that the little money I had would not do much for me as to settling
in the world.
I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did not expect;
and this was, that the master of the ship whom I so happily
delivered, and by the same means saved the ship and cargo, having
riven a very handsome account to the owners of the manner how I
lad saved the lives of the men and the ship, they invited me to meet
them, and some other merchants concerned, and all together made
me a very handsome compliment upon the subject, and a present of
almost two hundred pounds sterling.
I
But after making several reflections upon the circumstances of my
life, and how little way this would go, towards settling me in the
world, I resolved to go to Lisbon, and see if I might not come by
some information of the state of my plantation in the Brazils, and of
what was become of my partner, who, I had reason to suppose, had
some years past given me over for dead. With this vrew I took
shipping for Lisbon, where I arrived in April foEowing; my man
Friday accompanving me very honestly in all these ramblings, and
proving a most faithful servant upon all occasions. When I came
to Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry, and to my particular satisfaction,
my old friend the captain of the ship who first took me up at sea off
the shore of Africa. He was now grown old, and had left off going
to sea, having put his son, who was far from a young man, into his
ship, and who still used the Brazil trade. The old man did not know
me : and, indeed, I hardly knew him: but I soon brought him to my
remembrance, and as soon brought myself to his remembrance,
when I told him who I was.
After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance between
us, I inquired, you may be sure, after my plantation and my partner.
The old man told me he had not been in the Brazils for about nine
years; but that he could assure me that when he came away my
partner was living; but the trustees, whom I had joined with him
to take cognizance of my part, were both dead: that, however, he
believed I would have a very good account of the improvement of
the plantation; for that upon the general belief of my being cast
away and drowned, my trustees had given in the account of the pro-
duce of my part of the plantation to the procurator-fiscal, who had
appropriated it, in case I never came to claim it, one-third to the
king, and two-thirds to the monastery of St. Augustine, to be ex-
?ended for the benefit of the poor, and for the conversion of the
ndians to the Catholic faith; tut that if I appeared, or any one
for me, to claim the inheritance, it would be restored; only that the
improvement, or annual production, being distributed to charitable
uses, could not be restored: but he assured me thai, the steward of
the king's revenue from lauds, and the proviedore, or steward of the
monastery, had taken great care all along that the incumbent, that
is to say, my partner, gave every year a faithful account of the pro-
duce, ot winch they had duly received my moiety. I asked hiin if
he knew to what height of improvement he had brought the planta-
tion, and whether he thought it might be worth looking after; or
whether, on my going thither, I should meet with any obstruction to
my possessing my just right in the moiety. He told me he could
not tell exactly to what degree the plantation was improved, but this
he knew, that my partner was grown exceeding rich upon the enjoy-
ing his part of it; and that, to the best of his remembrance, he had
heard that the king's third of my part, which was, it seems, granted
•way to some other monastery or religious house, amounted to above
two hundred moidores a year; that as to my being restored to a
quiet possession of it, there was no question to be made of that, my
partner being alive to witness my title, and my name being also en-
rolled in the register of the country; also he told me, that the survi-
vors of my two trustees were very fair honest people, and very
wealthy : and he believed I would not only have their assistance for
putting me in possession, but would find a very considerable sum of
money in their hands for my account, heing the produce of the farm
while their fathers held the trust, and before it was given up, as
above ; which, as he remembered, was for about twelve years.
I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this account, and
inquired of the old captain how it came to pass that the trustees
should thus dispose of my effects, when he knew that I had made
my will, and had made him, the Portuguese captain, my universal
heir, &c.
He told me that was true; but that as there was no proof of my
being dead, he could not act as executor, until some certain account
should come of my death; and, besides, he was not willing to inter-
meddle with a thing so remote : that it was true he had registered
my will, and put in his claim; and could he have given any account
of my being dead or alive, he would have acted by procuration, and
taken possession of the ingenio (so they called the sugar-house), and
have given his son, who was now at the Brazils, orders, to do it.
"But, says the old man, " I have one piece of news to tell you, which,
perhaps, may not be so acceptable to you as the rest; and that is,
believing you were lost, and all the world believing so also, your
partner and trustees did offer to account with me, in your name, for
six or eight of the first years' profits, which I received." There
being at that time great disbursements for increasing the works,
building an ingenio, and buying slaves, it did not amount to near so
much as afterwards it produced: "however," says the old man, "I
shall give you a true account of what I have received in all, and how
I have disposed of it."
After a few days' further conference with this ancient friend, he
brought me an account of the first six years' income of my planta-
tion, signed by my partner and the merchant trustees, being always
delivered in goods, viz. tobacco in roll, and sugar in chests, besides
rum, molasses, &c., which is the consequence 01 a sugar-work; and I
found, by this account, that every year the income considerably in-
creased; but, as above, the disbursements being large, the sum at
first was small: however, the old man let me see that he was debtor
to me four hundred and seventy moidores of gold, besides sixty
chests of sugar, and fifteen double rolls of tobacco, which were lost
hi his ship; he having been shipwrecked coming home to Lisbon,
about eleven years after my leaving the place. The good man then
began to complain of his misfortunes, and how he had been obliged
to make use of my money to recover his losses, and buy him a share
in a new ship. "However, my old friend," says he, "yon shall not
want a supply in your necessity; and as soon as my son returns, you
shall be fully satisfied." Upon this, he pulls out an old pouch, and
gives me one hundred and sixty Portugal moidores in gold; and take-
mg the writings of his title to the ship, which his son was gone to
the Brazils in, of which he was a quarter part owner, and his son
another, he pats them both into my hands, for security of the
rest.
I was too much moved with the honesty and kindness of the poor
man to be able to bear this; and remembering what he had done for
me, how he had taken me up at sea, and how generously he had
used me on all occasions, and particularly how sincere a friend he
was now to me, I could hardly refrain weeping at what he said to
me; therefore I asked him if his circumstances admitted him to
spare so much money at that time, and if it would not straiten him?
He told me he could not say but it might straiten him a little; but,
however, it was my money, and I might want it more than he.
Every thing the good man said was full of affection, and I could
hardly refrain from tears while he spoke; in short, I took one
hundred of the moidores, and called for a pen and ink to give him a
receipt for them: then I returned him the rest, and told him if ever
I had possession of thb plantation I would return the other to him
also (as, indeed, I afterwards did); and that as to the bill of sale of
his part in his son's ship, I would not take it by any means: but
that if I wanted the money, I found he was honest enough to pay
me; and if I did not, but came to receive what he gave me reason
to expect, I would never have a penny more from him.
Wnen this was past, the old man asked me if he should put me
into the method to make my claim to my plantation? I told him I
thought to go over to it myself. He said I might do so, if I pleased:
but that if I did not, there were ways enough to secure my right, and
immediately to appropriate the profits to my use: and as there were
ships in the river of Lisbon just ready to go away to Brazil he made
me enter my name in a public register, with his affidavit, affirming,
upon oath, that I was alive, and that I was the same person who
took up the land for the planting the said plantation at first. This
being regularly attested by a notary, and a procuration affixed, he
directed me to send it, with a letter of his writing, to a merchant of
his acquaintance at the place; and then proposed my staying with
him till an account came of the return.
Never was anything more honourable than the proceedings upon
this procuration; for in less than seven months I received a large
packet from the survivors of my trustees, the merchants, for whose
account I went to sea, in which were the following particular letters
and papers enclosed.
First, There was the account-current of the produce of my farm
or plantation, from the year when their fathers had balanced with mr
old Portugal captain, being for six vears: the balance appeared tc
be one thousand one hundred and seventy-four moidores in my
favour.
Secondly, There was the account of four years more, while they
kept the effects in their hands, before the government claimed the
administration, as being the effects of a person not to be found,
which they called civil death; and the balance of this amounted to
nineteen thousand four hundred and forty-six crusadoes, being
about three thousand two hundred and forty moidores.
Thirdly, There was the prior of Agustine's account, who had re-
ceived the profits for above fourteen years; but not being to
account for what was disposed of by the hospital, very honestly
declared he had eight hundred and seventy-two moidores not
distributed, which he acknowledged to my account; as to the king's
part that refunded nothing.
There was a letter of my partner's congratulating me affection-
ately upon my being alive, giving me an account how the estate had
improved, and what it produced a year; with a particular of the
number of squares or acres that it contained, how planted, how many
slaves there were upon it, and making two and twenty crosses for
blessings, told me he had said so many Ave Marias to thank the
blessed Virgin that I was alive; inviting me very passionately to
come over and take possession of my own; and, in the meantime,
to give him orders to whom he should deliver my effects, if I did not
come myself: concluding with a hearty tender of his friendship, and
that of his family; and sent me, as a present, seven fine leopards'
skins, which he had, it seems, received from Africa, by some other
ship he had sent thither, and who, it seems, had made a better voy-
age than I. He sent me also five chests of excellent sweetmeats,
and a hundred pieces of gold uncoined, not quite so large as moi-
dores. By the same fleet, my two merchant trustees shipped me
one thousand two hundred chests of sugar, eight hundred rolls of
tobacco, and the rest of the whole account in gold.
I might well say now, indeed, the latter end of the Job was belter
than the beginning. It is impossible to express the flutterings of
my very heart, when I found all my wealth about me; for as the
Brazil ships came all in fleets, the same ships which brought my
letters brought my goods: and the effects were safe in the river
before the letters came to my hand. In a word, I turned pale and
grew sick; and had not the old man run and fetched me a cordial. I
believe the sudden surprise of joy had overset nature, and I had died
upon the spot: nay after that I continued very ill, and was so some
hours, till a physician being sent for, and something of the real cause
of my illness being known, he ordered me to be let blood; after
which I had relief and grew well: but I verily believe, if I had not
oeen eased by vent given in that manner to the spirits, I should
have died.
I was nw master, all of a sudden, of above five thousand pounds
sterling in money, and had an estate, as I might well call it, in the
Brazils, of above a thousand pounds a year, as sure as an estate of
lands in England ; and, in a word, I was in a condition which I scarce
knew how to understand, or how to compose myself for the enjoy-
ment of it. The first thing I did was to recompense my original
benefactor, my good old captain, who had been first charitable to me
in my distress, Rind to me in my beginning, and honest to me at the
end. I showed him all that was sent to me; I told him, that next
to the providence of heaven, which disposed all things, it was owing
to him; and that it now lay on me to reward him, which I would do
a hundred-fold: so I first returned the hundred moidores, I had re-
ceived of him; then I sent for a notary, and caused him to draw up
a general release or discharge from the four hundred and seventy
moidores, which he had acknowledged he owed me, in the fullest and
firmest manner possible. After which I caused a procuration to be
drawn, empowering him to be my receiver of the annual profits
of my plantation, and appointing my partner to account with him,
and make the returns by the usual fleets to him in my name: and a
clause in the end, being a grant of one hundred moidores a year to him
during his life, out of the effects, and fifty moidores a year to his son
after him, for his life; and thus I requited my old man.
Having settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and turned all my effects
into good bills of exchange, my next difficulty was, which way to
fi to England; I had been accustomed enough to the sea, and yet
had a strange aversion to go to England by sea at that time; and
though I could give no reason for it, yet the difficulty increased
upon me so much, that though I had once shipped my baggage, in
order to go, yet I altered my mind, and that not once, but two or
three times.
Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot, to whom
[ communicated every thing, pressed me earnestly not to go by sea,
but either to go by land to the Groyne (Corunna), and cross over
the Bay of Biscay to Rochelle, from whence it was but an easy and
safe journey by laud to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover, or to go
up to Madrid, and so all the way by land through France. In a
word, I was so prepossessed against my going by sea at all, except
from Calias to Dover, that I resolved to travel all the way by land;
which, as I was not in haste, and did not value the charge, was by
much the pleasauter way: and to make it more so, my old captain
brought an English gentleman, the son of a merchant in Lisbon,
who was willing to travel with me; after which we picked up two
more English merchants also, and two young Portuguese gentlemen,
the last going to Paris only; so that in all there were six of us, and
five servan*s ; the two merchants and the two Portuguese contenting
themselves with one servant between two, to save the charge; and
as for me, I got an English sailor to travel with me as a servant,
besides my man Friday, who was too much a stranger to be capable
of supplying the place of a servant on the road.
In this manner I set out from Lisbon; and our company being
very well mounted and armed, we made a little troop, whereof they
did me the honour to call me captain, as well because I was the ohi-
est man, as because I had two servants, and, indeed, was the original
of the whole journey.
As I have troubled you with none of my sea journals, so I shall
trouble you now with none of my land journal; but some adventures
that happened to us in this tedious and difficult journey I must not
omit.
When we came to Madrid, we being all of us strangers to Spain,
were willing to stay some time to see the Court of Spain, and to see
what was worth observing; but it being the latter part of the sum-
mer, we hastened away, and set out from Madrid about the middle
of October; but when we came to the edge of Navarre, we were
alarmed at several towns on the way, with an account that so much
snow was fallen on the French side of the mountains, that several
travellers were obliged to come back to Pampeluna, after having
attempted, at an extreme hazard, to pass on.
When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so, indeed; and
to me, that had always been used to a hot climate, and to countries
where I could scarce bear any clothes on, the cold was insufferable;
nor, indeed, was it more strange than surprising, to come but ten
days before out of Old Castile, where the weather was not only warm
but very hot, and immediately to feel a wind from the Pyrenean
mountains, so very keen, so severely cold, as to be intolerable,
and to endanger the benumbing and perishing of our fingers and
toes.
We stayed no less than twenty days at Pampeluna; when seeing
the winter coming on, and no likelihood of its being better, for it
was the severest winter all over Europe that had been known in the
memory of man, I proposed that we should all go away to Fonta-
rabia and there take shipping for Bordeaux, which was a very little
voyage. But while I was considering this, there came in four
French gentlemen, who having been stopped on the French side of
the passes, as we were on the Spanish, had found out a guide, who,
traversing the country near the head of Languedoe, had brought
them over the mountains by such ways, that they were not much
incommoded with the snow; for where they met with snow in any
quantity, they said it was frozen bard enough to bear them and their
horses. We sent for this guide, who told us he would undertake to
carry us the same way with no hazard from the snow, provided we
were armed sufficiently to protect ourselves from wild beasts; for, he
said, upon these great snows it was frequent for some wolves to
show themselves at the foot of the mountains, being made ravenous
for want of food, the ground being covered with snow. We told him
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
we were well enough prepared for such creatures as they were if he
would ensure us from a kind of two legged wolves, which, we wer«
told we were in most danger from, especially on the French side of
the mountains, He satisfied us that there was no danger of that
kind in the way we were to go; so we readily agreed to follow him,
as did also twelve other gentlemen, with their servants, some
I'rench, some Spanish, who, as I said, had attempted to go, and
Mere obliged t* come back again.
Accordingly, we set out from Pampeluna, with our guide, on the
15th of November; and, indeed, I was surprised, when, instead of
going forward, he came directly back with us on the same road that
we came from Madrid, about twenty miles ; when having passed two
rivers, and come into the plain country, we found ourselves in a
warm climate again, where the country was pleasant, and no snow to
be seen; but on a sudden turning to his left, he approached the
mountains another way: and though it is true the mils and preci-
pices looked dreadful, yet he made so many tours, such meanders,
and led us by such winding ways, that we insensibly passed the
height of the mountains without being much incumbered with the
snow; and, all on a sudden, he showed us the pleasant fruitful pro-
vinces of Languedoc and Gascouv, all green and flourishing, though,
indeed, at a great distance, and we had some rough way to pass
still.
We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed one
whole day and a night so fast, that we could not travel; but he bid
us be easy; we should soon be past it all: we found, indeed, that we
began to descend every day, and to come more north than before;
and so, depending upon our guide, we went on.

SECTION XXIX.
FRIDAY'S ENCOUNTER 'WlTn A BEAR—ROBINSON AND HIS FELLOW
TRAVELLERS ATTACKED BY A FLOCK OF WOLVES—HIS ARRANGE-
MENT OF HIS AFFAIRS, AND MARRIAGE AFTER HIS RETURN TO
ENGLAND.
It was about two hours before night, when our guide being some-
thing before us, and not just in sight, out rushed three monstrous
wolves, and after them a bear, out of a hollow way, adjoining to a
thick wood; two of the wolves made at the guide, and had he been
far before us, he would have been devoured before we could have
helped him; one of them fastened upon his horse, and the other at-
tacked the man with that violence, that he had not time, or presence
of mind enough, to draw his pistol, but hallooed and cried out to us
most lustily. My man Friday being next me, I bade him ride up,
and see what was the matter. As soon as Friday came in sight of
the man, he hallooed out as loud as the other, " 0 master! O master!"
but, like a bold fellow, rode directly up to the poor man, and with
his pistol shot the wolf, that attacked him, in the head.
It is easy to suppose that at the noise of Friday's pistol we all
mended our pace, and rode up as fast as the way, which was very
difficult, would give us leave, to see what was the matter. As soon
as we came clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we saw
clearly what had been the case, and how Friday had disengaged the
poor guide, though we did not presently discern what kind of
creature it was he had killed.
But never was a fight managed so hardily, and in such a surprising
manner, as that which followed, between Friday aud the bear, which
gave us all, though at first we were surprised and afraid for him, the
greatest diversion imaginable. As the bear is a heavy, clumsy crea-
ture, and does not gallop as the wolf does, who is swift and light, so
he has two particular qualities, which generally are the rule of his
actions; first, as to men, who are not his proper prey (he does not
usually attempt them, except they first attack him, unless he be
excessively hungry, which it is probable might now be the case, the
ground being covered with snow), if you do not meddle with him, he
will not meddle with you; but then you must take care to be very
civil to him, and give him the road, for he is a very nice gentleman;
he will not go a step out of his way for a prince; nay, if you are
really afraid, your best way is to look another way, and keep going
on; for sometimes if you stop, and stand still, and look steadfastly

-"^^Vtf'^
at him, he takes it for an affront, but if yon throw or toss anything
at him and it hits him, though it were but a bit of stick as big as
your finger, he thinks himself abused, and sets all other business
aside to pursue his revenge, and will .have satisfaction in point of
honour:—this is his first quality : the next is, if he be once affronted,
he will never leave you night nor day, till he has his revenge, but
follows, at a good round rate, till he overtakes you.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we came up to
him, he was helping him off from his horse, for the man was both
hurt and frightened, when, on a sudden, we espied the bear come out
of the wood, and avast, monstrous one it was, the biggest by far
that ever I saw. We were all a little surprised when we saw him;
out when Friday saw him, it was easy to see joy and courage in the
fellow's countenance; "O, 0, 0 !" says Friday, three times, pointing
to him; "O master! you give me te leave, me shakee te hand with
him; me makee you good laugh."
I was surprised to see the fellow so well pleased: "You fool,"
i»ys I, "he will eat you up."—" Eatee me up! eatee me up!" gays
Friday, twice over again; "me eatee him up, me makee you good
laugh; you all stay here, me show you good laugh." So down he
sits, and gets off his boots in a moment, and puts on a pair of pumps
(as we call the flat shoes they wear, and which he had in his pocket),
gives my other servant his horse, and with his gun, away he flew,
swift like the wind.
The bear was walking softly on, and offered to meddle with no-
body, till Friday coming pretty near, calls to him, as if the bear
could understand him: "Hark ye, hark ye," says Friday, "me speakee
with you." We followed at a distance; for now being come down on
the Gascony side of the mountains, we were entered a vast great
forest, where the country was plain and pretty open, though it had
many trees in it scattered here and there. 1 riday, who had, as we
say, the heels of the bear, came up with him quickly, and takes up
a great stone and throws it at him, and hit him just on the head, but
did him no more harm than if he had thrown it against a wall; but
it answered Friday's end, for the rogue was so void of fear, that he
did it purely to make the bear follow him, and show us some laugh
as he called it. As soon as the bear felt the blow, and saw him, he
turns about, and comes after him, taking long strides, and shuffling
on at a strange rate, such as would put a horse to a middling gallop;
away runs Friday, and takes his course as if he ran towards us for
help; so we all resolved to fire at once upon the bear, and deliver
my man; though I was angry at him heartily for bringing the bear
back upon us, when he was going about his own business another
way; and especially I was angry that he had turned the bear upon
us, and then run away; and I called out: "You dog, is this your
making us laugh? Come away, and take your horse, that we may
shoot the creature." He heard me, and cned out: "No shoot, no
shoot; stand still, and you get much laugh;" and. as the nimble
creature ran two feet for the bear's one, he turned on a sudden, on
one side of us, and seeing a great oak-tree fit for his purpose, he
beckoned to us to follow; and doubling his pace, he gets nimbly up
the tree, laying his gun down upon the ground, at about five or six
yards from the bottom of the tree. The Dear soon came to the tree,
and we followed at a distance: the first thing he did, he stopped at
the gun, smelt it, but let it lie, and up he scrambles into the tree,
climbing like a cat, though so monstrous heavy. I was amazed at the
folly, as I thought it, of my man, and could not for my life see any-
thing to laugh at yet, till seeing the bear get up the tree, we all rode
near to him.
When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out to the small end
of a large branch, ynd the bear got about half way to him. As soon
as the Dear got out to that part where the limb of the tree was
weaker,—" Ha!" says he to us, "now you see me tcachee the bear
dance;" so be falls a jumping and shaking the bough, at which the
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CBUSOE.
bear began to totter, but stood still, and began to look behind him,
to see how he should get back; then, indeed, we did laugh heartily.
But Friday had not done with him by a great deal; when seeing
him stand still, he calls out to him again, as if he had supposed the
bear could speak English: "What, you come no farther? pray you
come farther;" so he left jumping and shaking the tree; and the
bear, iust as if he understood what he said, did come a little farther;
then he fell a jumping again, and the bear stopped again. We
thought now was a good time to knock him on the head, and called
to Friday to stand still, and we would shoot the bear; but he cried
out earnestly: "0 pray! 0 pray! no shoot, me shoot by and then;"

he would have said by and by. However, to shorten the story,
Friday danced so much, and the bear stood so ticklish, that we had
laughing enough, but still could not imagine what the fellow would
do; for first we thought he depended upon shaking the bear off; and
we found that the bear was too cunning for that too; for he would
not go out far enough to be thrown down, but clings fast with his
great broad claws and feet, so that we could not imagine what
would be the end of it, and what the jest would be at last. But
Friday puts us out of doubt quickly, for seeing the bear cling fast to
the bough, and that he would not be persuaded to come any farther:
"Well, well," says Friday, "you no come farther, me go; you no
come to me, me come to you:" and upon this, he goes out to the
smaller end of the hough, where it would bend with his weight, and
gently lets himself down by it, sliding down the bough, till ne came
near enough to jump down on his feet, and away he runs to his gun,
takes it up, and stands still. "Well," said I to him, "Friday, what
will you do now? Why don't you shoot him t"—" No shoot," says
Friday, " not yet; me no shoot now, me no kill; me stay, give you
one more laugh;" and, indeed, so he did, as you will see presently;
for when the bear saw his enemy gone, he comes back from the
bough where he stood, but did it mighty cautiously, looking behind
him every step, and coming backward till he got into the body of the
tree; then with the same hinder-end foremost, he came down the tree,
grasping it with his claws, and moving one foot at a time, very
leisurely. At this juncture, and just before he could set his hind-
foot on the ground, Friday stepped up close to him, clapped the
muzzle of his piece into his ear, and shot him dead. Then the
rogue turned about, to see if we did not laugh; and when he saw
we were pleased, by our looks, he falls a laughing himself very loud.
"So we kill bear in my country," says Friday. *' So you kill them?
says 1, "why you have no guns." "No," says he, "no gun, but
shoot great much long arrow." This was a good diversion to us;
but we were still in a wild place, and our guide very much hurt, and
what to do we hardly knew; the howling of wolves run much in my
head; and, indeed, except the noise I once heard on the shore of
Africa, of which I have said something already, I never heard any-
thing that filled me with so much horror.
These things, and the approach of night, called us off, or else, as
Friday would have had us, we should certainly have taken the skin
of this monstrous creature off, which was worth saving; but we had
near three leagues to go, and our guide hastened us, so we left him,
and went forward on our journey.
We were not gone half over the plain, when we began to hear the
wolves howl in the wood on our left in a frightful manner, and
presently after, we saw about a hundred coming on directly towards
us, all in a body, and most of them in a line, as regularly as an army
drawn up by an experienced officer. I scarce knew in what manner
to receive them, but found to draw ourselves in a close line was the
only way; so we formed in a moment: but that we might not have
too much interval, I ordered that only every other man should
fire, and that the others who had not firett should stand ready to give
',hcm a second volley immediately, if they continued to advance upon
us; and then that those who baa fired at first should not pretend to
load their fuses again, but stand ready every one with a pistol, for
we were all armed with a fuse and a pair of pistols each man; so we
were, by this method, able to fire six volleys,"half of us at a time.
However, at present we had no necessity, for upon fiiing the first
volley, the enemy made a full stop, being terrified as well with the
noise as with the fire; four of them, being shot in the head, dropped;
several others were wounded, and went bleeding off, as we could see
by the snow. I found they stopped, but did not immediately retreat;
whereupon, remembering that I had been told that the fiercest crea-
tures were terrified by the voice of a man, I caused all the company
to halloo as loud as we could; and I found the notion not altogether
mistaken; for upon our shout, they began to retire and turn about.
I then ordered a second volley to be fired in their rear, which put
them to the gallop, and away they went to the woods. This gave us
leisure to charge our pieces again; and that we might lose no time,
we kept going; we had but little more than loaded our fuses, and
put ourselves in readiness, when we heard a terrible noise in the
same wood, on cur left, only that it was farther onward, the same
way we were to go.
The night was coming on, and the light began to be dusky, which
made it worse on our side; but the noise increasing, we could easily
perceive that it was the howling and yelling of these hellish creatures;
and on a sudden we perceived two or three troops of wolves, one on
our left, one behind us, and one in our front, so that we seemed to
be surrounded with them, however, as they did not fall upon us, we
kept our way forward, as fast as we could make our horses go, which,
the way being very rough, was only a good hard trot. In this manner
we came in view of the entrance of the wood, through which we
were to pass, at the farther side of the plain; but we were greatly
surprised, when, coming nearer the lane or pass, we saw a confused
number of wolves standing just at the entrance. On a sudden, at
another opening of a wood, we heard the noise of a gun, and looking
that way, out rushed a horse, with a saddle and bridle on him, flying
like the wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves after him full speed.
But here we had a most horrible sight; for riding up to the
entrance where the horse came out, we found the carcasses of another
horse and of two men, devoured by the ravenous creatures; and one of
the men was no doubt the same whom we heard lire the gun, for
there lay a gun just by him fired off; but as to the man, his head
and the upper part of his body were eaten up. This filled us with
horror, and we knew not what course to take; but the creatures re-
solved us soon, for they gathered about us presently, in hopes of
prey; and I verily believe there were three nundred of them. It
happened very much to our advantage, that at the entrance into the
wood, but a little way from it, there lay some large timber trees,
which had been cut down the summer before, and I suppose lay there
for carnage. I drew my little troop in among those trees, and
placing ourselves in a line behind one long tree, I advised them all
to alight, and keeping that tree before us for a breastwork, to stand in a
triangle or three fronts enclosing our horses in the centre. We did
so, and it was well wc did; for never was a more furious charge
than the creatures made upon us in this place. They came on with
a growling kind of noise, and mounted the piece of timber, which, as
I said, was our breastwork, as if they were only rushing upon their
prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems, was principally occasioned by
their seeing our horses behind us. I ordered our men to fire as be-
fore, every other man; and they took their aim so sure, that they
killed several of the wolves at the first volley; but there was a
necessity to keep a continual firing, for they came on like devils,
those behind pushing on those before.
When we had fired a second volley of our fuses, we thought they
stopped a little; and I hoped they would have gone off; bnt it was
only a moment, for others came forward again; so we fired two
volleys of our pistols; and I believe in these four firings we had
killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed twice as many, yet
they came on again. I was loth to spend our shot too hastily; so I
called my servant, not my man Friday, for he was better l itployed,
for, with the greatest dexterity imaginable, he had charged my fuse
and his own while we were engaged: hut as I said, I called my other
man, and giving him a horn of powder, I bade him lay a train all
along the piece of timber, and let it be a large train. He did so;
and had but just time to get away, when the wolves came up to it,
and some got upon it, when I, snapping an uncharged pistol close to
the powder, set it on fire; those that were upon the timber were
scorched with it, and six or seven of them fell or rather jumped in
among us, with the force and fright of the fire: we despatched these
in an instant, and the rest were so frightened with the light, which
the night, for it was now very near dark, made more terrible, that
they drew back a little; upon which I ordered our last pistols to be
fired off in one volley, and after that we gave a shout: upon this the
wolves turned tail, and we sallied immediately upon near twenty
lame ones, that we found struggling on the ground, and fell a cutting
them with our swords, which answered our expectation; for the
crying and howling they made was better understood by their fellows;
so that they all fled and left us.
In about an hour more we came to the town where we were to
lodge.
The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs swelled so
much with the rankling of his two wounds, that he could go no far-
ther; so we were obliged to take a new guide here, and go to Tou-
louse, where we found a warm climate, a fruitful pleasant country,
and no snow, no wolves, nor anything like them; but when we told
our story at Toulouse, they told us it was nothing but what was
ordinary in the great forest at the foot of the mountains, especially
when the snow lay on the ground; but they inquired much what
kind of a guide we had got, who would venture to bring us that way
in such a severe season; and told us it was surprising we were not
all devoured.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my passage through
France, nothing Dut what other travellers have given an account of,
with much more advantage than I can. I travelled from Toulouse
to Paris, and without any considerable stay came to Calais, and
landed safe at Dover, the 14th of January, after having a severe cold
season to travel in.
I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had in a little
time all my new discovered estate safe about me; the bills of
exchange which I brought with me having been very currently paid.
My principal guide and privy counsellor was my good ancient
widow; who, in gratitude for the money I had sent her, thought no
pains too much, nor care too great, to employ for me; and I trusted
her so entirely with everything, that I was perfectly easy as to the
security of my effects: and, indeed, I was very happy from the be-
ginning, vid now to the end, in the unspotted integrity of this good
gentle* ...lan.
I now resolved to dispose of my plantation in the Brazils, if I
could find means. For this purpose, I wrote to my old friend at
Lisbon, who having offered it to the two merchants, the survivors of
my trustees, who lived in the Brazils, they accepted the offer, and
remitted thirty-three thousand pieces of eight to a correspondent of
theirs at Lisbon, to pay for it. Having signed the instrument of
sale, and sent it to my old friend, he remitted me bills of exchange
for thirty-two thousand eight hundred pieces of eight for the estate,
reserving the payment oi a hundred moidores a year to himself
during his life, and fifty moidores afterwards to his son for life,
which I had promised them.
Though J had sold my estate in the Brazils, yet I could not keep
the country out of my head; nor could I resist the strong inclination
I had to see my island. My true friend, the widow, earnestly dis-
suaded me from it, and so far prevailed with me, that, for almost
seven years, she prevented my running abroad; during which time 1
took my two nephews, the children of one of my brothers, into my
care: the eldest having something of his own, I bred up as a gentle-
man, and gave him a settlement of some addition to his estate, after
my decease. The other I put out to a captain of a ship; and after
five years, finding him a sensible, bold, enterprising young fellow, I
put him into a good ship, and sent him to sea: and this young fellow
afterwards drew me in, old as I was, to further adventures myself.
In the mean time, I in part settled myself here: for, first of all,
I married, and that not either to my disadvantage or dissatisfaction,
and had three children, two sons and one daughter; but my wife
dying, and my nephew coming home with good success from a
voyage to Spain, my inclination to go abroad, and his importunity
prevailed, and engaged me to go in his ship as a private trader to
the East Indies: this was in the year 1691.
SECTION XXX.
HE IS SEIZED WITH A DESIRE TO REVISIT HIS ISLAND—LOSES HIS
WIFE—IS TEMFTED TO GO TO SEA AGAIN—TAKES OUT A CARGO
FOR HIS COLONY.
When my wife was gone, the world looked awkwardly round me. I
was as much a stranger in it, in my thoughts, as I was in the Brazils,
when I first went on shore there; and as much alone, except as to
the assistance of servants, as I was in my island. I knew neither
what to think nor what to do. I saw the world busy around me:
one part labouring for bread, another part squandering in vile ex-
cesses or empty pleasures, equal,y miserable, because the end they
proposed still fled from them: for the men of pleasure every day
surfeited of their vice, and heaped up work for sorrow and repent-
ance; and the men of labour spent their strength in daily struggling
for bread to maintain the daily strength they laooured with; so living
in a daily circulation of sorrow, living but to work, and working but
to live, as if daily bread were the only end of wearisome life, and a
wearisome life the only occasion of daily bread.
This put me in mind of the life I lived in my kingdom, the island,
where I suffered no more corn to grow, because I did not want it,
and bred no more goats, because I had no more use for them; where
the money lay in the drawer till it grew mouldy, and had scarce the
favour to be looked upon in twenty years.
My sage counsellor was gone; 1 was like a ship without a pilot,
that could only run before the wind: my thoughts ran all away again
into the old affair; my head was quite turned with the whimsies of
foreign adventures; and all the pleasant, innocent amusements at
my farm, my garden, my cat'.le, and my family, which before entirely
possessed me, were nothing to me, had no relish, and were like
music to one that has no ear, or food to one that has no taste; in a
word, I resolved to leave off housekeeping, let my farm, and return
to London; and in a few months after I did so.
When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as I was before;
I had no relish for the place, no employment in it, nothing to do but
to saunter about like an idle person, of whom it may be said he is
perfectly useless in God's creation, and it is not one farthing's matter
to the rest of his kind whether he be dead or alive. This also was
the tiiing which, of all circumstances of life, was the most my aver-
sion, who had been all my days used to an active life; and I would
often say to myself: "A state of idleness is the very dregs of life;
and indeed I thought I was much more suitably employed when I
was twenty-six days making me a deal board."
It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when my nephew,
whom, as I have observed before, I had brought up to the sea, and
had made liim commander of a ship, was come home from a short
voyage to Bilboa, being the first he had made. He came to me, and
told me that some merchants of his acquaintance had been propos-
ing to him to go a voyage to the East Indies and to China, as pri-
vate traders.—" And now, uncle," says he, "if you will go to sea
with me, I will engage to land you upon your old habitation in the
island, for we are to touch at the Brazils.
The scheme hit so exactly with my temper, that is to say, the
repossession I was under, and of which I have said so much, that
told him, in a few words, if he agreed with the merchants I
would go with him; but I told him I would not promise to go any.
farther than my own island. "Why, sir," says he, "you don't
want to be left there again, I hope?" "Why," said I, "can you
not take me up again on your return?" He told me it would not
he possible to do so; that the merchants would never allow him to
come that way with a laden ship of such value, it being a month's
sail out of his way, and might be three or four. "Besides, sir,
if I should miscarry," said he, "and not return at all, then you
would be just reduced to the condition you were in before."
This was very rational; but we both foond out a remedy for it:
which was to carry a framed sloop on hoard the ship, which being
taken in pieces, and shipped on board the ship, might, by the help
of some carpenters, whom we agreed to carry with us, "be set up
again in the island, and finished, fit to go to sea, in a few days.
I was not long resolving; for, indeed, the importunities of my
nephew joined so effectually with my inclination, that nothing could
oppose me; on the other hand, my wife being dead, I had nobody
concerning themselves so much for me as to persuade me to one
way or the other, except my ancient good friend the widow, who
r
189
earnestly struggled with me to consider my years, my easy circum-
stances, and the needless hazards of a long voyage, and above all,
my young children. But it was all to no purpose; I had an irre-
sistible desire to the voyage; and I told her I thought there was
something so uncommon in the impressions I had upon my mind for
the voyage, that it would be a kind of resisting Providence if I
should attempt to stay at home; after which she ceased her expos-
tulations, and joined with me, not only in making provision for my
voyage, but also in settling my family affairs for my absence, and
providing for the education of my children.
In order to this, I made my will, and settled the estate I had in
such a manner for my children, and placed in such hands, that I was
perfectly easy and satisfied they would have justice done them,
whatever mignt befall me; and for their education, I left it wholly
to the widow, with a sufficient maintenance to herself for her care:
all which she richly deserved, for no mother could have taken more
care in their education, or understood it better; and as she lived till
I came home, I also lived to thank her for it.
My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning of January
1G91-5, and I, with my man Friday, went on board in the Downs on
the 8th; having, besides that sloop which I mentioned above, a
very considerable cargo of all kinds of necessary things for my
colony, which, if I did not find in good condition, I resolved to
leave so.
Contrary winds first put us to the northward, and we were
obliged to put in at Gaiway in Ireland, where we lay wind-bound
two-and-twenty days; but we had this satisfaction with the disaster,
that provisions were here exceeding cheap, and in the utmost plenty;
so that while we lay here, we never touched the ship's stores, but
rather added to them. Here, also, I took in several live hogs, and
two cows, with their calves, which I resolved, if I had a good pas-
sage, to put on shore in my island; but we found occasion to dispose
otherwise of them.

SECTION XXXI.
Robinson's ship believes the crew of a French vessel thai
had caught fire.
We set out on the 5th of February from Ireland, and had a very
fair gale of wind for some days. As I remember, it might be about
the 20th of February, in the evening late, when the mate, having the
watch, came into the round-house, and told us he saw a flash of fire,
and heard a gun fired ; and while he was telling us of it, a boy came
in, and told us the boatswain heard another. This made us all run
out upon the quarter-deck, where, for a while, we heard nothing;
but in a few minutes we saw a very great light, and found that there
was some very terrible fire at a distance; immediately we had
recourse to our reckonings, in which we all agreed that there could
be no land that way in which the fire showed itself, no, not for five
hundred leagues, for it appeared at W.N.W. Upon this we con-
cluded it must be some snip on fire at sea; and as, by our hearing
the noise of guns just before, we concluded that it could not be far
off, we stood directly towards it, and were presently satisfied we
should discover it, because, the farther we sailed, the greater the
light appeared; though, the weather being hazy, we could not per-
ceive anything but the light for a while. In about half an hour's
sailing, the wind being fair for us, though not much of it, and the
weather clearing up a little, we could plainly discern that it was a
great ship on fire, in the middle of the sea.
I was most sensibly touched with this disaster, though not at all
acquainted with the persons engaged in it; I presently recollected
my former circumstances, and in what condition I was in, when taken
up by the Portuguese captain; and how much more deplorable the
circumstances of the poor creatures belonging to that ship must be
if they had no other ship in company with them. Upon this, I im-
mediately ordered that five guns should be fired, one soon after
another, that, if possible, we might give notice to them that there
was help for them at hand, and that they might endeavour to save
themselves in their boat; for though we could see the flames of the
ship, yet they, it being night, could see nothing of us.
About eight o'clock in the morning we discovered the ship's boats
by the help of our perspective glasses; found there were two of
them, both thronged with people, and deep in the water. We per-
ceived they rowed, the wind being against them; that they saw oui
ship, and did their utmost to make us see them.
We immediately spread our ancient, to let them know we saw
them, and hung a waft out, as a signal for them to come on board
and then made more sail, standing directly to them. In little more
than half-an-hour we came up with them; and, in a word, took them
all in, being no less than sixty-four men, women, and children; for
there were a great many passengers.
Upon the whole, we found it was a French merchant-ship of three
hundred tons, home-bound from Quebee, in the river of Canada.
The master gave us a long account of the distress of his ship; how
the fire began in the steerage, by the negligence of the steersman;
but on his crying out for help, was, as everybody thought, entirely
put out; but they soon found that some sparks of the first fire had
gotten into some part of the ship so difficult to come at, that they
could not effectually quench it; and afterwards getting in between
the timbers, and within the ceiling of the ship, it proceeded into
the hold, and mastered all the skill and all the application they were
able to exert.
Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowledgments for the kind-
ness shown to them was wanting; the French, it is known, are
naturally apt to exceed that way. The captain and one of the
priests came to me the next day, and desired to speak with me and
my nephew: the commander began to consult with us what should
be done with them; and first, they told us that we had saved their
lives, so all they had was little enough for a return to us for that
kindness received. The captain said they had saved some money,
and some things of value, in their boots, catched hastily out of the
flames, and if we would accept it, they were ordered to make an
offer of it all to us; they only desired to be set on shore somewhere
in our way, where, if possible, they might get a passage to France.
My nephew was for accepting their money at first word, and to con-
sider what to do with them afterwards; but I overruled him in that
part, for I knew what it was to be set on shore in a strange country:
and if the Portuguese captain that took me up at sea had served me
so, and took all I had for my deliverance, I must have starved, or
have been as much a slave at the Brazils as I had been at Barbary,
the mere being sold to a Mahometan excepted; and perhaps a Por-
tuguese is not a much better master than a Turk, if not, in some
cases, much worse.
I therefore told the French captain that we had taken them up in
their distress, it was true, but that it was our duty to do so, as we
were fellow-creatures; and we would desire to be so delivered, if we
were in the like, or any other extremity; that we had done nothing
for them but what we believed they would have done for us, if we
had been in their case, and they in ours; but that we took them up
to save them, not to plunder them; and it would be a most barbar-
ous thing to take that little from them which they had saved out of
fie fire, and then set them on shore and leave them; that this would
be first to save them from death, and then kill them ourselves;
save them from drowning, and abandon them to starving; and there-
fore I would not let the least thing be taken from them. As to
set I ing them on shore, I told them, indeed, that was an exceeding
difficulty to us, for that the ship was bound to the East Indies; and
though we were driven out of our course to the westward a very
great way, and perhaps were directed by Heaven on purpose for
their deliverance, yet it was impossible for us wilfully to change our
voyage on their particular account; nor could my nephew, the
captain, answer it to the freighters, with whom he was under
charter-party to pursue his voyage by the way of Brazil: and all I
knew we could do for them, wa3 to put ourselves in the way of
meeting with other ships homeward bound from the West Indies,
and get them a passage, if possible, to England or France.
The first part of the proposal was so generous and kind, they
could not but be very thankful for it; but they were in a very great
consternation, especially the passengers, at the notion of being
carried away to the East Indies; they then entreated me, that seeing
I was driven so far to the westward before I met with them, I
would at least keep on the same course to the Banks of Newfound-
land, where it was probable I might meet with some ship or sloop
that they might hire to carry them back to Canada, from whence
they came.
I thought this was but a reasonable request on their part, and
therefore I inclined to agree to it; for, indeed, I considered, that to
carry this whole company to the East Indies, would not only be an
intolerable severity upon the poor people, but would be ruining our
whole voyage, by devouring all our provisions: so I thought it no
breach of charter-party, but what an unforeseen accident made
absolutely necessary to us, and in which no one could say we were
to blame: for the laws of God and nature would have forbid that
we should refuse to take up two boats' full of people in such a dis-
tressed condition; and the nature of the thing, as well respecting
ourselves as the poor people, obliged us to set them on shore some-
where or other for their deliverance; so I consented that we would
carry them to Newfoundland, if wind and weather would permit;
and if not, that I would carry them to Martinico, ill the West
Indies.
4&r

SECTION XXXII.
RELIEVES THE CREW OF A BKISTOL SHIP, WHO ARE RABVINC
ARRIVES AT HIS ISLAND.
The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather pretty good, and
as the winds had continued in the points between N.E. and S.E. a
long time, we missed several opportunities of sending them to
France; for we met several ships bound to Europe, whereof two
were French, from St. Christopher's; but they had been so long
beating up against the wind, that they durst take in no passengers,
for fear of wanting provisions for the voyage, as well for them-
selves as for those that they should take in; so we were obliged to
go on. It was about a week after this that we made the Banks of
Newfoundland; where, to shorten my story, we put all our French
people on board a barque, which they hired at sea there, to put them
on shore, and afterwards to carry them to France, if they could get
provisions to victual themselves with. When I say all the French
went on shore, I should remember that a young priest on board,
hearing we were bound to the East Indies, desired1 to go the voyage
with us, and to be set on shore on the coast of Coromandel; which
I readily agreed to, for I wonderfully liked the man, and had very
good reason, as will appear afterwards: also four of the seamen
entered themselves on our ship, and proved very useful fellows.
From hence we directed our course to the West Indies, steering
away S. and S. by E. for about twenty days together, sometimes
little or no wind at all; when we met with another subject for our
humanity to work upon, almost as deplorable as that before.
It was in the latitude of twenty-seven degrees five minutes north,
oil the 19th day of March, 1G94-5, when we spied a sail, our course
S.J3. and by S.: we soon perceived it was a large vessel, and that
she bore up to us, but could not at first know what to make of her,
till, after coming a little nearer, we found that she had lost her main
topmast, foremast, and bowsprit; and presently she fired a gun, as
a signal of distress: the weather was pretty good, wind at NiN.W.,
a fresh gale, and we soon came to speak with Tier.
We found her a ship of Bristol, bound home from Barbadoes,
but had been been blown out of the road at Barbadoes a few
days before she was ready to sail, by a terrible hurricane, while
the captain and chief-mate were both gone on shore; so that, besides
the terror of the storm, they were in an indifferent case for good
artists to brine the ship home. They had been already nine weeks
at sea, and had met with another terrible storm, after the hurricane
was over, which had blown them quite out of their knowledge to
the westward, and in which they lost their masts, as above. They
told us they expected to have seen the Bahama islands, but were
then driven away again to the south-east, by a strong gale of wind
at N.N.W., the same that blew now: and having no sails to work
the ship with but a niainnour.se, and a kind of square sail upon a
jury foremast, which they had set up, they could not lie near the
wind, but were endeavouring to stand away for the Canaries.
But that which was worst of all was, that they were almost starved
for want of provisions, besides the fatigues they had undergone:
their bread and flesh were quite gone; they had not one ounce left
in the ship, and had none left for eleven days. The only reuV 'hey
had was, their water was not all spent, and they had about half a
barrel of flour left; they had sugar enough; some succades, or
sweetmeats, they had at first, but they were devoured; and they
had seven casks of rum.
There were a youth and his mother, and a maid-servant, on board,
who were going passengers, and thinking the ship was ready to sail,
unhappily came on board the evening before the hurricane began;
and having no provisions of their own left, they were in a more de-
plorable condition than the rest: for the seamen, being reduced te
such an extreme necessity themselves, had no compassion, we may
be sure, for the poor passengers; and they were, indeed, in a con-
dition, that their misery is very hard to describe.
I had perhaps not known this part, if my curiosity had not led
me (the weather being fair, and the wind abated) to go on board
the ship. The second mate, who, upon this occasion, commanded
the ship, had been on board our ship, and he told me, indeed, they
had three passengers in the great cabin, that were in a deplorable
condition: "Nay," says he, "I believe they are dead, for I have
heard nothing of them for above two days; and I was afraid to
inqure after them," said he, "for I had nothing to relieve them with."
We immediately applied ourselves to give them what relief we
could spare * and, indeed, I had so far overruled things with my
nephew, that I would have victualled them, though we had gone
away to Virginia, or any other part of the coast of America, to have
supplied ourselves; but there was no necessity for that.
But now they were in a new danger ; for they were afraid of
eating too much, even of that little we gave them. The mate or
commander brought six men with him in his boat; but these poor
wretches looked liked skeletons, and were so weak, that they could
hardly sit to their oars. The mate himself was very ill, and half-
starved, for he declared he had reserved nothing from the men, and
went share and share alike with them in every bit they ate.
I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat before him imme-
diately; and he had not eat three mouthfuls before he began to be
sick, and out of order; so he stopped awhile, and our surgeon mixed
him up something with some broth, which he said would be to him
both food and physic; and after he had taken it, he grew better.
In the meantime, I forgot not the men; I ordered victuals to be
given them; and the poor creatures rather devoured than ate it:
they were so exceeding hungry, that they were in a kind ravenous,
and had no command of themselves; and two of them ate with so
much greediness, that they were in danger of their lives the next
morning.
While I kept the mate, whom we then called captain, on board
with his men, to refresh them, so I also forgot not the starving crew
that were left on board; but ordered my own boat to go on board
the ship, and, with my mate and twelve men, to carry them a sack
of bread, and four or five pieces of beef to boil. Our surgeon
charged the men to cause the meat to be boiled while they stayed,
and to keep guard in the cook-room to prevent the men taking it to
eat raw, or taking it out of the pot before it was well boiled, and
then to give every man but a very little at a time: and by this
caution he preserved the men, who would otherwise have killed
themselves with that very food that was given them on purpose to
save their lives.
At the same time, I ordered the mate to go into the great cabin,
and see what condition the poor passengers were in; and if they
were alive, to comfort them, and give them what refreshment was
proper: and the surgeon gave him a large pitcher, with some of the
prepared broth which he had given the mate that was on board, and
which he did not question would restore them gradually.
I was not satisfied with this; but, as I said above, having a grea.
mind to see the scene of misery which I knew the ship itself would
present me with, in a more lively manner than I could have it by
report, I took the captain of the ship, as we now called him, with
me, and went myself, a little after, in their boat.
I found the poor men on board almost in a tumult, to get the
victuals out of the boiler before it was ready; but my mate observed
his orders, and kept a good guard at the cook-room door; and the
man he placed there, after using all possible persuasion to have
patience, kept them off by force: however, he caused some biscuit-
cakes to be dipped in the pot, and softened with the liquor of the
meat, which they called brewis, and gave them every one some, to
stay their stomachs, and told them it was for their own safety that
he was obliged to give them but a little at a time. But it was all
in vain; ana had I not come on board, and their own commander
and officers with me, and with good words, and some threats also
of giving them no more, I believe they would have broken into the
cook-room by force, and torn the meat out of the furnace; for
words are indeed of very. small force to a hungry belly: however, we

pacified them, and fed them gradually and cautiously for the first time,
and the next time gave them more, and at last filled their bellies,
and the men did well enough.
But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of another
nature, and far Beyond the rest; for the ship's company had so little
for themselves, it was but too true that they had at first kept them
'very low, and at last totally neglected them; so that for six or seven
days it might be said they had really no food at all, and for several
days before very little. The poor mother, who, as the men reported,
was a woman of sense and good breeding, had spared all she could
so affectionately for her son, that at last she entirely sunk under it;
and when the mate of our ship went, she sat upon the floor or dock,
with her back up against the sides, between two chairs, which were
lashed fast, and her head sunk between her shoulders, like a corpse,
though not quite dead. My mate said all he could to revive and
encourage her, and with a spoon put some broth into her mouth.
She opened her lips, and lifted up one hand, but could not speak;
yet she understood what he said, and made signs to him, intimating
that it was too late for her, but pointed to her child, as if she would
have said they should take care of him. However, the mate, who
was exceedingly moved with the sight, endeavoured to get some of
the broth into her mouth, and, as he said, got two or three spoonfuls
down; though 1 question whether he could be sure of it or not:
but it was too late, and she died the same night.
The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most affectionate
.mother's life, was not so far gone: yet he lay in a cabin-bed, as oas
stretched out, with hardly any life left in him. He had a piece of
an old glove in his mouth, having eaten up the rest of it: however,
being young, and having more strength than his mother, the mate
got something down his throat, and ne began sensibly to revive;
though by giving him, some time after, but two' or three spoonfuls
extraordinary, he was very sick, and brought it up again.
But the next care was the poor maid: she lay all along upon the
deck, hard by her mistress, and just like one that had fallen down
with an apoplexy, and struggled for life. Her limbs were distorted
one of her hands was clasped round the frame of a chair, and she
griped it so hard, that we could not easily make her let it go: her
other arm lay over her head, and her feet lay both together, set fast
against the frame of the cabin-table: in short, she lay just like one
in the agonies of death, and yet she was alive too.
We knew not what to do with this poor girl; for when onr
surgeon, who was a man of very great knowledge and experience,
had with great application recovered her as to life, he had her upon
his hands as to her senses , for she was little less than distracted for
a considerable time after, as shall appear presently.
Whoever shall read these memorandums must be desired to con-
sider, that visits at sea are not like a journey into the country,
where sometimes people stay a week or a fortnight at a place: our
business was to relieve this distressed ship's crew, but not lie by for
them; and though they were willing to steer the same course. with
us for some days, yet we could carry no sail, to keep pace with a
ship that had no masts: however, as their captain begged of us to
help him to set up a main topmast, and a kind of a topmast to his
jury foremast, we did, as it were, lie by him for three or four days;
and then having given five barrels of beef, a barrel of pork, two
hogsheads of biscuit, and a proportion of peas, flour, and what other
things we could spare; and taking three casks of sugar, some rum,
and some pieces of eight from them for satisfaction, we left them;
taking on board with us, at their own earnest request, the youth and
the maid, and all their goods.
The young lad was about seventeen years of age; a pretty, well
bred, modest, and sensible youth, greatly dejected with the loss of
his mother, and, as it seems, had lost his father but a few months
before, at Barbadoes: he begged of the surgeon to speak to me to
take him out of the ship: for ne said the cruel fellows bad murdered
his mother: and, indeed, so they had, that is to say, passively; for
they might have spared a small sustenance to the poor helpless
widow, that might have preserved her life, though it had been but
just enough to keep her alive: but hunger knows no fiiend, no rela-
tion, no justice, no right; and therefore is remorseless, and capable
of no compassion
The surgeon told him how far we were going, and that it would
carry him away from all his friends, and put him perhaps in as bad
circumstances almost as those we found them in, that is to say,
starving in the world. He said it mattered not whither he went, if
he was out delivered from the terrible crew that he was among;
that the captain (by which he meant me, for he could know nothing
of my nephew) had saved his life, and he was sure would not hurt
him; and as for the maid, he was sure, if she came to herself, she
would be very thankful for it, let us carry them where we would.
The surgeon represented the case so affectionately to me, that I
yielded, and we took them both on board, with all their goods, except
eleven hogsheads of sugar, which could not be removed or come at;
and as the youth had a bill of lading for them, I made his com-
mander sign a writing obliging himself to go, as soon as he came to
Bristol, to one Mr. Rogers, a merchant there, to whom the youth
said he was related, and to deliver a letter which I wrote to him,
and all the goods he had belonging to the deceased widow; which I
suppose was not done, for I could never learn that the ship came to
Bristol, but was, as is most probable, lost at sea; being in so
disabled a condition, and so far from any land, that I am of opinion
the first storm she met with afterwards she might founder in the
sea; for she was leaky and had damage in her hold, when we met
with her.
I was now in the latitude of nineteen degrees thirty-two minutes,
and had hitherto a tolerable voyage as to weather, though, at first,
the winds had been contrary. I shall trouble nobody with the little
incidents of wind, weather, currents, &c., on the rest of onr voyage;
but to shorten my story, for the sake of what is to follow, shall
observe, that I came to my old habitation, the island, on the 10th of
April, 1695. It was with no small difficulty that I found the place;
for as 1 came to it, and went from it, before, on the south and east
side of the island, as coming from the Brazils, so now, coming in
between the main and the island, and having no chart for the coast,
nor any landmark, I did not know it when I saw it, or know whether
I saw it or not.
Thus coasting from one island to another, sometimes with the
ship,'sometimes with the Frenchmen's shallop, which we had found
a convenient boat, and therefore kept her with their very good will,
at length I came fair on the south side of my island, and presently
knew the very countenance of the place: so I brought the ship safe
to an anchor, broadside with the little creek where my old habita-
tion was.

SECTION XXXliL
robinson and friday go ashore—the latter meets with his
father — account op what passed on the island after
Robinson's quitting it.
As soon as I saw the place, I called for Friday, and asked him if he
knew where he was; he looked about a little, and presently clapping
his hands, cried: "0 yes, 0 there, O yes, 0 there," pointing to our
old habitation, and fell dancing and capering like a mad fellow; and
I had much ado to keep him from jumping into the sea, to swim
ashore to the place.
"Well, Friday," says I, "Do you think we shall find anybody
here or no? and do you think we shall see your father?" The
fellow stood mute as a stock a good while, but when I named his
father, the poor affectionate creature looked dejected, and I could
see the tears run down his face very plentifully. "What is the
matter, Friday ?" says I; "are you troubled because you may see
your fatherf" "No, no," says lie, shaking his head, "no see him
more: no, never more see him again." "Why so," said I, "Friday?
how do you know that?" "O no, 0 no," says Friday; "he long
ago die, long ago, he much old man." "Well, well," says I, "Friday
you don't know; but shall we see any one else, then?" The fellow,
it seems had better eyes than I, and he points to the hill just above
my old house; and though we lay half a league off, he cries out,
"We see, we see, yes, yes, we see much man there, and there, and
there." I looked, but I saw nobody, no, not with a perspective
glass, which was, I suppose, because I could not hit the place; for
the fellow was right, as I found upon inquiry the next day; and
there were five or six men all together, who stood to look at the
ship, not knowing what to think of us.
As soon as Friday told me he saw people, I caused the English
ancient to be spread, and fired three guns, to give them notice we
were friends; and in about half a quarter of an hour after we per-
ceived a smoke arise from the side of the creek; so I immediately
ordered the boat out, taking Friday with me; and hanging out a
white flag, or a flag of truce, I went directly on shore, taking with
me the young friar I mentioned, to whom I had told the story of my
living there, and the manner of it, and every particular both of
myself and those I left there; and who was, on that account,
extremely desirous to go with me. We had besides about sixteen
men well armed, if we had found any new guests there which we did
not know of; but we had no need of weapons.
As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high water, we
rowed directly into the creek; and the first man that I fixed my
eye upon was the Spaniard whose life I had saved, and whom I knew
by his face perfectly well: as to his habit, I shall describe it after-
wards. I ordered nobody to go on shore but myself; but there was

no keeping Friday in the boat, for the affectionate creature had spied
his father at a distance, a good way off the Spaniards, where indeed
I saw nothing of him; and if they had not let him go ashore, he
would have jumped into the sea. He was no sooner on shore, but
he flew away to his father, like an arrow out of a bow. It would
have made any man shed tears, in spite of the firmest resolution, to
have seen the first transports of this poor fellow's joy when he came
to his father: how he embraced him, kissed him, stroked his face,
took him up in his arms, set him down upon a tree, and lay down by
him; then stood and looked at him, as any one would look at a
strange picture, for a quarter of an hour together; then down upon
the ground, and stroke his legs, and kiss them, and then get up
again, and stare at him; one would have thought the fellow be-
witched.
It would be needless to take notice of all the ceremonies and
civilities that the Spaniards received me with. The first Spaniard,
who, as I said, I knew very well, was he whose life I had saved: he
came towards the boat, attended by one more, carrving a flag of
truce also: and he not only did not know me at first, but he had no
thoughts, no notion of its being me that was come, till I spoke to
him. "Senhor," said I, in Portuguese, "do you not know mef"
A.t which he spoke not a word, but giving his musket to the man that
wati with him, threw his arms abroad, saying something in Spanish
that I did not perfectly hear, came forward and embraced me;
telling me he was inexcusable not to know the face again, that he
had once seen as if an angel came from heaven to save his life: he
said abundance of very handsome things, as a well-bred Spaniard
always knows how; and then beckoning to the person that attended
him, bade him go and call out his comrades. He then asked me if
I would walk to my old habitation, where he would give me posses-
sion of my own house again, and where I should see they had made
but mean improvements: so I walked along with him; but, alas! I
could no more find the place again than if I had never been there;
for they had planted so many trees, and placed them in such a
posture, so thick and close to one another, and in ten years' time
they were grown so big, that, in short, the place was inaccessible,
except by such windings and blind ways as they themselves only,
who made them, could hnd.
I asked them what put them upon all these fortifications: he
told me I would say there was need enough of it, when they had
given me an account how they had passed their time since their
arriving in the island, especially after they had the misfortune to
find that I was gone.
As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that were left
behind, and of whom, he said, he had a long story to tell me, the
Spaniards all thought themselves much better among the savages,
only that their number was so small: and, says he, had they beta
strong enough, we had been all long ago in purgatory; and with
that he crossed himself on the breast. "But, sir," says he, "I hope
you will not be displeased when I shall tell you how, forced by
necessity, we were obliged, for our own preservation, to disarm them,
and make them our subjects, who would not be content with being
moderately our masters, but would be our murderers." I answered:
"I was heartily afraid of it when I left them there, and nothing
trouoled me at my parting from the island but that they were not
come back, that 1 might have put them in possession of everything
first, and left the others in a state of subjection, as they deserved;
but if they had reduced them to it, I was very glad, and should be
very far from finding any fault with it; for 1 knew they were a
parcel of refractory, ungoverned villains, and were fit for any manner
of mischief."
While 1 was saying this, the man came whom he had sent
back, and with him eleven men more. In the dress they were in, it
was impossible to guess what nation they were of; but he made all
clear, both to them and to me. First he tnrned to me, and pointing
to them, said, "These, sir, are some of the gentlemen who owe
their lives to you;" and then turning to them, and pointing to me,
he let them know who I was; upon which they all came up, one by
one, not as if they had been sailors and ordinary fellows, and the
like, but really as if they had been ambassadors of noblemen, and I
a monarch or great conqueror: their behaviour was to the list de-
gree obliging and courteous, and vet mixed with a manly, majestic
gravity, which very well became them; and, in short, they had so
much more manners than I, that I scarce knew how to receive their
civilities, much less how to return them in kind.
I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation in the first
person, which will put me to the expense of ten thousand said l'l
and said he's, and he told /lie's, and I told hint's, and the like; but I
shall collect the facts historically, as near as I can gather them out
of my memory, from what they related to me, and from what I met
with in my conversing with them and with the place.
The first thing, however, which I inquired into, that I might begin
where 1 left off, was of their own part; and I desired he would give
me a particular account of his voyage back to his countrymen with
the boat, when I sent him to fetch them over. He told me there
was little variety in that part, for nothing remarkable happened to
them on the way, having nad very calm weather and a smooth sea.
As for his countrymen, it could not be doubted, he said, but that
they were overjoyed to see him (it seems he was the principal man
among them, the captain of the vessel they had been shipwrecked
in having been dead sohie time); they were, he said, the more sur-
prised to see him, because they knew that he was fallen into the
hands of savages, who, they were satisfied, would devour him, as
they did all the rest of their prisoners; that when he told them the
story of his deliverance, and in what manner he was furnished for
carrying them away, it was like a dream to them, and their
astonishment, he said, was somewhat like that of Joseph's brethren,
when he told them who he was, and told them the story of his
exaltation in Pharaoh's court; but when he showed them the arms,
the powder, the ball, and provisions, that he brought them for their
journey or voyage, they were restored to themselves, took a just
share of the joy of their deliverance, and immediately prepared to
come away with him.
Their first business was to get canoes: and in this they were
obliged not to stick so much upon the honest part of it, but to
trespass upon their friendly savages, and to borrow two large
canoes, or periaguas, on pretence of going out a fishing, or for plea-
sure. In these they came away the next morning. It seems they
wanted no time to get themselves ready ., for they had no baggage,
neither clothes nor provisions, nor anything in the world but what
they had on them, and a few roots to eat, of which they used to
make their bread.
They were in all three weeks absent; and in that time, unluckily
for them, I had the occasion offered for my escape, as I mentioned
in my other part, and to get off from the island, leaving three ol
the most impudent, hardened, ungoverned, disagreeable villains
behind me, that any man could desire to meet with; to the poor
Spaniards' great grief and disappointment, you may be sure.
The only just thing the rogues did was, that when the Spaniards
came ashore, they gave my letter to them, and gave them provisions,
and other relief, as I had ordered them to do; also they gave them
the long paper of directions which I had left with them, containing
the particular methods which I took for managing every part of my
life there; the way how I baked my bread, bred up tame goats, and
planted my corn; how I cured my grapes, made my pots, and, in a
word, every thing I did; all this being written down, they gave to
the Spaniards (two of them understood English well enough): nor
did they refuse to accommodate the Spaniards with anything else,
for they agreed very well for some time. They gave them an
equal admission into the house, or cave, and they began to live very
sociably; and the head Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of my
methods, and Friday's father together, managed all their affairs:
but as for the Englishmen, they did nothing but ramble about the
island, shoot parrots, and catch tortoises; and when they came home
at night, the Spaniards provided their suppers for them.
The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, had the others
but let them alone; which, however, they could not find in their
hearts to do long, but, like the dog in the manger, they would not
eat themselves, neither would they let the others eat. The differ-
ences, nevertheless, were at first but trivial, and such as are not
worth relating, but at last it broke out into open war: and it began
with all the rudeness, and insolence that can be imagined, without
reason, without provocation, contrary to nature, and, indeed, to
common sense; and though, it is true, the first relation of it came
from the Spaniards themselves, whom I may call the accusers, yet
when I came to examine the fellows, they could not deny a word
of it.
But before I come to the particulars of this part, I must supply a
defect in my former relation; and this was, I forgot to set down,
among the rest, that just as we were weighing the anchor to set sail,
there happened a little quarrel on board of our ship, which I was
afraid would have turned to a second mutiny; nor was it appeased
till the captain, rousing up his courage, and taking us all to his
assistance, parted them by force, and making two of the most re-
fractory fellows prisoners, ne laid them in irons; and as they had
been active in the former disorders, and let fall some ugly, dangerous
words, the second time he threatened to carry them in irons to
England, and have them hanged there for mutiny, and running away
with the ship. This, it seems, though the captain did not intend to
do it, frightened some other men in the ship; and some of them had
put it into the heads of the rest that the captain only gave them
good words for the present, till they should come to some English
port, and that then they should be all put into gaol, and tried for
their lives. The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted us
with it; upon which it 'was desired that I, who still passed for a
great man among them, should go down with the mate, and satisfy
the men, and tell them that they might be assured, if they behaved
well the rest of the voyage, all they had done for the time past
should be pardoned. So I went, and after passing my honour's
word to them, they appeared easy, and the more so when I caused
the two men that were in irons to be released and forgiven.
But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night; the
wind also falling calm next morning, we found that our two men who
had been laid in irons had stole each of them a musket, and some
other weapons (what powder and shot they had we knew not), and
had taken the ship's pinnace, which was not yet hauled up, and run
away with her to his companions in roguery on shore. As soon as
we found this, I ordered the long boat on shore, with twelve men and
the mate, and away they went to 6cek the rogues; but they could
neither find them nor any of the rest, for they all fled into the woods
when they saw the boat coming on shore. The mate was once
resolved, in justice to their roguery, to have destroyed their planta-
tions, burned all their household-stuff and furniture, and left them to
shift without it; but having no orders, he let it all alone, left every-
thing as he found it, and bringing the pinnace away, came on board
without tbem. These two men made their number five; but the
other three villains were so much more wicked than they, that after
they had been two or three days together, they turned the two new
comers out of doors to shift for themselves, and would have nothing
to do with tbem; nor could they, for a good while, be persuaded to
give them any food: as for the Spaniards, they were not yet come.
When the Spaniards came first on shore, the business began to go
forward: the Spaniards would have persuaded the three English
brutes to have taken in their two countrymen again, that, as they
said, they might be all one family; but they would not hear of it:
so the two poor fellows lived by themselves; and finding nothing
but industry and application would make them live comfortably, they
pitched their tents on the north shore of the island, but a little
more to the west, to be out of danger of the savages, who always
landed on the east parts of the island.
Here they built them two huts, one to lodge in, and the other to
lay up their magazines and stores in;.and the Spaniards having
fven them some corn for seed, and especially some of the peas which
had left them, they dug. planted and enclosed, after the pattern 1
had set for them all, and began to live pretty well. Their f rrt crop
of corn was on the ground; and though it was but a litt'e bit of
•and which they had dug up first, having had but a little time, yet
it was enough to relieve them, and find them with bread and otuer
eatables.
SECTION XXXIV.
THE ACCOUNT CONTINUED—QUARRELS BETWEEN THE ENGLISHMEN
A BATTLE BETWEEN TWO FARTIES OE SAVAGES WHO VISIT THE
ISLAND—ERESH MUTINY AMONG THE SETTLERS.
They were going on in this little thriving posture, when the three
unnatural rogues, their own countrymen too, in mere humour, and
to insult them, came and bullied them, and told them the island was
theirs; that the Governor, meaning me, had given them the posses-
sion of it, and nobody else had any right to it; and that they should
build no houses upon their ground, unless they would pay rent for
them.
The two men, thinking ther v/crc jesting at first, asked them to
come in and sit down, and see whav fine houses they were that they
had built, and to tell them what rent thcv demanded; and one of
chem merrily said, if they were the ground-landlords, he hoped, if
they built tenements upou their land, and made improvements, they
would, according to the custom of landlords, grant a long lease; and
desired they would get a scrivener to draw the writings. One of
the three, cursing and raging, told them they should see they
were not in jest; and going to a little place at a distance, where the
honest men had made a fire to dress their victuals, he takes a fire-
brand, and claps it to the outside of their hut, and very fairly set it
on fire; and it would have been burned all down in a few minutes,
if one of the two had not run to the fellow, thrust him away, and
trod the fire out with his feet, and that not without «ome difficulty
too.
The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man's thrusting him
away, that he returned upon him, with a pole he had in his hand,
and had not the man avoided the blow very nimbly, and run into the
hut, he had ended his days at once. His comrade, seeing the danger
they were both in, ran in after him, and immediately they both came
out with their muskets, and the man that was first struck at with
the pole knocked the fellow down that had begun the quarrel with
the stock of his musket, and that before the other two could come
to help him; and then seeing the rest come at them, they stood to-
gether, and presenting the other ends of their pieces to them, bade
tnem stand off.
The others had fire-arms with them too; but one of the two hon-
est men, bolder than his comrade, and made desperate by his danger,
told them, if they offered to move hand or foot they were dead men,
and boldly commanded them to lay down their arms. They did not,
indeed, lay down their arms, but seeing him so resolute it brought
them to a parley, and they consented to take their wounded man
with them and be gone; and, indeed, it seems the fellow was
wounded sufficiently with the blow. However, they were much in
the wrong, since they had the advantage, that they did not disarm
them effectually, as they might have done, and have gone immedi-
ately to the Spaniards, and given them an account of how the rogues
had treated them ; for the three villians studied nothing but revenge,
and every day gave them some intimation that they did so.
But not to crowd this part with an account of the lesser part of
the rogueries, such as treading down their corn; shooting three
young kids and a she goat, which the poor men had got to breed up
tame for their store; and, in a word plaguing them night and day in
this manner; it forced the two men to such a desperation, that they
resolved to fight them all three, the first time they had a fair oppor-
tunity. In order to this, they resolved to go to the castle, as they
called it (that was, my old dwelling), where the three rogues and the
Spaniards all lived together at that time, intending to have a fair
battle, and the Spaniards should stand by, to see fair play; so they
got up in the morning before day, and came to the place, and called
the Englishmen by their names, telling a Spaniard that answered
that they wanted to speak with them.
It happened that the day before, two of the Spaniards, having
been in the woods, had seen one of the two Englishmen, whom, for
distinction, I called the honest men, and he haa made a sad com-
plaint to the Spaniards of the barbarous usage they had met with
from their three countrymen, and how they had ruined their planta-
tion, and destroyed their corn that they had laboured so hard to
bring forward, and killed the mileh goat and their three kids, which
was all they had provided for their sustenance; and that if he and
his friends, meaning the Spaniards, did not assist them again, they
should be starved. When the Spaniards came home at night, and
they were all at supper, one of them took the freedom to reprove
the three Englishmen, though in very gentle and mannerly terms,
and asked them how they could be so cruel, they being harmless, in-
offensive fellows; that they were putting themselves in a way to
subsist by their labour, and that it had cost them a great deal ol
pains to bring things to such perfection as they were then in.
One of the Englishmen returned very brisklv: "What had they
to do there? that they came on shore without leave; and that they
should not plant or build upon the island; it was none of their
?round." "Why," says the Spaniard, very calmly, "Senhor
nglese, they must not starve." The Englishman replied, like a
rough-hewn tarpauling: "They might starve and be hanged; they
should not plant nor build in that place." "But what must they
do, then, senhor?" said the Spaniard. Another of the brutes
returned: "Do? they should be servants, and work for them."
"But bow can you expect that of them?" says the Spaniard;
"they are not bought with your money: you have no right to make
them servants." The Englishman answered: "The island was
theirs; the Governor had given it to them, and no man had anvthing
to do there but themselves;" and with that swore by his Maker
that they would go and burn all their new huts; they should build
none upon their land." "Why, senhor," says the Spaniard, "by
the same rule, we must be your servants too." "Ay," says the
bold dog, "and so you shall too before we have done with you."
The Spaniard only smiled at that, and made him no answer. How-
ever, this little discourse had heated them; and starting up, one
says to the other, I think it was he tltey called Will Atkins: "Come
Jack, let's go, and have 'tother brush with 'em; we'll demolish their
castle, I'll warrant you; they shall plant no colony in our
dominions."
Upon this they went all trooping away, with every man a gun, a
pistol, and a sword, and muttered some insolent things among them-
selves, of what they would do to the Spaniards too, when opportu-
nity offered; but the Spaniards, it seems, did not so perfectlv
understaud them as to know all the particulars, only that, in general,
they threatened them hard for taking the two Englishmen's part.
Whither they went, or how they bestowed their time that evening,
the Spaniards said they did not know; but it seems they wandered
about the country part of the night, and then lying down in the
place which I used to call my bowe r, they were weary, and overslept
themselves. The case was this: they had resolved to stay till mid-
night, and so take the two poor men when they were asleep, and, as
they acknowledged afterwards, intended to set fire to their huts
while they were in them, and either burn them there, or murder
them as they came out; as malice seldom sleeps very sound, it was
very strange they should not have been kept awake.
However, as the two men had also a design upon them, as I have
said, though a much fairer one than that of burning and murdering,
it happened, and very luckily for them all, that they were up, and
gone abroad, before the bloody-minded rogues came to their huts.
When they came there, and found the men gone, Atkins, who, it
seems, was the forwardest man, called out to his comrade: "Ha,
Jack, here's the. nest, but the birds are flown. They mused awhile
to think what should be the occasion of their being gone abroad so
soon, and suggested presently that the Spaniards had given them
notice of it; and with that they shook hands, and swore to one
another that they would be revenged of the Spaniards. As soon as
they had made this bloody bargain, they fell to work with the poor
men's habitation: they did not set fire, indeed, to anything, but they
pulled down both their houses, and pulled them so limb from limb,
that they left not the least stick standing, or scarce any sign on the
ground where they stood; they tore all their little collected house-
hold stuff in pieces, and threw every thing about in such a manner,
that the poor men afterwards found some of their things a mile off
their habitation. When they had done all this, they pulled up all
the young trees which the poor men had planted; pulled up an en-
closure they had made to secure their cattle and their corn; and, in
a word, sacked and plundered every thing as completely as a horde
of Tartars would have done.
The two men were, at this juncture, gone to find them out, and
had resolved to fight them wherever they had been, though they
were but two to three; so that, had they met, there certainly would
have been bloodshed among them; for they were all very stout,
resolute fellows, to give them their due.
But Providence took more care to keep them asunder than they
themselves could do to meet: for, as if they had dogged one ano-
ther, when the three were gone thither, the two were here; and
afterwards, when the two went back to find them, the three were
come to the old habitation again: we shall see their different con-
duct presently. When the three came back bike furious creatures,
flushed with the rage which the work they had been about had put
them into, they came up to the Spaniards, and tokTthem what tlicy
had done, by way of scoff and bravado; and one of them, stepping
up to one of the Spaniards, as if they had been a couple of boys at
play, takes hold of his hat as it was upon his head, and giving it a
twirl about, fleering in his face, says to him: "And you, Senhor
Jack Spaniard, shall have the same sauce, if you do not mend your
manners." The Spaniard, who, though a quiet, civil man, was as
brave a man as could be, and withal a strong, well-made man, looked
at him for a good while, and then, having no weapon in his hand,
stepped gravely up to him, and with one blow of his fist knocked
him down, as an ox is felled with a pole-axe; at which one of the
rogues, as insolent as the first, fired his pistol at the Spaniard imme
diately: he mussed his body, indeed, for the bullets went IhrougL
his hair, but one of them touched the tip of his car, and he bled
pretty much. The blood made the Spaniard believe he was more
hurt than he really was, and that put him into some heat, for before
he acted all in a perfect calm; but now, resolving to go through
with his work, he stooped, and took the fellow's musket whom ne
had knocked down, and was just going to shoot the man who had
fired at him, when the rest of the Spaniards, being in the cave, came
out, and calling to him not to shoot, they stepped in, secured the
other two, and took their arms from them.

When they were thus disarmed, and found they had made all the
Spaniards their enemies, as well as their own countrymen, they
begau to cool, and, giving the Spaniards better words, would have
their arms again; but the Spaniards, considering the feud that was
between them and the other two Englishmen, and that it would be
the best method they could take to keep them from killing one ano-
ther, told them they would do them no harm, and if they would live
peaceably, they would be very willing to assist and associate with
them as ihey did before; but that they could not think of giving
them their arms again, while they appeared so resolved to do mis-
chief with them to their own countrymen, and had even threatened
them all to make them their servants.
The rogues were now no more capable to hear reason than to act
with reason; but being refused their arms, they went raving away,
and raging like madmen, threatening what they would do, though
they had no fire-arms. But the Spaniards, despising their threaten-
ing, told them they should take care how they offered any injury to
their plantation or cattle, for if they did, they would shoot them as
they would ravenous beasts, wherever they found them; and if they
fell into their hands alive, they should certainly be hanged. However,
this was far from cooling them, but away they went, raging and
swearing like furies As soon as they were gone, the two men
came back, in passion and rage enough also, though of another
kind; for, having been at their plantation, and finding it all demol-
ished and destroyed, as above, it will easily be supposed they had
provocation enough. They could scarce have room to tell their
tale, the Spaniards were so eager to tell theirs. And it was strange
enough to find that three men should thus bully nineteen, and
receive no punishment at all.
The Spaniards, indeed, despised them, and especially, having thus
disarmed them, made light of their threatenings; but the two Eng-
lishmen resolved to have their remedy against them, what pains
soever it cost to find them out. But the Spaniards interposed here
too, and told them, that as they had disarmed them, they could not
consent that they (the two) should pursue them with fire-arms, and
perhaps kill them. "But," said the grave Spaniard, who was their
governor, "we will endeavour to make them do you justice, if you
will leave it to us; for there is no doubt but they will come to us
again, when their passion is over, being not able to subsist without
our assistance: we promise you to make no peace with them, without
having a full satisfaction for you; and upon this condition we hope
you will promise to use no violence with them, other than in your
own defence." The two Englishmen yielded to this very awkwardly,
and with great reluctance; but the Spaniards protested they did it
only to keep them from bloodshed, and to make all easy at last.
"For," said they, "we are not so many of us; here is room enough
for us all, and it is a great pity we should not be all good friends."
At length they did consent, and waited for the issue of the thing,
living for some days with the Spaniards, for their own habitation
was destroyed.
In about five days' time the three vagrants, tired with wandering,
and almost starved with hunger, having chiefly lived on turtles' eggs
all that while, came back to the grove; and finding my Spaniard,
who, as I have said, was the governor, and two more with him walk-
ing by the side of the creek, they came up in a very submissive,
humble manner, and begged to be received again into the family.
The Spaniards used them civilly, but told them they had acted so
unnaturally by their countrymen, and so very grossly by them (the
Spaniards), that they could not come to any conclusion without con-
sulting the two Englishmen and the rest; but, however, they would
go to them, and discourse about it, and they should know in half an
hour. It may be guessed that they were very hard put to it: for it
seems, as they were to wait this half hour for an answer, they begged
they would send them out some bread in the meantime, which they
did, sending at the same time a large piece of goat's flesh, and a
boiled parrot, which they ate very heartily, for they were hungry
enough.
After half an hour's consultation, they were called in, and a long
debate ensued; their two countrymen charging them with the ruin
of all their labour, and a design to murder them; all which they
owned before, and therefore could not deny now. Upon the whole,
the Spaniards acted the moderator between them; and as they had
obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt the three while they were
naked and unarmed, so they now obliged the three to go and rebuild
their fellows' two huts, one to be of the same, and the other of
larger dimensions, than they were before; to fence their ground
again where they had pulled up their fences, plant trees in the room
of those pulled up, dig up the land again for planting corn where
they had spoiled it, and, in a word, to restore every thing in the
same state as they found it, as near as they could; for entirely it
could not be, the season for the corn, and the growth of the trees
and hedges, not being possible to be recovered.
Well, they submitted to all this; and as they had plenty of pro-
visions given them all the while, they grew very orderly, and the
whole society began to live pleasantly and agreeably together again:
only that these three fellows could never be persuaded to work, 1
mean for themselves, except now and then a little, just as they
pleased; however, the Spaniards told them plainly, that if they
would but live sociably and friendly together, and study the good of
the whole plantation, they would be content to work for them, and
let them walk about and be as idle as they pleased; and thus having
lived pretty well together for a month or two, the Spaniards gave
them arms again, and gave them liberty to go abroad with them as
before.
It was not above a week after they had these arms, and went
abroad, but the ungrateful creatures began to be as insolent and
troublesome as before: but, however, an accident happened pre-
sently upon this, which endangered the safety of them all, and they
were obliged to lay by all private resentments, and look to the pre-
servation of their livcs.
It happened one night, that the Spanish governor, as I call him,
that is to say, the Spaniard whose life I had saved, who was now
the captain, or leader, or governor of the rest, found himself very
uneasy in the night, and could by no means get any sleep: he was
perfectly well in body, as he told me the story, only found his
thoughts tumultuous; his mind ran upon men fighting and killing
one another, but he was broad awake, and could not by any
means get any sleep: in short, he lay a great while; but growing
more and more uneasy, he resolved to rise. As they lay, being so
many of them, upon goats' skins laid thick upon such couches and
pads as they made for themselves, and not in hammocks and ship
beds, as I did, who was but one, so they had little to do, when they
Were willing to rise, but to get up upon their feet, and perhaps put
on a coat, such as it was, and their pumps, and they were ready for
going any way that their thoughts guided them. Being thus got up,
he looked out; but, being dark, he could see little or nothing; and
besides, the trees which I had planted, as in my former account is
described, and which were now grown tall, intercepted his sight, so
that he could only look up, and see that it was a clear starlight
night, and hearing no noise he returned and laid him down again;
but it was all one, he could not sleep, nor could he compose him-
self to anything like rest; but his thoughts were to the last degree
uneasy, and he Knew not for what.
Having made some noise with rising and walking about, going out
and coming in, another of them waked, and calling, asked who it
was that was up. The governor told him how it haabeen with him.
"Say vou so?" says the other Spaniard; "such things are not to
be slighted, I assure you; there is certainly some mischief working
near us;" and presently he asked him: "Where are the English-
men?" "They are all in their huts," says he, "safe enough. It
seems that the Spaniards had kept possession of the main apartment,
and had made a place for the three Englishmen, who, since their
last mutiny, were always quartered by themselves, and could not
come at the rest. "Well," says the Spaniard, "there is something
in it, I am persuaded, from my own experience. I am satisfied our
spirits embodied have a converse with, and receive intelligence from,
the spirits unembodied, and inhabiting the invisible world; and this
friendly notice is given for our advantage, if we knew how to make
use of it. Come," says he, "let us go and look abroad; and if we
find nothing at all in it to justify the trouble, I'll tell you a story to
the purpose, that shall convince you of the justice of my proposing
it." ''
In a word, they went out, to go to the top of the hill where I
used to go; but they being strong, and a good company, not alone,
as I was, used none of my cautions, to go up by the ladder, and
pulling it up after them, to go up a second stage to the top, but
were going round through the grove, unconcerned and unwary, when
they were surprised with seeing a light as of fire, a very little way
off from them, and hearing the voices of men, not one or two, but of
a great number.
In all the discoveries I had made of the savages landing on the
island, it was my constant care to prevent them making the least
discovery of their being any inhabitant upon the place; and when
by any occasion they came to know it, they felt it so effectually,
that uiey that got away were scarce able to give any account of it;
for we disappeared as soon as possible; nor did ever any that had
seen me escape to tell any one else, except the three savages in our
last encounter, who jumped into the boat; of whom I mentioned,
I was afraid they should go home and bring more help. Whether
it was the consequence of the escape of those men that so great a
number came now together, or whether they came ignorantly, and
by accident, on their usnal bloody errand, the Spaniards could not,
it seems, understand; but whatever it was, it had been their business
either to have concealed themselves, or not to have seen them at all,
much less to have let the savages have seen that there were any in-
habitants in the place; or to have fallen upon them so effectually, as
that not a man of them should have escaped, which could only nave
been bv getting in between them and their boats; but this* presence
of mind was wanting to them, which was the ruin of their tranquil-
lityfor a great while.
We need not doubt but that the governor and the man with him,
surprised with this sight, ran back immediately, and raised their fel-
lows, giving them an acaount of the imminent danger they were all
in, and they again as readily took the alarm; but it was impossible
to persuade them to stay close within, where they were, but they
must all run out to see how tiiings stood.
While it was dark, indeed, they were well enough, and they had
opportunity enough, for some hours, to view them by the light of
the three hres they had made at a distance from one another; what
they were doing they knew not, and what to do themselves they
knew not. For, first, the enemy were too many; and, secondly,
they did not keep together, but were divided into several parties,
and were on shore in several places.
The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this sight; and
when they found that the fellows ran straggling all over the shore,
they made no doubt but, first or last, some of them would chop in
upon their habitation, or upon some other place where they would
see the token of inhabitants; and they were in great purplexity also
for fear of their flock of goats, which would have been little less
than starving them, if they should have been destroyed; so the first
thing they resolved upon was to despatch three men away before it
was light, two Spaniards and one Englishman, to drive all the goats
away to the great valley where the cave was, and, if need were, to
drive them into the very cave itself. Could they have seen the
savages all together in one body, and at a distance from their canoes,
they resolved, if there had been a hundred of them, to have attacked
them , but that could not be obtained: for they were some of them
two miles off from the other; and, as it appeared afterwards were of
two different nations.
After having mused a great while om the course they should take,
and beating their brains m considering their present circumstances,
they resolved, at last, while it was still dark, to send the old savage,
Friday's father, out as a spy, to learn, if possible, something con-
cerning them; as what they came for, what they intended to do,
and the like. The old man readily undertook it; and stripping
himself quite naked, as most of the savages were, away he went.
After he had been gone an hour or two, he brings word that he has
been among them undiscovered; that he found they were two
parties, and of two several nations, who had war with one another,
and had a great battle in their own country; and that both sides
having had several prisoners taken in the fight, they were, by mere
chance, landed all on the same island, for the devouring their
prisoners and making merry, but their coming so by chance to
the same place had spoiled all their mirth; that they were in a great
rage at one another, and were so near, that he believed they would
fight again as soon as daylight began to appear: but he did not
perceive that they had any notion of any body being on the island
but themselves. He had hardly made an end of telling his story,
when they could perceive, by the unusual noise they made, that the
two little armies were engaged in a bloody fight.
Friday's father used all the arguments he could to pursuade our
people to lie close, and not be seen: he told them their safety con-
sisted in it, and that they had nothing to do but lie still, and the
savages would kill one another to their hands, and then the rest
would go away; and it was so to a tittle. But it was impossible to
prevail, especially upon the Englishmen; their curiosity was so
importunate upon their prudentials, that they must ran out and see
the battle; however they used some caution too, viz. they did not
go openly, just by their own dwelling, but went farther into the
woods, and placed themselves to advantage, where they might
securely see them manage the fight, and, as they thought, not be
seen by them; but it seems the savages did see them, as we shall
find hereafter.
The battle was very fierce; and, if I might believe one of the
Englishmen, one of them said he could perceive that some of them
were men of great bravery, of invincible spirits, and of great policy
in guiding the fight. The battle, they said, held two hours before
they could guess which party would be beaten; but then, that party
which was nearest our people's habitation began to appear weaksst,
and, after some time more, some of them began to fly; and this put
our men again into a great consternation, lest any one of those that
fled should run into the grove before their dwelling for shelter, and
thereby involuntarily discover the place; and that, by consequence,
the pursuers would do the like in search of them. Upon tins they
resolved they would stand armed within the wall, and whoever came
into the grove, they resolved to sally over the wall and kill them; so
that, if possible, not one should return to give an account of it: they
ordered also that it should be done with their swords or by knocking
them down with the stocks of their muskets, but not by shooting
them, for fear of raising an alarm ny the noise.
As they expected, it fell out: three of the routed army fled for
life, and crossing the creek, ran directly into the place, not in the
least knowing whither they went, but running as into a thick wood
for shelter. The scout they kept to look abroad gave notice of this
within, with this addition, to our men's great satisfaction, viz. that
the eonquorors had not pursued them, or seen which way they were
gone: upon this, the Spaniard governor, a man of humanity, would
not suffer them to kill the three fugitives, but sending three men
out by the top of the hill, ordered them to go round, come in behind
them, surprise and take them prisoners; which was done. The
residue of the conquered people fled to their canoes, and got off to
tea; the victors retired, made no pursuit, or very little, but drawing
themselves into a body together, gave two screaming shouts, which
they supposed was by the way of trinmph, and so the fight ended:
and the same day, about three o'clock in the afternoon, they also
marched to their canoes. And thus the Spaniards had their island
again free to themselves, their fright was over, and they saw no
savages in several years after.
After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of their den,
and viewing the field of Dattle, they found about two-and-thirty men
dead on the spot: some were killed with great long arrows, some of
which were found sticking in their bodies; but most of them were
killed with great wooden swords, sixteen or seventeen of which were
found on the field of battle, and as many bows, with a great many
arrows. These swords were strange, great, unwieldy things, and
they must be very strong men that used them; most of those men
that were killed with them had their heads mashed to pieces, as we
may say, or, as we call it in English, their brains knocked out, and
several their arms and legs broken; so that it was evident they
fight with inexpressible rage and fury. We found not one man that
was not stone-dead, for either they stay by their enemy till they have
quite killed him, or they carry all the wounded men that are not
quite dead away with them.
This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great while; the
sight had filled them with horror, and the consequences appeared
terrible to the last degree, especially upon supposing that some
time or other they should fail into the hands of those creatures, who
would not only kill them as enemies, but kill them for food, as we
kill our cattle; arid they professed to me, that the thoughts of being
eaten up like beef or mutton, though it was supposed that it was
not to be till they were dead, had something in it so horrible, that
it nauseated their very stomachs, made them sick when they thought
of it, and filled their minds with such unusual terror, that they were
not themselves for some weeks after. This, as I said, tamed even
the three English brutes I have been speaking of, and, for a great
while after, they were tractable, and went about the common
business of the whole society well enough; planted, sowed, reaped,
and began to be all naturalised to the country. But some time after
this, they fell into such measures again, as brought them into a great
deal of trouble.
They had taken three prisomers, as I observed; and these three
being lusty, stout young fellows, they made them servants, Etd
ADVENTURES 0* ROBINSON CRUSOE.
taught tbcm to work for them; and as slaves, they did well enough;
but they did not take their measures with them as I did by my man
Friday, viz. to begin with them upon the principle of having saved
their lives, and then instruct them in the rational principles of life;
r*y

much less of religion, civilizing and reducing them by kind usage
and affectionate arguings; but as they gave tliem their food every
day, so they gave them their work too, and kept them fully employed
in drudgery enough; but they failed in this by it, that they never
had them to assist them, and fight for them, as 1 had my man Friday,
who was as true to me as the flesh upon my bones.
But to come to the family part. Being all now good friends, for
common danger, as I said above, had effectually reconciled them,
they began to consider their general circumstances; and the first
thing that came under their consideration was, whether, seeing the
savages particularly haunted that side of the island, and that there
were more remote and retired parts of it equally adapted to their way
of living, and manifestly to their advantage, they should not rather
move their habitation, and plant in some more proper place for their
safety, and especially for the security of their cattle and corn.
Upon this, after long debate, it was concluded that they would
not remove their habitation; because that, some time or other, they
thought they might hear from their governor again, meaning me;
and if I should seud any one to seek them, I should be sure to direct
them to that side; where, if they should find the place demolished,
they would conclude the savages had killed us all, and we were gone;
and so our supply would go too. But as to their corn and cattle,
they agreed to remove them into the valley where my cave was,
where the land was as proper for both, and where, indeed, there was
land enough; however, upon second thoughts, they altered one part
of their resolution too, and resolved only to remove part of their
eattle thither, and plant part of their corn there; and so if one part
was destroyed, the other might be saved. And one part of prudence
they used, which it was very well they did, viz. that they never
trusted those three savages, which they had made prisoners, with
knowing anything of the plantation they had made in that valley, or
of any cattle they had there, much less of the cave there, which
they kept, in case of necessity, as a safe retreat; and thither they
carried also the two barrels of powder which I had sent them at my
coming away. But, however, they resolved not to change their
habitation, yet they agreed, that as I had carefully covered it
first with a wall or fortihcation, and then witji a grove of trees, so
seeing their safety consisted entirely in their being concealed, of
which they were now fully convinced, they set to work to cover and
conceal the place yet more effectually than before. For this purpose,
as I planted trees, or rather thrust in stakes, which in time all grew
to be trees, for some good distance before the entrance into my
apartments, they went on in the same manner, and filled up the rest
of that whole space of ground, from the trees I had set, quite down
to the side of the creek, where, as I said, 1 landed my floats, and
even into the very ooze where the tide flowed, not so much as leav-
ing any place to land, or any sign that there had been any landing
thereabout; these stakes also being of a wood very forward to grow,
as I have noted formerly, they took care to have them generally
much larger and taller than those which I had planted; and as they
grew apace, so they planted them so very thick and close together,
that when they had Tieen three or four years grown, there was no
piercing with the eye any considerable way into the plantation; and
as for that part which I had planted, the trees were grown as thick
as a man's thigh, and among them they placed so many other short
ones, and so thick, that, in a word, it stood like a palisade a quarter
of a mile thick, and it was next to impossible to penetrate it, but
with a little army to cut it all down; for a little dog could hardlv
get between the trees, they stood so close.
But this was not all; for they did the same by all the ground to
the right hand and the left, and round even to the top of the hill,
leaving no way, not so much as for themselves to come out, but by
the ladder placed up to the side of the hill, and then lifted up, and
placed again from the first stage up to the top; and when the ladder
was token down, nothing but what had wings, or witchcraft to assist
it, could come at them. This was excellently well contrived; nor
was it less than what they afterwards found occasion for; which
served to convince me, that as human prudence has the authority of
Providence to justify it, so it has doubtless the direction of Provi
dence to set it to work; and if we listened carefully to the voice of
it, I am persuaded we might prevent many of the disasters which
our lives are now, by our own negligence, subjected to: but this by
the way.
I return to the story.—They lived two years after this in perfect
retirement, and had no more visits from the savages. They had
indeed an alarm given to them one morning, which put them into a
great consternation; for some of the Spaniards being out early one
morning on the west side, or rather eud, of the island (which was
that end where I never went, for fear of being discovered), they
were surprised with seeing about twenty canoes of Indians just
coming on shore. They made the best of their way home, in hurry
enough; and giving the alarm to their comrades, they kept close all
that day and the next, going out only at night to make their obser-
vation: but they had the good luck to be mistaken; for wherever
the savages went, they did not land that time on the island, but
pursued some other design.
And now they had another broil with the three Englishmen; one
of whom, a most turbulent fellow, being in a rage at one of the
three slaves, which I mentioned they had taken, because the fellow
had not done something right which he bid him do, and seemed a

little untractable in his showing him, drew a hatchet out of a frog-
belt, in which he wore it by his side, and fell upon the poor savage,
not to correct him, but to kill him. One of the Spaniards, who was
by, seeing him give the fellow a barbarous cut with the hatchet,
which he aimed at his head, but struck into his shoulders, so that he
thought he had cut the poor creature's arms off, ran to him, and en-
treating him not to murder the poor man, placed himself between
him and the savage, to prevent the mischief. The fellow being
enraged the more at this, struck at the Spaniard with his hatchet,
aud swore he would serve him as he intended to serve the savage;
which the S|>aniard perceiving, avoided the blow, and with a shovel
which he had in his hand (for they were all working in the field
about their corn-land) knocked the brute down. Another of the
Englishmen running at the same time to help his comrade, knocked
the Spaniard down; and then two Spaniards more came in to help
their man, and a third Englishman fell in upon them. They had
none of them any fire-arms, or any other weapons but hatchets and
other tools, except this third Englishman; he had one of my rusty
cutlasses, with which he made at the two last Spaniards and wounded
them both. This fray set the whole family in an uproar, and more
help coming in, they took the three Englishmen prisoners. The
next question was, what should be done with them? They had
been so often mutinous, and were so very furious, so desperate, and
so idle withal, they knew not what course to take with them, for
they were mischievous to the highest degree, and valued not what
hurt they did to any man; so that, in short, it was not safe to live
with tbem.
The Spaniard who was governor told them, in so many words, that
if they had been of his own country, he would have hanged them;
for all laws and all governors were to preserve society, and those
who were dangerous to the society ought to be expelled out of it;
but as they were Englishmen, and that it was to the generous kind-
ness of an Englishman that they all owed their preservation and
deliverance, he would use them with all possible lenity, and would
leave them to the judgment of the other two Englishmen, who were
their countrymen.
One of the two honest Englishmen stood up, and said they desired
it might not be left to them: "For," says he, '* I am sure we ought
to sentence them to the gallows:" and with that he gives an account
how Will Atkins, one of the three, had proposed to nave all the five
Englishmen join together, and murder all the Spaniards when they
were in their sleep.
When the Spanish governor heard this, he oalls to Will Atkins,
"How Senhor Atkins, would you murder us all? What have you
to say to that?" The hardened villain was so far from denying it,
that he said it was true: and, that they would do it still,
before they had done with them." "Well, but Senhor Atkins,"
says the Spaniard, "what have we done to you, that you will kill
us? And what would you get by killing us? And what must
we do to prevent your killing us? Must we kill you, or you kill
us? Why will you put us to the necessity of this, Senhor Atkins?"
says the Spaniard, very calmly and smiling. Senhor Atkins was in
such a rage at the Spaniard's making a jest of it, that, had he not
been helcf by three men, and withal had no weapon near him, it was
thought he would have attempted to have killed the Spaniard in the
middle of all the company. This hair-brained carriage obliged them to
consider seriously what was to be done: the two Englishmen, and
the Spaniard who saved the poor savage, were of the opinion that
they should hang one of the three, for an example to the rest; and
tbat particularly it should be he that had twice attempted to commit
murder with his hatchet; and, indeed, there was some reason to
believe he had done it, for the poor savage was in such a miserable
condition with the wound he had received, that it was thought he
could not live. But the governor Spaniard still said no; it was an
Englishman that had saved all their lives, and he would never con-
sent to put an Englishman to death, though he had murdered half
of them; nay, he said, if he had been killed himself by an English-
man, and had time left to speak, it should be that they should
pardon him.
This was so positively insisted on by the governor Spaniard, that
there was no gainsaying it; and as,, merciful counsels are most apt to
prevail, where they are so earnestly pressed, so they all came into
it: but then it was to be considered what should be done to keep
them from doing the mischief they designed; for all agreed, governor
and all, that means were to be used for preserving the society from
danger. After a long debate, it was agreed, first, that they should
be disarmed, and not permitted to have either gun, powder, shot,
sword, or any weapon; and should be turned out of the society, and
left to live where they would, and how they would, by themselves;
but that none of the rest, either Spaniards or English, should con-
verse with them, speak with them, or have anything to do with
them: that they should be forbid to come within a certain distance
of the place where the rest dwelt; and if they offered to commit
any disorder, so as to spoil, burn, kill, or destroy any of the corn,
plantings, buildings, fences, or catlle belonging to the society, they
should die without mercy, and they would shoot them wherever they
could find them.
Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned them out to
shift for themselves. They went away sullen and refractory, as
neither content to go away nor to stay; but as there was no remedy,
they went, pretending to go and choose a place were they woulu1
settle themselves; and some provisions were given them, but no
weapons.
About four or five days after, they came again for some victuals,
and gave the governor an account where they had pitched their
tents, and marked themselves out a habitation and plantation;
and it was a very convenient place, indeed, on the remotest part of
the island, N.E., much about the place where I had providentially
landed in my first voyage, when 1 was driven out to sea, the Lord
alone knows whither, in my foolish attempt to sail round the island.
Here they built themselves two handsome huts, and contrived
them in a manner like my first habitation, but close under the side
of a hill, having some trees growing already on three sides of it, so
that by planting others, it would be very easilv covered from the
sight, unless narrowly searched for. They desired some dried goats'-
tkins, for beds and covering, which were given them; and upon
giving their words that they would not disturb the rest, or injure any
of their plantations, they gave them hatchets, and what ether tools
they could spare; some peas, barley, and rice, for sowing; and, in a
word, anything they wanted, except arms and ammunition.
They lived in this separate condition about six months, and had
got in their first harvest, though the quantity was but small, the
parcel of land they had planted being but little; for, indeed, having
all their plantation to form, they had a great deal of work upon
their hands; and when they came to make boards and pots, and
such things, they were quite out of their element, and could make
nothing ot it: and when the rainy season came on, for want of a cave
in the earth, they could not keep their grain dry, and it was in great
danger of spoiling; and this humbled them much: so they came
and begged the Spaniards to help them, which they very readily did;
and in four days worked a hole in the side of the hill for them, big
enough to secure their corn and other things from the rain: but it
was but a poor place, at best, compared to mine, and especially as
mine was then, for the Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and made
several new apartments in it.
About three-quarters of a year after this separation, a new frolic
took these rogues, which, together with the former villany they had
committed, brought mischief enough upon them, and had very
nearly been the ruin of the whole colony. The three new associates
began, it seems, to be weary of the laborious life they led, and that
without hope of bettering their circumstances; and a whim took
them, that they would make a voyage to the continent, from whence
the savages came, and would try if they could seize upon some
prisoners among the natives there, and bring them home, so to make
them do the laborious part of their work for them.
The project was not so preposterous, if they had gone no farther:
but they did nothing, and proposed nothing, but had either mischief
in the design, or mischief in the event: and, if I may give my opinion,
they seemed to be under a blast from Heaven; for if we will not allow
a visible curse to pursue visible crimes, how shall we reconcile the
events of things with the divine justice? It was certainly an
apparent vengeance on their crime of mutiny and piracy that
brought them to the state they were in; and they showed not the
least remorse for the crime, but added new villames to it, such as
the piece of monstrous cruelty of wounding a poor slave, because he
did not, or perhaps could not, understand to do what he was directed;
and to wound him in such a manner as made him a cripple all his
life, and in a place where no surgeon or medicine could be had for
his cure; and what was still worse, the murderous intent, or, to do
justice to the crime, the intentional murder, for such to be sure it
was, as was afterwards the formed design they all laid, to murder
the Spaniards in cold blood and in their sleep.
SECTION XXXV.
THE MUTINOUS ENGLISHMEN DISMISSED TROM THE ISLAND—RE-
TURN WITH SEVERAL CAFTIVE SAVAGES—TAKE THE EEMA, ES AS
WIVES—ARRIVAL OE SAVAGES.
But I leave observing and return to the story.—The three fellows
came down to the Spaniards one morning, and in very humble terms
desired to be admitted to speak with them; the Spaniards very
readily heard what they had to say, which was this:—That they
were tired of living in the manner they did; and that they were not
handy enough to make the necessaries they wanted, and tliat having
no help, they found they should be starved; but if the Spaniards
would give them leave to take one of the canoes which they came
over in, and give them arms and ammunition proportioned to their
defence, they would go over to the main and seek their fortunes,
and so deliver them from their trouble of supplying them with any
other provisions.
The Spaniards were glad enough to get rid of them, but very
honestly represented to them the certain destruction they were run-
ning into; told them they had suffered such hardships upon that
very spot, that they could, without any spirit of prophecy tell them
they would be starved, or murdered, and bade them consider of it.
The men replied audaciously, they should be starved if they stayed
here, for they could not work, and would not work, and they could but
be starved anroad; and if they were murdered, there was an cud of
them; they had no wives or children to cry after them: and, in
short, insisted importunatelv upon their demand; declaring they
would go, whether they would give them arms or no.
The bpaniards told them, with great kindness, that if they were re-
solved to go, they should not go like naked men, and be in no
condition to defend themselves: and that though they could ill spare
their fire-arms, having not enough for themselves, yet they would
let them have two muskets, a pistol and a cutlass, and each man a
hatchet, which they thought was sufficient for them. In a word,
they accepted the offer; and having baked them bread enough to
serve them a month, and given them as much goat's flesh as they
could eat while it was sweet, and a great basket of dried grapes, a
pot of fresh water, and a young kid alive, they boldly set out in the
canoe for a voyage over the sea, where it was at least forty miles
broad.
The boat, indeed, was a large one, and would very well have
carried fifteen or twenty men, and therefore was rather too big for
them to manage; but as they had a fair breeze, and flood tide with
them, they did well enough. They had made a mast of a long pole,
and a sail of four large goats'-skins dried, which they had sewed or
laced together; and away they went merrily enough; the Spaniards
called after them, Buen viage; and no man ever thought of seeing
them any more.
The Spaniards were often saying to one another, and to the two
honest Englishmen who remained behind, how quietly and comfort-
ably they lived, now these three turbulent fellows were gone; as for
their coming again, that was the remotest thing from their thoughts
that could De imagined; when, behold, after two-and-twenty days'
absence, one of the Englishmen, being abroad upon his planting work,
sees three strange men coming towards him at a distance, with guns
upon their shoulders.
Away runs the Englishman, as if he was bewitched, comes fright-
ened and amazed to the governor Spaniard, and tells him that they
were all undone, for there were strangers landed upon the island, but
could not tell who. The Spaniards, pausing a while, says to him,
"How do you mean, you cannot tell who? They are the savages,
be sure." "No, no," says the Englishman : "they are men in clothes,
with arms." "Nay, then," says the Spaniard, " why are you con-
cerned? If they are not savages, they must be friends; for there is
no Christian nation upon earth but what will do us good rather than
harm."
While they were debating thus, came the three Englishmen, and
standing without the wood, which was new planted, hallooed to them,
they presently knew their voices, and so all the wonder of that kind
ceased. But now the admiration was turned upon another question,
viz., What could be the matter, and what made them come back
again?
It was not long before they brought the men in, and inquiring where
they Iiad been, and what they had been doing, they gave them a fuE
account of their voyage in a few words, viz. That they reached the
land in two days, or something less; but finding the people alarmed
at their coming, and preparing with bows and arrows to tight them,
they durst not go on shore, but sailed on to the northward six or
seven hours, till they came to a great opening, by which they per-
ceived that the land they saw from our island was not the main, but
an island; upon entering that opening of the sea, they saw another
island on the right hand, north, and several more west; and having
resolved to lanoTsomewhere, they put over to one of the islands which
lay west, and went boldly on shore: that they found the people very
courteous and friendly to them; and that tlicy gave them several
roots and some dried fish, and appeared very sociable; and the
women as well as the men were very forward to supply them with
anything they could get for them to eat, and brought it to them a
great way upon their heads.
They continued here four days: and inquired, as well as they
could of them, by signs, what nations were this way, and that way;
and were told of several fierce and terrible people that lived almost
every way, who, as they made known by signs to them, nsed to eat
men; but as for themselves, they said, they never eat men or women,
except only such as they took in the wars; and then, they owned,
they made a great feast, and ate their prisoners.
The Englishmen inquired when they had a feast of that kind;
and they told them about two moons ago, pointing to the moon, and
to two fingers; and that their great king had two hundred prisoners
now, which he had taken in his war, and they were feeding them to
make them fat for the next feast. The Englishmen seemed mighty
desirous of seeing those prisoners; but the others mistaking them,
thought they were desirous to have some of them to carry away for
their own eating; so they beckoned to them, pointing to the setting
sun, and then to the rising; which was to signify that the next
morning at sun-rising they would bring some for them; and accor-
dingly, the next morning, they brought down five women, and eleven
men, and gave them to the Englishmen, to carry with them on their
voyage, just as we would bring so many cows and oxen down to a
seaport town to victual a ship.
As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home, their
stomachs turned at this sight, and they did not know what to do.
To refuse the prisoners would have been the highest affront to the
savage gentrr that could be offered them, and what to do with them
they knew not. However, after some debate, they resolved to
accept of them; and, in return, they gave the savages that brought
them one of their hatchets, an old key, a knife, and six or seven of
their bullets; which, though they did not understand their use,
they seemed particularly pleased with; and then tying the poor crea-
tures' hands behind them, they dragged the prisoners into the boat wr
our men.
Tbe Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as they
had them, or else they that gave them this noble present would
certainly have expected that they should have gone to work with
them, have killed two or three of them the next morning, and per-
haps have invited the donors to dinner. Bat having taken their
leave, with all the respect and thanks that could well pass between
people, where on either side, they understood not one word they could
say, they put off with their boat, and came back towards the first
island; where, when they arrived, they set eight of their prisoners at
liberty, there being too many of them for their occasion.
In their voyage, they endeavoured to have some communication
with their prisoners; but it was impossible to make them under-
stand anything; nothing they could say to them, or give them, or
do for them, but was looked upon as going to murder them. They
first of all unbound them; but the poor creatures screamed at that,
especially the women, as if they had just felt the knife at their
throats; for they immediately concluded they were unbound on
purpose to be killed. If they gave them anything to eat it was the
same thing; they then concluded it was for fear they should sink in
flesh, and so not be fat enough to kill. If they looked at one of
them more particularly, the party presently concluded it was to see
whether he or she was fattest, and fittest to kill first; nay, after
they had brought them quite over, and begun to use them kindly,
and treat them well, still they expected every day to make a dinner
or supper for their new masters.
When the three wanderers had given this unaccountable history
or journal of their voyage, the Spaniard asked them where their
new family was; and being told that they had brought them on
shore, and put them into one of their huts, and were come up to beg
some victuals for them, they (the Spaniards) and the other two
Englishmen, that is to say, the whole colony, resolved to go all down
to the place and see them; and did so, and Friday's father with them.
When they came into the hut, there they sat all bound; for when
they had brought them on shore, they bound their hands, that they
might not take the boat and make their escape; there, I say, they
sat, all of them stark naked. First, there were three men, lusty,
comely fellows, well-shaped, straight and fair limbs, about thirty to
thirty-five years of age; and five women, whereof two might be
from thirty to forty; two more, not above four or five-and-twenty;
and the fifth, a tall, comely maiden, about sixteen or seventeen.
The women were well-favoured, agreeable persons, both in shape
and features, only tawny; and two of them, had they been perfect
white, would have passed for very handsome women, even in London
itself, having pleasant agreeable countenances, and of a very modest
behaviour, especially when they came afterwards to be clothed and
dressed, as they called it; though that dress was very indifferent,
it must be confessed.
The sight, you may be sure, wa» something uncouth to our
Spaniards, who were, to give them a just character, men of the best
behaviour, of the most calm, sedate tempers, and perfect good
humour, that ever I met with; and, in particular, of the most
modest, as will presently appear: I say, the sight was very uncouth,
to see three naked men and five naked women, all together bound,
and in the most miserable circumstances that human nature could
be supposed to be, viz. to be expecting every moment to be dragged
out, and have their brains knocked out, and then to be eaten up like
a calf that is killed for a dainty.
The first thing they did was to cause the old Indian, Friday's
father, to go in, and see, first, if he knew any of them, and then, if
he understood any of their speech. As soon aj the oid man came
in, he looked seriously at them, but knew none of them; neither
could any of them understand a word he said, or a sign he could
Aiake, except one of the women. However, this was enough to
answer the end, which was to satisfy them that the men into whose
hands they were fallen were Christians; that they abhorred eating
men or women; and that they might be sure they would not be
killed. As soon as they were assured of this, they discovered such
a joy, and by such awkward gestures, several ways, as is hard to
describe; for, it seems they were of several nations.
The woman who was their interpreter was bid, in the next place,
to ask them if they were willing to be servants, and to work for the
men who had brought them away, to save their lives; at which they
all fell a dancing; and presently one fell to taking up this, and ano-
ther that, anything that lay next, to carry on their shoulders, to
intimate that they were willing to work.
The governor, who found that the having women among them
would presently be attended with some inconvenience, ana might
occasion some strife, and perhaps blood, asked the three men what
they intended to do with these women, and whether they intended to
make them servants or wives? One of the Englishmen answered
very boldly and readily, that they would make them both; to which
the governor said: "I am not going to restrain you from it; you
arc your own masters as to that; but this I think is but just, for
avoiding disorders and quarrels among you, and I desire it of you
for that reason only, viz. that you will ail engage, that if any of you
take any of these women, that while you stay here, the woman any
of you takes, should be maintained by the man that takes her, and
should be his wife." All this appeared so just, that every one agreed
to it without any difficulty.
Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if they designed to
take any of them? But every one of them answered no: some of
them said they had wives in Spain, and the others did not like
women that were not Christians: and all together declared that they
would not have one of them. On the other hand, to be short, tut
five Englishmen took every one of them a wife; and so they set up
a new form of living; for the Spaniards and Friday's father lived in
my old habitation, which they had enlarged exceedingly within. The
three servants which were token in the late battle of the savages

lived with them; and these carried on the main part of the colony,
supplied all the rest with food, and assisted them in anything as
they could, or as they found necessity required.
But the wonier of the story was, how five such refractory, ill-
matched fellows should agree about these women, and that two of
them should not pitch upon the same woman, especially seeing two
or thrce of them were, without comparison more agreeable than the
others; but they took a good way enough to prevent quarrelling
among themselves, for they set the five women by themselves in
one ot their huts, and they went all into the other hut, and drew
lots among them who should choose first.
He that drew to choose first went away by himself to the hut
where the poor naked creatures were, and fetched out her he chose;
and it was worth observing, that he that chose first took her that
was reckoned the homeliest and oldest of the five, which made mirth
enough among the rest; and even the Spaniards laughed at it: but
the fellow considered better thau any of them, that it was appli-
cation and business they were to expect assistance in, as much
as in anything else; and she proved the best wife of all the
parcel.
When the fioor women saw themselves set in a row thus, and
fetched out one by one, the terrors of their condition returned upon
them again, and they firmly believed they were now going to be de-
voured. Accordingly, when the English sailor came in and fetched
out one of them, the rest set up a most lamentable cry, and hung
about her, and took their leave of her with such agonies and affec-
tion as would have grieved the hardest heart in the world; nor
J
was it possible for the Englishmen to satisfy them that thev were
not to be immediately murdered, till they fetched the old* man,
Friday's father, who immediately let them know that the five men,
who had fetched them out one by one, had chosen them for their
wives.
When they had done, and the fright the women were in was a
little over, the men went to work, and the Spaniards came and
helped them; and in a few hours they had built them every one a new
hut or tent for their lodging apart; for those they lv*u already were
crowded with their tools, household stuff, and provisions. The
three wicked ones had pitched farthest off, and tae two honest ones
nearer, but both on the north shore of the island, so that they con-
tinued separated as before; and thus my islarj was peopled in three
places; and, as I might say, three towns were commenced to be
built.
And here it is very well worth observing, that, as it often happens
in the world (what the wise ends of God's providence are, in such a
disposition of things, I cannot say), the two honest fellows had the two
worst wives; and the three reprobates, that were scarce worth hang-
ing, that were fit for nothing, and neither seemed born to do them-
selves good, nor any one else, had three clever, diligent, careful, and
ingeniour wives: not that the first two were bad wives, as to their
temper or humour, for all the five were most willing, quiet, passive,
and subjected creatures, rather like slaves than wives; but my
meaning is, they were not alike capable, ingenious, or industrious, or
alike cleanly and neat.
Another observation I must make, to the honour of a diligent
application, on one hand, and to the disgrace of a slothful, negli-
gent, idle temper, on the other, that when I came to the place, and
viewed the several improvements, plantings, and management of the
several little colonies, the two men had so far outgone the three,
that there was no comparison. They had, indeed, both of them as
much ground laid out for corn as they wanted, and the reason was,
because, according to my rule, nature dictated that it was to no
purpose to sow more corn than they wanted; but the difference of
the cultivation, of the planting, of the fences, and, indeed, of every-
thing else, was easy to be seen at first view.
The two men had innumerable young trees planted about their
huts, so that when you came to the place, nothing was to be seen
but wood; and though they had twice had their plantation demo-
lished, once by their own countrymen, and once by the enemy, as
shall be shown in its place, yet they had restored all again, and
everything was thriving and flourishing about them, they had
grapes planted in order, and managed like a vineyard, though they
had themselves never seen anything of that kind; and by their good
ordering their vines, their grapes were as good again as any of the
sthers. They had also found themselves out a retreat in the thickest
22'J
part of the woods; where, though there was not a natural cave, as I
tad found, yet they made one with incessant labour of their hands,
and where, when the mischief which followed happened, they
secured their wives and children, so as they could never be found;
they having, by sticking innumerable stakes and poles of the wood
which, as I said, grew so readily, made the grove unpassable, except
in some places where they climoed up to get over the outside part,
and then went on by ways of their own leaving.

As to the three reprobates, as I justly call them, though they
were much civilized by their settlement, compared to what they
were before, and were not so quarrelsome, having not the same
opportunity; yet one of the certain companions of a profligate mind
never left them, and that was their idleness. It is true, they planted
corn, and made fences, but Solomon's words were never better verified
than in them, "I went by the vineyard of the slothful, and it was
all overgrown with thorns;" for wficn the Spaniards came to view
their crop, they could not see it in some places for weeds, the hedge
had several gaps in it, where the wild goats had got in and eaten up
the corn; pernaps here and there a dead bush was crammed in, to
stop them out for the present, but it was only shutting the stable-
door after the steed was stolen: whereas, when they looked on the
colony of the other two, there was the very face of industry and
success upon all they did; there was not a weed to be seen in all
their corn, or a gap m any of their hedges; and they, on the other
hand, verified Solomon's words in another place, "that the diligent
hand maketh rich;" for every thing grew and thrived, and they had
plenty within and without; they Tiad more tame cattle than the
others, more utensils and necessaries within doors, and yet more
pleasure and diversion too.
It is true, the wives of the three were very handy and cleanly
within doors, and having learned the English ways of dressing and
cooking from one of the other Englishmen, who, as I said, was a
cook's mate on board the ship, they dressed their husbands' victuals
very nicely and well; whereas the others could not be brought to
understand it: but then the husband, who, as I say, haa been
cook's mate, did it himself. But as for the husbands of the three
wives, they loitered about, fetched turtles' eggs, and caught fish and
birds; in a word, anything but labour, and they fared accordingly.
The diligent lived well and comfortably; and the slothful lived hard
and beggarly; and so, I believe, generally speaking, it is all over
the world.
But I now come to a scene different from all that had happened
before, either to them or to me; and the original of the story was
this: Early one morning', there came on shore five or six canoes of
Indians or savages, call them which you please, and there is no doubt
they came upon the old errand of feeding upon their slaves; but
that part was now so familiar to the, Spaniards, and to our men too,
that they did not concern themselves about it, as I did: but having
been made sensible, by their experience, that their only business was
to lie concealed, and that if they were not seen by any of the
savages, they would go off again quietly, when their business was
done, having, as yet, not the least notion of there being any inhabi-
tants in the island; I say, having been made sensible of this, they
had nothing to do but to give notice to all the three plantations to
keep within doors, and not show themselves, only placing a scout in
a proper place, to give notice when the boats went to sea again.
This was, without doubt, very right; but a disaster spoiled all
these measures, and made it known among the savages that there
were inhabitants there; which was, in the end, the desolation of
almost the whole colony. After the canoes with the savages were
gone off, the Spaniards peeped abroad again; and some of them had
the curiosity to go to the place where they had been, to see what
they had been doine. Here, to their great surprise, they found
three savages left behind, and lying fast asleep upon the ground.
The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and perfectly
at a loss what to do. The Spanish governor, as it happened, was
with them, and his advice was asked, but he professed he knew not
what to do. As for slaves, they had enough already; and w to
killing them, they were none of them inclined to that: the Spanish
governor told me, they could not think of shedding innocent blood:
for as to them, the poor creatures had done them no wrong, invaded
none of their property, and they thought they had no just quarrel
against them, to take away their lives. And here I must, in justice
to these Spaniards, observe, that let the accounts of Spanish cruelty
in Mexico and Peru be what they will, I never met with seventeen
men of any nation whatsoever, in any foreign country, who were so
universally modest, temperate, virtuous, so very good-humoured, and
so courteous, as these Spaniards; and as to cruelty, they had nothing
of it in their very nature: no inhumanity, no barbarity, no out-
rageous passions; and yet all of them men of great courage and
spirit. Their temper and calmness had appeared in their bearing
the insufferable usage of the three Englishmen; and their justice
and humanity appeared now in the case of the savages, as above
After some conetiltation, they resolved upon this: that they would
lie still a while longer, till, if possible, these three men might be
gone. But then the governor Spaniard recollected, that the three
savages had no boat; and if they were left to rove about the island,
they would certainly discover that there were inhabitants in it; and so
they should be undone that way. Upon this they went back again,
and there lay the fellows fast asleep still, and so they resolved to waken
them, and take them prisoners; and they did so. The poor fellows
were strangely frightened when they were seized upon and bound;
and afraid, like the women, that they should be murdered and eaten:
for it seems those people think all the world does as they do, eating
men's flesh; but they were soon made easy as to that, and away
they carried them.
It was very happy for them that they did not carry them home to
their castle, I mean to my palace under the hill; but they carried
them first to the bower, where was the chief of their country work,
such as the keeping the goats, the planting the corn, &c.; and after-
wards they carried them to the habitation of the two Englishmen.
Here "they were set to work, though it was not much they had for
them to do; and whether it was by negligence in guarding them, or
that they thought the fellows could not mend themselves, I know
not, but one of them ran away, and taking to the woods, they could
never hear of him any more.
They had good reason to believe he got home again soon after, in
some other boats or canoes of savages who came on shore three or
four weeks afterwards; and who, carrying on their revels as usual
went off in two days time. This thought terrified them exceedingly;
for they concluded, and that not without good cause indeed, that ii
this fellow came home safe among his comrades, he would certainly
give them an account that there were people in the island, and also how
few and weak they were: for this savage, as I observed before, had
never been told, and it was very happy he had not, how many there
were, or where they lived; nor had he ever seen or heard the fire of any
of their guns, much less had they shown him any of their other
retired places; such as the cave in the valley, or the new rttreat
which the two Englishmen 'nad made, and the like.
The first testimony they uad that this fellow had given intelligence
of them was, that, auout two months after this, six canoes of savages,
with about seven, eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowing along
the north side of the island, where they never used to eome oefore,
an-] landed, about an hour after sunrise, at a convenient place, about
a .aile from the habitation of the two Englishmen, where this escaped
man had been kept. As the Spaniard governor said, had they been
all there, the damage would not have been so much, for not a man of
tnem would have escaped; but the case differed now very much, for
two men to fifty was too much odds. The two men had the happi-
ness to discover them about a league off, so that it was above an
hour before they landed; and as they landed about a mile from their
huts, it was some time before they could come at them. Now,
having great reason to believe that they were betrayed, the first
thing they did was to bind the two slaves which were left, and
cause two of the three men who were brought with the women (who
it seems proved very faithful to them) to lead them, with their two
wives, and whatever they could carry away with them, to their re-
tired places in the woods, which I have spoken of above, and there
to bind the two fellows hand and foot, till they heard further.
In the next place, seeing the savages were all come on shore, and
that they had bent their course directly that way, they opened the
fences where the mileh goats were kept, and drove them all out;
leaving their goats to straggle in the woods, whither they pleased,
that the savages might think they were all bred wild; but the rogue
who came with. them was too cunning for that, and gave them an
account of it all, for they went directly to the place.
When the two poor frightened men had secured their wives and
goods, they sent the other slave they had of the three who came with
the women, and who was at the place by accident, away to the
Spaniards with all speed, to give them the alarm, and desire speedy
help ; and, in the mean time, they took their aras and what ammuni-
tion they had, and retreated towards tne place in the wood where their
wives were sent; keeping at a distance, yet so that they might see,
if possible which way the savages took.
They had not gone far, but that from a rising ground they could
gee the little army of their enemies come on directly to their
habitation, and, in a minute more, could see all their huts and house-
hold stuff flaming up together, to their great grief and mortification;
for they had a very great loss, to them irretrievable, at least for some
time. They kept their station for a while, till they found the savages,
like wild beasts, spread themselves all over the place, rummaging
every way and every place they could think of, in search of prey;
and in particular for the people, of whom, now, it plainly appeared
they had intelligence.
The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves not secure
where they stood, because it was likely some of the wild people
might come that way, and they might come too many together, though'
it proper to make another retreat about half a mile farther; believing,
as it afterwards happened, that the farther they strolled the fewer
would be together.
SECTION XXXVI.
SEVERAL SAVAGES KILLED; THE REMAINDER LEAVE THE ISLAND—
A KLEET OF THEM AFTERWARDS ARRIVE—A GENERAL BATTLE—
THE SAVAGES ARE OVERCOME, AND TRANQUILITY RESTORED.
Their next halt was at the entrance into a very thick-grown part of
the woods and where an old trunk of a tree stood, which was hollow
and vastly large ; and in this tree they both took their standing, re-
solving to see there what might offer. They had not stood there
long, before two of the savages appeared running directly that way,
as if they already had notice where they stood, and were coming up
to attack them; and a little way farther they espied three more com-
ing after them, and five more beyond them, all coming the same
way: besides which, they saw seven or eight more at a distance run-
ning another way; for, in a word, they ran every way, like sports-
men beating for their game.
The poor men were now in great perplexity whether they should
stand and keep their posture, or fly; but, after a very short debate
with themselves, they considered, that if the savages ranged the
country thus before help came, they might perhaps find out their re-
treat in the woods, and then all would be lost: so they resolved to
stand them there ; and if they were too many to deal with, then they
would get up to the top of the tree, from whence they doubted not
to defend themselves, fire excepted, as long as their ammunition.
tasted, though all the savages that were landed, which was near fifty,
were to attack them.
Having resolved upon this, they next considered whether they
should me at the first two, or wait for the three, and so take th»
middle party, by which the two and the five that followed would be
separated : at length they resolved to let the first two pass by, un-
less they should spy them in the tree, and come to attack them.
The first two savages confirmed them also in this resolution, by
turning a little from them towards another part of the wood; but
the three, and the five after them, came forward directly to the tree,
as if they had known the Englishmen were there. Seeing them
come so straight toward them, they resolved to take them in a line
as they came; and as they resolved to fire but one at a time, perhaps
the first shot might hit them all three: for which purpose, the man
who was to fire put three or four small bullets into his piece; and
having a fair loophole, as it were, from a broken hole in the tree, he
took a sure aim, without being seen, waiting till they were within
abour thirty yards of the tree, so that he could not miss.
While they were thus waiting, and the savages came on, they
plainly saw that one of the three was the runaway savage that had
escaped from them; and they both knew him distinctly, and resolved
that, if possible, he should not escape, though they should both fire;
so the other stood ready with his piece, that if he did not drop at the
first shot, he should be sure to have a second. But the first was too
good a marksman to miss his aim; for as the savages kept near one
another, a little behind, in a line, he fired, and hit two of them
directly: the foremost was killed outright, being shot in the head; the
second, which was the runaway Indian, was shot through the body,
and fell, but was not quite dead; and the third had a little scratch
in the shoulder, perhaps by the same ball that went through the
body of the second; and being dreadfully frightened, though not so
much hurt, sat down upon the ground, screaming and yelling in u
hideous manner.
The five that were behind, more frightened with the noise than
sensible of the danger, stood still at first: for the woods made the
sound a thousand times bigger than it really was, the echoes rattling
from one side to another, and the fowls rising from all parts, scream-
ing, and every sort making a different noise, according to their kind;
just as it was when I fired the first gun that perhaps was ever shot
off in the island.
However, all being silent again, and they not knowing what the
matter was, came on unconcerned, till they came to the place where
their companions lay, in a condition miserable enough; and here the
poor ignorant creatures,' not sensible that they were within reach of
the same mischief, stood all of a huddle over the wounded man, talk-
ing, and, as may be supposed, inquiring of him how he came to be
hurt: and who, it is very rational to believe, told them, that a flash
of fire first, and immediately after that thunder from their gods, bad
killed those two and wounded him : this, I say, is rational; for no-
thing is more certain than that, as they saw no man near them, so they
had never heard a gun in all their lives, nor so much as heard of a
gun ; neither knew they any thing of killing and wounding at a dis-
tance with fire and bullets . if they had, one might reasonably believe
they would not have stood so unconcerned in viewing the fate of
their fellows, without some apprehensions of their own.
Our two men, though, as they confessed to me, it grieved them
to be obliged to kill so many poor creatures, who, at the same time,
had no notion of their danger; yet, having them all thus in their
power, and the first having loaded his piece again, resolved to let fir
both together among them ; and singling out, by agreement, whien
to aim at, they shot together, and killed, or very much wounded,
four of them; the fifth, frightened even to death, though not hurt,
fell with the rest; so that our men, seeing them all fall together,
thought they had killed them all.
The belief that the savages were all killed made our two men
come boldly out from the tree before they had charged their guns,
which was a wrong step; and they were under some surprise when
they came to the place, and found no less then four of them alive,
and of them two very little hurt, and one not at all: this obliged
them to fall upon them with the stocks of their muskets; and first
they made sure of the runaway savage, that had been the cause of
all the mischief, and of another that was hurt in the knee, and put
them out of their pain: then the man that was hurt not at all came
and kneeled down to them, with his two hands held up, and made
piteous moans to them, by jestures and signs, for his life, but could
not say one word to them that they could understand. However,
they made signs to him to sit down at the foot of a tree hard by;
and one of the Englishmen, with a piece of rope twined, which ne
had by great chance in his pocket, tied his two hands behind him,
and there they left him: and with what speed they could made after
the other two, which were gone before, fearing they, or any more of
them, should find the way to their covered place in the woods, where
their wives, and the few goods they had left, lay. They came once
in sight of the two men, but it was at a great distance; however
they had the satisfaction to see them cross over a valley towards the
sea, quite the contrary way from that which led to their retreat,
which they were afraid of; and being satisfied with that, they went
back to the tree where they left their prisoner, who, as they suppos-
ed, was delivered by his comrades, for he was gone, and the two
pieces of rope-yarn, with which they had bound him, lay just at the
toot of the tree.
They were now in as great concern as before, not knowing what
course to take, or how near the enemy might be, or in what numbers;
so they resolved to go away to the place were their wives were, to
see if all was well there, and to make them easy, who were in fright
enough, to he sure; for though the savages were their own country-
folk, yet they were most terribly afraid of them, and perhaps th«
more for the knowledge they had of them.
When they came there, they found the savages had been in the
wood, and very near that place, but had not found it: for it was in-
deed inaccessible, by the trees standing so thick, as unless the
persons seeking it had been directed by those that knew it, which
these did not: they found, therefore, every thing very safe, only the
women in a terrible fright. While they were here, they had the
comfort to have seven of the Spaniards com* to their assistance ; the
other ten, with their servants, and old Friday, I mean Friday's
father, were gone in a body to defend their bower, and the corn and
cattle that was kept there, in case the savages should have roved
over to that side of the country; but they did not spread so far.
With the seven Spaniards came one of the three savages who, as I
said, were their prisoners formerly; and with them also came the
savage whom the Englishmen had left bound hand and foot at the
tree: for it seems, they came that way, saw the slaughter of the
seven men, and unbound the eighth, and brought him along with
them; where, however, they were obliged to bind him again, as they
had the two others who were left when the third ran away.
The prisoners now began to be a burthen to them; and they were
so afraid of their escaping, that they were once resolving to kill them
all, beli-jving they were under an absolute necessity to do so, for
their own preservation. However, the Spaniard governor would not
consent to it; but ordered, for the present, that they should be sent
out of the way, to my old cave in the valley, and be kept there, with
two Spaniards to guard them, and give them food for their subsis-
tence, which was done; and they were bound there hand and foot
for that night.
When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen were so encouraged,
that they could not satisfy themselves to stay any longer there;
but taking five of the Spaniards and themselves, with four muskets
and a pistol among them, and two stout quarter-staves, away they
went in quest of the savages. And first they came to the tree where
the men lay that had been killed; but it was easy to see that some
more of the savages had been there, for they had attempted to carry
their dead men away, and had dragged two of them a good way, but
had given it over. From thence they advanced to the first rising
ground, where they had stood and seen their camp destroyed, and
where they had the mortification still to see some of the smoke: but
neither could they here see any of the savages. They then resolved,
though with all possible caution, to go forward, towards their ruined
plantation; but a little before they came thither, coming in sight of
the sea-shore, they saw plainly the savages all embarked again in
their canoes, in order to be gone. They seemed sorry, at first, that
there was no way to come at them, to give them a parting blow;
but, upon the whole, they were very well satisfied to be rid of
them.
The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined, and all their im-
provements destroyed, the rest all agreed to come and help them to
rebuild, and to assist them with needful supplies. Their three
countrymen, who. were not yet noted for having the least inclination
to do any good, yet as soon as they heard of it (for they living re-
mote eastward, knew nothing of the matter till all was over), came
and offered their help and assistance, and did, very friendly, work for
several days, to restore their habitation, and make necessaries for
them. And thus, in a little time, they were set upon their legs
again.
About two days after this, they had the further satisfaction of
seeing three of the savages' canoes come driving on shore, and, at
some distance from them, two drowned men: oy which they had
reason to believe that they had met with a storm at sea, which had
overset some of them; for it had blown very hard the night after
they went oft.
However, as some might miscarry, so, on the other hand, enough
of them escaped to inform the rest, as well of what they had done as
of what had happened to them, and to whet them on to another
enterprise of the same nature; which they, it seems, resolved to at-
tempt, with sufficient force to carry all before them: for except what
ihe first man had told them of inhabitants, they could say little of it
of their own knowledge, for they never saw one man; and the fellow
being killed that had affirmed it, they had no other witness to confirm
it to them.
It was five or six months after this before they heard any more
of the savages, in which time our men were in hopes they had either
forgot their former bad luck, or given over hopes of better; when,
on a sudden, they were invaded with a most formidable fleet of no
less than eight-and-twenty canoes, full of savages, armed with bows
and arrows, great clubs, wooden swords, and such-like engines of
war; and they brought such numbers with them, that, in short, it
put all our people into the utmost consternation.
As they came on shore in the evening, and at the easternmost side
of the island, our men had that night to consult and consider what to
do; and, in the first place, knowing that their being entirely concealed
was their only safety before, and would be much more so now, while
the number of their enemies was so great, they therefore resolved,
first of all, to take down the huts which were built for the two
Englishmen, and drive away their goats to the old cave; because they
supposed the savages would go directly thither, as soon as it was day,
to play the old game over again, though they did not now land with-
in two leagues of it. In the next place, they drove away all the
flocks of goats they had at the old bower, as I called it, which be-
longed to the Spaniards; and, in short, left as little appearance of
inhabitants any where as was possible: and the next morning early
they posted themselves, with all their force, at the plantation of tho
two men, to wait for their coming. As they guessed, so it happen-
ed: these new invaders, leaving their canoes at the east end of the
island, came ranging along the shore, directly towards the place, to
the number of two hundred and fifty, as near as our men could
judge. Our army was but small, indeed; but that which was worse,
they had not arms for all their number neither. The whole account,
it seems, stood thus: first, as to men, seventeen Spaniards, five En-
glishmen, old Friday, or Friday's father, the three slaves taken with
the women, who proved very faithful, and three other slaves, who
lived with the Spaniards. To arm these, thev had eleven muskets,
five pistols, three fowling-pieces, five muskets or fowling-pieces
which were taken by me from the mutinous seamen whom I reduced,
two swords, and three old halberds.
To their slaves they did not give either musket or fuse, but they
had every one a halberd, or a long staff, like a auarter-staff, with a
great spike of iron fastened into each end of it, and by his side a
hatchet; also every one of our men had a hatchet. Two of the women
could not be prevailed upon but they would come into the fight,
and they had bows and arrows, which tne Spaniards had taken from
the savages when the first action happened, which I have spoken of,
where the Indians fought with one another; and the women had
hatchets too.
The Spaniard governor, whom I described so often, commanded
the whole; and Will Atkins, who, though a dreadful fellow for
wickedness, was a most daring, bold fellow, commanded under him.
The savages came forward like lions; and our men, which was the
worst of their fate, had no advantage in their situation; only that
Will Atkins, who now proved a most useful fellow, with six men,
was planted just behind a small thicket of bushes, as an advanced
guard, with orders to let the first of them pass by, and then lire into
the middle of them, and as soon as he had fired, to make his retreat
as nimble as he could round a part of the wood, and so come in be-
hind the Spaniards, where they stood, having a thicket of trees be-
fore them.
When the savages came on, they ran straggling about every way
in heaps, out of all manner of order, and Will Atkins let about fifty
of them pass by him; then seeing the rest come in a very thick
throng, he orders three of his men to fire, having loaded their
muskets with six or seven bullets a piece, about as big as large
pistol bullets. How many they killed or wounded they knew not,
but the consternation and surprise was inexpressible among the
savages; they were frightened to the last degree to hear such a
dreadful noise, and see their men killed, and others hurt, but see
nobody that did it; when, in the middle of their fright, Will Atkins
»nd bis other three let fly again among the thickest of them, and in
less than a minute the iirst three being loaded again, gave them a
third volley.
Had Will Atkins and his men retired immediately, as soon as
they had fired, as they were ordered to do, or had the rest of tho
body been at hand, to have poured in their shot continually, the
savages had been effectually routed; for the terror that was among
them came principally from this, viz. that they were killed by the
gods with thunder and lightning, and could see nobody that hurt
them; but Will Atkins, staying to load again, discovered the cheat;
some of the savages who were at a distance spying them, came
upon them behind; and though Atkins and his men fired at them
also, two or three times, and killed above twenty, retiring as fast as
they could, yet they wounded Atkins himself, and killed one of his
fellow-Englishmen, with their arrows, as they did afterwards one
Spaniard, and one of the Indian slaves who came with the women.
This slave was a most gallant fellow, and fought most desperately,
killing five of them with his own hand, having no weapon but one
of the armed staves and a hatchet.
Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded, and two other
men killed, retreated to a rising ground in the wood; and the
Spaniards, after firing three volleys upon ihem, retreated also;
for their number was so great, and they were so desperate, that
though above fifty of them were killed, and more than as many
wounded, yet they came on in the teeth of our men, fearless of
danger, and shot their arrows like a crowd; and it was observed
that their wounded men, who were not quite disabled, were made
outrageous by their wounds, and fought like madmen.
When our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and the English-
man that were killed behind them; and the savages, when they
came up to them, killed them over again in a wretched manner,
breaking their arms, legs, and heads, with their clubs and wooden
swords, like true savages; but finding our men were gone, they did
not seem to pursue them, but drew themselves up in a ring, which
is, it seems, their custom, and shouted twice, in token of their
victory; after which they had the mortification to see several of
their wounded men fall, dying with the mere loss of blood.
The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body up together
upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he was wounded, would have
had them march and charge again all together at once; but the
Spaniard replied: "Senhor Atkins, you see how their wounded
men fight; let them alone till morning; all the wounded mgn will
be stiff and sore with their wounds, and faint with the loss of blood;
and so we shall have the fewer to engage." This advice was good;
but Will Atkins replied merrily: "That is true, senhor, and so shall
I too; and that is the reason I would go on while I am warm."
"Well, Senhor Atkins," says the Spaniard, "you have behaved gal
lantly, and done your part; we will fight for you, if you cannot
come on; but I think it best to stay till morning. So they
waited.
But as it was a clear moonlight night, and they found the savages
in great disorder about their dead and wounded men, and a great
noise and hurry among them where they lav, they afterwards re-
solved to fall upon them in the night, especially if they could come
to give them but one volley before they were discovered, which they
had a fair opportunity to do; for one of the Englishmen, in whose
quarter it was where the fight began, led them round between the
woods and the seaside westward, and then turning short south, they
came so near where the thickest of them lay, that, before they were
seen or heard, eight of them fired in among them, and did dreadful
execution upon them; in half a minute more, eight others fired
after them, pouring in their small shot in such quantity, that
abundance were killed and wounded; and all this while they were
not able to see who hurt them, or which way to fly.
The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition, and then
divided themselves in three bodies, and resolved to fall in among
them altogether. They had in each body eight persons, that is to
say, twenty-two and the two women, who, by the way fought des-
perately. They divided the fire-arms equally in each party, and so
the halberds and staves. They would have had the women kept
back, but they said they were resolved to die with their husbands.
Having thus formed their little army, they marched out from among
the trees, and came up to the teeth of the enemy, shouting and
hallooing as loud as they could; the savages stood altogether, but
were in the utmost confusion, hearing the noise of our men shouting
from three quarters together; they would have fought if they had
seen us; for as soon as we came near enough to be seen, some
arrows were shot, and poor old Friday was wounded, though not
dangerously; but our men gave them no time, but, running up to
them, fired among them three ways, and then fell in with the butt-
ends of their muskets, their swords, armed staves, and hatchets, and
laid about them so well, that, in a word, they set up a dismal
screaming and howling, flying to save their lives which way soever
they could.
Our men were tired with the execution, and killed or mortally
wounded in the two fights about one hundred and eighty of them;
the rest being frightened out of their wits, scoured through the
woods and over the hills, with all the speed fear and nimble feet
could help them to; and as we did not trouble ourselves much to
pursue them, they got all together to the seaside where they landed,
and where their canoes lay. But their disasters were not at an end
yet; for it blew a terrible storm of wind that evening from the sea,
so that it was impossible for them to go on'; nay, the storm con-
tinuing all night, when the tide came up, their canoes were most of
241
them driven by the surge of the sea so high upon the shore, that it
required infinite toil to get them off; and some of them were even
dashed to pieces against the beach, or against one another.
Our men, though glad of their victory, yet got little rest that night;
but having refreshed themselves as well as they could, they resolved
to march to that part of the island where the savages were fled, and
see what posture they were in. This necessarily led them over the'
place where the fight had been, and where they found several of the

poor creatures not quite dead, and yet past recovering life; a sight
disagreeable enough to generous minds; for a truly great man,
though obliged by the law of battle to destroy his enemy, takes no
delight in his misery. However, there was no need to give any
orders in this case; for their own savages, who were their servants,
dispatched these poor creatures with their hatchets.
At length, they came in view of the place where the more miser-
able remains of the savages' army lay, where there appeared about
a hundred still: their posture was generally sitting upon the
ground, with their knees up towards their mouth, and the head put
between the two hands, leaning down upon the knees.
When our men came within two musket-shots of them, the
Spaniard governor ordered two muskets to be fired, without ball, to
alarm them: this he did, that by their countenance he might know
what to expect, viz. whether they were still in heart to fight, or
were so heartily beaten as to be dispirited and discouraged, and so
he might manage accordingly. This stratagem took; for as soon as
the savages heard the first gun and saw the flash of the second,
they started up upon their feet in the greatest consternation ima-
ginable; and as our men advanced swiftly toward them, they all
ran screaming and yelling away, with a kind of howling noise, which
our men did not understand, and had never heard before: and thus
they ran up the hills into the country.
At first our men bad much rather the weather had been calm, and
they had all gone away to sea; but they did not then consider that
this might probably have been the occasion of their coming again
in such multitudes as not to be resisted, or, at least, to come so
many, and so often, as would quite desolate the island, and starve
them. Will Atkins, therefore, who, notwithstanding his wound,
kept always with them, proved the best counsellor in this case: his
advice was, to take the advantage that offered, and clap in between
them and their boats, and so deprive them of the capacity of ever
returning any more to plague the island.
They consulted long about this; and some were against it, for
fear of making the wretches fly to the woods and live there des-
perate, and so they should have them to h«int like wild beasts, be
afraid to stir out about their business, and have their plantation
continually rifled, all their tame goats destroyed, and, in short, be
reduced to a life of continual distress.
Will Atkins told them they had better have to do with a hun-
dred men than with a hundred nations; that as they must destroy
their boats, so they must destroy the men, or be all of them de-
stroyed themselves. In a word, he showed them the necessity of it
so plainly, that they all came into it; so they went to work imme-
diately with the boats, and getting some dry wood together from a
dead tree, they tried to set some of them on fire, but they were^o
wet that they would not burn; however, the fire so burned the
upper part, that it soon made them unfit for swimming in the sea as
boats. When the Indians saw what they were about, some of them
came running out of the woods, and coming as near as they could
to our men, kneeled down and cried: "Oa, Oa, Waramokoa," and
some other words of their language, which none of the othert
understood anything of; but as they made pitiful gestures and
strange noises, it was easy to understand they begged to have their
boats spared, and that they would be gone, and never come there
again. But our men were now satisfied that they had no way to
preserve themselves or to save their colony, but effectually to pre-
vent any of these people from ever going home again; depending
upon this, that if even so much as one of them got back into their
country to tell the story, the colony was undone; so that, lettina;
them know that they should not have any mercy, they fell to work
with their canoes, and destroyed them every one that the storm had
not destroyed before: at the sight of which the savages raised a
hideous cry in the woods, which our people heard plain enough,
after which they ran about the island like distracted men, so that,
in a word, our men did not really know at first what to do with
them. Nor did the Spaniards, with all their prudence, consider
that while they made those people thus desperate, they ought to
have kept a good guard at the same time upon their plantations;
for though, it is true, they bad driven away their cattle, aud the
Indians did not find out their main retreat, I mean my old castle at
the hill, nor the cave in the valley, yet they found out my plantation
at the bower, and pulled it all to pieces, and all the fences and
planting about it; trod all the corn under foot, tore up the vines
and grapes, being just then almost ripe, and did our men an inesti-
mable damage, though to themselves not one farthing's worth of
service.
Though our men were able to fight them upon all occasions, yet
they were in no condition to pursue them, or hunt them up and
down; for as they were too nimble of foot for our men, when they
found them single, so our men durst not go abroad single, for fear
of being surrounded with their numbers. The best was, they had
no weapons; for though they had bows, they had no arrows left,
nor any materials to make any; nor had they any edge-tool or
weapon among them.
The extremity and distress they were reduced to was great and
indeed deplorable; but, at the same time, our men were also brought
to very bad circumstances by them; for though their retreats were
preserved, yet their provision was destroyed, and their harvest
spoiled; and what to do, or which way to turn themselves they knew
not. The only refuge they had now was, the stock of cattle they
had in the valley by the cave, and some little corn that grew there,
and the plantation of the three Englishmen, Will Atkiis and his
comrades, who were now reduced to two; one of them being killed
by an arrow, which struck him on the side of the head, just under the
temple, so that he never spoke more; and it was very remarkable,
that this was the same barbarous fellow that cut the poor savage slave
with his hatchet, and who afterwards intended to have murdered the
Spaniards.
I looked upon their case to have been worse at this time than
mine was at any time, after I first discovered the grains of barley and
rice, and got into the manner of planting and raising my corn and
my tame cattle; for now they had, as I may say, a hundred wolves
upon the island, which would devour everything they could come at,
yet could be hardly come at themselves.
When they saw what their circumstances were, the first thing they
concluded was, that they would, if possible, drive them up to the
farther part of the island, south-west, that if any more savages came
on shore they might not find one another; then that they would
daily hunt and harass them, and kill as many of them as they could
come at, till they had reduced their number; and if they could
*t last tame them, and bring them to anything, they would give
them corn, and teach them how to plant, and live upon their daily
labour.
In order to this, they so followed them, and so terrified them with
their guns, that in a few days, if any of them fired a gun at an Indian,
if he did not hit him, yet he would fall down for fear; and so dread-
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRCSOE.
fully frightened they were, that they kept out of sight farther and
farther; till, at last, our men following them, and almost every day
killing or wounding some of them, they kept up in the woods or
hollow places so much, that it reduced them to the utmost misery
for want of food ; and many were afterwards found dead in the woods,
without any hurt, absolutely starved to death.
When our men found this, it made their hearts relent, and pity
moved them, especially the Spaniard governor, who was the most
gentleman-like, generous-minded man that I ever met with in my
fe; and he proposed, if possible, to take one of them alive, and
bring him to understand what they meant, so far as to be able to act
as interpreter, and go among them, and see if they might be brought
to some conditions that mignt be depended upon, to save their lives
and do us no harm.

It was some while before any of them could be taken; but being'
weak and half-starved, one of them was at last surprised and made a
prisoner. He was sullen at first, and would neither eat nor drink;
but finding himself kindly used, and victuals given him, and no vio-
lence offered him, he at last grew tractable, and came to himself.
They brought old Friday to him, who talked often with him, and told
him*how kind the others would be to them all; that they would not
only save their lives, but would give them part of the islam! to live
in, provided they would give satisfaction that they would keep in
their own bounds, and not come beyond it to injure or prejudice
others . and that they should have corn given them to plant and
make it grow for their bread, and some bread given them for their
present subsistence; and old Friday bade the fellow go and talk with
the rest of his countrvmen, and sec what they said to it; assum'S
them, that if they did not agree immediately, they would be aJJ
destroyed.
The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and reduced in number
to about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal at the first offer, and
begged to have some food given them; upon which, twelve Spaniards
an ctwo Englishmen, well armed, with three Indian slaves and old
Friday, marched to the place where they were. The three Indian
slaves carried them a large quantity of bread, some rice boiled up to
cakes and dried in- the sun, and three live goats; and they were
ordered to go to the side of a hill, where they sat down, ate their
provisions very thankfully, and were the most faithful fellows to
their words that could be thought of; for, except when they came
to beg victuals and directions, they never came out of their bounds
and there they lived when I came to the island, and I went to see
them.
They had taught them both to plant corn, make bread, breed tame
goats, and milk them: they wanted nothing but wives, and they
soon would have been a nation. They were confined to a neck of
land, surrounded with high rocks behind them, and lying plain
towards the sea before them, on the south-east corner of the island.
They had land enough, and it was very good and fruitful; about
a mile and a half broad, and three or four miles in length.
Our men taught them to make wooden spades, such as I made for
myself, and gave among them twelve hatchets and three or four
knives; and there they lived, the most subjected, innocent creatures
that ever were heard of.
After this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquillity with respect
to the savages, till I came to revisit them, which was about two
years after; not but that, now and then, some canoes of savages
came on shore for their trinmphal, unnatural feasts; but as they
were of several nations, and perhaps had never heard of those that
came before, or the reason of it, they did not make any search 01
inquiry after their countrymen; and if they had, it would have been
very hard to have found them out.
Thus, I think, 1 have given a full account of all that happened ta
them till my return, at least, that was worth notice. The Indians
or savages were wonderfully civilized by them, and they frequently
went among them; but forbade, on pain of death, any one of the
Indians coming to them, because they would not have their settle-
ment betrayed again. One thing was very remarkable, viz. that they
taught the savages to make wicker-work, or baskets, but they soon
outdid their masters; for they made abundance of most ingenious
things in wicker-work, particularly all sorts of baskets, sieves, bird-
cages, cupboards, &c.; as also chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches,
ana abundance of other things, being very ingenious at such work,
when they were once put in the way of it.
8ECTI0N XXXVII.
EOBINSOK LEARNS FROM THE SPANIARDS THE DIFFICULTIES T1IIT
HAD TO ENCOUNTER—HE FURNISHES THE FEOFLE WITH TOOLS,
ETC—THE FRENCH ECCLESIASTIC.
Having thus given an account of the colony in general, and pretty
much of my five runagate Englishmen, I must say something of the
Spaniards, who were the main body of the family, and in whose
story there are some incidents also remarkable enough.
I had a great many discourses with them about their circumstances
when they were among the savages. They told me readily that they
had no instances to give of their application or ingenuity in that
country; that they were a poor, miserable, and dejected handful of
people; that if means had been put into their hands, yet they had so
abandoned themselves to despair, and so sunk under the weight of
their misfortunes, that they thought of nothing but starving. One
of them, a grave sensible man, told me he was convinced they were
in the wrong; that it was not the part of wise men to give them-
selves up to their misery, but always to take hold of the helps which
reason offered, as well for present support as for future deliverance:
he told me that grief was the most senseless insignificant passion in
the world, for that it regarded only things past, which were gene-
rally impossible to be recalled, or to be remedied, but had no views
of things to come, and had no share in anything that looked like
deliverance, but rather added to the affliction than proposed a
remedy; and upon this he repeated a Spanish proverb, which though
I cannot repeat in just the same words that he spoke it in, yet I
remember I made it into an English proverb of my own thus:
In trouble to be troubled.
Is to have your trouble doubled.
He ran on then in remarks upon all the little improvements I had
made in my solitude; my unwearied application, as he called it; and
how I had made a condition which in it s circumstances was at first
much worse than theirs, a thousand times more happy than theirs
was even now when they were all together. He told me it was
remarkable that Englishmen had a greater presence of mind, in their
distress, than any people he ever met with; that their unhappy
nation and the Portuguese were the worst men in the world to
struggle with misfortunes; for that their first step in dangers, after
the common efforts were over, was to despair, lie down under it, and
die, without rousing their thoughts. up to proper remedies for
escape.
I told him their case «td mine differed exceedingly; that they
were cast upon the shore without necessaritc, without supply of food,
or present sustenance till they could provide it; that, it was true, I
had this disadvantage and discomfort, that I was alone; but then the
supplies I had providentially thrown into my hands, by the unexpected
driving of the ship on shore, was such a help as would have
encouraged any creature in the world to have applied himself as I
had done. "Senhor," says the Spaniard, "had we poor Spaniards been
in jrour case, we should never have got half those things out of the
ship, as you did; nay," says he, "we should never have found means
to nave got a raft to carry them, or to have got the raft on shore
without boat or sail; and how much less should we have done if any
of us had been alone!" Well, I desired him to abate his complaint,
and go on with the history of their coming on shore, where they
landed. He told me they unhappily landed at a place where there
were people without provisions; whereas had they had the common
sense to have put off to sea again, and gone to another island a little
farther, they had found provisions, though without people; there
being an island that way, as they had been told, where there were
provisions, though no people; that is to say, that the Spaniards of
Trinidad had frequently been there, and had filled the island with
goats and hogs at several times, where they had bred in such multi-
tudes, and where turtle and seafowls were in such plenty, that they
could have been in no want of flesh, though they had found no
bread; whereas here, they were only sustained with a few roots and
herbs, which they understood not and which had no substance in
them, and which the inhabitants gave them sparingly enough; and
who could treat them no better, unless they would turn cannibals,
and eat men's flesh, which was the great dainty of their country.
They gave me an account how many ways they strove to civilize
the savages they were with, and to teach them rational customs in
the ordinary way of living, but in vain; and how they retorted it
upon them, as unjust, that they who came there for assistance and
support, should attempt to set up for instructors of those that gave
them food; intimating, it seems, that none should set up for the
instructors of others but those who could live without them.
They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they were drive*
to; how sometimes they were many days without food at all, the
island they were upon Ving inhabited by a sort of savage* that
lived more indolent, and for that reason were less supplied with the
necessaries of life, than they had reason to believe others were in tho
same part of the world; and yet they found that these savages were
less ravenous and voracious than those who had better supplies of
food. Also they added, they could not but see with what demon-
strations of wisdom and goodness the governing providence of God
directs the events of things in the world; which, they said, appeared
in their circumstances; for if, pressed by the hardships they were
under, and the barrenness of the country where they were, they had
searched after a better to live in, they had been out of the way of the
relief that happened to them by my means.
They then gave an account how the savages whom they lived
among expected them to go out with them into their wars; and, it
was true, that as they had fire-arms with them had they not had the
disaster to lose their ammunition, they should have been serviceable
not only to their friends, but have made themselves terrible both to
friends and enemies; but being without powder and shot, and yet in
a condition that they could not in reason deny to go out with their
landlords to their wars, so when they came into the field of battle,
they were in a worse condition than the savages themselves; for
they had neither bows nor arrows, nor could they use those the
savages gave them; so they could do nothing but stand still, and be
wounded with arrows, till they came up to the teeth of their enemy;
and then, indeed, the three halberds they had were of use to them:
and they would often drive a whole little army before them with
those halberds, and sharpened sticks put into the muzzles of their
muskets; but that, for all this, they were sometimes surrounded
with multitudes, and in great danger from their arrows, till at last
they found the way to make themselves large targets of wood, which
they covered with skins of wild beasts, whose names they knew not,
and these covered them from the arrows of the savages; yet, not-
withstanding these, they were sometimes in great danger; and five
of them were once knocked down together with the clubs of the
savages, which was the time when one of them was taken prisoner,
that is to say, the Spaniard whom I had relieved: that at first they
thought had been killed; but when they afterwards heard he was
taken prisoner, they were under the greatest grief imaginable,
and would willingly have all ventured their lives to have rescued him.
They told me that when they were so knocked down, the rest of
their company rescued them, and stood over them fighting till they
were come to themselves, all but him who they thought had been
dead; and then they made their way with their halberds and pieces,
standing close together in a line, through a body of above a thousand
savages, beating down all that came in their way, got the victory
over their enemies, but to their great sorrow, because it was with
the loss of their friend, whom the other party, finding him alive,
carried off, with some others, as I gave an account before.
A BULTGIOITS CONVERSATION.
They described most affectionately how they were surprised with
joy at the return of their friend and companion in misery, who, they
thought, had been devoured by wild beasts of the worst kind, viz.,
by wild men; and yet how much more they were surprised
with the account he gave them of his errand, and that there was a
Christian in any place near, much more one that was able, and had
humanity enough, to contribute to their deliverance.
They described how they were astonished at the sight of the relief
J sent them, and at the appearance of loaves of bread, things they
Had not seen since their coming to that miserable place; how often
they crossed it and blessed it as bread sent from Heaven; and what
a reviving cordial it was to their spirits to taste it, as also the other
things I had sent for their supply; and, after all, they would have
told me something of the joy they were in at the sight of a boat
and pilots, to carry them away to the person and place from whence
all these new comforts came, out it was impossible to express it by
words, for their excessive joy naturally driving them to unbecoming
extravagances, they had no way to describe them, but by telling me
they bordered upon lunacy, having no way to give vent to their
passions suitable to the sense that was upon them; that in some it
worked one way, and in some another; and that some of them
through a surprise of joy, would burst into tears, others be stark
mad, and others immediately faint. This discourse extremely affected
me, and called to my mind Friday's eestasy when he met his father,
and the poor people s eestasy when I took them up at sea after their
ship was on fire; the joy of the mate of the ship when he found
himself delivered in the place where he expected to nerish; and my
own joy, when, after twenty-eight years' captivity, 1 found a good
ship ready to carry me to my own country. All'these things made
me more sensible of the relation of these poor men, and more
affected with it.
Having thus given a view of the state of things as I found them,
I must relate the heads of what I did for these people, and the con-
dition in which I left them. It wus their opinion, and mine too,
that they would be troubled no more with the savages, or, if they
were, they would be able to cut them off, if they were twice as
many as before; so they had no concern about that. Then I entered
into a serious discourse with the Spaniard, whom I call governor,
about their stay in the island; for as I was not come to carry any of
them off, so it would not be just to carry off some and leave others,
who, perhaps, woulu be unwilling to stay if their strength was
diminished. On the other hand, I told thein I came to establish
them there, not to remove them: and then 11ft them know that I
had brought with me relief of sundry kinds for them; that I had
been at a great charge to supply them with all things necessary, as
well for their convenience as their defence; and that I had such
and such particular persons with me, as well to increase and recruit
their number, as by the particular necessary employments which
they were bred to, being artificers, to assist them in those things
in which they were at present in want.
They were altogether when I talked thus to them; and before I
delivered to them the stores I had brought, I asked them, one by
one, if they had entirely forgot and buried the first animosities that
had been among them, and would shake hands with one another, and
engage in a strict friendship and union of interest, that so there
might be no more misunderstandings and jealousies.
Will Atkins, with abundance of frankness and good humour, said,
they had met with affliction enough to make them all sober, and
enemies enough to make them afl friends; that, for his part, he
would live and die with them; and was so far from designing any-
thing against the Spaniards, that he owned they had done nothing
to him but what his own mad humour made necessary, and what he
would have done, and perhaps worse, in their case; and that he
would ask them pardon, if I desired it, for the foolish and brutish
things he had done to them, and was very willing and desirous of
living in terms of entire friendship and union with them, and would
do anything that lay in his power to convince them of it: and as
for going to England, he cared not if he did not go thither these
twenty years.
The Spaniards said they had, indeed, at first disarmed and exclu-
ded Will Atkins and his two countrymen for their ill conduct, as
they had let me know, and they appealed to me for the necessity
thev were under to do so; but that Will Atkins had behaved himself
so Bravely in the great fight they had with the savages, and on
several occasions since, and had showed himself so faithful to, and
concerned for, the general interest of them all, that they had for-
gotten all that was past, and thought he merited as much to be
trusted with arms, and supplied with necessaries, as any of them:
and they had testified their satisfaction in him, by committing the
command to him, next to the governor himself; and as they had
entire confidence in him, and all his countrymen, so they acknow-
ledged they had merited that confidence by all the methods that
honest men could merit to be valued and trusted; and they most
heartily embraced the occasion of giving me this assurance, that
they would never have any interest separate from one another.
Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we ap-
pointed the next day to dine all together; and, indeed, we made a
splendid feast. I caused the ship's cook and his mate to come on
shore and dress our dinner, and the old cook's mate we had on shore
assisted. We brought on shore six pieces of good beef, and four
pieces of pork, out of the ship's provision, with our punchbowl and
materials to fill it; and, in particular, I gave them ten bottles of
Trench claret, and ten bottles of English beer; things that neither
the Spaniards nor the English had tasted for many years, and which
it may be supposed, they were very glad of. The Spaniards added
to our feast five whole kids, which the cooks roasted: and three of
them were sent, covered up close, on board the ship to the seamen,
that they might feast on fresh meat from on shore, as we did wJlh
their salt meat from on board.
After this feast, at which we were very innocently merry, I
brought out my cargo of goods : wherein that there might be no dis-
pute about dividing, I showed them that there was a sufficiency for
them all, desiring that they might all take an equal quantity of the
goods that were for wearing: that is to say equal when made up.
As, first, I distributed linen sufficient to make every one of them
four shirts, and, at the Spaniards' request, afterwards made them up
nix; these were exceedingly comfortable to them, having been what,
as I may say, they had long since forgot the use of, or what it was
to wear them. I allotted the thin English stuffs, which I mentioned
before, to make every one a light coat like a frock, which I judged
fittest for the heat of the season, cool and loose; and ordered that
whenever they decayed they should make more, as they thought fit:
the like for pumps, shoes, stockings, hats, &c.
I cannot express what pleasure, what satisfaction, sat upon the
countenances of all these poor men, when they saw the care I had
taken of them, and how well I had furnished them. They told me I
was a father to them; and that having such a correspondent as I
was in so remote a part of t"he world, it would make them forget
that they were left in a desolate place; and they all voluntarily
engaged to me not to leave the place without my consent.
Then I presented to them the people I had brought with me,
particularly the tailor, the smith, and the two carpenters, all of
them most necessary people; but, above all, my general artificer,
than whom they could not name anything that was more useful to
them: and the tailor, to show his concern for them, went to work
immediately, and, with my leave, made them every one a shirt, the
first thing he did; and, which was still more, he taught the women
not only how to sew and stitch, and use the needle, but made them
assist to make the shirts for their husbands and for all the rest.
As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention how useful they were;
for they took to pieces all my clumsy, unhandy things, and made
them clever convenient tables, stools, bedsteads, cupboards, lockers,
shelves, and everything they wanted of that kind. But, to let them
see how nature made artificers at first, I carried the carpenters to see
Will Atkin's basket-house, as I called it: and they both owned they
never saw an instance of such natural ingenuity before, nor anything
so regular and so handily built, at least of its kind: and one of them,
when he saw it, after musing a good while, turning about to me,
"I am sure," says he, "that man has no need of us; you need no-
hing but give him tools."
Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and gave evwj
man a digging-spade, a shovel, and a rake, for we had no harrows of
ploughs; and to every separate place a pick-axe, a crow, a broad-axe,
and a saw; always appointing that as often as any were broken or
worn out, they should be supplied without grudging, out of the
general stores that I left behind. Nails, staples, hinges, hammers,
chisels, knives, scissors, and all sorts of iron-work, they had with-
out tale, as they required: for no man would take more than ho
wanted, and he must be a fool who would waste or spoil them on
any account whatever; and for the use of the smith, I left two tons
of unwrought iron for a supply.
My magazine of powder and arms which I brought them was such,
even to profusion, that they could not but rejoice at them; for now
they could march as I used to do, with a musket upon each shoulder,
if there was occasion; and were able to fight a thousand savages, if
they had but some little advantages of situation, which also they
comd not miss, if they had occasion.
I carried on shore with me the young man whose mother was
starved to death, and the maid also ; she was a sobcry well educated,
religious young woman, and behaved so inoffensively, that every one
gave her a good word; she had indeed an miiappy life with us, there
being no woman in the ship but herself, but she bore it with
patience. After a while, seeing things so well ordered, and in so
fine a way of thriving upon my island, and considering that they had
neither business or acquaintance in the East Indies, or reason for
making so long a voyage; I say, considering all this, both of them
came to me, and desired I would give them leave to remain on the
island, and be entered among the family, as they called it. I agreed
to this readily; and they had a little plot of ground allotted to them,
where the;l had three tents or houses set up, surrounded with a
basket-work pallisadoed like Atkins's, adjoining to his plantation.
Their tents were contrived so that they had each of them a room
apart to lodge in, and a middle tent, like a great storehouse, to lay
their goods in, and to eat and drink in. And now the other two
Englishmen removed their habitation to the same place; and so the
-island was divided into three colonies, and no more, viz. the
Spaniards, with old Friday, and the first servants, at my old habita-
tion under the hill, which was, in a word, the capital city; and
where they had so enlarged and extended their works, as well under
as on the outside of the hill, that they lived, though perfectly
concealed, yet full at large. Never was there such a little city in a
wood, and so hid, in any part of the world: for I verily believe a
thousand men might have ranged the island a month, and, if they
had not known tnere was such a thing, and looked on purpose for it,
they would not have found it; for the trees stood so thick and so
close and grew so fast woven one into another, that nothing but
cutting them down first could discover the place, except the only
two narrow entrances where they went in and out could be found.
953
which was not very easy : one of them was close down at the water's i
edge, on the side of the creek, and it was afterwards above two
hundred yards to the place; and the other was up a ladder at twice, (
as I have already formerly described it; and they had also a large
wood thick-planted on the top of the hill, containing above an acre,
whieh grew apace, and concealed the place from all discovery there,
with only one narrow place between two trees, not easily to be dis-
covered, to enter on that side.
The other colony was that of Will Atkins, where there were four
families of Englishmen, I mean those I had left there, with their
wives and children; three savages that were slaves; the widow and
the children of the Englishmen that was killed; the young man and
the maid; and, by the way, we made a wife of her before we went
away. There was also the two carpenters and the tailor, whom I
brought with me for them ; also the smith, who was a very necessary
man to them, especially as a gun smith, to take care of their arms;
and my other man, whom I called Jack-of-all-trades, who was in him-
self as good almost as twenty men; for he was not only a very
ingenious fellow, bnt a very merry fellow; and before I went away
the French ecclesiastic that I had brought with me married him to
the honest maid that came with the youth in the ship I men-
tioned before.
Having now done with the island, I left them all in good circum-
stances, and in a flourishing condition, and went on board my ship
again on the 6th of May, having been about twenty-five days among
them; and as they were all resolved to stay upon the island till I
came to remove them, I promised to send them further relief from
the Brazils, if I could possibly find an opportunity; and, particu-
larly, I promised to send them some cattle, such as sheep, hogs, and
cows; as to the two cows and calves which I had brought from
England, we had been obliged, by the length of our voyage, to kill
them at sea, for want of hay to feed them.

^-V^-"
SECTION XXXVIII.
ENCOUNTER WITH SAVAGES AT SEA—FRIDAY'S DEATJI—HOBINSON
FINDS HIS FORMEK FARTNER IN THE BRAZILS—SAILS FOR TEE
EAST INDIES.
The next day, giving them a salute of five guns at parting, we set
sail, and arrived at the Bay of All Saints, in the Brazils, in about
twenty-two days, meeting nothing remarkable in our passage but
this: that about three days after we had sailed, being becalmed, and
the current setting strong to the E.N.E., running, as it were, into a
bay or gulf on the land side, we were driven something out of our
course, and once or twice our men cried out: "Land to the east-
ward;" but whether it was the continent or islands we could not
tell by any means. But the third day, towards evening, the sea
smooth, and the weather calm, we saw the sea, as it were, covered
towards the land with something very black. Our chief mate,
going up the main-shrouds a little way, and looking at them with a
perspective, cried out it was an army. I could not imagine what
he meant by an army, and thwarted him a little hastily. "Nay,
sir," says he, "don't be angry, for 'tis an army, and a fleet too; for
I believe there are a thousand canoes, and you may see them paddle
along, for they are coming towards us apace."
I was a little surprised, then, indeed, and so was my nephew the
captain; for he had heard such terrible stories of them in the island,
and having never been in those seas before, that he could not tell
what to think of it, but said, two or three times, we should all be
devoured. I must confess, considering wo were becalmed, and the
current set strong towards the shore, I liked it the worse; however,
I bade them not be afraid, but bring the ship to an anchor as soon
as we came so near as to know that we must engage them.
The weather continued calm, and they came on apace towards us;
so I gave order to come to an anchor, and furl all our sails: as for
the savages, I told them they had nothing to fear but fire, and there-
fore they should get their boats out, aSd fasten them, one close by
the head, and the other by the stern, and man them both well, and
wait the issue in that posture; this I did, that the men in the boats
might be ready with sheets and buckets to put out any fire these
savages would endeavour to fix to the outside of the ship.
In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little whiie they came
up with us; but never was such a horrid sight seen by Christians:
though my mate was much mistaken in his caleulation of their num-
ber, yet when they came up we reckoned about a hundred and
twenty-six; some of them had sixteen or seventeen men in them,
some more, and the least six or seven.
"When they came nearer to us, they seemed to be struck with
wonder and astonishment, as at a sight which doubtless they had
never seen before; nor could they, at first, as we afterwards under-
stood, know what to make of us; they came boldly up, however,
very near to us, and seemed to go about to row round us; but w6
called to our men in the boats not to let them come too near them.
This very order brought us to an engagement with them, without
our designing it: for five or six of the large canoes came so near
our longboat that our men beckoned with their hands to keep them
back, wiiich they understood very well, and went back, but at their
retreat about fifty arrows came on board us from those boats, and
one of our men in the longboat was very much wounded. However,
I called to them not to fire by any means; but we handed down
some deal boards into the boat, and the carpenter presently set up a
kind of fence, like waste boards, to cover them from the arrows of
the savages, if they should shoot again.
About half an hour afterwards they all came up in a body astern
of us, and so near, as that we could easily discern what they were,
though we could not tell their design; and I easily found they were
some of my old friends, the same sort of savages that I had been
used to engage with; and in a short time more they rowed a little
further out to sea, till they came so near that they could hear us
speak: upon this I ordered all my men to keep close, lest they
should shoot any more arrows, and made all our guns ready; bu7,
being so near as to be within hearing, I made Friday go out upon
the deck, and call out aloud to them in his language, to know what
they meant; which, accordingly he did. Immediately afterwards,
Friday cried out they were going to shoot, and, unhappily for him,
Door fellow, they let fly about three hundred of their arrows, and,
to my inexpressible grief, killed poor Friday, no other man being in
their sight. The poor fellow was shot with no less than three
arrows, and about three more fell very near him; such unlucky
marksmen they were!
I was so enraged at the loss of my old trusty servant and com-
panion, that I immediately ordered five guns to be loaded with smaL
shot, and four with great, and gave them such a broadside as they
had never heard in their lives oefore, to be sure. They were not
above half a cable length off when we fired; and our gunners took
their aim so well that three or four of their canoes were overset, as
we had reason to believe, by one shot only.
I had only resolved to have fired four or five guns at them with
powder only, which I knew would frighten them sufficiently; but
when they shot at us directly, with all the fury they were capable of,
and especially as they had killed my poor Friday, whom I so entirely
loved and valued, and who, indeed, so well deserved it, I thought
myself not only justifiable before God and man, but would have been
very glad if I could have upset every canoe there, and drowned
every one of them.
I can neither tell how many we killed, nor how many we wounded,
at this broadside, but sure such a fright and hurry never was seen
among such a multitude; there were thirteen or fourteen of their
canoes split and overset in all, and the men all set a swimming; the
rest, frightened out of their wits, scoured away as fast as they could,
taking But little care to save those whose boats were split or spoiled
with our shot; so I suppose that many of them were lost; and our
men took up one poor fellow swimming for his life, above an hour
after they were all gone.
We had a prisoner, indeed, but the creature was so sullen that he
would neither eat nor speak, and we all fancied he would starve
himself to death; but I took a way to cure him; for I made them
take him and turn him into the longboat, and make him believe they
would toss him into the sea again, and so leave him where they
found him, if he would not speak; nor would that do, but they
really did throw him into the sea, and came away from him, and
then he followed them, for he swam like a cork, ana called to them,
in his tongue, though they understood not one word of what he
said; however, at last they took him in again, and then he began to
be more tractable; nor did I ever design they should drown him.
We were now under sail again; but I was the most disconsolate
creature alive for want of my man Friday.
And now I name the poor fellow once more, I must take my last
leave of him: poor honest Fridav! We buried him with all the
decency and solemnity possible, 6y putting him into a coffin, and
throwing him into the sea; and I caused them to fire eleven guns
for him; and so ended the life of the most grateful, faithful, honest,
and most affectionate servant that ever man had.
"We went now away with a fair wind for Brazil; and in about
twelve days' time we made land, in the latitude of five degrees south
of the line, being the norlh-eastcrmost land on all that part of
America. We kept on S. by E. in sight of the shore four days.
when we made Cape St. Augustine, and in three days came to an
anchor off the Bay of All Saints, the old place of my deliverance,
from whence came both my good and evil fate.
Never ship came to this port that had less business than I had,
and yet it was with great difficulty that we were admitted to have
the least correspondence on shore; nor my partner himself, who
was alive, and made a great figure among them, not my two mer-
chant trustees, not the fame of my wonderful preservation in the
island, could obtain me that favour; but my partner remembering
that I had given five hundred moidores to the priory of the monas-
tery of the Augustines, and two hundred and seventy-two to the
poor, went to the monastery, and obliged the prior that then was, to
go to the governor, and get leave for me personally, with the cap-
tain and one more, besides eight seamen, to come on shore, and no
more; and this upon condition absolutely capitulated for, that we
should not offer to land any goods out of the ship, or to carry any
person away without licence. They were so strict with us as to
landing any goods, that it was with extreme difficulty that I got on
shore three bales of English goods, such as fine broadcloths, stuffs,
and some linen, which I had brought for a present to my partner.
He was a very generous, open-hearted man; though, like me, he
came from little at first; and though he knew not that I had the
least design of giving him anything, he sent me on board a present
of fresh provisions, wine, and sweetmeats, worth about thirty moi-
dores, including some tobacco, and three or four fine medals of gold;
but I was even with him in my present, which, as I have said, con-
sisted of fine broadcloth, English stuffs, lace, and fine Hollands; also,
I delivered him about the value of one hundred pounds sterling, in
the same goods, for other uses; and 1 obliged him to set up the
sloop, which I had brought with mo from England, as I have said,
for the uie of my colony, in order to send the refreshments I intended
to my plantation.
Accordingly, he got hands, and finished the sloop in a very few
days, for she was already framed; and I gave the master of her such
instructions as that he could not miss the place; nor did he miss
them, as I had an account from my partner afterwards. I got him
soon loaded with the small cargo I sent them; and one of our sea-
men, that had been on shore with me there, offered to go with the
sloop and settle there, upon my letter to the governor Spaniard to
allot him a sufficient quantity of land for a plantation.
The cargo arrived safe, and, as you may easily suppose, was very
weleome to my old inhabitants, who were now, with this addition,
between sixty and seventy people, besides little children, of which
there were a great many. I found letters at London from them all,
by way of Lisbon, when 1 came back to England, of which I shall
also take some notice immediately.
I have now done with the island, and all manner of discourse
adventttb.es or robinson CRrsos.
about it; and whoever reads the rest of my memorandums would do
well to turn his thoughts entirely from it, and expect to read of the
follies of an old man, not warned by his own harms, much less by
those of other men, to beware of the like; not cooled by almost
forty years' miseries and disappointments; not satisfied with pros-
perity beyond expectation, nor made cautious by afflictions ana dis-
tress beyond imitation.
From the Brazils we made directly over the Atlantic Sea to the
Cape of Good Hope, and had a tolerable good voyage, our course
generally south-east, now and then a storm, and some contrary winds,
but my disasters at sea were at an end; my future rubs and cross
events were to befall me on shore, that it might appear the land was
as well prepared to be our scourge as the sea.
Our snip was on a trading voyage, and had a supercargo on board
who was to direct all her motions after she arrived at the Cape, only
being limited to a certain number of days for stay, by charter-party,
at the several ports she was to go to. " This was none of my busi-
ness, neither did I meddle with it: my nephew, the captain, and the
supercargo, adjusting all those things between them as thev thought
fit.
"^C^.*

SECTION XXXIX.
THE SAILORS REFUSE TO SAIL WITH ROBINSON, WHO IS LIFT BT
HIS NEFHEW, THE CAFTAIN, IN BENGAL.
We stayed at the Cape no longer than was needful to take in fresh
water, but made the best of our way for the coast of Coromandel.
We were indeed informed that a French man-of-war of fifty guns,
and two large merchant ships, were gone for the Indies; and as I
knew we were at war with Prance, I had some apprehensions of
them; but they went their own way, and we heard no more of
them.
I shall not pester the reader with a tedious description of places,
journals of our voyages, variations of the compass, latitudes, trade-
winds, &c.; it is enough to name the ports and places which we
touched at, and what occurred to us upon our passing from one to
another. We touched first at the island of Madagascar, where,
though the people are fierce and treacherous, and very well armed
with lances and oows, which they used with inconceivable dexterity,
yet we fared very well with them a while ; they treated us very civilly;
and, for some trifles which we gave them, such as knives, scissors,
&c. they brought us eleven good fat bullocks of a middling size,
which we took in, partly for fresh provisions for our present spending,
and the rest to salt for the ship's use.
We were now bound to the gulf of Persia, and from thence to the
coast of Coromandel, only to touch at Surat; but the chief of the
supercargo's design lay at the bay of Bengal; where if he missed his
business outward-bound, he was to go up to China, and return to
the coast as he came home.
The first disaster that befel us was in the gulf of Persia, where
five of our men venturing on shore on the Arabian side of the gulf,
were surrounded by the Arabians, and either all killed or carried
»way into slavery: the rest of the boat's crew were not able to rescue
them, and had but just time to get off their boat. I began to upbraid
them with the just retribution of Heaven in this case for cruelty
they had exercised on the natives of Madagascar.
But my frequent preaching to them on the subject had worse
consequences than I expected; and the boatswain who had been the
head of that affair, came up boldly to me one time, and told me he
found that I brought that affair continually upon the stage; that I
made unjust reflections upon it, and had used the men very ill on
that account, and himself in particular; that as I was but a passenger,
and had no command in the ship, or concern in the voyage, they were
not obliged to bear it; that they did not know but 1 might have some
ill design in my head, and perhaps to call them to an account for it
when they came to England; and that, therefore, unless I would
resolve to have done with it, and also not to concern myself any
farther with him, or any of his affairs, he would leave the ship; for
he did not think it was safe to sail with me among them.
I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and then told him,
that as to having no command in the ship, that was true; nor did I
exercise any authority, only took the liberty of speaking my mind in
things which publicly concerned us all; and what concern I had in
the voyage was none of his business; that I was a considerable owner
in the ship ; in that claim, I conceived I had a right to speak even
farther than I had done, and would not be accountable to him or any
one else; and began to be a little warm with him. He made but
little reply to me at that time, and I thought the affair had been over.
We were at this time in the road at Bengal; and being willing to see
the place, I went on shore with the supercargo, in the ship s boat,
to divert myself; and towards evening was preparing to go on board,
when one of the men came to me, and told me he would not have
me trouble myself to come down to the boat, for they had orders not
to carry me on board any more. Any one may guess what a surprise
I was in at so insolent a message; and I asked the man who bade
him deliver that message to me ? He told me, the cockswain. I said
no more to the fellow, but bade him let them know he had delivered
his message, and that I had given him no answer to it.
I immediately went and found out the supercargo, and told him
the story; adding, which I presently foresaw, that there would be a
mutiny in the ship; and entreated him to go immediately on board
the ship in an Indian boat, and acquaint the captain of it. But I
might have spared this intelligence, for before I had spoken to him
on shore the matter was effected on board. The boatswain, the
gunner, the carpenter, and all the inferior officers, as soon as I was
gone off in the boat, came up, and desired to speak with the
captain; and there the boatswain making a long barangue, and
repeating all he had said to me, told the captain, in a few words,
that as 1 was now going peacebly on shore, they were loth to use
any violence with me, which, if I had not gone on shore, they would
otherwise have done, to oblige me to have gone; they therefore
thought fit to tell him, that as they shipped themselves to serve
in the ship under his command, they would perform it well and
faithfully; but if I would not quit the ship, or the captain oblige me
to quit it, they would all leave the ship, and sail no farther with him;
and at that word all, he turned his face towards the mainmast,
which was, it seems, the signal agreed on between them, at which
all the seamen, being got together there, cried out, One and all!
one and all!
My nephew, the captain, was a man of spirit, and of great
presence of mind; and though he was surprised, you may be sure,
at the thing, yet he told them calmly that he would consider of the
matter; out that he could do nothing in it till he had spoken to me
about it. He used some arguments with them to show them the
unreasonableness and injustice of the thing; but it was all in vain;
they swore and shook hands round before his face, that they would
all go on shore, unless he would engage to them not to suffer me to
come any more on board the ship.
This was a hard article upon him, who knew his obligation to me,
and did not know how I might take it; so he began to talk smartly
to them; told them that I was a very considerable owner of the ship,
and that, in justice, he could not put me out of my own house; that
this was next door to serving him as the famous pirate Kiild had
done, who made a mutiny in the ship, set the captain on shore ou an
uninhabited island, and ran away with the ship; that let them go
into what ship they would, if ever they came to England again it
would cost them very dear; that the ship was mine, and that he
could not put me out of it; and that he would rather lose the ship
and the voyage too than disoblige me so much; so they might do as
they pleased; however, he would go on shore and talk with me, and
invited the boatswain to go with him, and perhaps they might
accommodate the matter with me. But they all rejected the proposal,
and said they would have nothing to do with ine any more; and if I
came on board they would go on shore. "Well," said the captain, "if
you are all of this mind, let me go on shore and talk with him" So
away he came to me with thi3 account, a little after the message had
been brought to me from the cockswain.
I was very glad to see my nephew, I must confess: for I was not
without apprehensions that they would confine him by violence, set
sail, and run away with the ship; and then I had been stripped
naked in a remote country, having nothing to help myself: in short,
I had been in a worse case than when I was alone in the island.
But they had not come to that length, it seems, to my satisfaction;
and when my nephew told me what they had said to him, and how
they had sworn and shook hands that they would, one and all, leave
the ship if I was suffered to come on beard, I told him he should
not be concerned at it at all, for I would stay on shore: I only
desired he would take care and send me all my necessary things or
shore, and leave me a sufficient sum of mouey, and I would find my
way to England as well as I could.
This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew, but there was no
way to help it but to comply; so, in short, he went on board the
ship again, and satisfied the men that his uncle had yielded to their
import unity, and had sent for his goods from on board the ship: so
that the matter was over in a few nours, the men returned to their
duty, and I began to consider what course 1 should steer.

SECTION XL.
MEETS WITH AN ENGLISH MERCHANT WITH WHOM HE MAKES
SOME TRADING VOYAGES—THEY ASE MISTAKEN FOR FIRATES
VANQUISH THEIR FURSUERS—VOYAGE TO CHINA — RENCONTRE
WITH THE COCHIN CHINESE ISLAND OF FORMOSA GULP OF
NANQUIN — AFFREHENSIONS OP FALLING INTO THE HANDS OF
THE DUTCH.
[ was now alone in the most remote part of the world, as I think I
may call it, for I was near three thousand leagues by sea farther off
from England than I was at my island; only, it is true, I might
travel here by land over the great Mogul's country to Surat, might
go from thence to Bassora by sea, up the gulf of Persia, and take the
way of the caravans, over the Desert of Arabia, to Aleppo and
Seandcroon; from thence hv sea again to Italy, and so overland into
France; and this put together might at least "be a full diameter of the
globe, or more.
I had another way before me, which was to wait for some English
ships, which were coming to Bengal from Achin, on the island of
Sumatra, and get passage on board them for England. But as I
came hither without any concern with the English East India Com-
pany, so it would be difficult to go from hence without their license,
unless with great favour of the captains of the ships, or the Company's
factors, and to both I was an utter stranger.
Here I had the mortification to see the ship set sail without me;
a treatment I think a man in my circumstances scarce ever met with,
except from piratcs running away with the ship, and setting those
that would not agree with their villany on shore. Indeed, this was
next door to it, both ways ; however, my nephew left me two servants,
or rather one companion and one servant; the first was clerk to the
purser, whom he engaged to go with me, and the other was his own
servant. I took me also a good lodging in the house of an English-
woman, where several merchants lodged, some French, two Italians,
or rather Jews, and one Englishman; here I was handsomely enough
entertained: and that I might not be said to run rashly upon any-
thing, I stayed here above nine months considering what course to
take, and how to manage myself. I had some English goods with
me of value, and a considerable sum of money; my nephew furnish-
ing me with a thousand pieces of eight, and a letter of credit for
more, if I had occasion, that I might not be straitened whatever
might happen.
I quickly disposed of my goods to advantage, and, as I originally
intended, I bought here some very good diamonds, which, of all
other things, were the most proper for me, in my present circum-
stances; because I could always carry my whole estate about me.
After a long stay here, and many proposals made for my return to
England, but none falling out to my mind, the English merchant who
lodged with me, and whom I had contracted an intimate acquaintance
with, came to me one morning. "Countryman," says he, "I have a
project to communicate to you, which, as it suits with my thoughts,
may, for aught I know, suit with yours also, when you shall have
thoroughly considered it. Here we are posted, you by accident, and
I by my own choice, in a part of the'world very remote from our own
country; but it is in a country where, by us who understand trade
and business, a great deal of money is to be got. If you will put
one thousand pounds, to my one thousand pounds, we will hire a ship
here, the first we can get to our minds ; you shall be captain, I'll be
merchant, and we'll go a trading voyage to China."
I liked this proposal very well, and the more because it seemed to
be expressed with so much good will, and in so friendly a manner.
It was, however, some time before we could get a ship to our
minds, and when we had got a vessel, it was not easy to get English
sailors; that is to say, so many as were necessary to govern the
voyage and manage the sailors which we should pick up there. After
some time we got a mate, a boatswain, and a gunner, English; a
Dutch carpenter, and three foremastmen. With these we found we
could do well enough, having Indian seamen, such as they were, to
make up.
We made this voyage to Achin, in the island of Sumatra, and from
thence to Siam, where we exchanged some of our wares for opinm
and some arrack; the first a commodity which bears a great price
among the Chinese, and which, at that time, was much wanted
thers. In a word, we went up to Susham, made a very great voyage
were eight months out, and returned to Bengal; and I was very
well satisfied with my adventure
In short, we made a very good voyage, and I got so much money
b.y my first adventure, and such an insight into the method of getting
more, that had I been twenty years younger, I should have been
tempted to have stayed here, and sought no farther for making any
fortune: but what was all this to a man upwards of threescore, that
was rich enough, and came abroad more in obedience to a restless
desire of seeing the world than a covetous desire of gaining by it?
But this was not all: I had a kind of impatience upon me to be
nearer home, and yet the most unsettled resolution imaginable which
way to go. In the interval of these consultations, my friend, who
was always upon the search for business, proposed another voyage
to me among the Spice Islands, and to bring home a loading of
cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts; places, indeed, where the
Dutch trade, but islands belonging partly to the Spaniards; though
we went not so far, but to some other, where they have not the
whole power, as they have at Batavia, Ceylon, &c.
We were not long in preparing for this voyage; the chief difficulty
was in bringing me to come into it: however; at last, nothing else
offering, and finding that really stirring about and trading, the profit
being so great, and, as I may say certain, had more pleasure in it,
and had more satisfaction to my mind, than sitting still, which, to
we especially, was the unhappiest part of my life, 1 resolved on this
voyage too, which we made very successfully, touching at Borneo,
ind several islands whose names I do not remember, and came home
in about five months. We sold our spice, which was chiefly cloves
and some nutmegs, to the Persian merchants, who carried them
away to the gulf; and making near five of one, we really got a great
deal of money.
But, to be short with my speculations, a little while after this
there came in a Dutch ship from Batavia; she was a coaster, not an
European trader, of about two hundred tons burthen; the men, as
they pretended, having been so sickly, that the captain had not
hands enough to go to sea with, he lay by at Bengal; and having, it
seems, got money enough, or being willing, for other reasons, to go
to Europe, he gave public notice that he would sell his ship. This
came to my ears before my new partner heard of it, and I had a
great mind to buy it; so I went to him, and told him of it. lie
considered awhile, for he was no rash man; but musing some time.
he replied, "She is a little too big; but, however, we will have her."
Accordingly, we bought the ship, and agreeing with the master, w*»
paid for ner, and took possession. When we had done so, wj
resolved to entertain the men, if we could, to join them with mow
we had, for the pursuing our business; but on a sudden, they havintr
received not their wages, but their share of the money, as we after-
wards learned, not one of them was to be found; we inquired mucu
about them, and at length were told that they were all gone together
by land to Agra, the great city of the Mogul's residence, and Iron,
thence to travel to Surat, and go by sea to the gulf of Persia.
Nothing had so mueh troubled me a good while as that I should
miss the opportunity of going with them; for such a ramble, 1
thought, ana in such company as would both have guarded and
diverted me, would have suited mightily with my great design; and
I should have both seen the world and gone homewards too: but I
was much better satisfied a few days after, when I came to know
what sort of fellows they were; for, in short, their history was,
that this man they called captain was the gunner only, not the com-
mander; that they had been a trading voyage, in which they had
been attacked on shore by some of the Malays, who had killed the
captain and three of his men; and that after the captain was killed,
these men, eleven in number, had resolved to run away with the
shin, which they did and brought her to Bengal, leaving the mate
ana five more men on shore; of whom hereafter.
Well, let them get the ship how they would, we came honestly by
her, as we thought, though we did not, I confess, examine into
things so exactly as we ought; for we never inquired anything of
the seamen, who would certainly have faltered in their account,
contradicted one another, and perhaps contradicted themselves; or
one how or other we should nave had reason to have suspected
them: but the man showed us a bill of sale for the ship, to one
Emanuel Clostershoven, or some such name, for I suppose it was all
a forgery, and called himself by that name, and we could not con-
tradict him; and withal, having no suspicion of the thing, we went
through with our bargain.
We picked up some more English sailors here after this, and some
Dutch; and now we resolved for a second voyage to the south-east
for cloves, &c.; that is to say, among the Philippine and Molucca
isles; and, in short, not to fill up this part of my story with trifles,
when what is to come is so remarkable, I spent, from first to laat,
six years in this country, trading from port to port, backward and
forward with very great success, and was now the last year with my
new partner, going in the ship above-mentioued, on a voyage to
China, but designing first to go to Siam, to buy rice.
In this voyage, bein" by contrary winds obliged to beat up and
dovn a great while in the straits of Malacca, and among the islands,
w» were no sooner got clear of those difficult seas than we found
our shin had sprung a leak, and we were not able, by all out
industry, to find out where it was. This forced us to make some
poif. and my partner, who knew the country better than I did,
auected the captain to put into the river of Cambodia; for I had
maue the English mate, one Mr. Thompson, captain, not being
wuiing to take the charge of the ship upon myself. This river lies
on tne north side of the great bay or gulf which goes up to Siam.
While wc were here, and going often on shore for refreshments ther*
comes to me one day an Englishman, and he was, it seems, ii
gunner's-maf e on board an English East India ship which rode in
the same river, at or near the city of Cambodia; what brought him
hither we knew not; but he comes to me, and speaking English,
"Sir," says he, "you are a stranger to me, and I to you, but I have
something to tell you that very nearly concerns you."
I looked steadfastly at him a good while, and thought at first I
had known him, but I did not: "If it very nearly concerns me,"
said T, "and not yourself, what moves you to tell it to me?"—"J
am moved," says he, "by the imminent danger you are in, and, fot
aught I see, you have no knowledge of it."—" I know no danger I
am in," says I, "but that my ship is leaky, and I cannot find it out;
but I intend to lay her aground to-morrow, to see if I can find it."
"But, sir," says he, "leaky or not leaky, find it or not find it, you
will bo wiser than to lay your ship on shore to-morrow, when you
hear what I have to say to you: do you know, sir," said he, "the
town of Cambodia lies about fifteen leagues up this river? and there
are two large English ships about five leagues on this side, and
three Dutch."—"Well," said I, "and what is that to me?"—
"Why, sir," said he, "is it for a man that is upon such adventures
as you are, to come into a port and not examine first what ships
there are there, and whether he is able to deal with them? I sup-
pose you do not think you are a match for them?" I was amused
very much at his discourse, but not amazed at it, for I could not
conoeive what he meant; and I turned short upon him, and said,
"Sir, I wish you would explain yourself; I cannot imagine what
reason 1 have to be afraid of any of the Company's ships, or Dutch
ships; 1 am no interloper; what can they have to say to me? He
looked like a man half angry and half pleased, and pausing awhile,
but smiling, "Well, sir, savs he, "if you think yourself secure,
you must take your chance; 1 am sorry your fate should blind you
against good advice: but assure yourself, if you do not put to sea
immediately, you will the very next tide be attacked by five long-
boats full of men, and perhaps, if you are taken, you will be hanged
for a pirate, and the particulars be examined afterwards. I thought,
sir," added he, "] should have met with a better reception than
this, for doing you a piece of service of such importance. —" I can
never be ungrateful," said I, "for any service, or to any man that
offers me any kindness; but it is past my comprehension what they
should have such a design upon me for: however, since you say
there is no time to be lost, and that there is some villanous design
on hand against me, 1 will go on board this minute, and put to sea
immediately, if my men can stop the leak, or if we can swim with-
out stopping it: but, sir," said I, "shall I go away ignorant of the
cause of all this? Can yon give me no further light into it?"—
"I can tell you but part of the storv, sir," says he; "but I have a
Dutch seaman here with me, and I believe I could persuade him to
Sell you the rest; but there is scarce time for it: but the short of
the story is this, the first part of which, I suppose, you know well
enough, viz., that you was with this ship at Sumatra; that there
your captain was murdered by the Malays, with three of his men;
and that you, or some of those that were on board with you, ran
away with the ship, and are since turned pirates. This is the sum
of the story, and you will all be seized as pirates, I can assure you,
and executed with very little ceremony; for you know merchant
ships show but little law to pirates, if they get them into their
power."—" Now you speak plain English," said I, "and I thank
you; and though 1 know nothing that we have done like what you
talk of, for I am sure we came honestly and fairly by the ship; yet
seeing such a work is doing, as you say, and that you seem to mean
honestly, I will be upon my guard."—" Nay, sir, says he, "do not
talk about being upon your guard; the best defence is, to be out of
danger; if you have any regard for your life, and the lives of all
your men, put to sea without fail, at high water; and as you have
a whole tide before you, you will be gone too far out before they cau
come down; for they will come away at high water, and as they
have twenty miles to come, you will get near two hours of them by
the difference of the tide, not reckoning the length of the way;
besides, as they are only boats, and not ships, they will not venture
to follow you tar out to sea, especially if it wows."—" Well, said I,
"you have been very kind in this; what shall I do to make
amends?"—"Sir," says he, "you may not be willing to make any
amends, because you may not be convinced of the truth of it: I
will make an offer to you; I have nineteen months' pay due to me
on board the ship ***, which I came out of England in; and the
Dutchman that is with me has seven month's pay due to him; if
you will make good our pay to us, we will go along with you: if
you find nothing more in it, we will desire no more; but if we do
convince you that we have saved vour lives, and the ship, and the
lives of all the men in her, we will leave the lest to you.
I consented to this readily, and went immediately on board, and
the two men with me. As soon as I came to the ship's side, my
partner, who was on board, came out on the quarter-deck, and called
to me, with a great deal of joy, "O ho! 0 ho! we have stopped
the leak! we have stopped the leak!"—"Say you so?" said I,
"thank God; but weigh anchor then immediately."—" Weigh!"
says he: "what do you mean by that? What is the matter?"
"Ask no questions," said I, " but all hands to work', and weigh
without losing a minute." He was surprised, but, however, he
culled the captain, and he immediately ordered the anchor to be got
up; and though the tide was not quite down, yet a little land
breeze blowing, we stood out to sea. Then I called him into the
cabin, and told him the story; and we called in the men, and they
told us the rest of it: but as it took up a great deal of time, before
we had done a seaman comes to the cabin door, and called out to us
that the captain bade him tell us we were chased. "Chased!" says
I; "by what?"—"By five sloops, or boats," says the fellow, "full
of men."—" Very well," said I; "then it is apparent there is some-
thing in it." In the next place I ordered all our men to be called
up, and told them there was a design to seize the ship, and to take
us for pirates, and asked them if they would stand by us, and by
one another: the men answered cheerfully, one and all, that they
wouid live and die with us. Then I asked the captain what way he
thought best for us to manage a fight with them; for resist them I
was resolved we would, and that to the last drop. He said readily
that the way was to keep them off with our great shot as long as we
could, and then fire at them with our small arms, to keep them from
boarding us; but when neither of these would do any longer, we
should retire to our close quarters; perhaps they had not materials
to break open our bulk-heads, or get in upon us.
The gunner had, in the meantime, orders to bring two guns to
bear fore and aft, out of the steerage, to clear the deck, and load
them with musket bullets and small pieces of old iron, and what
came next to hand; and thus we made ready for fight: but all this
while we kept out to sea, with wind enough, and could see the boats
at a distance, being five large long-boats, following us with all the
sail they could make.
Two of those boats (which by our glasses we could see were
English) outsailed the rest, were near two leagues ahead of them,
and gained upon us considerably, so that we found they would come
up with us; upon which we fired a gun without ball, to intimate
that they should bring to; and we put out a flag of truce, as a
signal for parley; but they came crowding after us, till they came
within shot, when we took in our white nag, they having made no
answer to it, and hung out a red flag, and fired at them with shot.
Notwithstanding this, they came on till they were near enough to
call to them with a speaking trumpet which we had on board; so
we called to them, and bade them keep off, at their peril.
It was all one: they crowded after us, and endeavoured to come
under our stern, so as to board us on our quarter; upon which,
seeing they were resolute for mischief, and depended upon the
strength that followed them, I ordered to bring the ship to, so
that they lay upon our broadside; when immediately we fired five
guns at them, one of which had been levelled so true as to carry
away the stern of the hindermost boat, and bring them to the
necessity of taking down their sail, and running all to the head of the
boat to keep her from sinking; so she lay by, and had enough of it;
but seeing the foremost boat crowd on after us, we made ready to
fire at her in particular. While this was doing, one of the three
boats that was behind, being forwarder than the other two, made up
to the boat which we had disabled, to relieve her, and we could see
270 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CB.USOE.
offered a truce, to parley again, and to know what her business was
with us; but had no answer, only she crowded close under our
stern. Upon this our gunner, who was a very dexterous fellow, run
out his two chase guns, and fired again at her, but the shot missing,
the men in the boat shouted, waved their caps, and came on; but
the gunner, getting quickly ready again, fired among them a second
time, one shot of which, though it missed the boat itself, yet fell in
among the men, and we could easily see had done a great deal of
mischief among them; but we took no notice of that, wore the ship
again, and brought our quarter to bear upon them, and firing three
guns more, we found the boat was almost split to pieces; in
particular, her rudder and a piece of her stern was shot quite away;
so they handed her sail immediately, and were in great disorder.
But to complete their misfortune, our gunner let fly two guns at
them again: where he hit them we could not tell, but we found the
noat whs sinking, and some of the men already in the water.- upon
this I immediately manned out our pinnace, which we had kept close
by our side, with orders to pick up some of the men, if they could,
and save them from drowning, and immediately come on board the
ship with them, because we saw the rest of the boats began to come
up. Our men in the pinnace followed their orders, and took up
three men, one of whom was just drowning, and it was a good while
before we could recover him. As soon as they were on board, we
crowded all the sail we could make, and stood farther out to sea;
and we found that when the other three boats came up to the first,
they gave over their chase.
Being thus delivered from a danger, which, though I knew not
the reason of it, yet seemed to be much greater than I apprehended,
I resolved that we should change our course, and not let any one
know whither we were going: so we stood out to sea, eastward,
quite out of the course of all European ships, whether they were
bound to China or any where else within the commerce of the
European nations.
When we were at sea, we began to consult with the two seamen,
and inquire what the meaning of all this could be; and the Dutch-
man let us into the secret at once, telling us that the fellow that
sold us the ship, as we said, was no more than a thief that had run
away with her. Then he told us how the captain, whose nafhe too
he told us, though I do not remember it now, was treachorouslj
murdered by the natives on the coast of Malacca, with three of his
men; and that he, this Dutchman, and four more, got into the
woods, where they wandered about a great while, till at length he,
in particular, in a miraculous manner, made his escape, and swam
off to a Dutch ship, which, sailing near the shore in its way from
China, had sent their boat on shore for fresh water; that he durst
not come to that part of the shore where the boat was, but made
saifl in the night to take the water farther off, and swimming a great
while, at last the ship's boat took him up.
He then told us that he went to Batavia, where two of the sea-
men belonging to the ship arrived, having deserted the rest in their
travels, ana gave an account that the fellow who had run away with
the ship sold her at Bengal to a set of pirates, which were gone a
cruising in her; and that they had already taken an English ship
and two Dutch ships very richly laden.
This latter part was found to concern us directly, though we knew
it to be false; yet as my partner said very justly, if we had fallen
into their hands, and they had such a prepossession against us
beforehand, it had been in vain for us to have defended ourselves, or
to hope for any good quarter at their hands; and especially con-
sidering that our accusers had been our judges, and that we could
have expected nothing from them but what rage would have dictated,
and an ungoverned passion have executed; and therefore it was his
opinion we should go directly back to Bengal, trom whence wo
came, without putting in at any port whatever; because there we
could give a good account of ourselves, could prove where we were
when the ship put in, of whom we bought her, and the like; and
which was more than all the rest, if we were put upon the necessity
of bringing it before the proper judges, we should be sure to have
some justice, and not to be hanged first and judged afterwards.
I was some time of my partner's opinion; but after a little more
serious thinking, I told him I thought it was a very great hazard for
us to attempt returning to Bengal, for that we were on the wrong
side of the Straits of Malacca, and that if the alarm was given, we
should be sure to be waylaid on every side, as well by the Dutch of
Batavia as the English elsewhere; that if we should be taken, as it
were, running away, we should even condemn ourselves, and there
would want no more evidence to destroy us. I abo asked the English
sailor's opinion, who said he was of my mind, and that we should
certainly be taken. This danger a little startled my partner, and all
the ship's company, and wc immediately resolved to go away to the
coast of Tonquin, and so on to the coast of China; ana pursuing the
first design as to trade, find some way or other to dispose ot the
ship, and come back in some of the vessels of the country, such as
we could get. This was approved of as the best method for our
security; and accordingly we steered away N.N.E., keeping above
fifty leagues off from the usual course to the eastward. This, how-
ever, put us to some inconvenience; for, first, the winds, when we
came to that distance from the shore, seemed to be more steadily
against us, blowing almost trade, as we call it, from the E and
E.N.E., so that we were a long while upon our voyage, and we were
but ill provided with victuals for so long a run; and, which was still
worse, there was some danger that those English and Dutch ships,
whose boats pursued us, whereof some were bound that way, might
be got ill before us, and if not, some other ship bound to Q.'.-aa
might have information of us from them, and pursue us with the
same vigour.
I must confess, I was now very uneasy, and thought myself, in-
cluding the late escape from the long-boats, to have been in the most
dangerous condition that ever I was in through my past life; for
whatever ill circumstances I had been in, I was never pursued for a
thief before; nor had 1 ever done anything that merited the name
of dishonest or fraudulent, much less thievish; I had chiefly been
my own enemy, or, as I might rightly say, I had been nooody't
enemy but my own; but now I was embarrassed in the worst condi-
tion imaginable; for though I was perfectly innocent, I was in no
condition to make that innocence appear; and if I had been taken,
it had been under a supposed guilt of the worst kind. This made
me very anxious to make an escape, though which way to do it I
knew not, or what port or place we could go to. My partner seeing
me thus dejected, though he was the most concerned at first, began
to encourage me, and describing to me the several ports of that
coast, told me he would put in on the coast of Cochin China, or the
Bay of Tonquin, intending to go afterwards to Macao, a town once
in possession of the Portuguese, and where still a great many Euro-
pean families resided; and particularly the missionary priests usually
went thither, in order to their going forward to China.
Hither then we resolved to go; and accordingly, though after a
tedious and irregular course, and very much straitened for provi-
sions, we came within sight of the coast very early in the morning;
and upon reflection on the past circumstances we were in, and tie
danger if we had not escaped, we resolved to put into a small river,
which, however, had depth enough of water for us, and to-see if we
could, either overland or by the ship's pinnace, come to know what
ships were in any port thereabouts. This happy step was, indeed,
our deliverance; for though we did not immediately see any Euro-
pean ships in the Bay of Tonquin, yet the next morning there came
into the bay two Dutch ships; and a third, without any colours
spread out, but which we believed to be a Dutchman, passed by at
about two leagues' distance, steering for the coast of China; and in
the afternoon went by two English ships steering the same course;
and thus we thought we saw ourselves beset with enemies both one
way and the other. The place we were in was wild and barbarous;
the people thieves, even by occupation or profession; and though, it
is true, we had not much to seek of them, and, except getting a few
provisions, cared not how little we had to do with them, yet it was
with much difficulty that we kept ourselves from being insulted by
them, several ways. We were in a small river of this country,
within a few leagues of its utmost limits northward; and by our
boat we coasted north-east, to the point of land which opens the
great Bay of Tonquin; and it was in this beating up along 1 he shore
that we discovered we were surrounded with enemies. The people
we were among were the most barbarous of all the inhabitants of tin
coast, having no correspondence with any other nation, and dealing
only in fish and oil, and such gross commodities; and it may be par-
ticularly seen that they are, as I said, the most barbarous of any of
the inhabitants. Among other customs, they have this one, viz.
that if any vessel has the misfortune to be shipwrecked upon their
coast, they presently make the men all prisoners or slaves; and it
was not long before we found a spice of their kindness this way,
on the occasion following.
1 have observed above, that our ship sprang a leak at sea, and
that we could not find it out; and it happened that, as I have said,
it was stopped unexpectedly in the happy minute of our being to be
seized by the Dutch and English ships in the Bay of Siam; yet as
we did not find the ship so perfectly sound and tight as we desired,
we resolved, while we were at this place, to lay ner on shore, and
take out what heavy things we had on board, and clean her bottom;
and, if possible, to find out where the leaks were. Accordingly,
having lightened the ship, and brought all our guns and other move-
ables to one side, we tried to bring her down, that we might come
at her bottom; but, on second thoughts, we did not care to lay her
on dry ground, neither could we find a proper place for it.
The inhabitants, who had never been acquainted with such a sight,
Cuuie wondering down t o t he shore to look at us; and seeing the ship
lie down on one side in such a manner, and heeling in towards the
shore, and not seeing our men, who were at work on her bottom
with stages, and with their boats on the off-side, they presently
concluded that the ship was cast away, and lay bo fast on the
ground On this supposition, they came all about us in two or
three hours' time, with ten or twelve large boats, having some of
them eight, some ten men in a boat, intending, no doubt, to have
come on board and plundered the ship; and if they had found us
there, to have carried us away for slaves to their king, or whatever
they call him, for we knew nothing of who was governor.
When they came up to the ship and began to row round her, they
discovered us all hard at work on the outside of the ship's bottom
and side, washing, and graving, and stopping, as every seafaring
.nan knows how. They stood for a while gazing at us, and we, who
were a little surprised, could not imagine what their design was;
but being willing to be sure, we took this opportunity to get some of
us into the ship, and others to hand down arms and ammunition to
those that were at work to defend themselves with, if there should
be occasion; and it was no more than need: for in less than a quar-
ter of an hour's consultation, they agreed, it seems, that the ship
was really a wreck; and that we were all at work endeavouring to
save her, or to savo our lives by the help of our boats; and when we
banded our arms into the boats, they concluded, by tlmt motion,
that we were endeavouring to save some of our goods; upon this
they took it for granted we all belonged to them, and away they
came directly upon our men, as if it had been in a line of battle.
Our men, seeing so many of them, began to be frightened, for we
lay but in au ill posture to fight, and cried out to us to know what
they should do. I immediately called to the men that worked upon
the stages, to slip t hem down, and get up the side into the ship ; and
bade those in the boat to row round, and come on board; and those
few of us who were on board worked with all the strength and hands
we had, to bring the ship to rights; but, however, neither the men
upon the stages nor those in the boats could do as they were ordered,
before the Cochin Chinese were upon them; and two of their boats
boarded our long-boat, and began to lay hold of the men as their
prisoners.
The first man they laid hold of was an English seaman, a stout,
strong fellow, who, having a musket in his hand, never offered to
fire it, but laid it down in the boat, like a fool, as I thought; but he
understood his business better than I could teach him, for he grappled
the pagan, and dragged him by main force out of their boat into
ours, where taking him by the cars, he beat his head so against the
boat's gunnel, that the fellow died in his hands; and, in the mean
time, a Dutchman, who stood next, taking up the musket, with
the butt-end of it so laid about him, that he knocked down five of
them who attempted to enter the boat. But this was doing little
towards resisting thirty or forty men, who fearless, because ignorant
of their danger, began to throw themselves into the long-boat, where
we had but five men in all to defend it: but the following accident,
which deserved our laughter, gave our men a complete victory.
Our carpenter being prepared to grave the outside of the ship, as
well to pay the seams where he had caulked her, to stop the leaks,
had got two kettles just let down into the boat, one filled with
boiling pitch, and the other with rosin, tallow, and oil, and such stuff
as the shipwrights use for that work, and the man that attended
the carpenter had a great iron ladle in his hand, with which he
supplied the men who were at work with the hot stuff; two of
the cnemv's men entered the boat just where this fellow stood,
being in the fore-sheets; he immediately saluted them with a handful
of the stuff, boiling hot, which so burned and scalded them, being
half naked, that they roared out like bulls, and enraged with the fire,
leaped both into the sea. The carpenter saw it, and cried out.
"Well done, Jack; give them some more of it; " and stepping for-
ward himself, takes one of the mops, and dipping it in the pitch-pot
he and his man threw it among them so plentifully, that, in short,
of all the men in the three boats there was not one who escaped
being scalded and burned with it, in a most frightful, pitiful manner,
and made such a howling and crying, that I never heard a worst
noise; for it is worth observing, for that though pain naturally make*
all people cry out, yet every nation has a particular way t. exclama-
tion, and makes noises as different from cne another as their speech.
I cannot give the noise these creatures made a better name than
howling, nor a name more proper to the tone of it; for I never heard
anything more like the noise of the wolves, which, as I have said, I
heard howl in the forest on the frontiers of Languedoc.
I was never better pleased with a victory in my life; not only rts
it was a perfect surprise to me, and that our danger was imminent
before, but as we got this victory without any bloodshed, except of
that man the fellow killed with his naked hands, and which I was
much concerned at, for I was sick of killing such poor savage wretches,
even though it was in my own defence, knowing they came on
errands which they thought just, and knew no better; and that
though it may be a just thing, because necessary (for there is no
necessary wickedness in nature) yet I thought it was a sad life, when
we must be always obliged to be killing our fellow-creatures to pre-
serve ourselves; and, indeed I think so still, and I would even now
suffer a great deal, rather than T would take away the life even of
the worst person injuring me; and I believe all considering people
who know the value of Bfe would be of my opinion, if they entered
seriously into the consideration of it.
But to return to my story:—All the while this was doing, my
partner and I, who managed the rest of the men on board, had with
great dexterity brought the ship almost to rights, and having got
the guns into their places again, the gunner called to me to get our
boat out of the way, for he would let fly among them. I called
back again to him, and bid him not offer "to fire, for the carpenter
would do the work without him; but bid him heat another pitch-
kettle, which our cook, who was on board, took care of; but the
enemy was so terrified with what they had met with in their first
attack, that they would not come on again: and some of them who
were farthest off, seeing the ship swim, as it were, upright, began,
as we suppose, to see their mistake, and give over the enterprise,
finding it was not as they expected. Thus we got clear of this
merry fight, and having got some rice, and some roots and bread,
with about sixteen hogs, on board, two days before, we resolved to
stay here no longer, but go forward, whatever came ol it; for we
made no doubt out we should be surrounded the next day with
rogues enough, perhaps more than our pitch-kettle would dispose of
for us. We therefore got all our things on board the same evening,
and the next morning were ready to sail; in the mean time, laying
at anchor at some distance from the shore, we were not so much
concerned, being now in a fighting posture, as well as in a sailing
posture, if an enemy had presented. The next day, having finished
our work within board, and finding our ship was perfectly healed of
all her leaks, we set sail. _ We would have gone into the Bay of
Tonquin, for we wanted to inform ourselves of what was to be known
concerning the Dutch ships that had been there; but we durst not
staud in there, because we had seen several ships go in, as we
supposed, but a little before: so we kept on N.B. towards the island
of Formosa, as much afraid of being seen by a Dutch or English
merchant ship, as a Dutch or English merchant ship in the Medi-
terranean is of an Algerine man-of-war.
When we were thus got to sea, we kept on N.E. as if we would go
to the Manillas or the Philippine islands, and this we did that we
might not fall into the way of the European ships; and then
we steered north, till we came to the latitude of 22 deg. 30 min., by
which means we made the island Formosa directly, where we came
to an anchor, in order to get water and fresh provisions, which the
people there, who were very courteous and civil in their manners,
supplied us with willingly, and dealt very fairly and punctually with
us in all their agreements and bargains, which is what we did not
find among other people, and may be owing to the remains of Chris-
tianity which was once planted here by a Dutch missionary of
Protestants, and is a testimony of what 1 have often observed, viz.
that the Christian religion always civilizes the people and reforms
their manners, where it is received, whether it works saving cfTecls
upon them or no.
From thence we sailed still north, keeping the coast of China at
an equal distance, till we knew we were beyond all the ports of
China where our European ships usually come; being resolved, if
possible, not to fall into any of their hands, especially in this country;
where, as our circumstances were, we could not fail of being entirely
ruined.
Being now come to the latitude of thirty degrees, we resolved to
put into the first trading port we should come at; and standing in
for the shore, a boat came off two leagues to us, with an old Portu-
guese pilot on board, who knowing us to be an European ship,
came to offer his service, which, indeed, we were very glad of, and
took him on board; upon which, without asking us whither we
would go, he dismissed the boat he came in, and sent it back.
I thought it was now so much in our choice to make the old man
carry us whither we would, that I began to talk to him about
carrying us to the gulf of Nanquin, which is the most northern part
of the coast of China. The old man said he knew the gulf of
Nanquin very well, but smiling, asked us what we would do there?
I told him we would sell our cargo and purchase China wares,
calicoes, raw silks, tea, wrought silks, &c., and so would return by
the same course we came. He told us our best port had been to
have put in at Macao, where we could not have failed of a market
for our opinm to our satisfaction, and might for our money have
purchased all sorts of China goods as cheap as we could at
Nanquin.
Not being able to put the old man out of his talk, of which h«
was very opinionated or conceited, I told him we were gentlemen as
well as merchants, and that we had a mind to sec the great city of
Pckin, and the famous Court of .the monarch of China. "Why
then." says the old man, "you should go to Ningpo, where by the
river that runs into the sea there, you may go up within five leagues
of the great canal. This canal is a navigable stream, which goes
through the heart of that vast empire of China, crosses all the rivers,
passes some considerable hills by the help of sluices and gates. and
goes up to the city of Pckin, being in length near two hundred and
seventy leagues.
"V\ ell," said I, "Senhor Portuguese, but that is not our business
now; the great question is, if you can carry us up to the city of
Nanquin, from whence we can travel to Peking afterwards t" He said
he could do so very well, and that there was a great Dutch ship gone
up that way just before. This gave me a little shock, for a Dutch
ship was now our terror; and we depended upon it that a Dutch ship
would be our destruction, for we were in no condition to fight them;
all the ships they trade with into those parts being of great burden,
and of much greater force than we were.
The old man found me a little confused, and under some concern,
when he named a Dutch ship; and said to me, "Sir, you need be
under no apprehensions of the Dutch ; I suppose they are not now
at war with your nation ?"—"No," said I, "that's true; but I know
not what liberties men may take when they are out of the reach of the
laws of their own country.—" Why," says he, "you are no pirates;
what need you fear? They will not meddle with peaceable merch-
ants, sure."
If I had any blood in my body that did not fly up into my face at
that word, it was hindered by some stop in the vessels appointed by
nature to circulate it, for it put me into the greatest disorder ana
confusion imaginable; nor was it possible for me to conceal it so;
but that the old man easily perceived it.
"Sir," says he, "I find you are in some disorder in your thoughts
at my talk; pray be pleased to go which way you think fit, and,
depend upon it, I'll do you all the service I can."—" Why, senhor,"
said I, "it is true, I am a little unsettled in my resolution at this
time, whither to go in particular; and I am something more so for
what you said abt.ut pirates. I hope there are no pirates in these
sc"as; we are but in an ill condition to meet with them, for you see
wc are but a small force, and are but very weakly manned. —" 0,
sir," says he, "don't be concerned, I do not know that there have
been any pirates in these seas for fifteen years, except one, which
was seen, as I hear, in the bay of Siam, about a month since; but
you may be assured she is gone to the southward; nor was she a
ship of any great force, or fit for the work. She was not built for
a privateer, Gut was run away with by a reprobate crew that was on
board, after the captain and some of his men had been murdered by
the Malayans, at or near the bland of Sumatra." What!" said
I, seeming to know nothing of the matter, *' did they murder the
captain?" "No," said he, "I don't understand that they murdered
him; but as they afterwards ran away with the ship, it is generally
believed that they betrayed him into the hands of the Malayans,
who did mnrder him; and perhaps they procured them to do it."—
"Why then," said I, "they deserve death as much as if they had
done it themselves."—" Nay," says the old man, "they do deserve
it; and they will certainly have it, if they light upon any English
or Dutch ship: for they liave all agreed together, that if they meet
that rogue they'll give him no quarter."—" But," said I to him,
"you say the pirate is gone out of these seas; how can they meet
with him then?"—""Why, that's true," says he, "they do say so;
but he was, as I tell you, in the bay of Siam, in the river Cambodia;
and was discovered there by some Dutchmen who belonged to the
ship, and who were left on shore when they ran away with her; and
some English and Dutch traders being in the river, they were within
a little of taking him: nay," said he, "if the foremost boats had
had been well seconded by the rest, they had certainly taken him;
but he, finding only two boats within reach of him, tacked about,
and fired at those two, and disabled them before the others came up,
and then standing off to sea, the others were not able to follow, and
so he got away; but they have all so exact a description of the
ship, that they will be sure to know her; and wherever they find
her they have vowed to give no quarter either to the captain or sea-
men, but to hang them all up at the yard-arm."—" What!" said I,
"will they execute them right or wrong; hang them first, and
judge them afterwards ?"—" O sir," says the old pilot, " there is no
need to make a formal business of it with such rogues as those; let
them tie them back to back, and set them a diving, 'tis no more
than they deserve."
I knew I had my old man fast on board, and that he could do no
harm, so that I turned short upon him: "Well now, senhor," said
I, "this is the very reason why I would have you carry us up to
Nanquin, and not put back to Macao, or to any other part of the
country where the English or Dutch ships come; for be it known to
you, senhor, those captains of the English and Dutch ships are a
parcel of rash, prouct insolent fellows, that neither know what
belongs to justice, nor how to behave themselves as the laws of
God and nature direct; but being proud of their offices, and not
understanding their power, they would act the murderers to punish
robbers; would take upou them to insult men falsely accused, and
determine them guilty without due inquiry: and perhaps I may live
to bring some of them to account for it, when they may be taught
how justice is to be executed; and that no man ought to be treated
as a criminal till some evidence may be had of the crime, and
that he is the man."
With this I told him that this was the very ship they attacked,
and gave him a full account of the skirmish we had with their
boats, and how foolishly and cowardly they behaved. I told him all
the story of our buying the ship, and how the Dutchmen served us.
I told him the reasons I had to believe the story of killing the
master by the Malayans was true, as also the running away with the
ship; but it was all a fiction of their own to suggest that the men
had turned pirates, and they ought to have been sure it was so
before they had ventured to attack us by surprise, and oblige us to
resist them; adding, that they would have the blood of those men,
whom we killed there in just defence, to answer for.
The old man was amazed at this relation, and told us we were
very much in the right to go away to the north; and that if he might
advise us, it should be to sell the ship in China, which we might
very well do, and buy or build another in the country; "and," said lie,
"though you will not get so good a ship, yet you may get one able
enough to carry you and all your goods back again to Bengal, or
any where else." I told him I would take his advice when I came
to any port where I could find a ship for my turn, or get any
customer to buy this. He replied, I should meet with customers
enough for the ship at Nanquin, and that a Chinese junk would
serve me very well to go back again; and that he would procure me
people both to buy one and sell the other. "Well but, senhor,"
said I, "as you say they know the ship so well, I may, perhaps, if I
follow your measures, be instrumental to bring some honest innocent
men into a terrible broil, and perhaps be murdered in cold blood;
for wherever they find the ship, they will prove the guilt upon the
men, by proving this was the ship, and so innocent men may pro-
bably be overpowered and murdered."—" Why," says the old man,
*' I'll find out a way to prevent that also; for as I know all those
commanders you speak of very well, and shall see them all as they
pass by, I will be sure to set them to rights in the thing, and let
them know that they had been so much in the wrong; that though
the people who were on board at first might run away with the ship,
yet it was not true that they had turned pirates; and that, in par-
ticular, these were not the men that first went off with the ship, out
innocently bought her for their trade; and I am persuaded they will
so far believe me, as at least to act more cautiously for the time to
come." , ,
While these things were pas-ing between ns, by way of discour.e,
we went forward directly for Nanquin, and in about thirteen days'
sail came to an anchor at the south-west point of the great gulf of
Nanquin; where, by the way, I came by accident to understand
that two Dutch ships were gone that length before me, and that I
should certainly fall into their hands. I consulted my partner again
in this exigency, and he was as much at a loss as I was, and would
very gladly have been safe on shore almost anywhere: however, I
was not in such perplexity neither, but I asked the old pilot if there
was no creek or harbour which I might put into and pursue my
business with the Chinese privately, and oe in no danger of the
enemy. He told me, if I would sau to the southward about forty-
two leagues, there was a little port called Quinchang, where the
fathers of the mission usually landed from Macao, on their progress
to teach the Christian religion to the Chinese, and where no Euro-
pean ships ever put in; and if I thought to put in there, I might
consider what further course to take when I was on shore. lie
confessed, he said, it was not a place for merchants, except that at
some certain times they had a kind of a fair there, when the
merchants from Japan came over thither to buy the Chinese mer-
chandises.
We all agreed to go back to this place; the name of the pert, as
he called it, I may perhaps spell wrong, for I do not particularly
remember it, having lost this, together with the names of many
other places set down in a little pocket-book, which was spoiled by the
water by an accident; but this I remember, that the Chinese or Japanese
merchants we corresponded with called it by a different name from
that which our Portuguese pilot gave it, and pronounced it as above,
Quinchang.
As we were unanimous in our resolution to go to this place, we
weighed the next day, having only gone twice on shore where we
were to get fresh water; on both which occasions the people of the
country were very civil to us, and brought us abundance of things
to sell to us, I mean of provisions, plants, roots, tea, rice, and some
fowls, but nothing without money.
We came to the other port (the wind being contrary) not till five
days, but it was very much to our satisfaction; and I was joyful,
and I may say thankful, when I set my foot on shore, resolving, and
my partner too, that if it was possible to dispose of ourselves and
effects any other way, though not every way to our satisfaction, we
would never set one foot on board that unhappy vessel more; and,
indeed, I must acknowledge, that of all the circumstances of life
that ever I had any experience of, nothing makes mankind so com-
pletely miserable as that of being in constant fear. Well does the
Scripture say, "The fear of man brings a snare;" it is a life of
death, and the mind is so entirely oppressed by it, that it is capable
of no relief.
The first thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us was, to get us
acquainted with three missionary Romish priests who were in town,
and who had been there some time converting the people to
Christianity; we thought they made but poor work of it, and
made them but sorry Christians when they had done: however, that
was none of our business. One of these was a Frenchman, whom
they called Father Simon; another was a Portuguese, and the third,
* Genoese; Father Simon was courteous, easy in his manner,
and very agreeable company; the other two were more reserved,
seemed rigid and austere, and applied seriously to the work they
came about, viz., to talk with, and insinuate themselves among the
inhabitants, wherever they had an opportunity. We often ate and
drank with those men; and though, 1 must confess, the conversion,
as they call it, of the Chinese to Christianity is so far from the true
conversion required to bring heathen people to the faith of Christ,
that it seems to amount to little more than letting them know the
name of Christ, and say some prayers to the Virgin Mary and her
Son, in a tongue which they understand not, and to cross themselves,
and the like; yet it must be confessed that the religionists, whom
we call missionaries, have a firm belief that these people will be
saved, and that they are the instruments of it; and, on this account,
they undergo not only the fatigue of the voyage, and the hazards of
living in such places, but oftentimes death itself, with the most
violent tortures, for the sake of this work.
But to return to my story. This French priest, Father Simon,
was appointed, it seems, by order of the chief of the mission to go
up to Pckin, the royal seat of the Chinese emperor, and waited
only for another priest, who was ordered to come to him from
Macao, to go along with him; and we scarce ever met together but
he was inviting me to go that journey; telling me how he would
show me all the glorious things of that mighty empire, and, among
the rest, the greatest city in the world: a city, said he, that your
London and our Paris put together, cannot be equal to. This was
the city of Pekin, which, I confess, is very great, and infinitely
full of people; but as 1 looked upon those things with different
eyes from other men, so I shall give my opinion of them in a few
words, when I come in course of my travels to speak more par-
ticularly of them.
We had something else before us at first, for we had all this while
our ship and our merchandise to dispose of, and we began to be
very doubtful what we should do, for we were now in a place of very
little business; and once I was about to venture to sail for the river
of Kilam, and the city of Nanquin: but Providence seemed now
more visibly, as I thought, than ever, to concern itself in our
affairs; and I was encouraged, from this very time, to think I should
one way or other get out of this entangled circumstance, and be
brought home to my own country again, though I had not the least
view of the manner. Providence, I say, began here to clear up our
way a little: and the first thing that offered was, that our old
Portuguese pilot brought a Japan merchant to us, who inquired what
goods we had; and, in the first place, he bought all our opium, and
gave us a very good price for it, paying us in gold by weight, some
in small pieces of their own com, and some in small wedges, of
about ten or eleven ounces each. While we were dealing with him
for our opinm, it came into my head that he might perhaps deal for
the skip too, and I ordered the interpreter to propose it to him: he
shrugged up his shoulders at it, when it was first proposed to him;
but in a few days after he came to me, with one of the missionary
priests for his interpreter, and told me he had a proposal to make to
me, which was this: he had bought a great quantity of goods of us,
when he had no thoughts (or proposals made to him) of buying the
ship; and that, therefore, he had not money enough to pay for the
ship< but if I would let the same men who were in the ship navi-
gate her, he would hire the ship to go to Japan; and would send
them from thence to the Philippine islands with another loading,
which he would pay the freight of before they went to Japan, and"
that at their return he would miy the ship. I began to listen to his
proposal, and so eager did my head still run upon rambling, that I
could not but begin to entertain a notion of going myself with him,
and so to sail from the Philippine islands away to the South Seas;
accordingly I asked the Japanese merchant if he would not hire us
to the Philippine islands, and discharge us there. He said, "No,
he could not do that, for then he could not have the return of his
cargo; but he would discharge us in Japan, at the ship's return."
Well, still I was for taking him at that proposal, and going myself;
but my partner, wiser than myself, persuaded me from it, representing
the dangers, as well of the seas as of the Japanese, who are a false,
cruel, and treacherous people; likewise those of the Spaniards at
the Philippines, more false, cruel, and treacherous than they.
But to bring this long turn of our affairs to a conclusion: the
first thing we had to do was, to consult with the captain of the ship,
and with his men, and know if they were willing to go to Japan:
and while I was doing this, the young man whom my nephew had
left with me as my companion for my travels came to me, and told
me that he thought that voyage promised very fair, and that there
was a great prospect of advantage, and he would be very glad if I
undertook it; but that if I would not, and would give him leavo, lie
would go as a merchant, or how I pleased to order him; that if he
ever came to England, and I was there and alive, he would render
me a faithful account of his success, which should be as much mine
as I pleased. I was really loth to part with him; but considering
the prospect of advantage, which was really considerable, and that
he was a young fellow as likely to do well in it as any I knew, I
inclined to let him go; but I told him I would consult my partner,
and give him an answer the next day. My partner and I discoursed
about it, and my partner made a most generous offer: "You know
it has been an unlucky ship," said he, "and we both resolve not to
fco to sea in it again: if your steward (so he called my man) wiL
venture the voyage, I will leave my share of the vessel to him, and
let him make the best of it; and if we live to meet in England, and
he meets with success abroad, he shall account for one half of the
profits of the ship's freight to us; the other shall be his own."
If my partner, who was no way concerned with my young man,
made him such an offer, I could do no less than offer him the same:
and all the ship's company being willing to go with him, we made
over half the ship to him in property, and took a writing from him,
obliging him to account for the other; and away he went to Japan.
Tuc Japan merchant proved a very punctual, honest man to him;
protected him at Japan, and got him a licence to come on shore,
which the Europeans in general have not lately obtained; paid him
his freight very punctually; sent him to the Philippines, loaded
with Japan and China wares, and a supercargo of their own, who,
trafficking with the Spaniards, brought back European goods again,
and a great quantity of cloves and other spices; and there he was
not only paid Ms freight very well, and at a very good price, but not
being willing to sell the ship then, the merchant furnished him goods
on his own account; and with some money, and some spices of his
own which he brought with him, he went back to the Manillas to
the Spaniards, where he sold his cargo very well. Here, having
got a good acquaintance at Manilla, he got his ship made a free
ship; and the governor of Manilla hired him to go to Acapuleo in
America, on the coast of Mexico, and gave him a licence to land
there, and to travel to Mexico, and to pass in any Spanish ship to
Europe with all his men. He made the voyage to Acapuleo very
happdy; and there he sold his ship; and having there also obtained
allowance to travel by land to Porto Bello, he found means, some-
how or other, to get to Jamaica, with all Ills treasure; and about
eight years after came to England exceeding rich, of which I shall
take notice in its place: in the mean time, I return to our particular
affairs.
Being now to part with the ship and the ship's company, it came
before us, of course, to consider what recompense we should give
to the two men that gave us such timely notice of the design against
us in the river Cambodia. The truth was, they had aone us a very
considerable service, and deserved well at our hands; though, by
the way, they were a couple of rogues too: for as they believed the
story of our being pirates, and that we had really run away with
the ship, they came down to us not only to betray the design that was
formed against us, but to go to sea with us as pirates; and one of them
confessed afterwards that nothing else but the hopes of going a
roguing brought him to do it: however, the service they did us was
not the less; and therefore, as I had promised to be grateful to
them, I first ordered the money to be paid them which they said
was due to them on board their respective ships; over and above
that, I gave each of them a small sum of money in gold, which con-
tented them very well; then I made the Englishman gunner in the
ship, the gunner being now made second mate and purser; the
Dutchman I made boatswain; so they were both very well pleased,
and proved very serviceable, being both able seamen, and very stout
fellows
FACTION XL1.
JOURNEY TO PEK.IN — ROBINSON JOINS A CARAVAN PROCEEDING
TO MOSCOW—RENCONTRES WITH THE TARTARS.
I was now, as near as I can compule, in the heart of China, about
thirty degrees north of the line. I had, indeed, a mind to see the
city of Pekin, which I had heard so much of, and Father Simon im-
portuned me daily to do it. At length his time of going away being
set, and the other missionary who was to go with him being arrived
from Macao, it was necessary that we should resolve either to go or
not; so I referred him to my partner, and left it wholly to his
choice, who at length resolved it in the affirmative; and we pre-
pared for our journey. We set out with very good advantage, as
to finding the way, for we got leave to travel in the retinue of one
of their Mandariiis, a kind of viceroy or principal magistrate in the
province where they reside, and who take great state upon them,
travelling with great attendance, and with much homage from the
people, who are sometimes greatly impoverished by them, being
obliged to furnish provisions for them and all their attendants in
their journeys. That which 1 particularly observed, as to our tra
veiling with his baggage, was this, that though we received sufficient
provisions both for ourselves and our horses from the country, as
belonging to the Mandarin, yet we were obliged to pay for every-
thing we had, after the market price of the country, and the Man-
darin's steward collected it duly from us; so that our travelling in
t he retinue of the Mandarin, though it was a very great kindness to
us, was not such a mighty favour in him, but was a great advantage
to hiin, considering there were about thirty other people travelled in
the same manner besides us, under the protection of his retinue;
the country furnished all the provisions for nothing to him, and yet
lie took our money for them.
We were twenty-five days travelling to Pekin, through a country
infinitely populous, but I think badly cultivated; the husbandry, the
economy, and the way of living miserable, though they boast sc
much of the industry of the people: I say miserable, if compared
with our own, but not so to these poor wretches, who know no
other. The pride of the people is infinitely great, and exceeded by
nothing but their poverty, which adds to that which I call their
misery; and I must needs think the naked savages of America live
much more happily, because, as they have nothing, so they desire
nothing: whereas these are proud and insolent, and in the main are
mere beggars and drudges; thcir ostentation is inexpressible; and, if
they can, they love to keep multitudes of servants or slaves, and,
wluch is to the last degree ridiculous, have the greatest contempt
of all the world but themselves.
I must confess, I travelled more pleasantly afterwards in the
deserts and vast wildernesses of Grand Tartary than here; and yet
the roads here are well paved and well kept, and very convenient
for travellers: but nothing was more awkward to me than to see
such a haughty, imperious, insolent people, in the- midst of the
frossest simplicity and ignorance, and my friend Father Simon and
used to be very merry upon these occasions, to see the beggarly
pride of these people. For example, coming by the house of a
country gentleman, as Father Simon called him, about ten leagues
off the city of Nanquin, we had first of all the honour to ride with
the master of the house about two miles; the state he rode in was a
1>erfect Don Quixotism, being a mixture of pomp and poverty. His
labit was very proper for a scaramouch, or merry-andrew, oeing a
dirty calico, with hanging sleeves, tassels, and cuts and slashes on
almost every side; it covered a taffety vest, as greasy as a butcher's,
and which testified that his honour must be a most exquisite sloven.
Ilis horse was but a poor, starved, hobbling creature, and he had
two slaves who followed him on foot to drive the poor creature
along: he had a whip in his hand, and he belaboured! the beast as
fast about the head as his slaves did about the tail; and thus he
rode by us, with about ten or twelve servants, going from the city
to his country seat, about half a league before us. We travelled on
gently, but this figure of a gentleman rode away before us; and as
we stopped at a village about an hour to refresh us, when we came
by the country scat of this great man, we saw him in a little place
before his door, eating his repast. It was a kind of a garden, but
he was very easy to be seen; and we were given to understand that
the more we looked at him the better ho would he pleased. He sat
under a tree, something like the palmetto, which effectually shaded
him over the head, ana on the south side; but under the tree was
also placed a large umbrella, which made that part look well enough.
He sat lolling back in a great elbow-chair, being a heavy, corpulent
man, and had bis meat brought him by two women slaves; ho had
two more, one cf whom fed the squire with a spoon, and the other
aeid the dish with one hand, and scraped off what he let fall upon
his worship's beard and taffety vest with the other; while the great
fat brute though* it below him to employ hia own bancis in any of
those familiar offices, which kings and monarchs would rather do
than be troubled with the clumsy fingers of their servants.
At length we arrived at Pekin: I had nobody with me but the
youth whom my nephew the captain had given me to attend me as a
servant, and who proved very trusty and diligent; and my partner
had nobody with him, but one servant, who was a kinsman. As for
the Portuguese pilot, he being desirous to see the court, we bore
his charges for his company, and to use him as an interpreter, for
he understood the language of the country, and spoke good French,
and a little English; and, indeed, this old man was a most useful
implement to us everywhere; tor we had not been above a week at
Pekin, when he came laughing: "Ah, Scnhor Inglese," said he, "1
have something to tell you will make your heart glad!" "My heart
glad!" says I; "what can that be? I don't know anything in this
country can either give me joy or grief, to any great degree."
"Yes, yes," said the old man, m broken English, '* make you glad,
me sorry." "Why," said I, "will it make you sorry?" "Be-
cause," said he, "you have brought me here twenty-five days' jour-
ney, and will leave me to go back alone, and which way shall I get to
my port afterwards without a ship, without a horse, without pecune:"
so he called money, being his broken Latin, of which he had abun-
dance to make us merry with. In short, he told us there was a
great caravan of Muscovite and Polish merchants in the city, pre-
paring to set out on their journey by land to Muscovy, within four
or five weeks, and he was sure we would take the opportunity to go
with them, and leave him behind, to go back alone.
I confess I was greatly surprised with this good news, and had
scarce power to speak to him for some time; but at last I turned to
him: "How do you know this?" said I. "Are you sure it is
truef" "Yes," says he; "I met this morning in the street an old
acquaintance of mine, an Armenian, who is among them: he came
last from Astracan, and was designing to go to Tonquin, where I
formerly knew him, but has altered his mind, and is now resolved to
go with the caravan to Moscow, and so down the river Wolga to
Astracan." "Well, senhor," says I, "do not be uneasy about
being left to go baek alone; if this be a method for my return to
England, it shall be your fault if you go back to Macao at all." We
*Ueu went to consult together what was to be done; and I asked my
partner what he thought of the pilot's news, and whether it would
siut with Ids affairs? He told me he would do just as I would, for
he had settled all his affairs so well at Bengal, and left his effects in
such good hands, that as we had made a good voyage here, if he
could vest it in China silks, wrought and raw, such as might be
worth the carriage, he would be content to go to England, and 1 hei
'oaks bis voyage back to Bengal by the Company's ships.
Having iqfolvect upon this, we agreed that if our Portuguese pilot
would go with us we would bear his charges to Moscow, or to tug-
land, if he pleased; nor, indeed, were we to be esteemed over gene-
rous in that neither, if we had not rewarded him farther, the service
he had done us being really worth more than that; for he had not
only been a pilot to us at sea, but he had been like a broker for us
on shore; and his procuring for us the Japan merchant was some
hundreds of pounds in our pockets. So we consulted together about
it, and being willing to gratify him, which was but doing him justice,
and very willing also to have him with us besides, for he was a most
necessary man on all occasions, we agreed to give him a quantity of
coined gold, which, as I compute it, came to about one hundred and
seventy-five pounds sterling, Detween us, and to bear all his charges,
both for himself and horse, except only a horse to carry his goods.
Having settled this between ourselves, we called him to let him
know what we had resolved. I told him he had complained of our
being to let him go back alone, and I was now to tell him we were
resolved he should not go back at all; that as we had resolved to go
to Europe with the caravan, we resolved also he should go with us:
and that we called him to know his mind. He shook his head, and
said it was a long journey, and he had no pecune to carry him
thither, or to subsist himselJ when he came there. We told him we
believed it was so, and therefore we had resolved to do something
for him that should let him see how sensible we were of the service
he had done us, and also how agreeable he was to us: and then I
told him what we had resolved to give him here, which he might lay
out as we would do our own; and that as for his charges, if he
would go with us we would set him safe on shore (life and casualties
excepted) either in Muscovy or England, which he would, at our
own charge, except only the carriage of his goods. He received the
proposal like a man transported, and told us he would go with us
over the whole world; and so we all prepared for our journey.
However, as it was with us, so it was with the other merchants:
they had many things to do; and instead of being ready in five
weeks, it was four months and some days before all tiiings were got
together.
It was in the beginning of February, our style, when we set out
from Pekin. My partner and the old pilot had gone express back
.o the port where we had first put in, to dispose of some goods
which we had left there: and I, with a Chinese merchant whom I
had some knowledge of at Nanquin, and who came to Pekin on his
own affairs,_went to Nanquin, where I bought ninety pieces of fine
damasks, with about two hundred pieces of other very fine silks of
several sorts, some mixed with gold, and had all these brought to
Pekin against my partner's return: besides this, we bought a very
large quantity of raw silk, and some other goods, our cargo amount-
ing, in these goods only, to about three thousand five handled
pounds sterling; which, together with tea, and some fine calicoes,
and three camels' loads of nutmegs and cloves, loaded in all eighteen
camels for our share, besides those we rode upon; which, with two
or three spare horses, and two horses loaded with provisions, made
us, in short, twenty-six camels and horses in our retinue.
The company was very great, and^ as near as I can remember,
made between three and four hundred horses, and upwards of one
hundred and twenty men, very well armed, and provided for all
events: for as the Eastern caravans are subject to be attacked by
the Arabs, so are these by the Tartars; but they are not altogether
so dangerous as the Arabs, nor so barbarous, when they prevail.
The company consisted of people of several nations; but there
were above sixty of them merchants or inhabitants of Moscow,
though of them some were Livonians; and to our particular satis-
faction five of them were Scots, who appeared also to be men of
great experience in business, and of very good substance.
When we had travelled one day's journey, the guides, who were
five in number, called all the gentlemen and merchants, that is to
say, all the passengers except the servants, to a great council, as
they called it. At this council every one deposited a certain quan-
tity to a common stock, for the necessary expense of buying forage
on the way, where it was not otherwise to be had, and for satisfying
the guides, getting horses, and the like: and here they constituted
the journey, as they called it, viz. they named captains and officers
to draw us all up, and give the word of command, in case of an
attack, and give every one their turn of command; nor was this
forming us into order any more than what we found needful upon
the way, as shall be observed.
In two days more we passed the great China wall, made for a for-
tification against the Tartars; ana a very great work it is, going
over hills and mountains in a needless track, where the rocks are
impassible, and the precipices such as no enemy could possibly
enter, or indeed climb up, or where, if they did, no wall could hinder
them. They tell us its length is near a thousand English miles, but
that the country is five hundred in a straight measured line, which
the wall bounds, without measuring the windings and turnings it
takes: it is about four fathoms high, and as many thick in some
places. „
I stood still an hour, or thereabout, without trespassing our
orders (for so long the caravan was in passing the gate), to look at
it on every side, near and far off, I mean that was within my view;
and the guide of our caravan, who had been extoUing it for the won-
der of the world, was mighty eager to hear my opinion of it. I told
him it was a most excellent tiiing to keep out the Tartars; which
he happened not to understand as I meant it, and so took it for a
compliment; but the old pilot laughed; "0, Senhor Inglese," says
he, "you speak in colours."—"In colours!" said I; what do
you mean by that ? "—"Why, you speak what looks white this
way, and black that way: gay one way, and dull another. You tell
him it is a good wall to keep out Tartars; you tell me by that, it it,
good for nothing but to keep out Tartars. I understand you,
Senhor Inglese; I understand you; but Senhor Chinese understood
you his own way."—"Well," says I, "Senhor, do you think it
would stand out an army of our country people, with a good train
of artillery, or our engineers, with two companies of miners?
Would not they batter it down in ten days, tnat an army might
enter in battalia; or blow it up in the air, foundation and all, that
there should be no sign of it left ?"—" Ay, ay," says he, "I know
that." The Chinese wanted mightily to know what I said, and I
gave him leave to tell him a few days after, for we were then almost
out of their country, and he was to leave us in a little time after
this; but when ho knew what I said, he was dumb all the rest of
the way, and we heard no more of his fine story of the Chinese
power and greatness while he stayed.
After v, e passed this mightv nothing, called a wall, something like
the Picts' wall, so famous in Northumberland, built by the Romans,
we began to find the country thinly inhabited, and the people rather
confined to live in fortified towns and cities, as being subject to the
inroads and depredations of the Tartars, who rob in great armies,
and therefore are not to be resisted by the naked inhabitants of an
open country. And here I began to find the necessity of keeping
together in a caravan as we travelled, for we saw several troops of
Tartars roving about; but when I came to sec them distinctly, I
wondered more that the Chinese empire could be conquered by such
contemptible fellows; for they are a mere horde of wild fellows,
keeping no order, and understanding no discipline or manner of
fight. Their horses are poor lean creatures, taught nothing, and fit
for nothing; and this we found the first day we saw them, which
was after we entered the wilder part of the country. Our leader for
the day gave leave for about sixteen of us to go a hunting, as they
call it, and what was this but hunting of sheep: however, it may be
called hunting too, for the creatures are the wildest and swiftest of
foot that ever I saw of their kind; only they will not run a great
way, and you are sure of sport when you begin the chase, for they
appear generally thirty or forty in a flock, and, like true sheep,
always keep together when they fly.
We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and therefore
the Tartars were not so bold as afterwards; but in about five days
we entered a vast, great, wild desert, which held us three days and
nights' march; and we were obliged to carry our water with us hi
great leathern bottles, and to encamp all night, just as I have heard
they do in the desert of Arabia.
I asked our guides whose dominion this was in: and they told me
this was a kind of border, and might be called No Man's Land, being
a part of Great Karakathay, or Grand Tartary; but, however, it was
all reckoned as belonging to China, but that there was no care taken
here to preserve it from the inroads of thieves, and therefore it was
reckoned the worst desert in the whole march, though we were to
go over some much larger.
In passing this wilderness, which was at first very frightful to me,
we 8aw, two or three times, little parties of the Tartars. Once, a
party of them came so near as to stand and gaze at us; whether it
was to consider if they should attack us or not, we knew- not; but
when we were passed at some distance by them, we made a rear
guard of forty men, and stood ready for them, letting the caravan
pass half a mile or thereabouts before us: but after a while they
marched off; only we fouud they saluted us with five arrows at their
parting, one of which wounded a horse, so that it disabled him, and
we left him the next day, poor creature, in ereat need of a good
farrier; they might shoot more arrows, which might fall short of us,
but we saw no more arrows or Tartars that time.
We travelled near a month after this, the ways not being so good
as at first, though still in the dominions of the emperor of China, but
lay for the most part in villages, some of which were fortiDed,
because of the incursions of the Tartars. When we were come tc
one of these towns (it was about two days and a half journay before
we were to come to the city of Naum), I wanted to buy a camel, of
which there are plenty to be sold all the way upon that road, and
horses also, such as they are, because, so many caravans coming that
way, they are often wanted. The person that I spoke to, to get me
a camel, would have gone and fetched one for me; but I, like a fool,
must be officious, and go myself along with him : the place was about
two miles out of the village, where it seems they kept the camels and
horses feeding under a guard.
I walked it on foot, with mv old pilot and a Chinese, being very
desirous of a little variety. When we came to the place, it was a
low marshy ground, walled round with a stone wall, piled up dry,
without mortar or earth among it, like a park, with a little guard of
Chinese soldiers at the door. Having bought a camel, and agreed
for the price, I came away, and the Chinese-man that went with me
led the camel, when on a sudden came up five Tartars on horseback;
two of them seiied the fellow and took the camel from him, while
Mie other three stepped up to me and my old pilot, seeing us, as it
were, unarmed, for I had no weapon about me but my sword, which
could but ill defend me against three horsemen. The first that came
up stopped short upon my drawing my sword, for they are arrant
cowards; but a second coming upon my left, gave me a mow on the
head, which I never felt till afterwards, and wondered, when I cams
to myself, what was the matter, and where I was, for he laid me flat
on the ground; but my never-failing old pilot, the Portuguese (so
Providence, unlooked for, directs deliverances from dangers which to
ns are unforeseen), had a pistol in his pocket, which I knew nothing
of, nor the Tartars neither: if they had, I suppose they would not
have attacked us; but cowards are always boldest when there is no
danger. The old man seeing me down, with a bold heart stepped up
to the fellow that had struck me, and laying hold of his arm with one
hand, and pulling him down by main force a little towards him with
the other, shot him in the head, and laid him dead upon the spot.
fle then immediately stepped up to him who had stopped us, as I
said, and before he could come forward again, made a Mow at him
with a scimitar which he always wore, but missing the man, cut his
horse in the side of his head, cut one of the ears off by the root, and
a great slice down by the side of his face. The poor beast, enraged
with the wound, was no more to be governed oy his rider, though
the fellow sat well enough loo, but away he flew, and carried him
quite out of the pilot's reach; and at some distance, rising upon his
hind legs, threw down the Tartar, and fell upon him.
In this interval, the poor Chinese came in who had lost the camel,
but he had no weapon: however, seeing the Tartar down, and his
horse fallen upon him, away he runs to him, and seizing upon an ugly
ill-favoured weapon he had by his side, something Joke a pole-axe,
but not a pole-axe neither, he wrenched it from him, and made shift
to knock his Tartarian brains out with it. But my old man had the
third Tartar to deal with still, and seeing he did not fly, as he
expected, nor come on to fight him, as he apprehended, but stand
stock-still, the old man stood still too, and fell to work with his tackle,
to charge his pistol again; but as soon as the Tartar saw the pistol,
away he scoured, and left my pilot, my champion I called him after-
wards, a complete victory.
By this time I was a little recovered; for I thought when I first
began to wake, that I had been in a sweet sleep; but, as I said
above, I wondered where I was, how I came upon the ground, and
what was the matter. But a few moments after, as sense returned,
I felt pain, though I did not know where; so 1 clapped my hand to
my head, and took it away bloody: then I felt my head ache; and
then, in a moment, memory returned, and every thing was present
to me again. I jumped upon my feet instantly, and got hold of my
sword, but no enemies in view: I found a Tartar lie dead, and his
horse standing very quietly by him; and, looking further, I saw my
champion ana deliverer, who had been to see what the Chinese had
done, coming back with his hanger in his hand: the old man, seeing
me on my feet, came running to me, and embraced me with a great
deal of joy, being afraid before that I had been killed; and seeing me
bloody, would see how I was hurt: but it was not much, only what
we call a broken head; neither did I afterwards find any great
inconvenience from the blow, for it was well again in two or three
days.
We made no great gain, however, by this victory, for we lost a
camel and gained a horse; but that which was remarkable, when we
came back to the village, the man demanded to be paid for the
camel; I disputed it, and it was brought to a hearing before Hie
Chinese judge of the place. To give him his due, he acted with a
great deal of prudence and impartiality; and, having heard both
sides, he gravely asked the Chinese man that went with me to buy
the camel, whose servant he was? "I am no servant," cays he,
"but went with the strauger."—"At whose request?" says the
justice. "At the stranger's request," says he. "Why, then,"
says the justice, "you were the stranger's servant for the time; and
the camel being delivered to his servant, it was delivered to him,
and he must pay for it."
I confess the thing was so clear, that I had not a word to
say: but, admiring to see such just reasoning upon the conse-
quence, and an accurate stating of the case, I paid willingly for
the camel, and sent for another; but, you may observe,, I did
not go to fetch it myself any more, for I had enough of that.
The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese empire: they call
it fortified, and so it is, as fortifications go there; for this I will
venture to affirm, that all the Tartars in Karakathay, which I
believe, are some millions, could not batter down the walls with
their bows and arrows; but to call it strong, if it were attacked
with cannon, would be to make those who understand it laugh at
you.
We wanted, as I have said, above two days' journey of this city,
when messengers were sent express to every part of the road to tell
all travellers and caravans to halt till they had a guard sent for
them; for that an unusual body of Tartars, making ten thousand
in all, had appeared in the way, about thirty miles beyond the
city.
This was very bad news to travellers; however, it was carefully
done of the governor, and we were very glad to hear we should have
a guard. Accordingly, two days after, we had two hundred soldiers
sent us from a garrison of the Chinese, on our left, and three
hundred more from the city of Naum, and with these we advanced
boldly, the three hundred soldiers from Naum inarched in our
front, the two hundred in our rear, and our men on each side of our
camels, with our baggage, and the whole caravan in the centre: in
this order, and well prepared for battle, we thought ourselves a
match for the whole ten thousand Mogul Tartars, if they had
apppeared; but the next day, when they did appear, it was quite
another thing.
It was early in the morning, when, marching from a well situated
little town, called Changu, we had a river to pass, which we were
obliged to ferry; and had the Tartars had any intelligence, then
had Decn the time to have attacked us, when the caravan being over,
the rear guard was behind; but they did not appear there. About
three hours after, when we were entered upon a desert of about
fifteen or sixteen miles over, behold, by a cloud of dust they raised,
we saw an enemy was at hand; and they were at hand, indeed. for
they came on upon the spur.
'f he Chinese, our guard on the front, who had talked so big the
day before, began to stagger; and the soldiers frequently looked
behind them, which is a certain sign in a soldier that he is just ready
to run away. My old pilot was of my mind; and, being near me,
called out, "Senhor Inglese," says he, "those fellows must be en-
couraged, or they will ruin us all; for if the Tartars come on, they
will never stand it."—" I am of your mind," said I; "but what
must be done?"—"Done!" says he, "let fifty of our men advance,
and flank them on each wing, and encourage them; and they will
fight like brave fellows in brave company: ou',, without this, they
will every man turn his back. Immediately I rode up to our leader,
and told him, who was exactly of our mind; and accordingly fifty
of us marched to the right wing, and fifty to the left, and the rest
made a line of rescue; and so we marched, leaving the last two
hundred men to make a body by themselves, and to guard the
camels: only that, if need were, they should send a hundred men
to assist the last fifty.
In a word, the Tartars came on, and an innumerable company
they were: how many we could not tell, but ten thousand, we
thought, was the least: a party of them came on first and viewed
our posture, traversing the ground in the front of our line; and, as
we found them within gunshot, our leader ordered the two wings to
advance swiftly, and give them a salvo on each whig with their shot,
which was done; but they went off, and I suppose back, to give an
account of the reception they were likely to meet with; and, indeed,
that salute cloyed their stomachs, for they immediately halted, stood
awhile to consider of it, and wheeling off to the left, they gave over
their design, and said no more to us for that time; which was very
agreeable to our circumstances, which were but very indifferent for
a battle with such a number.
Two days after we came to the city of Naun, or Naum; we
thanked the governor for his care of us, and collected lo the value
of a hundred crowns, or thereabouts/which we gave to the soldiers
sent to guard us; and here we rested one day. This is a garrison,
indeed, and there were nine hundred soldiers kept here; but the
reason of it was, that formerly the Muscovite frontiers lay nearer to
them than they now do, the Muscovites having abandoned that pail
of the country, which lies from this city west for about two hundred
miles, as desolate and unfit for use; and more especially being so
very remote, and so difficult to send troops thither for its defence;
for we had yet above two thousand miles to Muscovy, properly so
called.
After this we passed several great rivers, and twe dreadful
deseits; one of which we were sixteen days passing over; and
which, as I said, was to be called No Man's Land; and, on the 13th
of April, we came to the frontiers of the Muscovite dominions. I
think the first town, or fortress, whichever it may be called, that
belonged to the Czar of Muscovy, was called Argun, being on the
west side of the river Argun.
I could not but discover an infinite satisfaction that I was so soon
arrived in, as I called it, a Christian country, or, at least, in a coun-
try governed by Christians; for though the Muscovites do, in my
opinion, but just deserve the name of Christians, yet such thjy pre-
tend to be, and arc very devout in their way. It would certainly
occur to any man who travels the world as I have done, and who had
any power of reflection, what a blessing it is to be brought into the
world where the name of God and a Redeemer is known, adored and
worsnippca; and not where the people, given up by Heaven to
strong delusions, worship the devil, and prostrate themselves to
stocks and stones; worship monsters, elements, horrid-shaped ani-
mals, and statues or images of monsters. Not a town or city wo
passed through, but had their pagods, their idols, and their temples,
and ignorant people worshipping even the works of their own hands.
Now we came where, at least, a face of the Christian worship
appeared; where the knee was bowed to Jesus; and whether ignor-
antly or not, yet the Christian religion was owned, and the name of
the true God was called upon and adored, and it made my soul
rejoice to see it. I saluted the brave Scots merchant I mentioned
above with my first acknowledgment of this; and taking him by the
hand, I said to him, "Blessed be God, we are once again amongst
Christians." He smiled, and answered, "Do not rejoice too soon,
countryman! these Muscovites are but an odd sort of Christians;
and but for the name of it, you may see very little of the substance
for some months farther of our journey." "Well," says I, "but
still it is better than paganism and worshipping of devils." "Why,
I will tell you," says he, "except the llussian soldiers in the gar-
risons, and a few of the inhabitants of the cities upon the road, all
the rest of this country, for above a thousand miles farther, is inha-
bited by the worst and most ignorant of pagans;" and so indeed w«
found it.

SECTION XL1I.
HOUTE TnROUGH MUSCOVY—ROBINSON AND A SCOTS MERCHANT
DESTROY AN IDOL—THE WHOLE CARAVAN IN OREAT PERIL
FROM THE FURSUIT OF THE FAGANS — TOBOLSKI — DEPARTURE
FROM TOBOLSKI—ENCOUNTER WITH A TIIOOF OF ROBBERS IN
THE DESERT—ROBINSON REACHES ARCHANGEL, AND FINALLY
ARRIVES IN ENGLAND.
We were now launched into the greatest piece of solid earth, if 1
understand anything of the surface of the globe, that is to be found
in any part of the world; we had, at least, twelve hundred miles to
the sea, eastward; two thousand to the bottom of the Baltic sea,
westward; and above three thousand, if we left that sea and went
on west, to the British and Trench channels; we had full five thou-
sand miles to the Indian or Persian sea, south; and about eight
hundred to the Frozen sea, north. Nay, if some people may be be-
lieved, there might be no sea, north-east, till we came round the
pole, and consequently into the north-west, and so had a continent
of laud into America; though I could give some reasons why I be-
lieve that to be a mistake.
As we entered into the Muscovite dominions a good while before
we came to any considerable towns, we had nothing to observe
there but this: first, that all the rivers run to the east: as I under-
stood by the charts, which some in our caravan had with them, it
was plain all those rivers ran into the great river Yamour, or Amour;
which river, by the natural course of it, must run into the East Sea,
or Chinese Ocean. The story they tell us, that the mouth of this
river is choked up with bulrushes of a monstrous growth, viz. three
feet about, and twenty or thirty feet high, I must be allowed to say,
I believe nothing of it; but, as its navigation is of no use, because
there is no trade that way, the Tartars, to whom it alone belongs,
dealing in nothing but cattle, so nobody, that ever I heard of, has
been curious enough to go down to the mouth of it in boats, or come
up from the mouth of it in ships, as far as I can find: but this it
certain, that this river, running east, in the latitude of about fift*
degrees, carries a vast concourse of rivers along with it, and finds an
ocean to empty itself in that latitude: so we are sure of sea there.
Some leagues to the north of this river there are several consider
able rivers, whose streams run as due north as the Yamour runs
east, and these are all found to join their waters with the great river
Tartarus, named so from the northermost nations of the Mogul Tar-
tars; who, as the Chinese say, were the first Tartars in the world;
and who, as our geographers allege, are the Gog and Magog men-
tioned in sacred story. These rivers running all northward, as well
as all the other rivers I am yet to speak of, make it evident that the
noiiher n ocean bounds the land also on that side; so that it does
not seem rational in the least to think that the land can extend itself
to join with America on that side, or that there is not a communica-
tion between the northern and eastern ocean: but of this I shall say
no more; it was my observation at that time, and therefore I take
notice of it in this place.
We now advanced from the river Argun by easy and moderate
journeys, and were very visibly obliged to the care the Czar of Mus-
covy has taken to have cities aid towns built in as many places as
it is possible to place them, where his soldiers keep garrison, some-
thing like the stationary soldiers placed by the Romans in the
remotest countries of their empire; some of which that I had read
of were placed in Britain, for the security of commerce, and for the
lodging travellers; and thus it was here: for wherever we came,
though at these towns and stations the garrisons and governors were
Russians and professed Christians, yet the inhabitants were mere
pagans; sacrificing to idols, and worshipping the sun, moon, and
stars, or all the host of heaven; and not only so, but were, of all the
heathens and pagans that ever I met with, the most barbarous,
except only that they did not eat men's flesh, as our savages of Ame-
rica did.
Some instances of this we met within the country between
Argun, where we enter the Muscovite dominions, and a city ol
Tartars and Russians together, called Nertzinskoi, in which is a
continued desert or forest, which cost us twenty days to travel
over. In a village, near the last of these places, I had the curiosity
to go and see their way of living, which is most brutish and in-
sufferable; they had had, I suppose, a great sacrifice that day; for
there stood out, upon an old stump of a tree, an idol made of
wood, frightful as the devil; at least, as any thing we can think of
to represent the devil can be made: it had a head not so much as
resembling any creature that the world ever saw; ears as big as
goats' horns, and as high; eyes as big as a crown piece; a nose like
a crooked ram's-horn, and a mouth extended four-corned, like that
of a lion, with horrible teeth, hooked like a parrot's under bill: it
was dressed up in the filthiest manner that you could suppose: its
\
npper garment was of sheep-skins, with the wool outward; a great
Tartar bonnet on the head, with two horns growing through it,:
it was about tight feet high, yet had no feet or legs, nor any other
proportion of parts.
This scarecrow was set up at the outer side of the village; and,
when I came near to it, there were sixteen or seventeen creatures,
whether men or women I could not tell, for they made no distinc-
tion by their habits, all lying flat upon the ground round this
formidable block of shapeless wood: I saw no motion among them
any more than if they had been all logs of wood, like the idol, and
.*t first I really thought they had been so; but, when I came a little
nearer, they started up upon their feet, and raised a howling cry,
as if it had been so many deep-mouthed hounds, and walked away,
as if they were displeased at our disturbing them. A little way
olf from the idol, and at the door of a tent or hut, made all of
sheep-skins and cow-skins dried, stood three butchers,—I thought
they were such: when I came nearer to them, I found they had
long knives in their hands; and in the middle of the tent appeared
three sheep killed, and one young bullock or steer. These, it seems,
were sacrifices to that senseless Tog of an idol; the three men were
priests belonging to it, and the seventeen prostrated wretches were
the people who Drought the offering, and were making their prayers
to that stock.
I confess, I was more moved at their stupidity and brutish
worship of a hobgoblin than ever 1 was at anything in my life;
to see God's most glorious and best creature, to whom he had
granted so many advantages, even by creation above the rest of
the works of his hands, vested with a reasonable soul, aud that
soul adorned with faculties and capacities adapted both to honour
his Maker, and be honoured by him, sunk and degenerated to a
degree so very stupid as to prostrate itself to a frightful nothing, a
mere imaginary object, dressed up by themselves, and made terrible
to themselves by their own contrivance, adorned only with clouts
and rags; and that this should be the effect of mere ignorance,
wrought up into hellish devotion by the devil himself; who, envying
to his Maker the homage and adoration of his creatures, had deluded
them into such sordid and brutish things as one would think should
ADVENTURES OH ROBINSON CRUSOE. 29?
But what signified all the astonishment and reflection of thoughts:
thus it was, and I saw it before my eyes, and there was no room to
wonder at it, or think it impossible: all my admiration turned te
rage, and I rode up to the image or monster, call it what ydu will,
and with my sword made a stroke at the bonnet that was on its
head, and cut it in two; and one of our men that was with me took
hold of the sheep-skin that covered it, and pulled at it; when,
behold, a most hideous outcry and howling ran throughout th&
village, and two or three hundred people came about my ears, so
that I was glad to scour for it, for we saw some had bows and
arrows; but I resolved from that moment to visit them again.
Our caravan rested three nights at the town, which was about
four miles off, in order to provide some horses which they wanted,
several of the hjrses having been lamed and jaded with the badness
of the way, and long march over the last desert; so we had some
leisure here to put my design in execution. I communicated my
project to the Stots merchant of Moscow, of whose courage I hail
sufficient testimony: I told him what I had seen, and with what indig-
ation I had since thought that human nature could be so degenerate:
I told him if I could get but four or five men well armed to go
with me, I was resolved to go and destroy that vile, abominable idol,
and let them see that it had no power to help itself; and conse-
quently could not be an object of worship, or to be prayed to, much
less help them that offered sacrifices to it.
He laughed at me: says he, " Your zeal may be good, but what
do you propose to yourself by it?"—"Propose! said I; "to
vindicate the honour of God, which is insulted by this devil-worship."
—" But how will it vindicate the honour of God," said he, "while
the people will not be able to know what you mean by it, unless
you could speak to them, and tell them so? And then they will
fight you, and beat you too, I'll assure you; for they are desperate
fellows, and that especially in defence of their idolatry."—"Can we
not," said I, " do it in the night, and then leave them the reasons
and the causes in writing in their own language?"—"Writing!"
said he; "why there is not a man in five nations of them that knows
anything of a letter, or how to read a word any way."—" Wretched
ignorance!" said I to him: "however, I have a great mind to do
it; perhaps nature may draw inferences from it to them, to let them
see how brutish they are to worship such horrid things."—" Look
you, sir," said he, "if your zeal prompts you to it so warmly, you
must do it; but in the next place, I would have you consider, these
wild nations of people are subject ed by force to the Czar of Mus-
covy's dominion, ana if you do this, it is ten to one but they will
come by thousands to the governor of Nertzinskoi, and demand
satisfaction; and if he cannot give them satisfaction, it is ten to
one but they revolt; and it will occasion a new war with all the
Tartars in the country.
This, I confess, put new thoughts into my head for awhile, but I
harped upon the same string still; and all that day I was uneasy to
put my project in execution. Towards the evening the Scots
merchant met me by accident in our walk about the town, and
desired to speak with me: "1 believe," said he, "I have put you off
your good design ; I have been a little concerned abdut it since: for I
abhor idolatry as much as you can do."—" Truly," said I," you havo
put it off a little, as to the execution of it, but you have not put it
out of my thoughts: and I believe I shall do it before I quit this place,
though I were to be delivered up to them for satisfaction."—" No, no,"
said ne, "God forbid they should deliver you up to such a crew of
monsters! They shall not do that neither; that would be murdering
you indeed."—" Why,"'said I, "how would they use me ?"—" Use
you I" said he, "I'll tell you how they served a poor Russian, who
affronted them in their worship, just as you did, and whom they took
prisoner, after they had lamed him with an arrow, that he could not run
away: they took him and stripped him stark-naked, and set him upon
the top of the idol-monster, and stood all round him, and shot as many
arrows into him as would stick over his whole body; and then they burnt
him, and all the arrows sticking in him, as a sacrifice to the idol."—
"And was this the same idol? said I. "Yes," said he, "the very
same."—"Well," said I, " I will tell you a story." So I related
the story of our men at Madagascar, and how they burnt and sacked
the village there, and killed man, woman, and child, for their
murdering one of our men, just as it is related before; and I added,
that I thought we ought to do so to this village.
He listened very attentively to the story; but when I talked of
doing so to that village, said he, "You mistake very much; it was
not this village, it was almost a hundred miles from this place; but
it was the same idol, for they carry him about in procession all over
the country."—" Well," said I, "then that idol ought to be punished
for it; and it shall," said I, " if I live this night out."
In a word, finding me resolute, he liked the design, and
told me I should not go alone, but he would go with me,
and bring a stout fellow, one of his countrymen, to go along with
us: *' and one," said he, "as famous for his zeal as you can desire
auy one to be against such devilish things as these." In a word, he
brought me his comrade, a Scotsman, whom he called Captain
Richardson; and gave him a full account of what I had seen, and
atao what I intended; and he told me readily, he would go with mo
if it cost him his life. So we agreed to go, only we three. I had,
indeed, proposed it to my partner, but he declined it. He said he
was ready to assist me to the utmost, and upon all occasions, for
my defence; but this was an adventure quite out of his way: so,
I say, we resolved upon our work, only we three and my man-
servant, and to put it in execution that night about midnight, with
all the secrecy imaginable.
However, upon second thoughts, we were willing to delay it till
the next night, because, the caravan being to set forward in the
morning, we supposed the governor could not pretend to give them
any satisfaction upon us when we were out of his power. The Scots
merchant, as steady in his resolution for the enterprise, as bold in
executing, brought me a Tartar's robe or gown of sheep-skins, and
a bonnet, with a bow and arrows, and had provided the same for
himself and his countryman, that the people, if they saw us, shotild
not be able to determine who we were.
All the first night we spent in mixing up some combustible matter
with aqua vitee, gunpowder, and such other materials as we could
fet; and, having a good quantity of tar in a little pot, about an
our after night we set out upon our expedition.
We came to the place about eleven o'clock at night, and found
that the people had not the least jealousy of danger attending their
idol. The night was cloudy; yet the moon gave us light enough to
see that the idol stood just in the same posture and place that it did
before. The people seemed to be all at their rest; only, that in the
great hut, or tent, as we called it, where we saw the three priests
whom we mistook for butchers, we saw a light; and going up close
to the door, we heard people talking as if there were five or six of
them; we concluded, therefore, that if we set wild-fire to the idol,
these men would come out immediately, and run up to the place to
rescue it from the destruction that we intended for it; and what to
do with them we knew not. Once we thought of carrying it away
and setting fire to it at a distance, but whan we came to handle it,
we found it too bulky for our carriage; so we were at a loss again.
The second Scotsman was for setting fire to the tent or hut, and
knocking the creatures that were there on the head, when they
came out; but I could not join with that; I was against killing
them, if it were possible to avoid it. "Well then," said the Scots
merchant, I will tell you what we will do: "we will try to make them
prisoners, tie their hands, and make them stand and see their idol
destroyed."
As it happened, we had twine or packthread enough about us,
which was used to tie our firweorks together with: so we resolved
to attack these people first, and with as little noise as we could.
The first thing we did, we knocked at the door, when, one of the
priests coming to it, we immediately seized upon him, stopped his
mouth, and tied his hands behind him, and led him to the idol, where
we gagged him that he might not make a noise, tied his feet also
together, and left him on the ground.
Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that another would
ime out, to see what the matter was; but we waited so long till
he third man came back to us; and then nobody coming out, we
knocked again gently, and immediately out came two more, and we
served them just in the same manner, but were obliged to go all
with them, and lay them down by the idol some distance from one
another; when, going back, we found two more were come out to
the door, and a third stood behind them within the door. We seized
the two, and immediately tied them, when the third stepping back,
and crying out, my Scots merchant went in after him, and, taking
out a composition we had made, that would only smoke and stink,
he set fire to it and threw it in among them: by that time the
other Scotsman and my man, taking charge cf the two men already
bound, and tied together also by the arm, led them away to the idol.
CO]
fh«
and left them there to see if their idol would relieve them, making
haste back to us.
When the fuze we had thrown in had filled the hut with so much
smoke that they were almost suffocated, we then threw in a small
leather bag of another kind, which flamed like a candle, and following
it in, we found there were but four people, who, as we supposed, had
been about some of their diabolical sacrifices. They appeared, in
short frightened to death, at least so as to sit trembling and stupid,
and not able to speak neither, for the smoke.
In a word, we took them, bound them as we had done the other,
and all without any noise. I should have said we brought them oat
of the house, or hut, first; for indeed we were not able to bear the
smoke any more than they were. When we had done this, we
carried them altogether to the idol: when we came there we fell to
work with him; and first we daubed him all over, and his robes also,
with tar, and such other stuff as we had, which was tallow mixed
with brimstone; then we stopped his eyes and ears and mouth full
of gunpowder; then we wrapped up a great piece of wild-fire in his
bonnet; and then sticking all the combustibles we had brought with
us upou him, we looked about to see if we could find anything else
to help to burn him; when my Scotsman remembered that by the
tent, or hut, where the men were, there lay a heap of dry forage,
whether straw or rushes 1 do not remember; away he and the other
Scotsman ran and fetched their arms full of that. When they had
done this, we took all our prisoners, and brought them, having
untied their feet and ungagged their mouths, and made them stand
up, and set them before their monstrous idol, and then set fire to
the whole.
We stayed by it a quarter of an hour, or thereabouts, till the
powder in the eyes and mouth and ears of the idol blew up, and as
we could perceive, had split and deformed the shape of it; and in a
word, till we saw it burned into a mere block or log of wood; and
setting dry forage to it, we found that it would be soon quite con-
sumed; so we began to think of going awav; but the Scotsman said:
"No, we must not go, for these poor deluded wretches will all
throw themselves into the fire, and bur n themselves with the idol."
So we resolved to stay till the forage was burnt down too, and then
ame away and left them.
After the feat was performed, we appeared in the morning among
our fellow travellers, exceeding busy in getting ready for our journey;
nor could any man suggest that we had been any where but in our
beds, as travellers might be supposed to be, to fit themselves for the
fatigues of the day's jourucy,
But the affair did not end so: the next day came a great number
of the country people to the town gates, and in a most outrageous
manner demanded satisfaction of the Russian governor for the in-
sulting their priests, and burning their Cham Chi-Thaungu. The
people of Nertzinskoi were at first in a great consternation, for they
said the Tartars were already no less than thirty thousand strong.
The Russian governor sent out messengers to appease them, and gave
them all the good words imaginable; assuring them that he knew
nothing of it, and that there had not a soul in his garrison been
abroad, so that it could not be from any body there; but if they
could let him know who did it, they shoula be exemplarilv punished.
They returned haughtily, that all the country reverenced the great
Cham Chi-Thaungu, who dwelt in the sun, and no mortal would
have dared to offer violence to his image but some Christian miscre-
ant; and they therefore resolved to denounce war against him and
all the Russians, who, they said, were miscreants and Christians.
The governor, still patient, and unwilling to make a breach, or to
have any cause of war alleged to be given by him, the Czar having
strictly charged them to treat the conquered country with gentleness
and civility, gave them still all the good words he could. At last
he told them there was a caravan gone towards Russia that morn-
ing, and perhaps it was some ot them who had done them this
injury ; and that if they would be satisfied with that, he would send
alter them to inquire into it. This seemed to appease them a little;
and accordingly the governor sent after us, and gave us a particular
account how the thing was; intimating withal, that if any in our
caravan had done it, they should make their escape; but that, whe-
ther we had done it or no, we should make all the haste forward
that was possible; and that, in the mean time, he would keep them
in play as long as he could.
This was very friendly in tke governor: however, when it came
to the caravan, there was nobody knew anything of the matter; and
as for us that were guilty, we were least of all suspected. How-
ever, the captain of the caravan for the time took the hint that the
governor gave us, and we travelled two days and two nights without
any considerable stop, and then we lay at a village called Plothus:
nor did we make any long stop here, but hastened on towards Jara-
wena, another of the Czar of Muscovy's colonies, and where we
expected we should be safe. But upon the second day's march
from Plothus, by the clouds of dust behind us at a great distance,
some of our people began to be sensible we were pursued. AVc had
entered a great desert, and had passed by a great lake called Schanks
Osier, when we perceived a very great body of horse appear on the
other side of the lake, to the north, we travelling west. We
observed they went away west, as we did, but had supposed we
would have taken that side of the lake, whereas we very happily took
the south side; and in two days more they disappeared again: for
they, believing we were still before them, pushed on till they came
to the river Udda, a very great river when it passes farther north,
but when we came to it we found it narrow and fordable.
The third day, they had either found their mistake, or had intelli-
gence of us, and came pouring in upon us towards the dusk of the
evening. We had, to our great satisfaction, just pitched upon a
place for our camp, which was very convenient for the night; for as
we were upon a desert, though but at the beginning of it, that was
above five hundred miles over, we had no towns to lodge at, and, in-
deed, expected none but the city Jarawena, which we had yet two
days' march to: the desert, however, had some few woods in it on
this side, and little rivers, which ran all into the great river Udda;
it was in a narrow strait, between little but very thick woods, that
we pitched our camp for that night, expecting to be attacked before
morning.
Nobody knew but ourselves what we were pursued for: but as it
was usual for the Mogul Tartars to go about in troops in that
desert, so the caravans always fortify themselves every night against
Aem, as against armies of robbers; and it was therefore no new
thing to be pursued.
But we had this night, of all the nights of our travels, a most
advantageous camp; for we lay between two woods, with a little
rivulet running just before our front, so that we could not be sur-
rounded, or attacked in any way but in our front or rear. We took
care also to make our frout as strong as we could, by placing our
packs, with our camels and horses, all in a line on the inside of the
river, and felling some trees in our rear.
In this posture we encamped for the night; but the enemy was
upon us before we had finished our situation. They did not come
on us like thieves, as we expected, but sent three messengers to us,
to demand the men to be delivered to them that had abused their
priests, and burned their god Cham Chi-Thaungu with fire, that they
might burn them with fire; and upon this, they said, they would go
away, and do us no further harm, otherwise they would destroy us
all. Our men looked very blank at this message, and began to stare
at one another, to see who looked with the most guilt in their faces:
but nobody was the word; nobody did it. The leader of the caravan
sent word he was well assured that it was not done by any of our
camp; that we were peaceable merchants, travelling on our busi-
ness; that we had done no harm to them or to any one else; and
that, therefore, they must look further for their enemies who had
injured them, for we were not the people; so desired them not to
disturb us, for, if they did, we should defend ourselves.
They were far from oeing satisfied with this for an answer; and a
great crowd of them came running down in the morning by break
of day, to our camp; but seeing us in sv.ch an unaccountable situa-
tion, they durst come no farther thuii the brook in our front, where
ihey stood and showed us such a number that indeed terrified us
very much: for those that spoke least of them spoke of ten thou-
sand. Here they stood and looked at us awhile, and then setting up
a great howl, they let fly a cloud of arrows among as; but we were
well enough fortified for that, for we sheltered under our baggage,
and I do not remember that one of us was hurt.
Some time after this, we Jaw them move a little to our right, and
expected them on tlve rear; when a cunning fellow, a Cossack of
Jarawena, in the pay of the Muscovites, calling to the leader of the
caravan, said to him," I'll go send all these people away to Sibeilka:"
this was a city four or five days' journey at least to the right, and
rather behind us. So he takes his bow and arrows, and getting on
horseback, he rides away from our rear directlv, as it were back to
Nertzinskoi; after this, he takes a great circuit about, and comes
directly on the army of the Tartars, as if he had been sent express
to tell them a long story, that the people who had burned the Cham
Chi-Thaungu were gone to Sibeilka, with a caravan of miscreants,
as he called them, that is to say, Christians; and that they had
resolved to burn the god Schal-Isarg, belonging to the Tonguescs.
Asthisfellow was himself amere Tartar, and perfectly spoke their lan-
guage, he counterfeited so well, that they all took it from him, and
away they drove in a most violent hurry to Sibeilka, which, it seems,
was five days'journey to the north; and in less than three hours
they were entirely out of our sight, and we never heard any more
of them, nor whether they went to Sibeilka or no. So we passed
away safely on to Jarawena, where there was a garrison of Musco-
vites, and there we rested five days, the caravan being exceedingly
fatigued with the last days' hard march, and with want of rest in
tne night.
From this city we had a friahtful desert, which held us twenty-
three days' march. We furnished ourselves with some tents here,
for the better accommodating ourselves in the night; and the leader
of the caravan procured sixteen carriages, or waggons of the country,
for carrying our water or provisions; and these carriages were our
defence," every night, rountf our little camp; so that had the Tartars
appeared, unless they had been very numerous indeed, they would
not have been able to hurt us.
We may well be supposed to want rest again after this long jour-
ney: for in this desert we neither saw house nor tree, and scarce a
bctli; \hough we saw abundance of the sable-hunters, who are all
Tartus oi the Mogul Tartavy, of which this country is a part; and
they frequently attack small caravans, but we saw no numbers of
them together.
After we had passed this desert, we came into a country pretty
n ell inhabited; that is to sav, we found towns and castles, settled
by the Czar of Muscovy, with garrisons of stationary soldiers, to
protect the caravans, and defend the country against the Tartars,
who would otherwise make it very dangerous travelling; and his
czarish majesty has given such strict orders for the well guarding
the caravans and merchants, that, if there are any Tartars neard of
in the country, detachments of the garrisons are always scut to see
the travellers safe from station to station. And thus the governor
of Adinskoy, whom I had an opportunity to make a visit to, by
means of the Scots merchant, who was acquainted with him, offered
us a guard of fifty men, if we thought there was any danger, to the
next station.
I thought, long before this, that as we came nearer to Europe we
should find the country better inhabited, and *the people more civil-
ized; but I found myself mistaken in both: for we had yet the
nation of the Tongueses to pass through, where we saw the same
tokens of paganism and barbarity as before; only, as they were
conquered by the Muscovites, they were not so dangerous; but for
rudeness of manners, and idolatry, no people in the world ever went
beyond them: they are clothed all in sicins of beasts, and their
houses are built of the same; you know not a man from a woman,
either by the ruggedness of their countenances or their clothes;
and in the winter, when the ground is covered with snow, they live
underground in vaults, which have cavities going from one to an-
other. If the Tartars had their Cham Chi-Thaungu for a whole vil-
lage or country, these had idols in every hut and every cave: be-
sides, they worship the stars, the sun, the water, the snow, and, in a
word, every thing they do not understand, and they understand but
very little; so that every element, every uncommon thing, sets them
a sacrificing. I met with nothing peculiar to myself in all this
country, which I reckon was, from the dtsert I spoke of last, at
least lour hundred miles, half of it being another desert, which took
us up twelve days' severe travelling, without house or tree; and we
were obliged again to carry our own provisions, as well water as
bread. Alter we were out of this desert, and had travelled two
days, we came to Janezay, a Muscovite city or station on the great
river Janezay (Yenisay), which, they told us there, parted Europe
from Asiiv.
Here I observed ignorance and paganism still prevailed, except in
the Moscovite garrisons; all the country between the river Oby and
the river Janezay is as entirely pagan, and the people as barbarous,
as the remotest of the Tartars; nay, as any nation in Asia or
America. I also found, which I observed to the Muscovite govern-
ment; which they acknowledged was true enough; but that, as they
said, was none of their business; that if the Czar expected to
convert his Siberian, Tonguese, or Tartar subjects, it should be done
by sending clergymen among them, not soldiers; and they added
with more sincerity than I expected, that they found it was not so
much the concern of their monarch to make the people Christians as
it was to make them subjects.
From this river to the great river Oby, we crossed a wild unculti-
vated country, barren ol people and good management; other-
wise it is in itself a most pleasant, fruitful, and agreeable country.
What inhabitants we found in it are all pagans, except such as are
sent among them from Russia; for this is the country, I mean on
both sides the river Oby, whither the Muscovite criminals that are
not put to death are bauisiied, and from whence it is next to impossible
they should ever come away. ,
I have nothing material to say of my particular affairs till I came
to Tobolski, the capital city of Siberia, where I continued some time
on the following occasion.
We had now been almost seven months on our journey, and
winter began to come on apace; whereupon my partner and I called
a council about our particular affairs, in whicu we found it proper,
as we were bound to England, and not for Moscow, to consider how
to dispose of ourselves. They told us of rein-deer to carry us over
the snow in the winter time; and, indeed, they have such things
that it would be incredible to relate the particulars of, by which
means the Russians travel more in the winter than they can in
summer, as in these sledges they are able to run night and day; the
snow being frozen, is one universal covering to nature, by which the
hills, vales, rivers, and lakes are all smooth and hard as a stone, and
they run upon the surface, without any regard to what is underneath.
But I had no occasion to push at a winter journey of tjiis kind; I
was bound to England, not to Moscow, and my route lay two ways;
either I must go on as the caravan went, till I came to Jareslaw, and
than go off west for Narva and the Gulf of Finland, and so to
Dantzie, where I might possibly sell my China cargo to good advantage;
or I must leave the caravan at a little town on the Dwina, from
whence I had but six days by water to Archangel, and from thence
might be sure of shipping either to England, Holland, or Hamburgh.
Now, to go any of these journeys in the winter would have been
preposterous: for as to Dantzie, the Baltic would have been frozen
up, and I could not get passage; and to go by laud in these coun-
tries was far less safe than among the Mogul Tartars; likewise, to
go to Archangel in October, all the ships would be gone from thence,
and even the merchants who dwell there in summer retire south to
Moscow in the winter, when the ships are gone; so that I could
have nothing but extremity of cold to encounter, with a scarcitv of
provisions, and must lie in an empty town all the winter; so tliat,
upon the whole, I thought it much my better way to let the caravan
go, and make provision to winter where I was, at Tobolski, in
Siberia, in the latitude of about sixty degrees, where I was sure of
three things to wear out a cold winter with, viz. plenty of provisions,
such as the country afforded, a warm house with fuel enough, and
excellent company.
I was now in quite a different climate from my beloved island,
where I never felt cold, except when I had my ague; on the con-
trary, I had much to do to bear any clothes on my back, and never
made any fire but without doors, wuici was necessary for dressing
my food, &c. Now 1 made me three good vesta, with large robea
»r gowns over them, to hang down to the feet, and button close to
the wrists; and all these lined with furs, to make them sufficiently
warm.
As to a warm house, I must confess I greatly disliked our way in
England of making fires in every room in the house in open chimneys,
which, when the fire was out, always kept the air in the room cold
as the climate; but taking an apartment in a good house in the
town, 1 ordered a chimney to be built like a furnace, in the centre
of six several rooms, like a stove; the funnel to carry the smoke
went up one way, the door to come at the fire went in another, and
all the rooms were kept equally warm, but no fire seen, just as they
heat the bagnios in England. By this means, we had always the same
climate in all the rooms, and an equal heat was preserved; and how
cold soever it was without, it was always warm within; and yet we
saw no fire, nor were ever incommoded with smoke.
I had been here eight months, and a dark, dreadful winter I
thought it; the cold so intense that I could not so much as look
abroad without being wrapped in furs, and a mask of fur before my
face, or rather a hood, with only a hole for breath, and two for sight;
the little daylight we had was, as we reckoned, for three months,
not above five hours a day, and six at most; only that the snow lying
on the ground continually, and the weather clear, it was never quite
dark. Our horses were kept, or rather starved, underground, and
as for our servants, whom we hired here to look after ourselves and
horses, we had, every now and then, their fingers and toes to thaw
and take care of, lest they should mortify and fall oft'.
It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses being close, the
walls thick, the lights small, and the glass all double. Our food was
chiefly the flesh of deer, dried and cured in the season; bread good
enough, but baked as biscuits ; dried fish of several sorts, and some
flesh of mutton and of the buffaloes, which is pretty good meat. All
the stores of provisions for the winter are laid up in the summer, and
well cured: our drink was water, mixed with aqua-vitaj instead of
brandy; and for a treat, mead instead of wine, which, however, they
have excellent good. The hunters, who venture abroad all weathers,
frequently brought us in fine venison, and sometimes bear's flesh, but
we did not much care for the last. We had a good stock of tea, with
which we treated our friends, and we lived very cheerfully and well,
all things considered.
It was now March 15; the days grown considerably longer, and the
weather at least tolerable; so the other travellers began to prepare
sledges to carry them over the snow, and to get things ready to be
going: but my measires being fixed, as I have said, for Archangel,
and not for Muscovy or the Baltie, I made no motion ; knowing very
well that the ships from the south do not set out for that part of tha
wcrld till Mav or June, and that if I was there by the beginning of
August, it would be as soon as any ships would be ready to go away;
and therefore I made no taste to be gone, as others did: in a word,
I saw a great many people, nay, all the travellers, go away before me.
It seems, every year they go from thence to Muscovy for trade, viz.
to carry furs, and buy necessaries, which they bring back with them
to furnish their shops : also others went on the same errand to Arch-
angel ; but then they all being to come back again, above eight hun-
dred miles, went all out before me.
In the month of Mav I began to make all ready to pack up; I
had bought a considerable quantity of sables, black fox-skins, fine
ermines, and such other furs as are very rich, in that city, in exchange
for some of the goods I had brought from China: in particular for the
cloves and nutmegs, of which I sold the greatest part here, and the
rest afterwards at Archangel, for a much better price than I could
have got in London; and my partner, who was sensible of the profit,
aud whose business more particularly than mine was merchandise,
was mightily pleased with our stay, on account of the traffic we made
here.
It was the beginning of June when I left this remote place, a city,
I believe, little heard of in the world : and, indeed, it is so far out of
the road of commerce, that I know not how it should be much talked
of. We were now reduced to a very small caravan, having only
thirty-two horses and camels in all. We had now the worst and the
largest desert to pass over that we met with in our whole journey;
I call it the worst, because the way was very deep in some places,
and very uneven in others; the best we had to say for it was, that
we thought we had no troops of Tartars or robbers to fear, and that
they never came on this side the river Oby, or at least but very
seldom; but we found it otherwise.
We had just entered Europe, having passed the river Kama, which
in these parts is the boundary between Europe and Asia, and the first
city on the European side was called Soloy Kamskoi, which is as
much as to say, the great city on the river Kama; and here we
thought to see some evident alteration in the people; but we were
mistaken: for as we had a vast desert to pass, which is near seven
hundred miles long in some places, but not above two hundred miles
over where we passed it, so, till we came past that horrible place, we
found very little difference between that country and the Mogul Tar-
tary: the people are mostly pagans, and little better than the savages
of America; their houses and towns full of idols, and their way of
living whojy barbarous, except in the cities, as above, and the villages
near them, where they are Christians, as they call themselves, of the
Greek church; but have their religion mingled with so many relies of
uperstition, that it is scarce to be known in some places from mere
orcery and witchcraft.
In passing this forest, I thought, indeed, we must (after all our
dangers were to our imagination escaped, as before) have been plun-
dered and robbed, and perhaps murdered, by a troop of thieves; J
what country they were I am yet at a loss to know, but they were
all on horseback, carried bows and arrows, and were at first about
forty-five in number: they came so near to us as to be within two
musket shots, and asking no questions, surrounded us with their
horses, and looked very earnestly upon us twice: at length they
placed themselves just in our way; upon which we drew up in a little
line, before our camels, being not above sixteen men in all; and being
drawn up thus, we halted, and sent out a Siberian servant, to see
who they were. The man came up near them with a flag of truce,
and called to them; but though he spoke several of their languages,
or dialects of languages rather, he could not understand a word they
said: however, after some signs to him not to come nearer to them,
at his peril, the fellow came oack no wiser than he went : only that
by their dress, he said, he believed them to be some Tartars of Kal-
muck, or of the Circassian hordes, and that there must be more of
them upon the great desert, though he had never heard that any of
them were seen so far north before.
About an hour after, they again made a motion to attack us, and
rode round our little wood to see where they might break in; but
finding us always ready to face them, they went off again; and we
resolved not to stir for that night.
This was small comfort to us; however, we had no remedy: there
was on our left hand, at about a quarter of a mile distance, a little
grove, and very near the road: I immediately resolved we should
advance to those trees, and fortify ourselves as weE as we could
there: for, first, I considered that the trees would in a great measure
cover us from their arrows; and, in the next place, they could not
come to charge us in a body: it was, indeed, my old Portuguese
pilot who proposed it, and who had this excellency attending him,
that he was always readiest and most apt to direct and encourage us
in cases of the most danger. We advanced immediately, with what
speed we could, and gained that little wood; the Tartars, or thieves,
for we knew not what to call them, keeping their stand, and not
attempting to hinder us. When we came thither, we found, to our
great satisfaction, that it was a swampy piece of ground, and on the
one side a very great spring of water, which running out in a little
brook was, a little farther, joined by another of the like size ; and
was, in short, the source of a considerable river, called afterwards the
Wirtska: the trees which grew about this spring were not above two
hundred, but very large, and stood pretty thick, so that as soon as
we got in we saw ourselves perfectly safe from the enemy, unless
thev attacked us on foot.
While we stayed here waiting the motion of the enemy some
hours, without perceiving they made any movement, our Portuguese,
with some help, cut several arms of trees half off, and laid them
hangng across from one tree to another, and in a manner fenced us
in. About two hours before night they came down directly upca
lis; «ud though we had not perceived it, we found they had been
joined by some more of the same, so that they were near fourscore
horse; whereof, however, we fancied some were women. Thcj
came on till they were within half shot of our little wood, when we
fired one musket without ball, and called to them in the Russian
tongue to know what they wanted, and bade them keep off: but
they came on with a double fury up to the wood side, not imagining
we were so barricaded that they could not easily break in. Our old
pilot was our captain, as well as our engineer, and desired us not to
fire upon them till they came within pistol-shot, that we might be
sure to kill; and that when we did fire, we should be sure to take
good aim: we bade him give the word of command, which he
delayed so long, that they were some of them within two pikes'
length of us when we lot fly. We aimed so true that wc killed four-
teen of them, and wounded several others, as also several of their
'horses; for we had all of us loaded our pieces with two or three
bullets at least.
They were terribly surprised with our fire, and retreated imme-
diately about one hundred rods from us, in which time we loaded our
pieces again, and seeing them keep that distance, we sallied out, and
catched four or five of their horses, whose riders we supposed were
killed; and coming up to the dead, we judged they were Tarters,
but knew not how they came to make an excursion of such ar.
unusual length.
We slept little, you may be sure, but spent the most part of the
night in strengthening our situation, and barricading the entrances
into the wood, and keeping a strict watch. We waited for daylight,
and when it came, it gave us a very uusreleome discovery, indeed;
for the enemy, who we thought were discouraged with the reception
they met with, were now greatly increased, and had set up eleven or
twelve huts or tents, as if they were resolved to besiege us; and
this little camp they had pitched upon the open plain, about three
quarters of a mile from us. We were indeed surprised at 'his
discovery; and now, I confess, I gave myself over for lost, and all
that I had; the loss of my effects did not lie so near me, though
very considerable, as the thoughts of falling into the hands of such
barbarians, at the latter end of my journey, after so many difficulties
and hazards as I had gone through, and even in sight of our port,
where we expccled safety and deliverance. As to my partner, he
was raging, and declared that to lose his goods would be his ruin,
and that he would rather die than be starved; and he was for
fighting to the last drop.
We spent the day in debates of what we should do; but towards
evening we found that the number of our enemies still increased, and
we did not know but by the morning they might be a still greater
number: so 1 began to enquire of those people we had brought
from 'i'obolski, if "there v ;re no private ways, by which we might
avoid them in the night, and perhaps retreat to some town, or get
help to guard us over the desert. The Siberian servant, told us, if
we designed to avoid them, and not fight, he would engage to carry
us off in the night, to a way that went north, towards the river
Pctrou, by which he made no question but we might get away, and
ihe Tartars never the wiser. I told him that if he thought it
possible for us to escape in the night, we had nothing else to do but
to attempt it, and we immediately prepared for putting it in
practice.
And, first, as soon as it began to be dark, we kindled a fire in our
little camp, wiuch we kept burning, and prepared so as to make it
burn all night, that the Tartars might conclude we were still there;
but as soon as it was dark, and we could see the stars (for our guide
would not stir before), having all our horses and camels ready
loaded, we followed our new guide, who T socn found steered
himself by the north star.
After we had travelled two hours very hard, it began to be lighter
still; not that it was quite dark all night, but the moon began to
rise, so that, in short, it was rather lighter than we wished it to In;
but by six o'clock the next mornimg we weo got above thirty miles,
iiaving almost spoiled our horses. Here ?ve k und a Russian village,
named Kermanzinskoy, where we rested, and iieard nothing of ihe
Kalmuck Tartars that day. About two hours before night we set
out again, and travelled till eight the next morning, though not
quite so hard as before; and about seven o'clock we passed a little
river, called Kirtza, and came to a good large town. inhabited by
Russians, called Ozomys: there we heard that several troops of
Kalmucks had been abroad upon the desert, but we were now com-
pletely out of danger of them, which was to our great satisfaction.
Here we were obliged to get some fresh horses; and having need
enough of rest, we stayed five days; and my partner and 1 agreed to
give the honest Siberian who had brought us thither the value of
ten pistoles.
In five days more we came to Veuslima, upon the river Witzogda,
and running into the Dwina; we were there, very happily, near the
end of our travels by land, that rivdr being navigable, in seven days'
passage, to Archangel. 1'rom heLcf we came to Lawrenskoy the 3d
of July; and providing ourselves with two luggage boats, and a
barge for our own convenience, we juibarked the 7th, and arrived all
safe at Archangel the 18th; having been a year, five months, and
three days on the journey, including our stay of eight months
at Tobolski. We were obliged to stay at this place six weeks
for the arrival of the ships, and must have tarried longer, had
not an Hamburgher come in above a month sooner than any of the
English ships: when after some consideration that the city of
Hamburg might happen to be as good a market for our goods as
London, we all took freight with him.
ADVENTUllES OF HOBINSON CRUSOE.
We then set sail from Archangel the 20th of August, the same
year; and after no extraordinary bad voyage, arrived safe in the Elbe
the 18th of September. Here my partner and I found a very good
sale for our goods, as well those of China, as the sables, &c. of
Siberia; and dividing the produce, my share amounted to three
thousand four hundred and seventy-five pounds seventeen shillings
and three pence, including about six hundred pounds worth of
diamonds which I purchased at Bengal.
To conclude, having stayed near four months in Hamburgh,
I came from thence by land to the Hague, where I embarked in the
packet, and arrived in London the tenth of January, 1705, having
been absent from England ten years and nine months. And here I
am, preparing for a longer journey than all these, having lived a
a life of infinite variety seventy-two years, and learned sufficiently to
know the value of retirement, and the blessing of ending our days
in peace.

B. W.ACKLOCK £ CO., FAtUlINUDOS KUAL> ASU VH.US& amfiEi'. «C.
;," —10—56,1-4—83-1113.
Popular Law Dictionary (Ward & Lock's).
A Concise Compendium of the Common and Statute Law of England and
Wiles. Including Technical Terms, Historical Memoranda, Legal
Points and Practical Suggestions on an immense variety of subiects
relating to the every-day Business and contingencies of ordinary life.
Alphabetically arranged for ready reference, with details on leading
topics. down 8vo, cloth, 6a.
The Title of this Work describes its scope: it is a Dictionary of Legal Terms
and Phrases; a Compendium of the existing Law on all subjects likely to affect
the interests of most fersons. The adoption of the Dictionary arranettnent -wilt
greatly facilitate reference^ and readily place before the inquirer the information
In requires.
NEW EDITIONS, RE-WRITTEN THROUGHOUT.
Beeton's Dictionary of Universal Infor-
mation : Geography, History and Biography. An entirely New and Re-
vised Edition, re-written throughout, with Hundreds of New Articles.
With Maps. Complete in One Volume, comprising about 1,800 pages, 3,000
columns, 25,000 complete Articles. Royal 8vo, half-leather, 18a.
"In proposing to themselves, as the chief aim of their enterprise, a com-
blaatlou of nccurncy* compactness, comprehensiveness, and
cheapness, the publishers have achieved a success which cannot fail
to be appreciated by ilic public**'—Glasgow Herald,
Just ready, uniform with the above.
Beeton's Dictionary of Universal Infor-
mation: Science, Art, and Literature. An entirely New and Revised
Edition, rewritten throughout, with Hundreds of Now Articles. Complete
in One Volume, comprising about 2,000 pages, 4,000 columns, 25,000 com-
plete Articles. Royal Svo, half-leather, ISs.
The Life of Charles Lever. By W. J.
Fitzpatricr, F.S.A. Demy Svo, cloth gilt, 6s.
This is a New, Cheaper, and thoroughly Revised Editions of a well-known
book. In this work, which has the accuracy of fact, and the high feeling of literary
admiration for its subject, the whole career of Ireland** Great Novelitt, at once
the contemporary and rival of Dicrens and Thacreray, is clearly traoed.
Literally, from the cradle to the grave, we are placed not only in full view of, but
with intimate relations to, the spirited and gifted creator of" Harry Lorrequer/*
"Charles O'AfaJtey," " Jack Hinton,'* and a score or two ofotlur worthies, whose
names and deeds art "familiar in our mouths as household words.*'
A NEW AND HANDSOME LIBRARY EDITION OP
Gibbon's Roman Empire. Wilh the late
Dean Milman's copious and very valuable Kotos, numerous Engravings,
and Marginal Notes throughout. In Two Volumes, medium 8vo, cloth, 21s.
No other edition of Gibbon's great Work can compare for cheapness and
completeness with this. The whole of the Text is given, as written toy the
Author, no word is changed, no line is omitted; at the same time, the reader has
before him Dean Milman's copious Notes, combating the Author's scepticism in
religious matters, while enriching the work by their literary and historical
Value This Edition also includes Marginal Notes, giving the essence of the
narrative, and a large number of Engravings, illustrating the Manners and
Customs, cVv., of the Ancient Romans.
The Enquirer's Oracle; or, What to Do
and How to Do It. A Ready Reference Dook upon Family Matters, Health
And Education. Home Management, Home Culture, and a countless variety
of subiects, illustrated. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 2s. Gd.
WARD, LOCK & CO., London and New York,
New and Elegant Children's Gift Books for all Seasons.—Containing
numerous beautiful designs, executed in the highest style of Colour Printing.
Quacks: The Story of the Ugly Duckling,
after Hans Andersen. Told in Verse, and Illustrated with exquisite
Coloured Pictures by Marion M. Wingrave. 4:0, ornamental boards,
Ss. ; cloth gilt, 6s.
This New Version of the most popular oj Hans Christian Andersen's
Stories cannot fail to find a cordial and general welcome. The story is told in
agreeable and flowing rhymes, certain to recommend themselves to children. The
artistic merit of the Pictures, their truth to nature, and their kindly and grace-
ful humour, will speak for themselves; and every care has been taken to make it a
most Popular Juvenile Gift-book.
"The beautiful coloured pictures, the delightful verse, and the
instructive moral make it a prize Indeed."—Christian World.
Happy Child Life, at Home and at School.
A Good Boy's Day, with its Work and Play. Beautifully Illustrated with
Coloured Pictures by Eugen Klimsck. Polio, pictorial boards, Gs. ; cloth
gilt, 7s. (id.
Ih this book will be found illustrated the various incidents of Child Life, with
its schooltitne and playtime, the pleasures and enjoyments, and the mishaps and
disasters, which make up the history o ' little people. The task achieved or nef.
lectid, the small quarrel and reconciliation, e>c, &*c.—all intertstin* to Children,
ana all most artistically illustrated by the famous pencil of Eugen Klimsch.
"Elegant In form, and profanely illustrated in colours, the
drawing, moreover, being exceedingly good, it is just the kind of book to
attract youthful readers."—Aberdeen Free Press.
BEAUTIFULLY PRINTED IN COLOURS.
Cradle Songs of Many Nations. The Music
by Rsinhold Herman. Beautifully Illustrated with Original Coloured
Pictures by Walter Satterlee. Large demy 41.0, cloth gilt, 10s. Gd.
This is a pictorial Art-book of infinite variety. It is an illustrated collection
of Cradle Songs; it offers representative Specimens of that department of Infant
literature from all parts of the world, from the Far West and the Far East,j/-om
the frozen North and the sunny South. In its Artistic, Antiquarian, and Philo-
logical interest the book cannot fail to recommend itself to all.
"This charming book will be appreciated by lovers of music, and by all
mothers and children. —The Standard.
Andersen's Fairy Tales, with Coloured piciures,
nearly 100 full-page and other Illustrations, and Life of the Author. Demy
8vo, cloth gilt, gilt edges, 7s. 6d.
Uniform with the above, 7s. Gil. each,
i. NURSERY RHYMES, STORIES AND BALLADS.
2. OLD FAVOURITE FAIRY TALES.
3- THE SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON.
4- ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
5- DON QUIXOTE DE LA MANCHA.
6. WILD SPORTS OF THE WORLD.
The Children's Picture Annual, for 1886.
inth Season.) Birdie and Bobble: How they Kept House. Profusely
gilt edges, Ss.
(Nil
lUu
"WARD, LOCK & CO,, London and New York.
SCIENTIFIC0 PRECRE ATIONS.
With 900 Engravings.

A Delightful and Instruc-
tive Work for all who wish
to have
The SECRETS of SCIENCE
Explained and Illustrated
in the most popular and
amusing manner.

Translated and En-
larged from "Les Recre-
ations Scientifiques," by
M. Gaston Tissandier.
Science i» not only made easr bill rendered iib»oInnlv
delightful. A more f.1-1 innting booh of the clnu we hnrc nerer
1 met with The Western Morning News.
TWO BEAUTIFULLY ILLUSTRATED GIFT BOOKS.
Royal 8vo, cloth gilt, price 7s. Gd. each.
i. GOD'S GLORIOUS CREATION;
or, The Mighty Marvels of Earth, Sea, and Sky. The Earth's
Place in the Universal plan—Wonders of the Water—Won-
ders of the Land—Wonders of the Atmosphere.
11. THE CREATOR'S WONDERS
BEAUTIFULLY
ILLUSTRATED
WITH
OKIQIHAL
ENGRAVINGS.
IN LIVING NATURE; or, Marvels of Life in the Animal
and Vegetable Kingdoms. Organic Life in all parts of the
World, on Land and in the Ocean.
Translated from
the German of
Dr. Kerman, J.
Klein, and Dr.
Thome, by J.
Minsiiull.
"WARD, LOOK & CO , London and New York
BENCH, BRUSH, AND LATHE.
Being VOLUME IV. of A3IATEUB WOBK, ILLUSTBATEO.
With Valuable SUPPLEMENTS, and about l.cco ENGRAVINGS In tho Text.
Containing Practical Instructions in the following among other subjects:
Perambula-
Lathe
Building,
Carpsntry,
Fret Work,
Screens,
Printing,
Forge Work,
Inlaying,
Wood-
Carving,
Scene-
Painting,
Utilization
of Waste
Materials,
ULa^^
iPifer
wra
ft
J§3e
BraBfi-ra*'
-c=S»v3
F^J^M-i5.V/~
tor Making,
Painting and
Papering,
Musical
Instrument
Making,
Home-made
Furniture,
Fishing
Tackle,
Decoration,
Canoe
Building,
Photography
&c, &c, Ac.
Also, uniform with the above, 7s. Gd. each,
I. AMATEUR WORK, ILLUSTRATED, Volume I.
II- MECHANICS MADE EASY. The Second Volume of above.
III. THE WORKSHOP AT HOME. Third Volume of above.
Printed with great care on the finest paper. In Eleven Vols., demy 8vo, cloth,
82a. <i>L; half-calf or half-morocco, 115s. Gd.
A New and greatly Improved Edition of
HOOD'S COMPLETE WORKS.
Contain-
ing all tho
Writings
OF
THOMAS
HOOD;
ALSO
MimorlalB
OF
TOM
HOOD
hy His
Son and
Daughter.

"It is with peculiar pleasure we notice the new edition of the completo works 1
of Hood, by Messrs. Ward and Lock. . . They are certainly lo be thanked |
for this re-issue, in a more satisfactory shape than any former one, of this wonder- .
fiil collection of good fun and true literature."—Saturday Review. J
WARDi LQCK & CO., London anc; New York,.
Traditions of the Mythical period of History, Old Chronicles, Legends and
Romances, later Ball id and Idyllic Poetry, fits. With 36 Magnificent Steel
Engravings by GOSTAVB DORE. In One Magnificent royal 410 Volume,
handsomely bound, cloth gilt, 42s.
The Dore Gift Book of Illustrations to
Tennyson's Idylls of the King. With Descriptive Letterfress and
Quotations from Tennvson's Poems, by permission. In One Magnificent
royal 4to Volume, containing 37 Engravings on Steel, from the Original
Drawings by QUSTAVS DORE. Cloth, richly gilt, gilt edges, price 42s.
Gustave Dore's Illustrations to the Ar-
thurian Legends. Royal 410, handsomely bound, cloth, richly gilt, gilt
edges, 12.1. each.
I. GUINEVERE. The Story of Kiso Arthur and Queen Guinevere.
With Nine Engravings on Steel from Drawings by Gustave Dore.
1. VIVIEN. The Story of Merlin the Enchanter and Vivien. With
Nine Engravings on Steel from Diawings by Gustave Dore.
3. ENID. The Story of Enid and Geraint. With Kino Engravings on
8teelfrom Drawings by Gustave Dore.
4. ELAINE. The Story of Elaine. With Nine Engravings on Stool
from Drawings by Gustave Dorb.
"As porinEnr gift-books tliey nre precisely vrhrat they nhonlil
be—beautifully printed on the ihir!tc»l paper, kandifomelr bound,
and moderate lit price."—The Times.
Dalziel's Illustrated Goldsmith. With a
Sretch op the Life of Goldsmith by H. W. Dulcreh, Ph.D. With 100
Pictures Drawn by G. J. Pinwell, Engraved by tho Brothers Dalziel.
Beautifully bound, cloth, full gilt, gilt edges, price 10s. Gd.
Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress. Wilh a
Memoir of the Author by H. W. Dulcrrn, Ph.D., and 100 Page and.
Other Illustrations by Thomas Dalziel, Engraved by the Brothers Dal-
ziel. Presentation Edition, on thick toned paper, 4to, cloth gilt, gilt
edges, price 10s, Gd. Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, cloth gilt, gilt edges,
3s. Gd.; cloth gilt, 2s. Gd.; cloth, 2s. Also Popular EniTion, thinner
paper, ornamental wrapper, Is.; cloth gilt, Is. Gd.; cilt edges, 2s. And
People's Edition, medium 4to, wrapper, Gd.; cloth, Is,
Washington Irving's Sketch Book. A
New Edition. Illustrated with One Hundred and Twenty Engravings
on Wool from Original Designs. Large demy 8vo, cloih gilt, 10s. Gil.
Thomas Hood, Illustrated by Dore. Wilh
Nine Engravings on Steel, from Drawings by Gustave Dore, and many
Woodcuts. Folio, cloth gilt, gilt edges, 21s.
Hood, Illustrated by Birket Foster.
Serins r and 2, each with Twanty-two Drawings by Birrrt Fosthr, en-
graved on Stocl. Large 4to, cloth gilt, cilt cd^es, 21$. each; the Two in
One handsome Volume, hali-morocco, 42s.
Dalziel's Illustrated Arabian Nights' En-
tertainments. With upwards of 200 Illustrations by J. 1-:. Mii.lais, R.A.,
j. Tenniel, J. D. Watson, A. B. Houghton, G.J. Pinwkli. and T. Dalziel,
Engraved by the Brothers Dalziel. In One handsome Volume, cloth, richly
gilt back, sides, and edges, price 21s.; half-morocco, 25s.
'W&JW.LOQK & CO., London and New York
The Complete Works of Shakespeare,
Revised from the Original Text. With Introductory Remarrs and < »pious
Notes—Critical, General and Explanatory—by Samuel Phelps. With LUus-
trationa by H. K. Browne and other Artists. Royal 8vo, cloth gilt, 10s. Gd.
This edition ofShakespeart will be found satisfactory in everyway. The
Biography of the Poet, the Revision of the Text, the Explanatory Notes, and the
numerous //lustrations, have all received very careful attention.
Motley's Dutch Republic: The Rise of
the Dutch Republic. By John Lothrof Motley. A New Edition, with
Map and numerous full-page Illustrations. Royal 6vo, cloth gilt, 7s, Gd,
.This Netv Edition of a famous work is in a handsome and, at the same time,
handy form; and the price at which it is published will, it is hoped, introduce it to
a still larger circle of admirers than it has hitherto attained.
Bonnechose's History of France: The
History op France, to the Revolution of 1848. By Emile de Bonnechose.
With numerous full-pige Illustrations. Medium Svo, cloth gilt, 7a. Gd.
The detailed account of the Gallic Nation, and the intelligent studies of char
racier contained in Bonnechose's History of France, lead the Publishers to
believe t/uit the edition they r.cvo offer to the Public will meet with acceptance from
Students and General Renders, In addition to other advantages, it contains a full
complement cf Engravings to illustrate the text.
The Life of Napoleon Bonaparte. By
I. S. C. Abbott. With Biographies of the Bonaparte Family and of
Napoleon HI. A New Edition, with numerous full-page Illustrations.
Medium 8vo, cloth gilt, 7s. Gd,
Abbott's Life of Napoleon Bonaparte is well known to many readers as a
clear, concise, and extremely interesting work. The Supplementary matter now
added will be of great use to the Strident, while of interest to the General Reader;
and the numerous Illustrations will, it is hoped, be found of great assistance in
bringing forward the stirring events treated of.
Hallam's Literature of Europe: An In-
troduction to the Literature of Europe in the Fifteenth, Sixteenth, and
Seventeenth Centuries. By Henry Hallam. A New Edition, with Illus-
trations. Medium bvo, cloth gilt, 7s, Gd,
Also,just ready, uniform with the above, 7s. Gd. each.
Adam Smith's Wealth of Nations.
Hallam's Constitutional History of England.
Macaulay: Reviews, Essays, and Poems.
Rollin's Ancient History: The Ancient
History of the Egyptians, Carthaginians, Assyrians, Babylonians,
Medes and Persians, Grecians and Macedonians. By M. Rollin. A
New Edition, with Illustrations. Medium 8vo, cloth gilt, 7s. Gd,
D'Israeli's Curiosities of Literature. By
Isaac D'Israeli. A New Edition, with Portrait and Illustrations. Medium
8vo, cloth gilt, 7».Gd.
D'Israeli's Miscellanies of Literature. By
Isaac D'Israeli. A New Edition, with numerous full-page Illustrations.
Uniform with the above Edition of" Curiosities of Literature." Medium Svo,
cloth gilt, 7s. Gd,
WARP, LOCK & CO., London and New York.
New .Edition, re-written throughout.
Beeton's Illustrated Encyclopaedia
OF UNIVERSAL INFORMATION.
COMPRISING
GEOGRAPHY, HI8T0RY, BI0GBAPH7, SCIENCE, ART & LITERATURE.
In Four
Vols.
cloth cr
half-roan,
42s.
half-calf.
or
half-russia
63s.
Of all Works of Reference published of late years, not one has gained such general
approbation as Breton's Illustrated Encyclopedia. It is undoubtedly one of
the Most Comprehensive Works in existence, and having been entirely re-written
and brought down to the latest date, certainly forms Tub Cheapest E.ncyclo-
T.EPIA i* the World.
** We know of no book which in such small compass gives » ntnrh
'nformntion."—The Scotsman.
Royal 8vo, handsomely bound, cloth gilt, price 7*. 6d.
Sylvia's Young Ladies' Treasure Book
3 Complete CncToparfcU of
Practical Instruction & Direction for all, Indoor & Outdoor
Occupations and Amusements suitable for Young Ladies,


Indoor and
Outdoor
Amuse-
ments,
Dress, Nee-
dlework,
Appearance,
Science
for Girls,
Home Pets.
Profuse:? Illustrated with COLOURED PLATES & ENGRAVINGS in the Text.
TO l.i7 ,ish heip and guidance, and to give toevery English girl the opportunity
to fit herself for the high place to which she is iustly entitled—this book
Das been prepared by those who now offer it to the public. The obiect that has
been kept in view throughout, is to make THE YOUNG LADIES' TREA-
SURE BOOK a storehouse of knowledge and information on every subiect
that enters into Girl-life—a iudicious Counsellor and Helper, to whom all may
come with full confidence for advice and assistance, a'; to a friend who will not
fail the..), and who may be depended upon in every case, to tell the thing that
is ii(li' ai:d true.
WARD, LOCK & CO., London and New York.
Imp. 8vo, cloth gilt, gilt top.
i.IVANHOE. 10s. Gd.
2. ROB ROY. 7 s.Gd.
3.KENILW0RTH.7s.6VJ.
4. WAVERLEY. 7s. Gd.

THE SELECTED EDITION OF THE WAVERLEY NOVELS.
Reduced Cut from Rob Roy.
MAGNIFICENTLY
ILLUSTRATED
With Original Designs by
Eminent Artists.
This edition of THE WAVERLEY NOVELS la the boat ever offered to the
publlo. // is printed from a new fount of typo, the paper la of extra quality
and fineness, ami the printing it conducted with the greatest care. J he IUUB-
tratlona are not mere fancy sketches, out present oorreot representations or
Localities, Historical Personagos, Costumes, Architectural details, go.
NEW AND IMPORTANT WORK ON THE VIOLIN.
Demy 8vo, cloth gilt, price 10s. Gd.
VIOLIN MAKING.
AS IT WAS, AND AS IT IS.
An Historical, Practical and Theo-
retical Treatise on the Science and Art
of Violin Making, for the use of Violin-
Makers and Players, Amateur and
Professional.
Preceded by an Essay on
The Violin, and its Position At
a Musical Instrument.
By EDWARD HERON ALLEN,
Author of " The Ancestry of the
Violin," &c.
WITH THREE PHOTOGRAPHS
FOLDING PLATES, AND
ABOUT TWO HUNDRED ENGRAVINGS IN THE TEXT.
WARr( LOCK Se CO., London and New Yoijf.

-
about 12 000 distinct Articles, 120,000 Dates and Facts. Eighteenth
Edition, Enlarged, Corrected, and Revised, and brought dnwn to the
Summer of 1335. IS/t.; half-calf, 24s.; full or tree-calf, 31s. 6d.
** The most Universal IS00U 01 Xtcfervncc inn moderate com*
pnxs that wc know of in the Eii^Uih Ijaii^iiRge."—T.iE Times.
"It is by tin- the readiest and niost reliable Work of the
kind.''—The Standard.
Farm Management and Country Life
(Ward and Locr's Boor of). A Comim.rte Cyclopedia of Rural Occu-
pations and Am'jsrments. Including Maaagcnientof the Farm—The Crops
—Cows and the Dairy—The Horse—The Dos—The Garden—Tree Culture—
Field Sports, &c. with Coloured Platos and Hundrols of Illustration!.
Large crown 8vo, half-roan, 7s. Gil-; hall calf, 10s. Gd.
"It is an rxhnti -live and yii n popular work ( it is practical,
Haydn's Dictionary of Dates. Containing
be In the hands of every agriculturist."—Norwich Argus.
Haydn's Domestic Medicine. By lhe lale
Edwim Lanrester, M.D., F.R.S., Assisted by Distinguished Physicians and
Surgeons. Including an A I'l'ENDIX on SICK N URSING A ND MOTHERS'
MANAGEMENT. With 32 pages ol Engraving*, in One VoL, medium
•to, doth gilt, 7s. Od.; half calf, IS*.
«* The bent work of it» kind."—Medical Press and Circular.
"One of the mont complete aud Intelligible publications of its
kind."—Nottingham Guardian.
Beeton's Book of Needlework. Consist-
ingof 670 Neodiowork Patterns, with full Descriptions and Instructions
as to working them. Every stitch described and engraved with the utmost
accuracy, and the quantity of material requisite for each pattern stated.
Handsomely bound, cloth gilt, gilt edges, price 7*. Gdm
*»* Just as '* The Book of Househ ->ld Management" t,ike* due Precedence of
every other Cookery Book, so this extraordinary Collection of Necdlnvork Designs
has become the book, par excellence, for Ladies to consult, both for instruction in
Stitches and all kuuis of work, and Patterns of elegant style arid irreproachable
good taste.
NEW EDITION, INCLUDING THE NEW BANKRUPTCY ACT, &c.
Everybody's Lawyer. (Beeton's Law
Boor). Entirely New Edition, Revised by a Barrister. Comprising
upwards of 14.000 Statements of the Law. With a full Ind*x, 27,000
References, every numbered paragraph in its particular place and under its
general Lead. Crown Svo, 2,000 pp., cloth gilt, 7s* Gd.
Handy Book of Games for Gentlemen.
By Capt. Crawley, Author of "The Billiard Book." "The Card Player's
Manual," &c. Comprising Billl.iida, Bagatelle, Whist, Loo, Crlbbage,
Bound Games, Cac£S, &c. With many Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
g'' A HANDSOME GIFT BOOK FOR LADIES.
Art Needlework: A Complele Manual of
Embroidery in S.Iks and Crcwels. With full Instructions as to Stitches,
Materials, and Implements. With nun; Dostgns in the Text, and Foot
Valuable Folding Supplements. Demy 4to, cloth gilt, 10s. Gd.
Beeton's Book of Garden Management.
All kinds of Information connected with Fruit, Flower and Kitchen Garden,
Orchid Houses, &c. With Coloured Platea and many Engraving! in the
Text. Post Svo, cloth gilt, 7s. Gd.; lull-calf, lOs.Gd.
WARP, LOCK 4 CO, London and Now York.
C.£dmon and King Alfred's Boethius to Browning and Tennyson; with a
separate Selection of American Poeni3. New Edition, with full-page Illus-
trations. Containing nearly Two Thousand of the Bost Pieces In the
English Language. With Sketches of the History of the Poetry of our
Country, ami Biographical Notices of the Poets. In One handsome
Volume, royal bvo, cloth gilt, gilt edges, price 'JIs. / or in half-calf, 25b*
Noble Thoughts in Noble Language: A
Collection of Wise and Virtuous Utterances, in Prose and Verse, from the
Writings of the Known Great and the Great Unknown. With an Index of
Authors. New Edition, with full-page Illustrations. Compiled and
Analytically Arranged by Henry Southgate. Royal 8vo, cloth gilt, gilt
edges, price 10s. Gd.; half-calf, 15s.; elegant morocco, bevelled boards, * Is.
Hood's Own; or, Laughter from Year to Year.
First and Second Serif.s in One Volume, Complete, with all tho Original
Iliustrations by Hood, Cruirshanr, Leech, &c., numbering about 890. In
handsome binding, royal 8vo, cloth gilt, 10s. Gd. Also U bt had in Two
Vols., cloth gilt, gilt edges, 7s. Gd. tach.
COMPLETE EDITION of HOOD'S POETICAL WORKSm Two Volumes.
Crown Svo, cloth gilt, Kili e Ircs, Bs. each; cloth, pit top, or veil urn, 6s.;
halt-morocco, extra, 10s. GtU
Hood's Comic Poems. Wilh Preface by Tom
Hood the Younger, and numerous lustrations.
Hood's Serious Poems. Wilh Preface by
Tom Hood the Younger, and numerous Illustrations.
Thi above Two Volumes form the only Complete Edition of Hood's Poetical
Works. .—
Great Thoughts on Great Truths; or, The
Christian Lipe, the Church, and the Ministry. Selected and C Inshifted
by the Rev. E. Davies. D.D., Editor of " Holy Thoughts on Holy Things,"
&c. Royal Svo, cloth gilt, 7.**- Gd.
More than a thousand authors are represent*** it the extracts* above three
thousand in number, in this book, in which, as the Editor remarks, a -whole
Library has been condensed into One Volume.
Holy Thoughts on Holy Things: A Selec-
tion from the Writings of the Good and Grhat ot all Arcs. Compiled,
Selected and Arranged by the Rev. Ildward Davies. D.D., Compiler of
"Other Men's Minds," &c. Royal 8vo, cloth gilt, Is. Gd.; gilt edges, 9s.;
half-calf, 12s.
"The careful and kindly compiler of this volume has opened to us a noble
tUorchonsc of thought."— Tke Daily Teleorapu.
A NEW AND HANDSOME BIBLE FOR THE YOUNG.
The Children's Pictorial Bible. Wilh
Questions and Explanations for the You 115. With Coloured Plates and
separate Pages of Engravings. 4to, cloth gilt, 10s. GtU
In this work is offered an Abridgment, not an Alteration or Dilution of the
Bible. Passages are omitted, but no word Is changod. The divisional headings
adopted will, it is hoped, make t/ie Bible narrative and teaching more easily
un<terstood; the Notes have been prepared with especial care for the explanation 0/
difficuities which a child might experience.
The Longfellow Birthday Book. Conlain-
ing Choice Extracts for Every Day, from the Works of Henry Wadsworth
Longfellow. With Birthday Record. Demy 32mn, cloth, gilt edges, 1m. /
full-calf, russia or morocco, lis. Gd.; morocco or calf, circuit, 4s.
W4UD, L0C5 & CO., London and New York,
The mosl complete and J
useful booh ever produced
half-calf, 12s.
on Amaleur Carpenlry,
Joinery, Building, Turn-
ing, Painting, Glazing,
Smilhs' Work. &c.

EVERY MAN HIS OWN MECHANIC.
A Complete Guide for Amateurs in
Household, Ornamental and Constructional Carpentry and
Joinery, Household Building Art and Practice.
WITH 750 ILLUSTRATIONS OF TOOLS, PROCESSES, &C.
From the DAILY TE LKO It A VII.—"The instructions giren
nrc of the iiiomi complete description, and it is conclusively shown bow
the cost of mending a broken window pane, if the work is done by the house-
holder himself, is just six times less than if he employs a skilled workman to do
it. . . . There is a fund of solid information of every kind in the work before us,
which entitles it to the proud distinction of being a complete Made mrciim'
of the subjects upon which it trcnts."
TO PARENTS, GOVERNESSES, AND ALL INTERESTED
JN THE EDUCATION OF THE YOUNG.
Royal 8vo, cloth gilt, price 7s. Gil,
THE CHILD'S INSTRUCTOR;
Or, LEARNING MADE EASY by means of TOYS, PICTURES and STORIES.
A New and Comprehensive Work for the Teaching of Young
Children, partially planned on the celebrated Kindergarten System,
teaching in an easy and attractive manner: The Alphabet, Spelling,
Reading, Writing, Arithmetic, History, Geography, Grammar,
Music and Singing, French, German, Drawing, &c.
WITH
HUNDREDS OF ENGRAVINGS,
AND
TWO FOLDING SUFFLEMENTS,
Comprising:— (t) The ncces- I
sary Materials
for the Toy
Teaching of the
Alphabet; and
(2) A Large Puz-
zle Map for
Teaching the
Elements of
Geography.
"WARD, LOCK & CO., London ajjd. New Tor*;.

WORTHIES OF THE WORLD
LIVES OF GREAT MEN
Of all Countries and all Times.
With FOBTBAITS and ENGRAVINGS.
'Ward and Locr's WORTHIES
OF THE "WORLD is the most in-
teresting work ever attempted in con-
nection with the study of Biography, and
the Publishers recommend it with confi-
dence to the perusal of all ages and every
class of society.
The various lives have been entrusted
to writers well qualified to do them justice.
They will be found filled with pictur-
esque incident, and have in no case
been overloaded with uninteresting
details. The whole tone of the work is
that of vivacity and interest.
"The book Is an excellent one for Free Libraries and V'
Men's Institutions."—Tub Graphic.
"We know of nothing in the same class of literature equally rend
Impnrlinl, and vuhmble as these sketches."—Derby Mercury,
onus
able,


Royal 8vo, cloth gilt, price 7.1. 6d.; gilt edges, 9s.
EPOCHS AND EPISODES OF HISTORY
A BOOK OF MEMORABLE DA YS and NOTABLE EVENTS.
WITH ABOUT 200 ILLUSTRATIONS.
This work is not put forth
as a volume of history of any
Particular period. From
Free Trade to the Tem-
perance Movement—from ]
the Elizabethan Age to i
the era of Penny News- i
papers and the Penny Post,
the various events of Euro- J
pean and American history i
will be easily traced amid the \
various episodes here attrac- |
tively narrated.
"No more instructive or en-
tertaining book could be placed
in the hands of a youth thaa
'Epochs and Episodes of His-
tory.'" — Doscaster Fr«e
Press. J
WARD, LOCK & CO., London and New York.
Founded on the Works of Graham, Reece, Cheyne, Paris, Hunter, &c.
Royal 8vo, 800 pp., cloth gilt, price 10a. Gd.; half-calf, 16*.
HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE.
a (Suite to
GOOD HEALTH, LONG LIFE, AND THE PROPER TREATMENT
OF ALL DISEASES AND AILMENTS.
FULLY AND ACCURATELY ILLUSTRATED.
Edited by GEOBGE BLACK, M.B. Edin., Author of " Sick Nursing."
The Contributors to Ward & Lock's Household Medicine occupy
the first rank in the profession, and the work may be consulted with
every confidence. The style is clear, and such language lias been chosen as
will be most readily understood by readers unacquainted with medical
terms. The Illustrations, numbering about 450, are accurate and simple.
From THE ATUEN^UM.
"Considerable is the care which Dr. Blacr has bestowed upon his work on
Household Medicine. He has gone carefully and ably into all the subiects which
can be included in such a volume. . . * On the whole, the work is
worthy of Mudy and attention, and likely to produce real good."
MOXON'S POPULAR POETS
New and Enlarged Editions, with Red Border Lines, Critical
Memoirs by William Michael Rossetti, and Illustrations.
Price lis. <lil. each.
The press and the public, alike in Great Britain and her Colonies,
and in the United States, unite in their testimony to the immense
superiority 0/ Moxon's Popular Poets over any other similar collections
Published by any other house. The possession by the Publishers of the
Copyright Works of Coleridge, Hood, Keats, Shelley, Words-
worth, and other great National Poets places this Series above
rivalry. .
z. Byron.
2. Longfellow.
3. Wordsworth.
4. Scott.
5. Shelley.
6. Moore.
7. Hood.
8. Keats.
9. Coleridge.
10. Barns.
It. Tupper'a Proverbial
Pmlotophy.
12. Milton.
13. Campbell.
14. Pope.
15. Cowper.
16. Humorous Poema.
17. American Poetry.
18. Mrs. Hemans.
19. Thomson,
so. Poetic Treasures.
91. Hood. 2nd Series.
22. Whitticr.
23. Lowell.
With Red Border Lines, Critical Memoir, and Illustrations,
iandsomcly bound, cloth gilt, gilt adges.
PRICE 3a. Gd. PER YOLVME.
A ho lo be had in the following varieties of binding .-—Half.parchment, 3a. Gd.;
Half-morocco, Gs.; Half-calf, Ga.; Morocco, 7a. Gd.; Wood-binding, 7*. Gd.;
Morocco extra, 8a.; Tree-calf, 10a, Gd.; Relief-leather, 13a. Gd.
24. Young.
25. Shakespeare.
26. Keble's Christian
Year.
27. Poe.
23. Rossettl's Lives of
Famous Poets.
20. Leigh Hunt.
30. Scott's Minstrelsyof
the Scottish Border.
31. Dodd's Beauties of
Shakespeare.
32. Poems of Ireland.
We-RD, LOCK 4 CO,, London and New York,
Information. A Companion Volume to " Mrs. Beeton's Boor of House-
hold Management." Including How to Build, Buy, Rent, and Furnish a
House—Taste in the House—Kconomical Housekeeping—Management of
Children—Home Needlework, D.essinaking, and Millinery—Fancy and Art
Needlework—The Toilet—Modern Ltiquette—Employment of Leisure Hours.
With numerous full-page Coloured and other Plates, and about 600 Illustra-
tions In the Text. Crown Svo, half-roan, ?.r. Gd.; half-calf, 10s. 6d.
"In the one thousand and fifty-six pages in this marvellous * Home-Book1
there is not one worthies* or iiuueccssary item, not one article we would
ever wish to forget."—The Court Journal.
Cottage Management: A Cyclopaedia of
Thrift and Domestic Economy. The Subjects treated of include: Choice of
a Home—Furnishing—Cookery and Housekeeping—Domestic Hygiene—
Dress and Clothing—Children—Household Pets and Amusements, &c, &c.
Medium Svo, cloih gilt, price Gs.
"The uio«*t important publication, so far as variety of subiects is
concerned, -which we hare yet nccu for the benefit of families of
•mall KieiiiiM."—Tut Saturday Review.
Mrs. Beeton's Every-day Cookery and
Housekeeping Book. Instructions tor Mistresses and Servants, and over
1,650 Practical Recipes. With Engravings and 142 Coloured Figures.
Crown Kvo, cloth gilt, price 3s, 6d.
Mrs. Beeton's All About Cookery. A Col-
lection of Practical Recipes, arranged in Alphabetical Order. and fully
Illustrated. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, price gs. 60.
The Cookery Instructor. By Edith A.
Barnrtt, Examiner to the National Training School for Cookery, &c.
Illustrated. Crown Svo, cloth gilt, price Us. 6a.
Good Plain Cookery. By Mary Hooper,
Author of " Little Dinners," " Everyday Meals," &c. Cr. 8vo, cl.gilt,** 60.
Mrs. Beeton's Englishwoman's Cookery
Book. An entirely New Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Containing up-
wards of 600 Reclpe3, ICO Engravings, and Four Coloured Plates. Post
Svo, clotn, price Is. ; cloth gilt. Is. CO.: on thick paper, Us.
Beeton's Complete Orator and Public
Speaker. Comprising "Curiosities of Orators and Oratory," "The Art of
Public Speaking," and " Great Orators and Great Orations." In One Volume,
crown 8vo, cloth, 3s. Gd.
Kirton's Standard Reciters. Ediled by J.
W. Kirton, LL.D., Author of "Buy your Own Cherries," &c. Fcap. 8vo.
neat cloth, Is. each j cloth gilt, Is. 60.
The following are some of He special features of this very Popular Series :—
Appropriate headings are placed over each subject, indicating the style in which it
should be riven; each piece is printed and marked so as to guide the most inexperi-
enced to a proper delivery; each volume is classified under an alphabetical arrange-
ment of subjects, and has a complete index; no piece appears more than once in the
Series; general hints and instructions are given to young beginners; and, finally,
each volume is printed in goo J clear type, and is strongly bound.
1. KIRTON'S STANDARD TEMPERANCE RECITER
2. KIRTON'S STANDARD SUNDAY SCHOOL RECITER
3. KIRTON'S STANDARD POPULAR RECITER.
4. KIRTON'S STANDARD COMIC RECITER.
5. KIRTON'S STANDARD SPEAKER AND ELOCUTIONIST.
6. KIRTON'S STANDARD BAND OF HOPE RECITER
7. KIRTON'S SCHOOL AND TEMPERANCE DIALOGUES.
S^KIKTON'S STANDARD POPULAR DIALOGUES.
WAED, LOCK <8s CO., London and New Ygric.
half-calf, 12s. each,
W AR D & LOCK'S
UNIVERSAL INSTRUCTOR;
Complete in Three Vols., royal Svo, 78. (id. each, cloth gilt;
THE
BEST WORK
OF ITS KIND,
FORMING
A COMPLETE
CYCLOPMDI A
OF
LEARNING
A ND SELF-
EDUCATION.

COMPRISING
A PERFECT
SYSTEM
OF
INTELLECTUAL
CULTURE
MEETING THE
REQUIREMENTS
OF ALL
CLASSES OF
STUDENTS.
WITH ABOUT 2,000 ILLUSTRATIONS.
"The work 1* excellent) nn<l 11 in to be hoped 11 mny meet
with the niu-ci'nw it deserves."—Athen-.euw.
Complete in Two Vols., royal Svo, cloth gilt, 7s. Oil. each.
THE ILLUSTRATED
HISTORY OF THE WORLD
FROM THE EARLIEST PERIOD TO THE PRESENT TIME.
With Hundreds
of Engravings.
Ancient,
Medieeval,
and Modern.
"Two hand-
some and mas-
sive volumes, in
which a vast field
of history is sur-
veyed. . . Well
suited for po
pular reading.
Illustrations,
which are almost
as numerous as
the pages, de-
serve special
praise. . . They
are really illus-
trative of the
text." — Daily
News.

"One ofllir
most valua-
ble and coin-
plrle exlani.
It is beautifully
printed and pro-
fuselyillustrated,
and has the
look as well as
the character of a
standard book.
The work will
form a valuable
addition to the
librarv. Useful
for reterenceand
instructive inde-
tails."-Norwich
Argus,
WARD, LOCK & CO., London and New York.
I. 00DEN AnD CO., PRInTERS, I72, ST. JOHn S1KEE.T, E-C
