 
 
And Strange and Surprising
ADVENTURES
O F
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
Of York, Mariner,
Who lived Eight and Twenty Years all alone in an un-
inhabited Island on the Coast; of America, near the
Mouth of the Great River Oroonoque; having been
cast on Shore by Shipwreck, wherein all the Men pe-
rished but Himself.
With an ACCOUNT how he was at last strange-
ly delivered by P1T RATE'S.
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
LONDON,
Printed for T.Thompson, R. Damper, L. Burch, H.Shoram,
T. Clitck, B. Blossom, D. Lo£d, F. Fritchet, G,
TowNWOiD, j. Dwarf, J. Ltblond and VV. Blanchard.
M DCC LXVII.
'r-"'7'» THE
PREFACE,
T F ever the ftory of any private mans
adventures in the world were -worth
snaking publict and were acceptable when
published* the editor of this account thinks
this will be so.
The 'wonders of this man s life exceed
all that (he thinks") is to be found extant;
the life of one man being scarce capable
of a greater variety.
The ftory is told with modefty, with
seriousness, and with a religious applica-
tion of events to the uses to which wife
men always apply them; viz. to the in-
T H £ P R E P A C £.
firu&ion of others, by this example, and
io justify and honour the wisdom ofPro-
'violence in all the variety bf circumjfldn-
ces} let them happen how they wilL
The editor believes the thing to be a
jitfl hi/lory of fa&s; neither is there any
appearance offiBiori in it: And however
thinks, because all such things are disput-
ed, that the improvement of it, as well
to the diversion, as to the inflru&ion of
the reader, will be the fame; and as such,
he thinks, without farther compliment to
the world, he does them a great service
in the publication. 4J
t£g^ cooo ?<s«o w»o octoo. ooo9ooo0 tmco ccor coet oooo ^^^'ooo»o<x>06wooodoeaooo&oofla4oea^ao«oc«3ooooi
| "^--DOdO. ^00003<K>00*OOOCO OOOO C-COO OOOO OOOO JO JO .jjf- OOOO KXIO OOOO 0003?009 OOOO OOOO C0«O j0000003"jj$"
I I ^<*X#+#X^ # Xfrx:#-f4?A>X# 1 I
I "Jjt'Cooo x>*ooaoo jooo oooo oooo ocooocoo oooo oooo oooooooooomooo*oooooooojc<»oooooo<»oo*o-^2*- 8
THE
Life and Adventures
o F
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
IWas born atYork, in the year 1632, of a reputable
family. My father was a native of Bremen, who
by merchandising at Hull for some time gained a
very plentiful fortune. He married my mother
at York, who received her first breath in that country;
and as her maiden name was Robinsorit 1 was called
Robinson Kreutznazr ; which not being easily pronoun-
ced in the English toqgue, we are commonly known by
the name of Crusoe.
I was the youngest of three brothers. The eldest
was a lieutenant-colonel in Lockharss regiment, but
slain by the Spaniards: what became of the other, I
could never learn.
No charge^nor pains were wanting in my educa-
tion. My father designed me for the law; yet nothing
A
( 2 )
would serve me, but I must go to sea, both against the
will of my father, the tears of my mother, and the
intreaties of friends. One morning my father ex-
postulated very warmly with me. What reason, says
he, have you to leave your native country, where
there must be a more certain prospect of content and
happiness, to enter into a wandering condition of un-
easiness and uncertainty? He recommended to me A-
gur\ wish, Neither to desire poverty nor riches; that a
middle state of life was the most happy ; and that the
high towering thoughts of raising our condition by
wandering abroad, were surrounded with misery and
danger, and often ended with confusion and disappoint-
ment. I intreat you, nay I command you, (fays he)
to desist from these intentions. Consider your eldest
brother, who laid down his life for his honour, or
rather lost it for his disobedience to my will. If you
will go, added he, my prayers shall however be offer-
ed for your preservation; but a time may come, when,
desolate, oppressed, or forsaken, you may wish you had
taken your poor despised father's counsel. He pro-
nounced these words with such a moving and paterna]
eloquence, while floods of tears ran down his aged
cheeks, that it seemed to stem the torrent of my re-
solutions. But this soon wore off, and a little after I
informed my mother, that 1 could not fettle to any
business, my resolutions were so strong to fee the
world • and begged she would gain my father's con-
sent only to go one voyage; which if it did not prove
prosperous, I would never attempt a second. But my
desire was as vain as my folly in asking. My mother
passionately expressed her dislike of this proposal, tel-
(3)
ling me, 'That as she saw I Was bent upon my own
'destruction, contrary to their will and roy duty, £he
'would fay no more, but leave me to myself to do what-
4 soever 1 pleased/
I was then, 1 think, nineteen years old, when one
time being at Hull, I met a school-fellow of mine, going
along with his father, who was master of a siiip, to
London; and acquainting him with my wandering de-
sires, he assured me of a free passage, and a plentiful
share of what was necessary. Thus without imploring
a bleffing, or taking farewell of my parents, I took snip-
ping on the first of September 1651* We set sail soon
after; and our (hip had scarce left the Number astern,
when there arose so violent a storm, that, being ex-
tremely sea-sick, I concluded the judgments of God de-
servedly followed me for my disobedience to my dear
parents. It was then I called to mind the good advice
of my father; how easy and comfortable was a middle
slate of life; and I .firmly refoh/ed, if it pleased God
to set me on dry land once more, I would return to my
parents, implore their forgiveness, and bid a final adieu
to my wandering inclinations.
Such were my thoughts while the storm continued;
but these good resolutions.decreased with the danger;
more especially, when my companion came to me, clap-
ping me on the shoulder: TP^hat, Bob! said he, sure
you was not frightened last night with scarce a cap-full
of wind? -—And do you, cryM I, call such a vio-
lent storm a cap-full of tvind? A (lorm, you fool you,
said he, this is nothing] a good ship and sea-room always
baffles such a foolish squawl os wind as that: But you're
a fresh-water sailor: Come, boy, turn out, fee what sine
A 2
weather we have now, and a good bowl of punch will
drown all your past sorrows. In short, the punch was
made, I was drunk, and in one night's time drowned
both my repentance and my good resolutions, forget-
ting entirely the vows and promises I made in my di-
stress: and whenever any reflexions would return on me,
what by company, and what by drinking, I soon ma-
stered those fits as I deridrngly called them. But this
only made way for another trial, whereby I could not
but fee how much I was beholden to kind providence.
Upon the sixth day we came to an anchor in Harwich
road, where we lay wind-bound with some IS ewe ail le
stiips; and there being good anchorage, and our cables
sound, the seamen forgot their late toil and danger, and
spent the time as merry as if they had been on shore.
But on the eighth day there arose a brisk gale of wind,
which prevented our tiding it up the river, and still in-
creasing, our ship rode forecastle in, and shipped seve-
- ral large seas.
It was not long before horror seized the seamen them-
selves, and 1 heard the master express this melancholy
ejaculation, Lord, have mercy upon us, we Jhail be all
loft and undone! For my part, sick unto death, I kept
my cabin, till the universal and terribly dreadful ap-
prehensions of our speedy fate, made me get "upon deck:
and there 1 was afrighted indeed. The sea went moun-
tains high; I could fee nothing but distress around us;
two ships had cut their masts on board, and another
was foundered: two more that had lost their anchors,
were forced out to the mercy of the ocean : and to save
c ur lives, we were forced to cut our foremast a&d
mainmast quite away*
Who is there so ignorant as not to judge of my .
dreadful condition? I was but a fresh-water sailor, and
therefore it seemed more terrible. Our ship was very
good, but over-loaded j which made the sailors often cry
out, She would founder: Words I then was ignorant
of! All this while the storm continuing, and rather
increasing, the master and the more sober part of his
men went to prayers, expecting death every moment.
In the middle of the night, one cried out, JVe had ~
sprung a leak \ another, That there was four joot wa-
fer in t/j€ hold. I was just ready -to expire with fear,
when immediately all hands were called to the pump;
and the men forced me also in that extremity to (hare
with them, in their labour. While thus employed, the
master espjing some light colliers, fired a gun as a
signal of distress ; and I not understanding what it
meant, and thinking that either the ship broke, or
some dreadful thing happened, fell into a swoon.
Even in that common condition of wo, nobody mind-
ed me, excepting to thrust me aside with their feet,
thinking me dead, and it was a great while before I re-
covered.
Happy it was for us, when, upon the signal given,
they ventured out their boat to save our lives, All our
pumping had been in vain, and vain had all our attempts
been, had they not come to our sliip's side, and our
men cast them a rope over the stern with a buoy to ir,
which after great labour they got hold ot, and we hal- -
ing them to us, got into their boat, and left our ship,
which we perceived sink within less than a quarter of
an hour; and thus I learned what was meant by Foun-
dering at sea* And now the men incessantly laboured
A 3
( o
to recover their own ship, but the sea ran so high, and
the wind blew so hard, that they thought it convenient
to hale within shore; which with great difficulty and
danger at last we happily effected, landing at a place call-
ed Cronier, not far from Winterton light-house; from
whence we all walked to Tarmcuth, where, as objects
of pity, many good people furnished us with necessa-
ries to carry us either to Hull ov London.
Strange, that after all this, like the prodigal son, I
did not return to my father; who, hearing of the ship's
calamity, for a long time thought me intombed in the
deep. No doubt but I should have flared in his fatted
calf, as the scripture expresseth in but my ill fate.still
pushed me on, in spite of the powerful convictions of
reason and conscience.
When we had been at Yarmouth three days, I met
my old companion, who had given me the invitation
to go on board along with his father. His behaviour
arid speech was altered, and in a melancholy manner
asked me how I did, telling his father who 1 was, and
how I had made this voyage for a trial only to pro--
ceed farther abroad. Upon which the old gentleman
turning to me gravely, said, 'Young man, you ought
'never to go to sea any more, but to take this for a cer-
'tain sign that you will never prosper in a seafaring
< condition. Sir, answered I, will you take the fame
* resolutions It is a different cafe, said he, it is my call-
'ing, and consequently my duty; but as you have made
* this voyage for a uias, you see what ill success hea-
« ven has set before your eyes; and perhaps ourmise-
< ries have been on your account, like Jonah in the ship
< of Tarfbijb. But pray, what are you, and on what
* account did you go to sea V Upon which I very free-
]y declared my whole story; at the end of which he
made this exclamation. Ye sacred powers! what had
I committed, that such a wretch should enter into my
ship, to heap upon me such a deluge of miseries! But
soon recollecting his passions, 'Young mzn,said be, if
'you do not go back, depend upon it, where-ever you
* go, you wiJl meet with disasters and. disappointments
'till your father's words are fulfilled upon you,' And
so we parted.
I thought at first to return home; but fliame opposed
that good motion, as thinking I should be laughed at
by my neighbours and acquaintance- So strange is the
nature of youth, who are not ashamed to sin, but yet a-
Ihamed to repent; and so' far from being ashamed of
those actions for which they may be accounted fools,
they think it folly to return to their duty, which is the
principal mark of wisdom. In stiort, I travelled up to
London, resolving upon a voyage; and a voyage 1 soon
heard of, by my acquaintance with a captain who took
a fancy to me, to go to the coast of Guinea. Having
some money, and appearing like a gentleman, I went
on board not as a common sailor or foremast-man;
nay, the commander agreed I should go that voyage
with him without any expence; that I should be his
mess-mate and companion; and I was very welcome to
carry any thing with me, and make the best merchan-
dise I could-
I blessed my happy fortune, and humbly thanked my
captain for this offer; and acquainting my friends in York-
Jhire, forty pounds were sent me, the greatest part of
which my dear father apd mother contributed to; with
A4
Which I bought toys and trifles, as the captain direct-
ed me. My captain also learned me navigation, how
to keep an account of the ship's course, take an obser-*
vation, and led me into the knowledge of several useful
branches of the mathematics. And indeed this voyage
made me both a sailor and a merchant; for I brought
home 5 pounds 9 ounces of gold dust for my adventure,
which produced, at my return to London, almost three
hundred pounds. But, in this voyage, I was extreme-
ly sick, being thrown into a violent calenture through
excessive heat, trading upon the coast from the latitude
of fifteen degrees north, even to the line itself.
But alas! my dear friend the captain soon departed
this life after his arrival. This was a sensible grief to
me; yet I resolved to go another voyage with his mate,
who had now got command of the stiip. This proved
a very unsuccessful one; for though I did not carry quite
look of my late acquired wealth, so that 1 had 200I.
left, which I reposed with the captain's widow, who was
an honest gentlewoman, yet my misfortunes in this un-
happy voyage were very great. For our Chip sailing to-
wards the Canary islands, we were chased by a Sailee
rover; and in spite of all the; haste we could make, by
crouding as much canvass as our yards would spread, or
masts carry, the pirate gained upon us, so that we pre-
pared ourselves to fight. 1 hey had 18 guns, and we
had bu: 12. About three in the afternoon, there was a
desperate engagement, wherein man*y were killed and
wounded on both sides; but finding ourselves over-
powered with numbers, our ship disabled, and oursely.es
too impotent to have the least hopes of success, we were
forced to surrender, and accordingly were all carried
prisoners into the port of Sallee. Our men were sent to
the emperor's court to be sold there; but the pirate
captain taking notice of me, kept-me to be his own
slave-
In iliis condition T thought myself the most miserable
creature on earth, and the prophecy of my father came
afresh into my thoughts. However, my condition was
better than I thought it to be, as will soon appear-
Some hopes indeed I had, that my new patron would
go to sea again, where he might be taken by a Spanijh
or Portuguese man of war, and then I should be set at
liberty. But in this I was mistaken, for he never took
me with him, but left me to look after his little garden,
and do the drudgery of his house; and when he return-
ed from sea, would make me lie in the cabin, and look
after the ship. I had no one that I could communicate
my thoughts to, which were continually meditating
my escape; no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotsman
here but myself j and for two years I could fee no-
thing practicable, but only pleased myself with the i-
magination.
After some length of time, my patron, as I found,
grew so poor, that he could not fit out his ship as u-
fual: and then he used constantly, once or twice a-
week, if the weather was fair, to go out a-fishing, ta-
king me and a young Moresco boy to row the boat; and
so much pleased was he with me for my dexterity in
catching the Mi, that he would often fend me with a
Moor, who was one of his kinsmen, and the Moresco
youth, to catch a difli of fisti for him.
One morning, as we were at the sport, there arose
such a thick fog, that we loit light of the Ihore: and
{ !» )
mowing we knew not which way, we laboured all the
eight, and in the morning found ourselves in the ocean,
two leagues from land. However, we attained there at
length, and made the greater haste, because our sto-
machs were exceeding (harp and hungry. In order to
prevent such disasters for the future, my patron order-
ed a carpenter to build a little state-room or cabin in
the middle of the long boat, with a place behind it to
steer and hale home the main-sheet, with other conve-
niences to keep him from the weather, as ^Iso lockers
to put in all manner of provisions, with a handsome
flioulder of mutton (ail, gibing over the cabin.
In this he frequently took us out a-fifhiug; and one
time inviting two or three persons of distinction to go
with him, made provision extraordinary, providing also
three fusees with powder and fliot, that they might have
some sport at fowling along the sea-coast. The next
morning the boat was made clean, her ancient and pen-
dants out, and every thing ready; but their minds alte-
ring, my patron ordered us to go a-fistiing, for that his
guests would certainly sup with him that night.
And now I began to think of my deliverance indeed.
In order to this 1 persuaded the Moor to get some pro-
visions on board, as not daring to meddle with our pa-
tron's; and he taking my advice, we stored ourselves
with Rusk biiket, and three jars of water. Besides, I
privately conveyed into the boat a bottle of brandy,
some twine, thread, a hammer, hatchet* and a saw; and
in particular some bees wax, which was a great comfort
to me, and served to make candles. I then persuaded
Mutey (for so the Moor was called) to procure some
powder and (hot, pretending to kiilsea-curlieas, which
( 11 ) ,
he innocently and readily agreed to. In short, being
provided with all things necessary, we sailed out, resolv-
ing for my own part to make my escape though it
should cost me my life.
When we had passed thecastle, we fell to fishing ; but
though I knew there was a bite, I dissembled the mat-
ter in order to put further out to sea. Accordingly we
ran a league further; when giving the boy the helm,
and pretending to sloop for something, I seized Muley
by surprise, and threw him overboard. As he was an
excellent swimmer, he soon arose, and made towards the
boat; upon which I took out a fusee, and presented it
at him: 'Muley, said I, I never yet designed to do you
'any harm, and seek nothing now but my redemption,
'I know you are able enough to swim to shore, and
* save your life; but if you are resolved to follow me, to
'the endangering of mine, the very moment you pro-
< ceed I will shoot you through the head.' The harm-
less creature, at these words, turned himself from me,
and I make no doubt got safe to land. Then turning
to the boy Xury, I perceived he trembled at the action;
but 1 put him out of all fear, telling him, that if he
would be true and faithful to me, 1 would do well by
him. 'And therefore, said I, you must stroke your face
'to be faithful, and, as the Turks have learned you,
4 swear by Mahomet, and the beard of your father, or
« else I will throw you into the sea also/ So innocent
did the child then look, and with such an obliging smile
consented, that I readily believed him, and from that
day forward began to love him entirely.
We then "pursued our voyage; and lest they should
think me gone to the Streights mouth, I kept to the
Southward to the truly Barbarian coast ; but in the dusk
of the evening, I changed my course, and steered direct-
ly S. and by E. that I might keep near the stiore; and
having a fresh gale of wind, with a pleasant smooth sea,
by three o'clock next day I was 150 miles beyond the
Emperor of Morocco's dominions. Yet still having the
dreadful apprehension of being retaken, I continued
sailing for five days successively, till such time as the
wind shifting to the southward, made me conclude,
that if any vessel was in chace of me, they would pro-
ceed no farther. After so much fatigue and thought,
I anchored at the mouth of a little river, I knew not
what or where: neither did I then see any people.
What I principally wanted wasfrelh water; and I was
resolved about the dusk to swim ashore. But.no sooner
did the gloomy clouds of night begin to succeed the
declining day, when we heard such barking, roaring,
and howling of wild creatures, that one might have
thought the very strangest monsters of nature, or infer-
nal spirits, had their residence there. Poor Xury, al-
most dead with fear, intreated me not to go on shore
that night* < Supposing I don't, Xury, said /, and in
€ the morning we should see men who are worse than
< those we sear, what then? O den me may give dem
'de shoot-gun, replied Xury laughing, and de gun make
* dem all run away-' 1 he wit, and broken English
which the boy had learned among the captives of ouf
nation, pleased me entirely; and to .add to his chear-
fulncse, I gave him a dram of the bottle. "We could
get but little sleep all the night, for those terrible how-
Jings they made; aud indeed we were both very much
affrighted, when by the rollings of the water, and other
tokens, we justly concluded one of those monsters mzc&
cowards our boat, I could not fee it till it came within
two oars length, when taking my fusee, I let fly at him.
- Whether I hit him or no, I cannot tell; bat he made
towards the shore, and the noise of my gun increased
the stupendous noise of the monsters.
The next morning I was resolved to go on shore to
get fresh water, and venture my life among beasts or sa-
vages, should either attack me, Xury said, he would
take one of the jars, and bring me some* I a/ked him
why he would go, and not I ? The poor boy answered,
Is wild mans come, they eat me, you go way. A mind
scarcely now to be imitated, so contrary ioseispreferva-
tion, the most powerful law of nature! This indeed in-
creased my affection to the child. Well, dear Xury,
said I, we will both go ashore, both eat wild mans, and
they shall eat neither os us. So giving Xury a piece of
Rusk bread to eat, and a dram, we waded ashore, car-
rying nothing with us but our arms and two jars for "wa-
ter. I did not go out of sight of the boat, as dreading
the savages coming down the river in their canoes. But
the boy seeing a low descent or vale about a mile in the
country, he wandered to it; and then running back to
me with great precipitation, I thought he was pursued
by some savage or wild beast j upon which I approach-
ed, resolving toperilh or protect him from danger. As
he came nearer to me, I saw something hanging over
his shoulders, which was a creature he had ihot like a
hare, but different in colour, and longer legs; howe-
ver, we were glad of it,^for it proved wholesome and
nourishing meat; but what added to our joy was, my boy
assured me there was plenty of water, and thdt he Jee
no wild mans. And greater still was our comfort, when
we found fresh water in the creek where we were when
the tide was out, without going so far up into the coun-
try.
In this place I began to consider that the Canary
$nd Cape de Verd islands lay not far off; but having
no instrument, I knew not what latitude, or when to
stand off to sea for them; yet my hopes were, I should
meet some of the EngliJJj trading vessels, who would re-
lieve and take us in.
The place I was in was no doubt that wild country,
inhabited only by a few, that lies between the Empe-
ror of Morocco's dominions and the Negroes. It is silled
with wild beasts, and the Moors use it for hunting chief-
ly. From this place I thought I saw the top of the
mountain Tenerijfe in the Canaries; which made me try
twice to attain it; but as often was 1 drove back, and
so forced to pursue my fortune along sliore.
Early one morning we came to an anchor under a
little point of land, but pretty high; and the tide be-
ginning to flow, we lay ready to go further in. But
Xury, whose youthful and penetrating eyes were sharp-
er than mine, in a soft tone, desired me to keep far
from land, lest we should be devoured : For look yo?i-
^ter,?neyter, said he, and fee de dreadful monster fast a-
sleep on the ftde of the hilL Accordingly looking where
he pointed, I espied a fearful monster indeed: It was a
terrible great lion that lay on shore, covered as it were
by a shade of a piece of the hill. Xury, said I, you [ball
go on Jhore and kill him. Bus the boy looked amazed;
Me kill him, says he, he eat me at one mouth) meaning
one mouthful. Upon which I bid him lie still, and
charging my biggest gun with two slugs, and a good
charge of powder, 1 took the best airs I could to shoos
him through the head; but his leg lying over his nose,
. the slug broke his knee-bone. The lion awaking with
the pain got up, but soon fell down, giving the most
hideous groan I ever heard: but taking my second
piece, I (hot him through the head, and then he lay
struggling for life. Upon this Xury took heart, and
desired my leave to goon shore, Co then, said L Upon
which taking a little gun in one hand, he swam to shore
with the other, and coming close to the lion, put a pe*
ricd to his life, by fliooting him again through the head.
But this was spending our ammunition in vain, the
flesti not being good to eat. Xury was like a champion,
and comes on board for a hatchet, to cut off the head
of his enemy; but not having strength to perform it,
he cut off and brought ifte a foot. I bethought me how-
ever that his skin would be of use. This work cost
Xury and me a Whole day; when spreading it on the
fop of our cabin, the hot beams of the fun effectually
dried it in two days time, and it afterwards served me
for a bed to lie on.
And now we failed southerly, Jiving sparingly on our
provisions, and went no oftener on shore than we were
obliged for frefli water. My design was to make the
river Gambia or Senega/, or any where about the Cape
deVerd, in hopes to meet .some European stirp. If
providence did not so favour me, my next course was
to seek for the islands, or lose my life among the AV-
groes* And in a word, I put my whole stress upon
this: Either that I must meet with some Jbtp, or certain*
ly peri/h.
One day we were sailing along, we saw people stand
on the shore looking at us; we could also perceive they
were black and stark naked. I was inclined to go ori
shore; but Xury cried, ,No, no\ however I approached
nearer, and I found they run along the shore by me a
good way. They had no weapons in their hands, ex-
cept one, who held a long stick, which Xury told me
was a lance. With which they could kill at a great di-
stance. I talked to them by signs, and made them sen-
sible I wanted something to eat; they beckoned to me
to stop my-boat, while t\fro of them ran up into the
country, and in less than half an hour came back, and
brought with them two pieces of dry flefli, and some
corn, which we kindly accepted; and to prevent any
fears on either side, they brought the food to the shore,
laid it down> then went and stood a great way off, till
we fetched it on board, and then came close to us again*
But while we were returning thanks to them, being
all we could afford, two mighty creatures came from
the mountains, one as it were pursuing the other with
great fury, which we were the rather inclined to be-
lieve, as they seldom appear but in the night; and both
these swiftly pasting by the Negroes, jumped into the sea,
wantonly swimming about, as though the diversion of
the waters had put a stop to their fierceness* At last,
one of them coming nearer to my boat than I expected
or desired, I shot him directly through the head; up-
on which he funk immediately, yet rising again, would
have willingly made to the lliore; but, between the
wound and the stragling of the water, he died before he
could reach it.
It is impossible to express the consternation the poor
Negroes were in at the firing my gnu; much less can I
mention their surprise, when they perceived the crea-
ture to be slain by ic. I made signs to them to draw
near it with a rope, and then gave it to them to hale on
shore. It was a beautiful leopard, which made me de-
lire its Ikin . and the Negroes seeming to covet the car-
case, I freely gave it to them. As for the other leo-
pard, it made to shore, and ran with a prodigious swift-
ness out of sight. The Negroes having kindly furnish-
ed me with water, and with what roots and grains their
country afforded, I took my leave, and after eleven days
fail, came in sight of the Cape de Verd> and those iQauds
called by its name, But the great distance I was from
it, and fearing contrary winds would prevent my reach-
ing them, I began to grow melancholy and dejected,
when, upon a sudden, Xury cried out, Maflert mailer,
a /hip with a fail! and looked as affrighted, as if it was
his master's ship sent in search of us. But I soon dis-
covered she was a Portuguese (hip, as I thought, bound
to the coast of Guinea^ for Negroes. Upon which I
strove for life to come up to them. But vain had it
been, if through their perspective glasses they had not
perceived me, aud sliortened their fail to let me come
up. Encouraged at this, I set up my patron's ancient,
and fired a gun, both as signals of distress; upon which
they very kindly lay to, so that in three hours time I
came up with them. They spoke to me in Portuguese,
Spanijb, and French, but neither of these did 1 under-
stand; till at length a Scots sai!or called, and then I
told him I was an Entfi/bman, who had escaped from
the Moors at Satlec; upon which they took me kindly
on board, with all my effects.
Surely none can express the inconceiveable joy I felt
at this happy deliverance! who from being a late rai-
se! able and fovlorn creature, was not only relieved; but
in favour with the master of the (hip, to whom, in re- 1
turn for my deliverance, I offered all I had. 'God
'forbid,said he that I should "take any thing from vou.
* Every thing {ball be delivered to you when you come
'to Brasil. If I have saved your life, it is no more
'than 1 should expect to receive myself from any other,
4 when, in the same circumstances, I should happen to
'meer the like deliverance. And should I take from
* you what you have, and leave you at Brasil, why,
4 this would be only taking away a life j have given.
'My charity teaches me better. Those effects you
* have will support you there, and provide you a pas-
'sa^e home again.5 And indeed he acted-with the
strictest justice in what he did, taking my things into
his possession, and giving me an exact inventory, even
to my earthen jars He bought my boat of me ior
the ship's use. giving me a note of eighty pieces of eight,
payable at Brqfil\ and if any body offered more, he
would make it up- He also gave me 6o pieces for my
boy Xury* It was with great reluctance I was prevailed
upon to fell the child's liberty, who had served me so
faithfully: but the boy was willing himself; and it was
agreed, that after ten years he should be made free,
upon his renouncing Mahonieiism, and embracing Chris-
tianity.
Having a pleasant voyage to the Brqsils, we arrived
in the Bay de Todcs los Santos* or ^Ill-Saints Bay, in
twenty-two days after. And there I cannot forget the
generous treatment of the captain. He would take no-
thing for ray passage, gave.me 20 ducats for the leo-
pard's skin, and 30 for the lion's* Every thing he
caused to be delivered; and what I would fell, he
bought. In short, I made about 220 pieces of my car-
go; and with this stock I entered once more; as I may
fay, into the scene of life*
Being recommended to an honest planter, I lived
with him till such time as 1 was informed of the man-
ner of their planting and making sugar; and seeing how
well they lived, and how suddenly they grew rich, I
was silled with a desire to settle among them, and re-
solved to get my money remitted to me, and to pur-
chase a plantation.
To be brief, I bought a settlement next door to an
honest and kind neighbour, born at Lisbon of Ejiglifh
parents, whose plantation joining to mine, we improv-
ed it very amicably together. Both our stocks were
Jowv and for two years we planted only for food: but
the third year \ve planted some tobacco, and each of us
dressed a large piece of ground the ensuing year for
planting canes. But now I found how much I wanted
assistance, and repented the loss pf my dear boy Xtiry.
Having none to assist me, .my father's words came
often into my mind; and I used to aik myself, if what
I sought was only a middle station of life, why could
it not as well be obtained in England as here ?" When
I pondered of this with regret, the thoughts pf my
late deliverance forsook me. I had none to converse
with but my neighbours; no work to be done but by
my own hands; it often made me fay, my condition
was like that of a man cast upon a desolate island. So
unhappy are we in our reflexions, so forgetful of what
B 2
good things we receive ourselves, and so unthankful
for our deliverance from those calamities that others
endure.
I was in some measure settled, before the captain,
who took me up, departed from the BrasiL One day
I went to him, and told him what stock 1 had in London,
desiring his assistance in getting it remitted; to which
the good gentleman readily consented, but would only
have me send for half my money, lest it sliould miscar-
ry; which if it did, I might still have the remainder
to support me; and so taking letters of procuration
from me, bid me trouble myself no farther about it.
And indeed wonderful was his kindness towards me;
for he not only procured the money I had drawn for
upon my captain's widow, but sent me over a servant
with a cargo, proportionable to my condition. He aU
so sent me over tools of all sorts, iron work, and uten-
sils necessary for my plantation, and which proves of
the greatest use to me in my business.
Wealth now accumulating on me, and uncommon
success crowning my prosperous labours,! might have
rested happy in that middle state of life my father had
so often recommended j yet nothing would content me,
such was my evil genius, but 1 must leave this happy
station, for a foolisti ambition in rising; and thus, once
more, I cast mylelf in the deepest gulf of misery that
ever poor creature fell into. Having lived four years
in Brasil, I had not only learned the language, but con-
tracted acquaintance with the most eminent planters,
and even the merchants of St Salvador; to whom,
once, by way ot discourse, having given an account of
mf two voyages to the coast of Guinea, and manner of
trading there for mere trifles, by which We furnish our
plantations with Negroes, they gave such attention to
what I said, that three of them' came one morning to
me, and told me they had a secret proposal to make*
After enjoining me to secrecy, (it being an infringement
on the powers of the kings of Portugal and Spain), they
told me they had a mind to fitout a (hip to goro Guinea,
in order to stock the plantation with Negroes, which,
as they could not be publicly sold, they would divide a-
mong them; and if I would go their supercargo in the
fliip, to manage the trading part, I should have an e-
qual share of the Negroes, without providing any stock.
The thing indeed was fair enough, had 1 been in ano-
ther condition. But I, born to be my own destroyer,
could not resist the proposal, but accepted the offer up-
on condition of their looking after my plantation. So,
making a formal will, I bequeathed my effects to my
good friend the captain, as my universal heir; but ob-
liged him to dispose of my effects as directed, one half
of the produce to himself, and the other to be shipped
to England.
The ship being fitted out, and all things ready, we set
sail the first of September 1659, being the same day
eight year I left my father and mother in Yorkshire. We
sailed Northward upon the coast, in order to gain Africa,
till we made Cape Augustine \ from whence going farther
in the ocean, out of sight of land, we steered as though
we were bound for the ifle Fernand de Norenba, leaving
the islands on the East; and then it was we met with
a terrible tempest, which continued for twelve days suc-
cessively, so that the winds carried us wheresoever they
pleased. In this perplexity, one of our men died, and
B 3
one man and' a boy were washed overboard. "When
the weather cleared up a little, we found ourselves ele-
ven degrees north latitude upon the coast of Guinea*
Upon1 this the captain gave reasons for returning; which
I opposed, counselling him to stand away for Barba-
does, which, as I supposed, might be attained in fif-
teen days. So altering our course, we iaiied North-weft
and by West, in order to reach the Leeward islands;
but a second storm succeeding, drove us to the Wejl-
ward) so that we were justly afraid of falling into the
hands of cruel savages, or the paws of devouring beasts
of prey.
In this great distress, one of our men, early in the
morning, cried out, Landy land; which he had no soon-
er cried out, but our lhip struck upon a sand, and in a
moment the sea broke over her in such a manner that
We expected we should all have peristied immediately.
We knew nothing where we were, or upon ^hat land
We were driven: whether an island or the main, inha-
bited or not inhabited \ and we could not so much as
hope that the ship would holdout many minutes, with-,
out breaking in pieces, except the wind by a miracle
should turn about immediately. While we stood look-
ing at another, expecting death every moment the
mate lays hold of the boat, and with the help of the
rest got her flung over the ship's side, and getting all
into her, being eleven of us, committed ourselves to
God's mercyy and the wild sea. And now we saw that
this last effort would not be a sufficient protection from
death: so high did the sea rise, that it was impossible
the boat should live. As to making fail, we had none;
neither if we had, could we make use of any. So that
when we had rowed, or ratner were driven about a
league and a halt, a raging wave, like a lotty mountain,
came rolling astern of us, and took us with iucii fury,
that at once it t)ver-sct the boat. Thus being-swallow-
ed up in a moment, we had hardly tune to call upon
the tremendous name of God; much less to implore,
in dying ejaculations, his infinite mercy to receive our
departing fouls,
Men are generally counted insensible, when strug-
gling in the pains ot death , bur while I was over-
whelmed with water, 1 had the most dreadful appre-
hensions imaginable. For the joys of heaven, and the
torments of hell, seemed to present themselves before
me in these dying agonies, and even small space of
time, as it were, between life and death. I was go-
ing, I thought, 1 knew not whither, in a dismal gulf
unknown and as yet unperceived, never to behold my
friends, nor the light of this world any more! Could
I ever have thought of annihilation, or a total dissolu-
tion of foul as well as body, the gloomy thoughts of hav-
ing no further being, no knowledge of what we hop-
ed for, but an eternal quietus, without life or fense;
even that, I fay, would have been enough to strike me
with horror and confusion! I strove however to the last
extremity, while all my companions were overpowered
and entombed in the deep; and it was with great diffi-
culty I kept my breath till the Wave spent itself, and
retiring back, left me on the shore half dead with the
water 1 had taken in. As soon as I got on my feet. I
ran as fast as 1 could, lest another wave stiould pursue
me, and carry me back again. But for all the haste I
made, I could not avoid it; for the lea came after me
B4
like a high mountain, or furious enemy; so that my
business was to hold my breath, and by raising myself
on the water, preserve it by swimming. The next
dreadful wave buried meat once twenty or thirty feet
deep, but at the same time carried me with a mighty
force and swihness towards the sliore; when raising my-
self, I held out as well as possible, till at length the
water having spent itself, began to return, at which I
struck forward, and feeling ground with my seer, I
took to my heels again. Thus being served twice
more, I was at last dallied against a piece of a rock, in
such a manner as left me senseless; but recovering a
little before the return of the wave, which, no doubt,
would then have overwhelmed me, 1 held fast by the
rock till those succeeding waves abated; and therz
fetching another run was overtaken by a small wave,
which was soon conquered. But before any more could
overtake me, I reached the main land, where clamber-
ing up the clifts of the stiore, tired and almost spent, I
fat down on the grafs, free from the dangers of the
foaming ocean.
No tongue can express the ecstasies and transports
that my foul felt at this happy deliverance, It was,
like a reprieve to a dying malefactor, with the halter
about his neck, and ready to be turned oil I was
wrapt up in contemplation, and often lifted up my
'hands, with the profoundest humility, to the diviue
powers, for saving my life, when the rest of my com-
panions were all drowned. And now I began to cast
my eyes around, to behold what place I was in, and
what I had next to do. I could lee no house, nor
- people: 1 was wet, yet had no. cloatfcs to sluft me:
hungry and thirsty, yet nothing to eat or drink; no
weapon to destroy any creature for ray sustenance,
nor defend myself against devouring beasts; in short,
I had nothing but a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a box
half filled with tobacco. The darksome night co-
ming upon me, increased my fears of being devoured
by wild creatures; my mind was plunged in despair,
aud, having no prospect, as I thought, of life before
me, I prepared for another kind ot death than what
I had lately escaped. 1 walked about a furlong to see
is I could find any fresh water, which I did to my great
joy, and taking a quid of tobacco to prevent hunger,
I got up into a chick bufliy tree, and setting myself
so that I could not fall, a deep sleep overtook me,
and for that night buried my sorrows in a quiet re<?
pose.
It was broad day the next morning before I awak-
ed; when I not only perceived the tempest was
ceased, but saw the ship driven almost as far as the
rock before mentioned, which the waves had dashed
me against, and which was about a mile from the
place where I was. When I came down from my
apartment in the tree, I perceived the ship's boat two
miles distant on my right hand, lying on shore, as
the waves had cast her. 1 thought to have got to her,
but there being an inlet of water of about half a mile's
breadth between it and me, I returned again towards
the ship, as hqping to find something for my more
immediate subsistence. About noon, when the sea
was calm, that I could come within a quarter of a mile
of her, it was to my grief I perceived that if we had
kept on board, all our lives had been fayed, Thesq
thoughts, and my solitude, drew tears from niy eyes,
though all in vain. So resolving to get to the flup,
I stript and leaped into the water; when swimming
.round her, I was afraid I should not ger any thing to lay
hold of; but it was my good fortune to espy a snail
piece of rope hang down by the forechains so low,
that, by the help of it, though with great diflkuuy, I
got into the fore-castle os the ship. Here I sound that
the ship was bulged, and had a great deal of water
in her hold; her (tern was lifted up agnail a bank, and
her head almost to the water. All her quarter, and what
was there, were free and dry. The provisions I found
in^good order, with which I crammed my pockets; and,
losing no time, and while I was doing other things; I
also found some rum, of which I took a hearty dram j
and now I wanted for nothing except a boat, which
indeed was all, to carry away what was needful for
toe.
Necessity occasions quickness of thought. We had
several.spare yards, a spare top-mast or two, and two
or thtee large spars of wood. With these I fell to
Work, and flung as many of them over board as I could
manage^ tying every one of them with a rope that they
might not drive away. This done, I went down the
ship's side; and tied four of them fast together at both
ends in form of a raft, and laying two or three short
piece* of plank upon them crosswise, I found it would
bear me, but not any considerable weight. Upon which
I went to work again, cutting a spare topmast into three
lengths, adding them to my raft with a great deal of
labour and pains. I then considered what I should load
it with, it being not able to bear a ponderous burthen.
And this I soon thought of, first laying upon it al! th4
planks and boards I could get; next I lowered dowa
three of the feamens chests, after I had filled them with
feread, rice, three "Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried
goats flesh, and some European corn, what little the
rats had spared; and for liquors, I found several
cafes of bottles belonging to our skipper, in which
were some cordial waters, and four or five gallons
of rack, which I stowed by themselves. By this
time ^the tide beginning to flow, I perceived my coat,
waistcoat, and shirt swim away, which I had left on
the stiore; as for my linen breeches and stockings, I
swam with them on to the (hip: But I soon found
cloaths enough, though I took no more than I wranted
for the preseut. My eyes were chiefly on tools to
work with; and after long search I found out the
carpenter's chest, which I got safe down on my raft.
I then looked for arms and ammunition, and in the
great cabin found two good fowling-pieces, two pi-
stols, several powder-horns filled, a small bag of stiot,
and two old rusty swords. I likewise found three
barrels of powder, two of which were gocd, but the
third had taken water; also two or three broken
oars, two saws, an ax, and a hammer. I then put
to sea, and in getting to shore, had three encourage-
ments, i- A smooth calm sea, 2. The tide rising
and setting into the shore. 3. The little wind there
was blew towards land. After I had failed about a
mile, I found the raft to drive a little distance from
the place where I first landed ; and then I perceived 3.
little opening of the land, with a strong current of
the tide running into it, upon which I kept in the
middle of the stream. But great was my concern,
when on a sudden the forepart of my raft ran aground;
so that had I not, with great difficulty, for near half
an hour, kept my bp.ck straining against the chests tfa
keep my effects in their places, all I had would have
gone into the sea. But after some time, the rising of
the water caused the raft to float again, and coming up
a little river, with land on both sides, I landed in a lit-
tle cave, as near the mouth as possible, the better to
discover 3 fail, if any su^h providentially passed that
way.
Not far off, I espied a hill of a stupendous height,
surrounded with lesser hills about it; and thither I
was resolved to go and view the country, that I might
see what part was best to fix my habitation in. Ac-
cordingly arming myself with a pistol, a fowling-piece,
powder and ball, 1 ascended the mountain*. There 1
perceived 1 was in an island, encompassed by the sea;
no distant lands to be seen, but scattering rocks that
lay to the west ; that it seemed to be a barren place,
and, as I thought, inhabited only by wild beasts. I
perceived abundance of fowls, butignorant of what kind,
or whether good for nourishment. I fliot one of them
at my return, which occasioned a confused screaming
among other birds; and I found it, by its cqloursand
beak, to be a kind of a hawk, but its flelh was perfe£*
carrion.
When I came to my raft, I brought my effects on
sliore, which work spent that day entirely; and fear-
ing that some cruel beasts might devour me in the
night-time while I slept, I made a kind of hut or bar*
ricade with the chests and boards J had brought oa
sliore. That night I flept very comfortably; and thi
next morning my thoughts were employed to make a
further attempt on the (hip, and bring away what ne-
cessaries 1 could find, before another storm should
break her to pieces. Accordingly I got on board as
before, and prepared a second raft, far more nice tharl
the first; upon which I brought away the carpenter's
stores, two or three bags full of nails, a great jack
screw, a dozen or two of hatchets, and a grindstone.
I also took away several things that belonged to the
gunner, particularly two or three irori crows, two bar-
rels of mulket-bullets, another fowling-piece, a smalL
quantity of powder, and a large bag full of small (hot.
Besides these, I took all the men's cloaths 1 could find,
a spare foretop sail, hammock,and some bedding; and
thus compleating my second cargo, I made all the haste
to shore 1 could, fearing some wild beast might de-
stroy what I had there already. But I only found a
little wild cat sitting on one of the chests, who not
seeming to fear me, or the gun that I presented at her,
1 threw her a piece of biscuit, which Ihe instantly eat,
and departed.
When I had gotten these effects on fliore, 1 went to
work, in order to make me a little tent with the fail
and some poles which I had cut for that purpose; and
having finished it, what things might be damaged by
the weather I brought in, piling alhthe empty chests
and casks in a circle, the better to fortify it against any
sudden attempt of man or beast. After this, 1 blocked
up the doors with some boards, and an empty chest
turned the long way out' 1 then charged my gun and
pistol; and laying my bed on the ground, slept as com-
fortably, till next morning, as though I had been m a
Christian country.
Now, though I had enough to subsist me a long time~
yet despairing of a sudden deliverance; or that both an^
munition and provision might be spent before such g.
jthing happened, I coveted as much as I could • and so
long as the fliip remained jn that condition, I daily
brought away one necessary or other; particularly the
rigging, fails, and cordage, some twine, a barrel of wet
powder, some sug<?r, a barrel of meal, three casks of
rum; and, what indeed was most welcome to me> a
whole hogshead of bread.
The'next time 1 went, I cut the cables in pieces,
carried off a haulfer whole, with a great deal of iron
work, and made another raft with the mizen and sprit
foil yards; but this being so unwieldy, by the too hea-
vy burthen I had upon it, and not being able so dex-
terously to guide it as the former, both my cargo and 1
were overturned. For my part, all the damage I sus-
tained was a wet skin; and at low water, after much
labour in diving, I got most of the cables, and some
pieces of iron,
Thirteen days had T now been in the island, and
eleven times on board, bringing away all that was
possible; aud I believe, had the weather been calm,
I stiould have brought away the whole ship piece by
piece. As I was going the twelfth time, the wind
began to rife; however, I ventured at low water, and
rummaging the cabin, in a locker I found several ra-
zors, sciillirs, and some dozens of knives and forks;
and in another 36 pounds in pieces of eight, silver and
gold. Ah! simple vanity, said 1, whom this world
s:
so much dotes on, where is now thy virtue, thy exeeU
lency to me? Ton cannot procure ?ne one thing needful,
nor remove me from this desolate island to a place of
fienty- One of these knives so meanly esteemed, is to me,
more preferrable than all this heap. Eyen therefore re-
main where thou art, to fink in the deep, as unregard-
ed ever? as a creature whose life is not worth preserving.
Yet, after ail this exclammation, I wrapt it up ina piece
oJ canvass, and began to think of making another raft;
but I soon perceived the wind begin to arise, a fresh
gale blowing from the ihore, and the Iky overcast
with clouds and darkness. So thinking a raft to be
in vain, I let my felt into the water with what things
I had about me; and it was with much difficulty I got
ashore, and soon after it blew a fearful [form.
That night I slept very contentedly in my little tent,
surrounded with all my eifects; but when I looked out
in the morning, no more ship was to be seen. This
much surprised me for the present: yet when I consi-
dered I had Jos! no time, abated no pains, and had got
every thing useful out of her, 1 comforted myself in
in the bed manner, and entirely submitted to the will
of Providence.
My next thoughts were, how I should defend and
secure myself from savages and wild bealts, if-any such
were in the island. At one time I thought of digging
a cave; at another, 1 was for erecting a tent; aud, at
length I resolved to do both; The manner or form
of which, will not, i hope, be unpleaiing to describe.
When I considered the ground where I was; that it
was moorish, and had no fresh water near it j my re-
solutions were to search for a soil healthy and well wa-
iered, where 1 might not only be sheltered from th«
sun's scorching heat, but be more conveniently situat-
ed, as well to be secured from wild men, and beasts of
prey, as more easily to discover any distant sail, should/*'
it ever so happen.
And indeed it was hot long before I had my desire.
I found a little plain near a rising hill, the front to-
wards which being as steep as an hotise-side, nothing
could descend on me from the top. On the side of this
rock was a little hollow place, resembling the entrance
or door of a cave, just before this place, on the circle
of the green, I resolved my tent should stand This
plain did not much exceed 100 yards broad, and about
twice as long, like a delightful green before my door,
w^h a pleasing though irregular descent every way to
the low grounds by the sea-side, lying on the N. N.
JV. side of the hill, so that it was fneltered from the
efcceffive heat of the fun. After this I drew a semi-
circle, containing 10 yards in its semi-diameter, and 20
yards in the whole, driving down tWo rows of strong
stakes not six inches from each other. Then with the
pieces of cable which I had cut on board: 1 regularly
laid them in the circle between the piles up to their
tops, which were more than sive foot out of the earth,
and after drove another row of piles lookiug wirhin
llde against them, between two or three foot high,
which made me conclude it a little impregnable castle
for men and beasts. And for my better security, I
would have no door, but entered in and came out by
the help of a ladder which I aiso made.
Here was my feiKe and fortress into which I carri-
ed all my riches, ammunition, and stores. After which,
working on the rock, what with the dirt and Hones I
dug our, I not only raised my ground two feet, but
made a little cellar to my mansion-house; and this cost
%me many days labour and pains. One day in particu-
lar a shower of rain falling, thunder -and lightning en-
sued, which put me in terror lest my powder should
take sire, and not only hinder my necessary subsistence,
by killing me food, but even blow me up and my ha-
bitation. To prevent which, I fell to making boxes
and bags, in order to separate it, having by me near
i jo weight. And thus being established as king of the
island, every day I went out with my gun to fee what
I could kill that was fit to eat. ] soon perceived num-
bers of goats but very fliy. Yet having watched them
narrowly, and seeing I could better (hoot oif the rocks
than when in the low grounds, I happened to snoot a
she-goat, suckling a young kid; who not thinking its
dam slain, stood by her unconcerned; and when I took
the dead creature up, the young one followed me even
to the inclosure. I lifted the kid over the pales, and
would willingly have kept it alive; but finding it could
not be brought to eat, I was fo/xed to flay it also for
my own subsistence.
Thus entered into as strange a scene of life, as ever
any man was in, 1 had most melancholy apprehensions
concerning my deplorable condition; and many times
the tears Would plentifully run down my face, when I
considered how I was debarred from all communicati-
on with humankind. Yet while these desponding cogi-
tations would seem to make me accuse Providence, o-
ther good thoughts would interpose and reprove me af-
ter this manner: Well, supposing you are desolate, is it
C
not better to be so than totally perish? Why wereyott
singled oik to be saved, and the rest destroyed? Why
should you complain, when not only your life is pre-
served, but the (hip driven even into your reach, in or->
der to take what was1 necessary our of her for your sub-
sistence? But to proceed. Ir was, by the account I
kept, the 30th of September, when I first landed on this
island. About twelve days after, fearing lest I should
lose my reckoning of time, nay even forget the Sab-
bath-days for want of pen, ink and paper, I carved, with?
a knife upon a large post, in great letters, and set it up;
in the (Imilitud'e of a cross, on the sea-ihore where I
landed, I came on (bore Sept. 30, 1659* Everyday I cut
a notch with my knife on the sides of this square post,
and that onSa-bbath was as long again as the rest;,
and every first day of the month as long again as that
long one. In this manner 1 kept my calendar, weekly,
monthly, or yearly reckoning of time. But had I mad©'
a more strict search (as I did afterwards), I need not
have set up this mark. For among, the parcels belong--
ing to the gunner, carpenter, and captain's mate, I
found those very things I wanted ; particularly pens*
ink, and paper; also 1 found two ©r three compasses,
some mathematical instruments, dials, perspective glasses,
books of navigation, three Englifl? bibles, and several
other good books, which I carefully put up. Here I
cannot .but call ro mind our having a dog and two cats*
on board, whom I made inhabitants with me in my castle.
Though one might think I had all the necessaries that
were desirable, yet still I found several things wanting.
My ink was daily wasting; I vvanted needles, pins, and
thread, to mend or keep my cloaths together: and!
jparticu?#rly a spade, pickaxe, or shovel, to remove
the earth- It was a year before I finished my little
bulwark: and having some intervals of relaxation, after
my daily wandering abroad for provision, I drew up
thfe plan, alternately, as creditor and debtor? to remind
me of the miseries and blessings of my life, under so
many various circumstances.
E V I L.
1 am call upon a desolate
island, having no hopes t no
prospect of a welcome deli-
verance.
"Thus miserable am I sin-
gled out from the enjoyment
or company os all man-
kind.
Like an hermit (rather
should I say a lovely an-
chorite) am I forced from
human conversation.
My cloaths, after some
time, will be worn out; and
then I shall have none to
cover me.
When my ammunition is
wafted, then shall I remain
without any defence againfl
wild men and beasts.
I have no creature, no
GOOD,
But yet I am preserved,
while my companions are pe-
rished in the raging ocean.
Yet set apart to be spared
from death, And he, who
has so preserved me, can de-
liver me ft om this condition.
However, 1 have food to
eat, and even a happy pro-
sped os subsistence whilst
life endures.
At present I enjoy what is
absolutely needful \ and the
climate is so hot, that had
I never Jo many, 1 should
hardly wear them.
Yet if it does, I fee no
danger of any to hurt me, as
in Africa: And what if I
had been cast away upon
that coaft f
Is there not God to con-
C
2
EVIL,
soul to speak to-, ndne to beg
affiftance from. Some com*
fort would it be to resound
my woes where I am un-
der flood \ and beg assistance,
where I might hope for
relief
GOOD.
Verse to, and is not he able
to relieve thee? ^Already
has he afforded thee fufle*
nance, and put it in thy
power to provide for thyself
sill he sends thee a deliver**
ance.
And now easing my mind a littilc By these reflex^
011$, 1 began to render my life as easy as possible, I
must here add, to the description I have given of m^
habitation, that having raised a turf-wall against the
outside of it, I thatched it so close, as might keep it
from the inclemency of the weather; I also improved
it within, enlarged my case, and made a passage and door
in the rock, which came out Beyond the pale of my
fortification. ^ I next proceeded to make a chair and
table, and so began to study such mechanical arts as
seemed to me practicable.' When I wanteef a plank or
board, I hewed down a tree with my hatchet, making
it as thin with my axe as possible, and then smooth e-
nough with an adze to answer my designs : Yet though
I could not make more this way than one board out of
a tree, in length of time, I got boards enough to shel-
ter all my stores, every th-ing being regularly placed*,
and my guns securely hanging against the side of the
rock. This made it a very pleasant sight to me, be-
ing the result of vast labour and diligence; which leav-
ing for a while, and me to the enjoyment of, I shall
give the reader an account of my journal, from the day
of my landing, till the fixing and settling of my habita-
tion, as heretofore fliewa-
JOURNAL.
GpEeptember 30. 1659.1 unhappy Robinson Crusoe hav-
ing suffered shipwreck, was driven on this desolate i-
fland, which I named the Desolate iflandcjdespair, the
rest being swallowed up in the tempestuous ocean. The
next day 1 spent in consideration of my unhappy cir-
cumstances, having no prospect, but of death, either to
be starved with hunger, or devoured by beast3or mer-
ciless savages.
Oftob. 1. That morping with great comfort I beheld
the ship drove ashore. Some hopes 1 had, that when
the storm was abated, I might be able to get some food
and necessaries out of her; which I conceived were
pot damaged, because the ship did stand upright. At this
time I lamented the loss of my companions, and our
misfortune in leaving the vessel. When I perceived the
ihip as it were lie dry, I waded through the sands, then
swam aboard, the weather being very rainy, and with
scarcely any wind.
To the 14th of this month, my time was employed
in making voyages, every tide getting what 1 could
out of the ship. The weather very wet and uncer-
tain.
Oflob. 20. My raft, and all the goods thereon were
pversct; yet I recovered most again at low water*
Odob. 25. It blew hard, and rained night and dayf
when the ship went in pieces, so that nothing was seen
os her but the wreck at low water. This day I secur-
ed my goods from the inclemency of the weather.
Octob- 26 I wandered to iee where I could find a
place convenient for my abode. 1 fixed upon a rock
in the evening, marked out a half-moon, intending to*
erect a wall,fortified with piles, lined within with pieces
of cables, and covered with turf.
Nov* i. 1 erected my tent under a rock; and took
up my lodging very contentedly in a hammock that
nighe.
Nov. 2. This day I fenced myself in with timber,
chests, and boards.
Nov. 2. I shot two wild fowls, resembling ducks,
which were good to eat; and in the afternoon made me
a table.
AW 4. I began to live regularly. In the morning
I allowed myself two or three hours to walk out with
my gun; I then worked till near eleven o'clock \ and
afterwards refreshed myself with what I had to ear.
From twelve to two, I would lie down to sleep. Ex-
treme sultry weather. In the evening go to work a-
gain.
Nov. 5. Went out with my gun and dog, shot a wild
cat with a soft skin, but her flesh was good for nothing.
The skins of those I killed I preserved. In my return,
I perceived many wild birds, and was terrified by some
seals, which made off to sea.
Nov. 6. Completed my table.
Nov. 7. Fair weather. I worked till the 12th, but
omitted the 1 ith, which, according to my calculation,
1 supposed to be Sunday.
Nov. 13. Rain in abundance, which however much
cooled the earth, when thunder and lightning caused
in me a terrible surprise. The weather clearing, I
secured my powder in separate parcels.
Nov. 14. to 16. I made little boxes for my powder,
'Jodging them in several places. I also shot a large fowl,
Y/hich proved excellent meat.
Nov. 17. I began to dig in the rock, yet was obli-
ged to desist for want of a pickaxe, (hovel, and wheel*
barrow. Iron crows I caused to supply the place of the
first; but with ?11 my art I could nor make a wheel-
barrow.
Nov* 18. It was my fortune to find a tree, resem-
bling what the Brasilians call an iron tree. I had like
to have spoiled my axe with cutting it, being very hard
and exceeding heavy: yet, with much labour and in-
dustry, 1 made a sort of a spade out of it.
AW 23. These tools being made, I daily carried
on my business; eighteen days ! allowed for enlarging
my cave, that it might serve me, not only for a ware-
house, but kitchen, parlour, and cellar. I commonly
lay in the tent, unless the weather was rainy that I
could not lie dry. So wet would it be at certain seasons,
that 1 was obliged to cover all within the pale, with
long poles in the form of rafters leaning against the
rock, and load them with flags, and large leaves of trees
tesembling a thatch.
jDcv. 10. No sooner did I think my habitation finish-
ed, but suddenly a great deal of the top broke in, so
that it was a mercy I was not buried in the ruins. This
occasioned a great deal of pains and trouble to me, be.
fore I could make it firm and durable-
Dec. 17.1 nailed up some siielves, and drove nails and
C4
staples in the wall and posts to hang things out of the
way.
"Dec* 2o- Every thing I got into its place, then made
a fort of a dresser, and another table.
Dec* 24, 25. Rain in abundance.
Dec. 26. Very fair weather.
Dec* 27.1 chanced to light on some goats, (hot one,
Wounded another, 1 led it home in a string, bouud up
his leg. and cured it in a little time; at length it be-
came so tame and familiar, as to feed before the door,
and follow me where I pleased. 'J his put me in mind
to bring up tame creatures, in order to supply me with
food after my ammunition was spent.
Dec. 28, 29, 30. The weather being excessive hot,
with little air, obliged me for the most part to keep
within doors.
Jan. i. Still sultry. However, obliged by necessity,
1 went oat with my gun, and found a great store of
goats in the valleys; they were exceedingly shy, nor
could any dog hunt them down.
Jan. 3. to 14 My employment this time was to fi-r
nifh the wail before described, and search the ifland- I
discovered a kind of pigeons like our house-pigeons, in
a nest among the rocks. I bi ought them home, nurs-
ed them till they could sty, and then they left me. AfT
ter this 1 stiot some, which proved excellent food. Some
tiaie I spent vainly in contriving to make a cask; I may
well fay it was in vain, because ] could neither join the
Haves, or fix the heads, to make it tight j so leaving
that, I took some goats tallow I had by me, and a little
okum for the wick, and provided myself with a lamp,
which served me instead of candles.
Bat now a very strange event happened. For be-
ing in the height of my search, what should come into
my hand, but a bag, which was used to hold corn (as
I supposed for the fowls): so immediately resolving
* to put gun-powder in it, 1 shook all the husks and dirt
upon one side of the rock, little expecting what the
consequence would be. The rain had fallen plentiful-?
ly a few day before; and about a month after, to my
great amazement, something began to look out very
green and flourishing: and when 1 came to view it more
nearly, every day as it grew, 1 found about ten or
twelve ears of green barley appeared in the fame shape
and make as that in England.
I can scarce express the agitations of my mind at this
sight. Hitherto I had looked upon the actions of this
life, no otherwise than only as the events of blind chance
and fortune. But now, the appearance of this barley,
flourishing in a barren soil, and my ignorance in not
conceiving how it should come there, made me conclude
that miracles were not yet ceased: nay, I even thought
that God had appointed it to grow there without any
seed, purely for my sustenance in this miserable aud
desolate island. And indeed such great effect- this had
upon me, that it often made me melt into tears, through
a grateful fense of God?s mercies; and the greater still
was my thankfulness, when I perceived about this little
field of barley some rice stalks, also wonderfully flourish-
ing-
While thus pleased in mind, I concluded there must
be more corn in the island \ and therefore made a di-
ligent search narrowly among the rocks; but not be*
iiig able to find any, on a sudden it came into my mind,
Ivowl had stialcen the huiks of corn out of the bag, and
Chen my admiration ceased, With my gratitude to the
divine being, as thinking it w#s but natural, and not to
be conceived a miracle; though even the manner of its
preservation might have made me own it as a wonderful *
event of God's kind providence
It was about the latter end of June when the ears
of this cor& ripened, which I laid up very carefully, to-
gether with 20 or 30 stalks of rice, expecting one day
I should reap the fruit of my labour; yet sour years
were expired before I could allow myself to eat any
barley-bread, and much longer time before 1 had any
rice. After this, with indefatigable pains and industry
for three or four months, at Igst I finiihed my wall ou
the 14th of ^pri/, having no way to go into it, but by
a ladder against the wall.
.April 16.1 fiuistied my ladder, and ascended it; as*
terwards pulled it up, then let it down on the other side*
and descended inio my new habitation, where I had space
enough, and so fortified that nothing could attack me*
without scaling the walls.
But what does all human pains and industry avail, if
the blessing of God do not crown our labour? Or, who
can stand before the Almighty, when he slretcheth
forth his arm? For one time, as I was at the entrance
of my cave, there happened such a dreadful earthquake,
that not only the roof of the cave came tumbling about
my ears, but the posts seemed to crack terribly at the
same time. This put me in great amazement; and
running to my ladder, and getting over the wall, I then
plainly knew it was an earthquake, the place I stood
on sustaining three terrible shocks in less than three
minutes. But judge of my terror when I sow the top
of a great rock roll into the sea; I then expected the
uiand would be swallowed up evdry moment: And what
made the scene still more dreadful, was to fee the sea
• thrown into the most violent agitations and disorders
by this rremenduous accident.
For my part, I stood like a criminal at the place of
execution, ready to empire. At the moving of the
earth, I was, as it were, seasick; and very much
fraid lest the rock, under which was my fence and ha*
bitation, should overwhelm me and it in a lasting tomb.
When the third dreadful shock had spent itself, my
spirits began to revive; yet still I would not venture
to ascend the ladder, but continued sitting, not know-*
ing what I should do So little grace had 1 then, as
only to fay, Lord have mercy upon me! and no sooner
was the earthquake over, but that pathetic prayer left
me.
It was not long after, when a horrible tempest arose,
at the fame time attended with a harricane of wind*
The sea seemed mountains high, and the waves rolled
so impetuously, that nothing could be perceived but
froth and foam. Three hours did this storm continue,
and in so violent a manner, as to tear the very trees up
by the roots, which was succeeded by abundance of
rain. When the tempest was over, I went to my tent*
but the rain coming on in a furious mauuer, I was ob-
liged to take shelter in the ojve, where I was forced
to cut a channel through my fortification to let the wa*
ter out. It continued raining all that night, and lorac
time the next day. These accidents made me resolve,
as soon as the weather cleared up, to build me a little
.hut in some open place, walled round to defend me
from wild creatures and savages, not doubting but, at
she next earthquake, the mountain would fall upon my
habitation and me, and swallow up all in its bowels.
.April i6.—20. These days I spent in contriving
how and in what manner I should fix my place of abode.
All this while I was under the most dreadful apprehen-
sions. When I looked round my habitation, every
thing I found jn its proper place, 1 had several reso-
lutions whether I should move or not; but at length
I resolved to stay where I was, till I found out a con^
venient place where I might pitch my tent.
•April 2 2. When I began to put my resolutions in
practice, I was stopt for want of tools ^nd instruments
to work with. Most of ray axes and hatchets were
useless, occasioned by cutting the hard timber that grew
on. the island. It took me up a full week to make my
grindstone of use to me; and at last I found out a way
to turn it about with my foot, by the help of a wheel
and a string.
.April 28. 29. Thefc days were spent in grinding ray
tools.
•April 30. My bread falling short, I allowed myself
but one biscuit a-day.
May 1. As 1 walked along the sea-fliore, I found %
barrel of gun-powder, and several pieces of the wreck,
which the sea had flung up. Having secured those, I
made to the stiip, whose stern was torn off, and walh-
ed a great distance ashore; but the rest lay in the sands.
This I supposed was occasioned by the earthquake. X
now resolved to keep my old place of abode; and als<^
to go to the (hip that day, but then found it impost
ble.
May 3r. This day 1 went on board, and with my saw
.sawed off one of the beams, which kept her quarter*
deck. I then cleared the sand till stood.
May 4. I caught some fisti, but they were not whole-
some. The same day I also catched a young dolphin;
May 5. This day I also repaired to the wreck, and
sawed another piece of timber: and when the flood
came, I made a float of three great planks, which was
driven ashore by the tide.
May 6. 7. 8. 9. These days I brought off the iron
bolts, opened the deck With the iron crow, and carried
two planks to land, having made a: way into the very
middle of the wreck.
May. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. All this time 1 spent ia
bringing off great quantities of iron and timber.
May 15, Took with me two hatchets on purpose to
cut off some lead of the roll, but all in vain, for it lay
too low under water.
May 16.I omitted going to the wreck this day; for
employ fag myself in looking out pigeons, 1 outstaict
my time.
May Is}. 1 perceived several pieces of the wreck
bhsm^aflbore, which ,1 found^ belonged to the head of
the /hip.
May 24. To this day I worked on the wreck, and
tviih great difficulty loosened some things so much with
the crow, that at the first blowing tide several caiks
floated out, and many of the seamens chests; yet thae
day nothing came to land but pieces of timber, and a
hogshead which had some Brasd pork in k. I cou-
t 4<M
iiMci working to the 15th bis June, (except neceffarf
times for food and rest); and had I known how to hare
built a boat, I had timber and planks enough: I had
also near 100 weight of slieet-lead.
June 16. As I was wandering towards the sea-side,
I found a large tortoise or turtle, being the first I had
seen oh the island, though, as I afterwards found therd
Were many on the other fide of it.
June ij. This day I spent in cooking it, found ids
her threescore eggs, and her flesh the most savoury and
pleasant I ever tasted in my life.
June 18. I staid within this day, there being a con-
tinual rain; and it was something more chilly and cold
than usual.
June 19. Exceeding bad, taken with a trembling
and shivering.
June 20. Awake all night, my head racked with
pain, and feverish.
June 2 t. Sick unto death, and terrified with the dis-
mal apprehensions of my condition: Frayed to God
more frequently, but very confusedly.
June 22, Something better, but still tineasy in my
mind.
June 2 3, Again relapsed as before,
June 24, Mended a second time
June 25. A violent ague for seven hours, cold and
hot fits, succeeded with faint sweats.
June 26. Better, but very weak; yet I scrambled
out, stiot a she-goat, brought it home and broiled some
of it: I would willingly have stewed it, and made som$
broth, but had no pot.
June 2 7. AU this day I was afflicted with m ague-}
thirsty, yet could not help myself to Water : Prayed fa
God in these words: Lord, in pity look upon me; Lord
have mercy upon me; have mercy upon me! After this-
.1 fell asleep, which I found had much refreshed me
when I waked. I fell asleep a second time, and fell inta
this strange and terrible fort of dream,
Methought I was fitting on the fame spot of ground,
at the outside of the wall where I fat when the storm
blew after the earthquake; and that I saw a man de*
fcending from a great black cloud, and light upon the
ground. He wa-s all over as bright as a flash of fere
that a little before surrounded him; his countenance
inccnceiveably terrible; the earth as it were trembled
when he stept upon the ground, and flashes of fire feen>
ed to fill all the air. No sooner I thought him landed
tipon the earth, but with a long spear or other weapon
he made towards me: but first ascending a rising ground,
his voice added to my amazement, when I thought I
heard him pronounce these dreadful words, Unhappy
wretch / feeing all these things have mt brought thee t&
repentance^ thou Jhalt immediately die. In pronouncing
this dreadful sentence, I thought he went to kill me with
the spear that was in his hand.
Any body may think it impossible for me to exprese
the horrors of my mind at this vision; and even whea
I awaked, this very dream made a deep impreflion up-
on my mind. The little divine knowledge 1 had, I re-
ceived from my father's instructions, and that was wora
out by an uninterrupted series of seafaring impiety for
eight years space. Except what sickness forced from
me, I do not remember I had one thought of lifting
up my heart toward* God; but rather had a cemia
t 4B J
stupidity of soul, not having the least Tense of fear of1
the omnipotent Being when in distress, nor of gratitude
to him for Ws deliverances. Nay, when I was on rhb
desperate expedition on the desart Ajritan sliore, I can-,
not remember I had one thought of what would be-
come of me, or to beg his consolation and assistance ist
my sufferings and distress. When the Portugal captain
took me up> and honourably used me; nay, farther^
when I was even delivered from drowning by escaping
to this island, I never looked upon it as a judgment,
but only I was an unfortunate dog, and that's all. In-
deed some secret transports of foul, i had, which was
not through grace, but only a common flight of joy,
that I was yet alive, when my companions were all
drowned: and no other joy could 1 conceive but what
is common with the sailors over a boWl of punch, after
they have escaped the greatest dangers.
The likelihood of wanting for neither food nor,con*
leniences, might have called upon me for a thankful
acknowledgment to Providence. Indeed the growth
of my corn touched me with some fense; but that soon
wore off again. The terrible earthquake pointed to me
as it were the finger of God, but my dreadful amaze-
ment continued no longer than its duration. But now
when my spirits began to sink under the burthen of a
strong distemper, and I could leisurely view the ^mise-
ries of death present themselves before my eyes; then
toy awakened conscience began to reproach me with
my past life, in which I had so wickedly provoked the!
justice of God to pour down his vengeance upon me.
Such reflexions as these oppressed me even in the
violence of my distemper. Some prayers I uttered
which only proceeded from my fear of death. But when
I considered my father's advice and prophesy, I could
not forbear weeping: for he toid me, That is 1 did
per/i/i in my folly, 1 Jliould not only be deprived os God's
*bkjsin^ but have time enough to reflcfl upon my despising
his instructions; and this in a wretched time, when none
could help me. And now concluding it to be fulfilled,
having no soul in the island to administer any comfort
to me, I prayed earnestly to the Lord, that he would
help me in this my great calamity. And this, I think,
was rhe first time I prayed in sincerity for many years.
But now I must return to my journal.
June 28. Something refreshed with steep, and the fit
quite off, I got up. My dream still occasioned in me a
great consternation; and fearing that the ague might
return the succeeding day, 1 concluded it time to get
something to comfort me. 1 filled a case-bottle with
water, and set it within the reach of my bed; and to
make it more nourishing, and lese chilly, I put some
rum into it. The next thing I did was to boil me a
piece of goat slesli, of which I eat but little. I was ve-
ry weak; however, walked about, dreading the return
of my distemper; and at night 1 supped on three of the
turtle's eggs, which I roasted and eat, begging God's
blefling therewith.
After I had eaten, I attempted to walk again out of
doors with my gun; but was so weak, that I fat down,
and looked at the sea, which was smooth and calm.
While I continued here, these thoughts came into my
mind.
In what manner is the production of the earth and
sea, which I have seen so much of? From whence came
D
myself, and all other creatures living, and of what afd
We' made?
Our beings were assuredly created by some almighty
invisible power, who framed the earth, the sea, and air,
and all therein But what is that power?
Certainly it must follow, that God has created it all.
Yet, said 1, if God has made all this he must be the ru-
ler of them all, and what is relating thereto; for cer-
tainly the power that makes- must: indisputably have a
power to guide and direct them. And if this be ib (as
certainly it must) nothing can happen without his know-
ledge or appointment. Then surely if nothing happens
without God's appointment, certainly God has- appoint-
ed these my sufferings to befal me. And here I fixed
my firm belief, that ic was his will that it should be so;
and then proceeded to enquire, why should God deal
with me in this manner? Or what had 1 done thus to
deserve his indignation?
Here conscience flew in my face, reprehending me
as a blasphemer ; crying with a loud and piercing voice,
Unworthy wretch dare you ask what you have done?
Look upon your past life, and see what you have (eft un~
done* Ask thyself, why thou wert not long ago ir\ the
merciless hands of death? Whv not drowned in Tar*
mouth roads, or killed in the fight when the ship was
taken by the SalUe man of war? Why not entombed
in the bowels of wild beasts on the African coast, or
drowned here when all thy companions suffered Xbip-
wreck in the ocean?
Struck dumb with those reflections, I rose up in a pen-
sive manner, being so thoughtful that I could not go to
ikep; and fearing the dreadful return of my distemper,
it catised me to remember that the Brdsillans use to-
bacco for almost all diseases. I then went to my chest,
in order to find some, where Heaven no doubt direct-
ed me.to find a cure for both foul and body; for there
1 found one of the bibles, which till this time I had
neither leisure nor inclination to look into; I took
both the tobacco and that out of the chest, and laid
them on the table. Several experiments did I try with
the tobacco: First, I took a piece of leaf, and chewed
it j but it being very green and strong, almost stupified
me. Next I steeped it in some rum an hour or two,
resolving when I went to bed to take a dose of it; and
in the third place I burned some over a pan of fire,
holdingmy nose over it so long as I could endure it
without suffocation.
In the intervals of this operation, though my head
was giddy and disturbed at the tobacco* 1 took up the
Bible to read. No sooner did I open it, but there ap-
peared to me these words, Call on me in the day of trou*
ble, and I will deliver thee and thou Jhalt glorify me.
At first this sentence made a very deep impression
on my heart; but it soon wore off again, when I consi-
dered the word deliver was foreign to me. And as the
children of Israel said, when they were promised ficfli
to eat, Can Cod spread a table in the wilderness P in
like manner I began to say, Caii Gcd himself deliver
me from this desolate island? However, the words
would still return to my mind, and afterwards made a
greater impression upon me. As it now was very late,
and the tobacco had dozed my head, I was inclined to
sleep ; but before I would lie down, I fell on my k i^es,
and implored the promise that God had made to me in
D 2
the holy scriptures, that if I called upon him in the
day of trouble, he would deliver me. With much diffi-
culty I after drank the rum, wherein 1 had steeped
the tobacco; which flying in my head, threw me into
such a profound sleep, that it was three o'clock the
next day before I awaked; or rather, I believe 1 slept
two days, having certainly loft a day in my account,
and I could never tell any other way. When I got up,
my spirits were lively and chearful; my stomach much
better, being very hungry; and in fliort, no fit retur-
ned the next day, which was the 29th, but 1 found my
ielf much altered for the better.
The 30th I went abroad with my gun, but not far,
and killed a sea-fowl or two, resembling a brand-gooser
which however I cared not to eat when i brought
them home, but dined upon two more of the turtle's
eggs. In the evening I renewed my medicine, except-
ing that 1 did not take so large a quantity, neither did
1 chew the leaf, or hold my head over ftie smoke:
But next day, which Was the 1st of Jutyy having a lit-
tle spice of the cold fit, I again took my medicine as I
did the first time.
July. 3 The sit quite left me, but very weak. la
this condition I often thought of these words, / will
deliver thee; and while at sometimes I would think of
the impossibility of it, other thoughts would reprehend
me, for disregarding the deliverances I bad received,
even from the most forlorn and distressed condition.
] asked myself what regard have I had to God for his
abundant mercies? Have I done my part ? He has de-
live) ed me, but I have not ghrifed him; as if I had
{M, 1 had not owned and been thankful for these de-
Jiverances, and how could I expect greater? So much
did this sensibly touch my heart, that, I gave God
thanks for my recovery from sickness in the most hum-
ble prostration.
July 4. This morning I began- seriously to ponder
on what is written in the New Tegument > resolving to
read a chapter every morning and night as long as my
thoughts could engage me. As soon as 1 sec about this
work seriously, I found my heart deeply affected with
the impiety of my past life; these words that I thought
were spoken to me in my dream revived, ^411 these
things have not brought thee to repentance. After this,
I begged of God to affist me with his Holy Spirit in
returning to my duty. One day in perusing the scrip-
tures, 1 came to these words, He is exuded a Prince
and a Saviour, to give repentance, and to give remissi-
on: Immediately I laid down the book, and, with up-
lifted hands to heaven* loudly cried« O blessed Jejus,
thou Jon of David, Jesus thou exalted Prince and Sa-
viour, give me repentance! And now indeed I prayed
with a true scnle of my condition, and a more cerraia
hope founded on the word of God. Now I had a dif-
ferent sense of these words, Call on me, and I will de-
liver thee, that is, from the dreadful load of guilt,which
oppressed my sinful foul, and not from a solitary life,
which might rather be Called a blessing (seeing I nei-
ther wanted food nor raiment) when compared with,
living among the human race, surrounded with so
much oppression, misery and affliction: In a word, I
came to this conclusion, that a deliverance from sin was
a much greater blessing than a deliverance from afflic-
tion. But again I proceed to my journal,
D 3
To the 24th of July, I walked about with my gun,
little and little at a time, having been reduced to the
greatest extremity of weakness. The applications and
experiments I used were perfectly new; neither could
1 recommend them to any one's practice. For though
it carried off the fit, it very much weakened me; and
I had frequently convulsions in my nerves and limbs
for some time. From hence I learned, that going a-
broad in rainy weather, especially when it was atten-
ded with storms and hurricanes of wind, was most per-
nicious to health. I had now been above ten months
in the island; and as I never had seen any of the hu-
man kind, I therefore accounted myself as sole mo-,
narch; and as 1 grew better, having secured my habi-
tation to my mind, I resolved to make a tour round
my kingdom, in order to make new discoveries.
The 15th of July I began my journey. I first went
to the creek, where I had brought my rafts on shore;
and travelling farther, found the tide went no higher
than two miles up, where {here was a little brook of
running water, on the bank of which were many plea-
sant Savannas or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered
with grass- On the riling parts, where I supposed the
Water did not reach, I percei ved a great deal os tobac-
co growing to a very strong stalk. Several other plants
I likewise found, the virtues of which I did not un-
derstand. I searched a long time for the Cassava root,
which I knew tb£ Indians in that climate made their
bread of; but all in vain. There were several plants
of aloes, though at that time I knew not what they
were: Likewise I saw several sugar-canes, but imper-
fect for want of cultivation. With these few discover
ries I came back that night, and slept contentedly ia
my little castle.
The next day. being the (6111, going the fame way,
but farther than the day before, I found the country
more adorned with woods and trees. Here I percei-
ved different fruits in gr^at abundance. Melons in
plenty lay on the ground, and clusters of grapes, ripe
and very rich, spread over the trees. You may imagine
I was glad of this discovery,yet eat very sparingly,
lest I should throw myself into a flux or fever. The
grapes 1 found of excellent use; for when I had dried
{hem in the fun, which, preserved them as dried raisins
are kept, they proved very wholesome and nourish-
ing, and served me in those seasons when no grapes
Wer£ to be had.
The night drawing on apace, I ascended up a tree,
and slept very comfortably, though it was the first time
I had lain out of my habitation. And when the morn-
ing came, I proceeded with great pleasure on my way,
travelling about tour miles, as I imagined by the length
of the valley, directing my course northward, there be-
ing a ridge of hills on the south and north side of me.
At the end of this valley I came to an opening where
the coumry seemed to descend to the west: There I
found a little spring of fresh water, proceeding out of
the side of a hill whh its crystal streams running di-
rectly east. And indeed here my senses were charm-
ed with the most beautiful landscape nature could af-
ford; for the country appeared so flourishing, green
and delightful, that to me it seemed like a planted gar-
den* I then descended on the fide of that delicious
^ale, when I found abundance of wcoa, Qrange and
P 4
lemon, and citron trees, but very wild and barren at
that time. As for the limes, they were delightful and
wholesome, the juice of which I after used to mix in
water, which made it cool and refreshing. And now L.
was resolved to carry home and lay up a (lore of grapes,
limes, and lemons, against the approaching wet season.
So laying them up in separated parcels, and then tak-
ing a few of each with me, I returned to my little ca-
stle, as?er having ipent three days in this journey. Be-
*fore I got home, the grapes were so bruised that they
were utterly spoiled ; the limes indeed were good, but
of these I could bring only a few.
July io. Having prepared two bags, I returned
thither again; but to my great surprise found all the
grapes spread-about, erode to pieces, and abundance
eaten, which made me conclude there were wild beasts
thereabouts. To prevent this happening again, I ga-
thered a large quantity of the grapes, and hung them
upon the out-branches of the trees, both to keep them
unhurt, and that they might cure and dry in the fun:
and having well loaded myself with limes and. lemons,
I returned once more to my old place of re(lden£e.
And now contemplating on the fruitfulness of this
Yailey, the pleasantness of its situation, its security from
storms, and the delightfulness of the adjacent woods, I
concluded I was fettled-in the worst part of the coun-
try, and therefore was thinking to remove my habita-
tion. But when I considered again, that though ir
was pleasant, it was off from the sea-side, where there
was a possibility, some time or other, a ship might ei-
ther be driven or sdil by; and that to inclose myself
among hills and woods must certainly put an end to
my hopes of deliverance; I resolved to let my castle
remain where Providence had first assigned it. Yet so
ravished was I with this place, that I made me a little
kind of bower, surroundings it with a double hedge, as
high as I could reach, well staked, and filled with bul-
rushes, and having spent a great part of the monrh of
July, I think it was the first of Augufl before I be-
gan to enjoy my labour.
Jluv* 3- Perceiving my grapes to be dry, I took
them from the trees, and they proved excellent good c_
raisins of the fun; the most of which I carried to my
cave; and happy tor me I did so, by which 1 saved the
best part of my winter-food.
Aug. 14. This day it began to rain; and though I
had made me a tent like the other, yet having no shel-
ter of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave be*
hind me to retreat to, I was obliged to return to my
old castle. The rain continued more or less every day,
till the middle of Q£lober\ and sometimes so violently,
that I could not stir out of my cave for several4 days.
This season I sound my family to increase; for one
of my cats that run away from me, and who I thought
had been dead, returned about August, with three kit-
tens at her heels, like herself; which I thought strange,
because both my cats were females, and the wild cats
of the island seemed to be of a different kind from our
'European cats; but from these cats proceeded .such
numbers,, that I was forced to kill and destroy them as
I would do wild beasts or vermin
To the 26th of this month I could not stir out, it
raining incessantly: when beginning to waRs food, I
was compelled to venture twice, the first of which I
jfcot a goat, and afterwards found a very large tor*
4oise. 1 he manner of my regulating my food was thus:
A bunch of raisins served me for breakfast ; a piece of
goat's flesh or turtle boiled for my dinner, and two or.
three turtle's eggs for my supper. While the rain la-
sted, I daily worked two or three hours art enlarging
my cave, and by degrees worked it on towards one
fide till I came to the out-fide of the hill, and made a
door or way out, which came beyond the fence or
wall, and so 1 came in and out this way. But after J
had done this, I was troubled to fee myself thus ex-
posed, though I could not perceive any thing to fear,
a goat being the biggest creature I had seen upon the
island.
Sept 30. Casting up my notches on my post, which,
amounted to 365, I concluded this to be the anniver*
sary of my landing; and therefore humbly prostrate
ing myself on the ground, confessing my fins, aeknow-
Jedging God's righteous judgments upon me, and pray-
ing to Jesus Christ to have mercy on me, I fasted for
twelve hours till the going down of the fun; and theQ
eating a biscuit and a bunch of grapes, laid me on thq
bed, and wiih great comfort took my night's repose.
Till this time I never had distinguished the Sabbath^
day; but now I made a longer notch than ordinary for
the days of rest, and divided the weeks as well as ^
could, though I found I had lost a day or two in my.
account My ink failing soon aster, I omitted in my
daily memorandum things of an indifferent nature, and
contented myself to write down only the most remark-
able events, of my life. The rainy and dry seasons ap*
peared now regular to me, and experience taught me
how to provide for them; yet in one thing I am go-
ing to relate, tny experience very much failed me. You
may call to mind what 1 have mentioned of some bar-
ley and rice which I had saved; about thirty stalks
of the former and twenty of the latter; and at that
time the fan being in its southern position, going from
me together with the rains made me conclude it a very
proper season to sow it. Accordingly 1 dag up a piece
of ground w'ith my wooden spade, and dividing it iu
two parts, sowed about two thirds of my feed, preser-
ving by me about a handful of each. And happy it
was I did so; for po rain, falling, it was choked up,
and never appeared above the earth till the wet sea-
son came again, aud then part of it grew as if it ha^
been newly sown.
I was resolved still to make another trial,* and seek-
ing for a moister piece of ground near my bower> I
there sowed the rest of my seed in February, a little
before the vernal Equinox, which having the rainy
months of March and *April to water it, yielded a no-
ble crop, and sprung up very pleasantly. 1 had still
saved part of the seed, not daring to venture all; and
by the time I found out the proper seasons to sow in,
and that I might expect every year two seed-times and
two harvests, my stock amounted to above half a^peck
of each sort of grain.
No sooner were the rains, over, but the stalks
which I had cut from the trees, stiot out like wil-
lows the first year after lopping their heads. I was
ignorant of the tree I cut them from; but they grew"
so regularly beautiful, that they made a most lively
appearance, arid so flourished in three years time, that
I resolved to cut more of them; and these soon grow-
ing made a glorious fence> as afterwards I shall ob-
serve.
And now T perceived that the seasons of the year
might generally be divided, not uuo Summer "and
Winter as in Europe, but into Wet and Dry Seasons,
as in this manner:
rFebrua : V
Half < Mar,:b% C Rainy, sun coming ne u the equinox?
C Aprils 3
r April, J
j May, £
Half yjune, ^ Dry, sun getting north os the Uttf*
CAugUi'1, j
r August, y
Haif < September, C f^et, the sun being then come baJ9
tOdober, J
cOclober, 1
\ November, r
Half ^December, ^ "Dry,sun ru nning south os the lit ^
b yanuary, c
(^February, j
The wet seasons would continue longer or shorter
as the winds happened to blow* But having found
the ill consequences, of being abroad in the rain, I took
care beforehand to furnish myself with provisions;
and during the wet months fat within doors as much
as possible. At this time I contrived to make many
things that I wanted, though it cost me much labour
and pams before I could accomplifli them. The first
1 tried was to make a basket, bur all the twi.s 1 could
get proved so brittle, that I could not then perform
it. It now proved of great advantage to me, that,
when a boy, 1 took great delight in standing at a bas-
fcet-makers's in the fame town where my father lived,
to view them.at work; and, like other boys, curious,
to fee the manner of their working these things, and
very officious to assist, 1 perfectly learned the method
of it, and wanted nothing but the touls. And it com-
ing inro my mind, that the twigs cf that tree of which
I made my stakes, might be as tough z% sallow, wiliow,
or osiergrowing in England, I resolved to make au
experiment, and went the next day to my country-
feat, and found some fit for my turn; andafter cutting
down a quantity with my hatchet, I dried them in my
pale, and, when sit to work with, carried them to my
cave, where 1 employed myself in making several sorts
of baskets, insomuch that I could put in whatsoever I
pleased. It is true, they were not cleverly made yet
they served my turn upon all occasions.
But still I wanted two necessary things. I had no
cask to hold my liquor, except two rundlets almost:
full of rum, a few bottles, of an ordinary size, and
some square case bottles: neither had la pot to boil a-
ny thing in, only a large kettle, unfit to iiwke broth,
or flew a bit of meat; I wanted likewise ar the beam-
ning os this dry season a tobacco-pipe; but for this 1
afterwards found an expedient.
I kept myself employed in planting my second row
os stakes But remembering that when I trave led up
to the brook, I had a mind to fee the whole island, I
. . ..... . . ( 62 )
tio^ resumed my Intention, and taking my dog, gtiri,
hatchet, two biscuit-cakes, a great bunch of raisins,
with a larger quantity of powder and (hot than usual,
1 began my journey. Having passed the vale where
my bower stood, 1 came within view of the sea lying
to the west; when it being a clear day I fairly descri-
ed land, extending from the W. to the S. W. about \o
or 15 leagues, as I concluded : but could not fay whe-
ther it was an island oh a Continent, Neither could
I tell what this place might be; only thought it was
part of America, and where I might have been in a
miserable condition had I landed. Again, I consider-
ed, that if this was the Spanish coast, certainly, one
time or other, I should fee some stiip pass by; and if
it was not, then it must be the Savage coast, between
the Spanijb country and Brqfil, which abounds with
cannibals or man eaters*
As I proceeded forward, I found this side of the
island much more pleasant than mine; the fields fra-
grant, adorned with sweet flowers and verdant grafs,
together with several very fine woods. I here were
parrots in plenty, which made me long for one to be
my companion; but it was with great difficulty I could
knock down one with my stick; and I kept him at
home some years, before I could get him to call me by
my name.
In the low grounds, I found various forts of hares
and foxes as I took them to be, but much different
from those in England. Several of these 1 killed, but
never eat them; neither indeed had I any occasion;
for abounding with goats, pigeons, turtle, and grapes,
I could defy Leadenhall market to f urniih me a better
table. In this journey I did not travel above tw6
miles a-day, because 1 took several turns and wind-
ings to fee what discoveries I could make, returning
weary enough to the place where I designed to rest:
all night, which was either in a tree, or to a place
which I surrounded with stakes, that no wild creature
might suddenly surprise me. When I came to the sea*
shore, I was amazed to fee the splendour of it, Its
strand was covered with shells of the most beautiful
fisti, and constantly abounding with innumerable tur-
tles, and fowls of many kinds, which I was ignorant
of, except those called Penguins. I might have shot
as many as I pleased, but was sparing of my ammuni-
tion, rather chusing to kill a she-goat, which I did
With much difficulty, on account of the flatness of the
country.
Now, though this journey produced the most plea-
sing satisfaction, yet my habitation was so much to
my liking, that 1 did not repine at my being seated oa
the worst part of the island. I continued my journey,
travelling about twelve miles further towards the
ea/I, where I set a great pile on the shore for a mark,
concluding that my next journey should bring me to
the other side of the island, east from my castle, and
so round till I came to my post again. As I had 2
constant view of the country, I thought I could not
miss my way; but scarce had I travelled three miles,
when I descended into a very large valley, so sur*
rounded with hills covered with wood, that I having,
no guide but by the fun, nor even then, unless I knew
well the position of the fun at that time of [he dayj
and to add to my misfortune, the weather proving ve-
ry hazy, I was obliged to return to my_po(l by the sea-
side, and so backwards the fame way 1 came. In this
journey my dog surprised a kid, and would have kill-
ed it, had I not prevented him. As I had often been
thinking of getting a kid or two, and so raising a
breed of tame goats to supply me after my ammuni-
tion was spent, I took this opportunity of beginning;
and having made a collar for this little creature with a
string made of rope yarn, I brought it to my bovver,
and there inclosed and left him; 'and having spent a
month in this journey, at length I returned to my old
habitation.
No body can doubt of my satisfaction, when I re-
turned to my little castle, and reposed myself in my
hammock. After my journey, I rested myself a week,
which time I employed in making a cage for ray pret-
ty poll. I now began to consider of the poor kid I
had left at the bower; and I immediately went to
fetch it home. When I came there, I found the young
creature almost starved; I gave it some food, and tied
it as before; but there was no occasion, for it follow-
ed roe like a dog; and as 1 constantly fed it, it be-
came so loving, gentle, and fond, that it commenced
one of my domestics, and would never leave me.
The, rainy season of the autumnal equinox being
now come, I kept the 30th of September in the most:
solemn manner as usual, it being the third year of my
abode in the island. I spent the whole day in ac-
knowledging God's mercies; in giving him thanks
for making this solitary life as agreeeable, and less
sinful, than that of human society; and for the com-
munications of his grace to my soul, in supporting,
Comforting, and encouraging me to depend upon hk
providence, and hope for his eternal presence in thd
world to come.
Indeed I often did consider how much more happy
I was in this state of life than in that accursed manner
of living I formerly used; and sometimes when hunt*
ing, or viewing the country, the anguish of ray sou!
would break out upon me, and my very heart would
sink within me, to think of the woods, the mountains,
the desarts I was in; and how I was a prisoner locked
up with the eternal bars and bolts of the ocean, in
an uninhabited wilderness, without hopes, and with-
out redemption. In this condition, I would often
wring my hands, and weep like a child; and even some-
times in the middle of my work this fit wTould take me:
and then I would sit down and sigh, looking on the
ground for an hour or two together, till such time as
ftiy grief got vent in a fiood of tears.
One morning as I was fadJy employed in. this man*
tier, I opened my bible, when immediately I fixed
tny eyes upon these words, / will never leave thee,
nor forsake thee! Surely; thought I, these words are
directed to me; or else, why should they appear just
at a moment when I am bemoaning my forlorn con-
dition? and if God does not forsake me, what mat-
ters it, since he can make me, more happy in this state
of life> than if I enjoyed the greatest splendour in the
tvorld? But while I was going to return God thanks
for my present state, something seemed to shock my
mind, as if it had thus said: Unworthy wretch! can
you pretend to be thankful for a condition, from
which you would pray to be delivered! Here I stoptj
E
——and though 1 could not say, 1 thanked the 5h
vine Majesty for being there, yet I gave God thanks
t for placing to my view my former wicked course of life,
and granting me a true knowledge of repentance And
whenever 1 opened or (hht the Bible, I blessed kind
Providence, that directed my good friend in England
to send it among my goods without my order, and for
assisting me to seve it from the power of the raging
ocean.
And now beginning my third year, ray several dai-
ly employments were these. First, My duty to hea-
ven, and diligently reading the holy scriptures, which
I did twice or thrice every day. Secondly, Seeking
provision with my gun? which commonly took me up,
when it did not rain, three hours every morning.
Thirdly, she ordering, curing, preserving, and cook-
ing what I had killed, or catched for my supply,
which took me up a great part of the day: for in the
middle ot the day the sun being in its height, it was
so hot, that I could not stir out; so that I had only
but four hours in the evening to work in: and then
the want of tools, of assistance, and /kill, wasted a greas
deal of time to little purpose, I was no less than two
and forty days making a board fit for a long shelf;
which two fawers, with their tools and saw-pit, would
have cut out of the same tree in half a day. It was of
a large tree, as my board was to be broad. I was three
days in cutting it down, and two more in lopping off
the boughs, and reducing it to a piece of timber. This
1 hacked and hewed off each side, till it became light
to move; thtfn I turned it, made one side of it smooth
and flat as a board from end to end, then turned it
downwards, cutting the other side, till I brought the^
plank to about three inches thick, and smooth on both
sides. Any body may judge my great labour and fa-
tigue in such a piece of work; but this 1 went through
with patience, as also many other things that my cir-
cumstances made necessary for me to do.
The harvest-months, November and "December, were
now at hand, in which I had the pleasing prospect of
a very good crop: But here I met with a new mis-
fortune: for the goats and hares, having tasted of
the sweetness of the blade, kept it so short, that it
had not strength to slioot up into a stalk. To pre-
vent this, I inelosed it with a hedge, and by day
shot some of its devourers; and my dog, which I had
tied to the field-gate, keeping barking all night, so
frightened these creatures, that I got entirely rid of
them.
But no sooner did I get rfd of these than other e*
nemies appeared, to wit, whole flocks of several sorts
of birds, who only waited till my back was turned
to ruin me. So much did this provoke me, that I Jet
fly, and killed three of the malefactors j and afterwards
served them, as they do notorious thieves in England,
hung them up in chains as a terror to others. And in-
deed so good an effect had this, that they not only for-
sook the corn, but all that part of the island, so Jong as
these criminals hung there.
My corn having ripened apace, the latter end of
December, which was my second harvest, I reaped it
with a scythe, made of one of my broad swords, I
had no fatigue in cutting down my first crop, it was
so slender. The ears I carried home in a basket, rub*
E 2
bing it oftt with my hands instead of threshing it; afii
when jny harvest was over, fonnd my half peck of feed
produced near two bushels of rice, and two bushels and
a half of barley. And now 1 plainly forefaw> that, by
God's goodness, I should be furnished with bread: but
yet I was concerned, because 1 knew not how to grind
or make meal of my corn, nor bread, neither knew
how to bake it. 1 would not however taste any of the
crop, but resolved to preserve it against next season,
ana in the mean while use my best endeavours to pro-
vide myself with other food,
But. where were my labours to end? The want of
a plough to turn up the earth, or fliovel to dig it, I
conquered by making me a wooden spade: the want
of a harrow, I supplied myself with dragging over the
corn a great bough of a tree. When it was growing,
I was forced to fence it; when ripe, to mow it, carry
it home, thresh it, part it from the chaff, and save it.
And after all, I wanted a mill to grind it, sieve to
dress it, yeast and salt to make it into bread, and an
oven to bake it. This set my brains on work to find
some expedient for every one of these necessaries a-
gainst the next harvest
And now having more feed, my first care was to pre-
pare me more land. 1 pitched upon two large flat pieces
of ground near my castle for that purpose, in which
1 sowed my feed, and fenced it with a good hedge.
This took me up three months; by which time the
wet season coming on, and the rain keeping me with-
in doors, I found several occasions to employ myself;
and, while at work, vised to divert myself with talk-
ing to my parrot, learning him to know and speak his
own name Pol/, the first welcome word I ever heard
spoke in the island. I had been a long time contri-
ving how to make earthen vessels, which I wanted ex-
tremely; and when I considered the heat of the cli-
mate, I did not doubt but if I could find any such
clay, I might botch up a potr strong enough when
dried in the sun to bear handling, and to hold any
thing that was dry> as corn, meal, and other things.
To be short, she clay I found; but it would occa-
sion the most seri us person to smile to see what auk-
ward ways I took, and what ugly mishapen things I
made; how many either fell out, or cracked by the vi-
olent heat of the fun, and fell into pieces when they
were removed: sol think that it was two months
rime before I could perfect any thing; and even then
but two clumsy things, in imitation of earthen jars.
These however I very gently placed in wicker baf-
kers, made on purpose for them, and between the pot
and the baskets, stuffed it full of rice and barley
straw: and these I presumed would hold my dried
corn, and perhaps the meal when the corq was bruis-
ed. As for the smaller things, I made them with bet-
ter success; such as little round pots, flatdisties, pitch-
ers, and pipkins, the fun baking them very hard. ~
Yet still I wanted one, thing absolutely necessary,
and that was an earthen pot, not only to hold any li-
quid, but also to bear the fire, which none of these
could do. It once happened, that as 1 was putting
out my fire, I found therein a broken piece of one of
my vessels burnt hard as a rock, and red as a tile.
This made me think of burning some pots; and hav-
ipg no notion of a kiln, or of glazing them with lead,
I fixed three large pipkins, and two or three pots in
a pile one upon another. The fire I piled round
the out-side, and dry wood on the top, till I saw the
pots in the {aside red hot, and found that they did not
crack at all; and when I perceived them perfectly
red, I Jet one of them stand in the fire about five or
fix hours, till the clay melted by the extremity of the
heat, and would have run to glass, had I suffered it \
ypon which I slaked the fire by degrees, till the red-
pefs abated; and watching them till the morning, I
found I had three very good pipkins, and two earth-
en pots, as well burnt and fit for my turn as I could
desire.
No joy could be greater than mine at this discove-
ry. For after this, I may fay, I wanted for no fort
of earthen ware. I filled one of my pipkins with wa-
ter to boil me some meat, which it did admirably
well, and with a piece of kid 1 made me some good
broth, as well as my circumstances could aiford me at
that time.
The next concern I had was to get me a stone-
mortar to beat some corn in, instead of a mill to
grind it, Here indeed I was at a great loss, as not
being sit for a sione-entter; and many days 1 spent to
find out a great stone big enough to cut hollow and
make fit for a mortar, and strong enough to bear the
weight of the pestle, that would break the corn with-
out silling it with sand. But all the stones of the is-
land being os a mouldering nature, rendered my
search fruitless; and then I resolved to look out a
great block of hard wood; which having soon found,
1 formed it with ray axe and hammer, and then with
infinite labour made a hollow in it, just as the Indians
of Brasil make their canoes. When I had finislied this,
1 made a great pestle of iron wood, and then laid them
up against my succeeding harvest.
My next business was to make me a sieve, to sift my
meal, and part it from the bran and hulk; having no
fine thin canvass to search the meal through, I could
not tell what to do. What linen I had was reduced to
rags: I had goats hair enough, but neither tools to
work it, nor did I know how to spin it: At length I
remembered I had some neckcloths of callico or muflia
of the sailors, whiph I had brought out of the ship,
and with these I made three small sieves, proper e-
nough for the work-
I come now to consider the baking part. The want
of an oven I supplied by making some earthen pans
yery broad, but not deep. When I had a mind to
bake, I made a great fire upoji my hearth, the tiles of
which I had made myself; and when the wood was
burnt into live coals, I spread them over it, till it be-
came very hot; then sweeping them away, I setdowa
my loaves, and whelmed down the earthen pots upon
them, drew the aflies and coals all around the outside
of the pots to continue the heat; and in this manner I
baked my barley-loaves as well as if I had been a com-
plete pastry-cook, and also made of the rice several
cakes and puddings.
*Tis no wonder that all these things took me up the
best part of a year, since what intermediate time I had
was bestowed in managing my new harvest and hus-
bandry; for in the proper season I reaped my corn,
carried it home, and laid it up in the ear in my large
E4
baskets, till 1 had time to rub, instead of threflVing it.
And now indeed my corn increased so much, that it
produced me about twenty bulhels of barley, and as
much of rice, that I not only began to use it freely,
bi}t was thinking how to enlarge my barns, and resol-
ved to sow as much at a time as would be sufficient for
me for a whole year.
AH this while, the prospect of land, which I had
seen from the other side of the island, ran in my mind.
I (lill meditated a deliverance from this place, though
the fear of greater misfortunes twht have deterred me
from it. For allowing that I had attained that place,
I run the hazard of being killed and eaten by the de-
vouring cannibals; and if they were not so, yet I
might be slain, as other Europeans had been, who felj
into their hands* Notwithstanding all this, my though^
ran continually upon that stiore. I now wiihed for
jny boy Xuryy and the longboat, with the slioulder of
mutton fail: X went to the strip's boat, that had been
cast a great way on the stiore in the late storm. She
%vas removed but a little; but her bottom being turn-
ed up by the impetuosity and fury of the waves and
wind, I fell to work with all the strength 1 had, and
with levers and rollers I had cut from the wood, to
turn her, and repair the damages stie had sustained.
This work took me up three or four weeks, when
folding my little strength all in vain, I feil to under-
mining it by digging away the sand, and so to make it
fall down, setting pieces of wood tp thrust and guide
it in the fa!h But after this was done, 1 was still qn-
tfple to stir it uj>, or to get vmder it, ijiuch less to mov§
it forwards towards the wacer, and so I was forced to
give it over,
This disappointment however did not frighten me.
I began to think whether it was not possible for me
to make a Canoe or Periagua, such as the Indians make
of the trunk of a tree. But here I lay under particu-
lar inconveniepeies, want of tools to make it, and want
of hands to move it into the water when it was made.
However, to work 1 went upon it, stopping all the
inquiries I could make, with this very simple an-
swer I made to myself, Let's first make it, I'll warrant
I'll find some way or other to get it along when it is
done.
1 first cut down a cedar tree, which was five foot
^n inches diameter at the Jower part next the stump,
and four foot eleven inches dimater at the end of
twenty-two foot, after which it lessened for a space,
and then parted into branches. Twenty days was I
a hacking and hewing this tree at the bottom, four*
teen more in cutting off the branches and limbs, and
a whole month in shaping it like the bottom of a boat-
As for the inside, I was three weeks with a mallet
^nd chiflfel, clearing it in such a manner, as that it was
big enough to carry 26 men, much bigger than any
canoe I ever saw in my life, and consequently sufficient
to transport me and all my effects to that wished for
shore I so ardently desired-
Nothing remained now, but indeed the greatest:
difficulty, Co get it into the water, it lying about 100
yards from it. To remedy the first inconvenience,
which was a rising hill between this boat and the
creek, with woad^rful pains ami labour I dug into
the surface of the earth, and made a declivity; this I
began, and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains: But
who grudge pains, that have their deliverance in view?
but when this was worked through, and this difficul-
ty managed, it was fHIl much at one; for I could no
more stir the canoe, than I could the other boat.
Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolv-
ed to cut a dock, or canal, to bring the water up to
the canoe, seeing I could not bring the canoe down to
the water: well, I began this work, and when I began
to enter into it, and calculated how deep it was to be
dug, how broad, how the stuff to be thrown out, I
found, that by the number of hands 1 had, being none
but my own, it mult have been ten or twelve years
before I fliould have gone through with \t; for the
shore lay high, so that at the upper end it must have
been at least twenty feet deep; so at length, though witfy
great reluctancy, 1 gave this attempt over also.
This grieved me heartily, and now I saw, though
too late, the folly of beginning a work before we
count the cost, and before we judge rightly of our
own strength to go through with it.
In the middle of this work I finislied my fourth year
in this place, and kept my anniversary with the sama
devotion, and with as much comfort, as ever before;
for by a constant study, and serious application of the
word of God, and by the assistance of his grace, I
gained a different knowledge from what I had before;
I entertained different notions of things; I looked now
upon the world as a thing remote; which I had no-
thing to do with, no expectation from, and indeed no
desires about; in a word, I had nothing indeed to do
with it, nor was ever like to have; so 1 thought it look*
ed as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter; viz,
as a place I had lived in, but was come out of it; and
well might I fay, as father .Abraham to Dives, Be-
tween me and thee is a great gulph fixed.
In the first place, I was removed from all the
wickedness of the world here: I had neitheir the lufl
of the Jlefl), the lufl of the eye, or the pride of life: I
had nothing to covet, for. I had all 1 was now capable
of enjoying: I was lord of the whole manor, or, if
I pleased, I might call myself king or emperor over
the whole country which I had pofleffion of: 1 here
were no rivals; I had no competitor, none to dispute
sovereignity or command with me: I might have rail-
ed ship-loadings of corn, but I had no use for it; so I
let as little grow as I thought enough for my occasion;
I had tortoises or turtles enough; but now-and-then
one was as much as I could put-to any use: I had tim-
ber enough to have built a fleet of ships: I had grapes
enough to have made wine, or to have cured into
raisins, to have loaded that fleet when they had beea
built.
But all I could make use of, was all that was valu-
able: I had enough to eat, and to supply my wants,
and what was all the rest tome? if I killed more flesh
than I could eat, the dog must eat it, or the vermin;
if I sowed more com than I could eat, it must be
spoiled: The trees that I cut down were lying to rot
on the ground, I could make no more use of them
than for fuel; and that I had no occasion for, but to
dress my food.
In a word, the nature and experience of things die-
rated to me upon just reflexion, that all the good
things of this world are not farther good to us, than
they are for our use; and that whatever we may heap
jap indeed to give others, we enjoy as much as we can
use, and no more. The most covetous griping miser
in the world would have been cured of the vice of co-
vetousness, if he had been in my cafe; for I possessed
infinitely more than I knew what to do with. 1 had
do room for desire- except it was of things which I had
not, and they were but trifles, tho' indeed of great
use to me, I had, as I hinted before, a parcel of mo«
ney, as well gold as silver, about thirty-six pound fler-
lwg\ Alas! there the nasty sorry useless stuff lay;
I had no manner of business tor it; and ] often thought
with myself, that I would have given aji handful of k
for a gross of tobacco-pipes, or for an hand mill tq
grind -my corn; nay, J would have given it all for
sixpence-worth of turnep and carrot seed out of Eng-
land, or for an handful of peas and beans) and a bot*
tie of ink * As it was, I had not the least advantage by
it, or benefit from it; but there it lay in a drawer,
and grew mouldy with the damp of the cave, in the
wet season; and if Iljad had the drawer full of dia-
monds, it had been the fame cafe; and they had beer*
of no manner of value to me, because of no use.
I had now brought my slate of life to be much ea-
sier in itself tlv?n it was at first, and much easier to my
mind as Well as to my body. I frequently fat down
to my meat with thankfulness, and admired the hand
of God's providence, which had thus spread my table
in the wilderness: I learned to look more upon the
bright side of my condition, and less upon the dark
t ii 5
fide; anc! to consider what i enjoyed, rather thkfi V?h$t
1 wanted; and this gave me sometimes such secret
comforts, that 1 cannot express them; and which I
take notice-of here, to put those discontented people
in mind of it, who cannot enjoy comfortably what God
hath given them, because thy see and covet something
that he has not given them: all our discontents abour
what we want, appeared to me to spring from the want
of thankfulness for what we have.
Another reflexion was of great use to me, and doubt-
less would be so to any one that should fall into such
distress as mine was; and this was, to compare my
present condition with what I at first expected it should
be; nay, with what it would certainly have been, if
the good providence of God had not wonderfully or-*
dered the ship to be cast up nearer to the shore, where
I not only could come at her, but could bring what I
got out of her to the fliore, for my relief and comfort;
without which I had wanted tools to work, weapons
for defence, or gunpowder and stiot for getting my
food,
I spent whole hours, I may fay, whole days, in re-
presenting to myself in the most lively colours, how I
must have acted, if I had got nothing out of the (hip;
how I could not have so much as got any food, except
fish and turtles; and that, as it was long before I
found any of them, I must have perished first: That
I should have lived, if I had not perished, like a mere
savage: That if I had killed a goat or a fowl by any
Contrivance, I had no way to flay or open them, or
fart the fiefli from the skin and the bowels, or to cut
it Up; bat must gnaw it with my teeth, and ptill k wirfs
my claws, like a beast.
These reflexions made me very sensible of the good*
Hess of providence to me, and very thankful for my
present condition, with all its hard/hips and mis-
fortunes: And this part also I cannot but recom-
mend to the reflexion of those who are apt in their
misery to say, Is any affliction like mine? Let them
consider, how much worse the cases of some people are,
and what their case might have been, if providence
had thought fit.
I had another reflexion which assisted me also to
comfort my mind with hopes; and this was, compar-
ing my present condition with what I had deserved,
and had therefore reason to expect from the hand of
providence: I had lived a dreadful life, perfectly desti-
tute of- the knowledge and fear of God: I had been
Well instructed by my father and mother; neither had
they been wanting to me in their early endeavours, to
infuse a religious awe of God into my mind, a fense
of my duty, and of what the nature and end of my
being required of me: but alas! falling early into the
seafaring life, which of all the lives is the most desti-
tute of the fear of God, tho> his terrors are always
before them; 1 fay, falling early into the seafaring,
life, and into seafaring company, all that little sense
of religion which I had entertained, was laught out of
me by my messmates; by an hardened despising of
dangers, and the views of dealh, which grew habitual
to me j by my long absence from all manner of oppor-
tunities to converse with any thing but what was like
mylelf, or to hear any thing of what was good, or
tended towards it.
So void was I of every thing that Was good, of of
the least fense of what I was, or was to be, that in the
greatest deliverance I enjoyed, such as my escape from
Sallee, my being taken up by the Portuguese master of
the ship, my being planted so well in Brajil, my re-
ceiving the cargo from England, and the like, I never
once had the word thank God so much as on my mind,
or in my mouth; nor in the greatest distress, bad
I so much thought as to pray to him; nor so much
as to fay, Lord, have mercy upon me! No not to men-
tion the name of God, unless it was to swear by, and
blaspheme it.
I had terrible reflexions upon my mind for many
months, as I have already observed, on the account of
my wicked and hardened life past; and when I looked
about me, and considered what particular providences
had attended me, since my coming into this place, and
how God had dealt bountifully with me; had not on-
ly punished me less than my iniquity deserved, but had
so plentifully provided for me; this gave me great
hopes, that my repentance was accepted, and that God
had yet mercies in store for me.
With these reflexions 1 worked my mind up, not
only to resignation to the will of God in the present
disposition of my circumstances, but even to a sincere
thankfulness for my condition; and that I, who was
a living Man, ought not to complain, Jeeing I had not
the due funijhment of my Jin; that I enjoyed so many
mercies, which I had no reason to have expected in
that place, that 1 ought never more to repine at my
condition, but to rejoice, and to give daily thanks, for
Ttllat tidily bread, which nothing but a cloud of Woti^efl
could have brought: that I ought to consider I had beeii
fed even by a miracle, even as great as that of feed-
ing Elijah by ravens; nay, by a long series of mira-
cles; and that I could hardly have named a place in
the uninhabited part of the world, where I could have
been cast more to my advantage: a place, where as 1
had no society, which was an affliction on one hand,so I
found no ravenous beasts, no furious wolves or tygers,
to threaten my life; no venomous creatures or poison-
ous, which I might have fed on to my hurt, no savages
to murder and devour me.
In a word as my life was a life of sorrow one way,
so it was a life of mercy another; and I wanted no-
thing to make a life of comfort, but to be able to
make my fense of God's goodness to me, and care over
me in this condition, be my daily consolation; and af-
ter I made a just improvement of these things, I went
away, and was no more fad.
I had now been here so long, that many things which
I brought on shore for thy help, were either quite
gone, or Very much wasted, and near spent.
My ink, as I observed, had been gone for some time*
all but a very little, which I eeked out with water a
little and a little, till it was so pale it scarce left any ap-
pearance of black upon the paper: As long as it lasted,
I made use of it to minute down the days of the month
on which any remarkable thing happened tome; and
first by casting up tinles past, I remembered that there
was a strange concurrence of days, in the various pro-
vidences which befel me, and which, if I had been
superstitioufly inclined to observe days as fatal or for-
hinate, I might have had reason to have looked upon
with a great deal of curiosity.
First, I had observed, that the same day that I broke
away from my father and my friends, and ran
away to Hull in order to go to sea, the same day af-
terwards I was taken by the Bailee man of war, and
tnade a slave.
The fame day of the year that I escaped out of the
wreck of that ship in Yarmouth roads, that fame day
of the year afterwards 1 made my escape from Sallee
in the boat.
The same day of the year I was born on, viz. the
20th of September, the fame day I had my life so mi-
raculously saved 26 years after, when I was cast on
shore in this island; so that my wicked life, and soli-
tary life, began both on a day.
The next thing to my ink's being wasted, was that
of my bread* I mean the biscuit which I brought out
of the ship: This I had husbanded to the last degree,
allowing myself but one cake of bread a day, for above'
a year; and yet I was quite without bread for a year
before I got any corn of my own; and great reason
I had to be thankful that I had any at all, the get-
ting it being, as has been already observed, next to
miraculous.
My cloaths too began to decay mightily; As to lin-
en, I had none a good while, except some chequered
sliirts which I had found in the chests of the other
seamen, and which 1 carefully preserved, because ma-
ny times I could bear no other cloaths on but a shirt;
and it was a very great help to me, that I had among
all the men's cloaths of the ship almost three dozen of
F
(him. There Were several thick watch-coats of the
seamen, which were left behind, but they were too hot
to wear; and tho' it is true, that the weather was so
violent hot, that there was no need off cloaths, yet I
could not go quite naked; not, tho' I had been inclin-
ed to it, which I was not; nor could I abide the
thoughts of it, though I was all alone.
One reason why I could not go quite naked, was, I
could not bear the heat of the fun so well when quire
naked, as with some cloaths on; nay, the very heat
frequently blistered my skin; whereas, with a shirt on,
the air itself made some motion, and whistling under
the st)irt, was twofold cooler than without it: No more
could I ever bring myself to go out in the heat of the
sun without a cap, or an hat; the heat of the sun beat-
ing with such violence as it does in that place, would
give me the head-ach presently, by darting so directly
on my head, without a cap or hat on, so that I could
not bear it; whereas, if I put on my hat, it would pre-
sently go away.
Upon these views I began to consider about putting
the few rags I had, which I called cloaths, into some
order: 1 had worn out all the waistcoats I had, and
my business was now to try if I could not make jackets
out of the great watch-coats which 1 had by me, and
with soch other materials as I had; so I set to work
a tayloring, or rather indeed a botching; for I made
most piteous work of it. However, I made shift to
make two or .three waistcoats, which I hoped would
serve me a great while; as for breeches or drawers,
I made but very sorry fliift indeed, till afterwards.
I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the
Creatures that I killed, I mean four-footed ones; and
1 had hung them up stretched out with slicks in the
fun;" by which means some of them were so dry and
hard, that they were fit for little; but others, it seems,
were very useful. The first thing 1 made of these
was a great cap for my head, with the hair on the
outside to Jhoot off the rain; and this I performed so
well, that after this I made a fuit-of cloaths wholly of
those steins; that is to fay, a waistcoat and breeches
open at the knees, and both loose; for they were ra-
ther wanting to keep me cool, than to keep me warm.
1 must not omit to acknowledge, that they were wretch-
edly made; for if I was a bad carpenter, I was a worse
taylor: however, they were such as I made a very
good shift with; and when I was abroad, if it happen-
ed to rian, the hair of the waistcoat and cap being out-
most, I was kept very dry.
After this I spent a deal of time and pains to make
me an umbrella: I was indeed in great want of one,
and had a great mind to make one: I had seen them
made in the Brq/i/s, where they are very useful in the
great heats which are there; and I felt the heats eve-
ry jot as great here, and greater too, being nearer the
Equinox; besides, as I was obliged to be touch abroad,
it was a most useful thing to me, as well for the rains
as the hears. I took a world of pains at it, and was a
great while before I could make any thing likely to
hold; nay, after 1 thought I had hit the way, I spoil-
ed two or three before 1 made one to my mind; but
at last I made one that answered indifferently we!lf
the main difficulty I found was to make it to let down.
I could make it to spread; but if it did not let down
F 2
too, and draw in, It would not be portable for me any
way, but just over my head, which would not do:
However, at last, as I said, 1 made one to answer; I
covered it with skins, the hair upwards, so that it cast
off the rain like a penthouse, and kept off the sun so
effectually, that I could walk out in the hottest of the
weather, with greater advantage than I could before
in the coolest; and when 1 had no need of it, I could
close it, and carry it under my arm.
Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being
ihtirely composed by resigning to the will of God, and
throwing myself wholly upon the disposal of'his pro-
vidence: this made my life better than sociable; for
when I began to regret the want of conversation, I
would ask myself, whether thus conversing mutually
with my own thoughts, and, as 1 hope, I may fay,
with even my Maker, by ejaculations and petitions,
was not better than the utmost enjoyment of human
society in the world?
I cannot say, that after this, for five years, any ex-
traordinary thing happened to me; but I lived on in
the fame course, in the same posture and place, just as
before: the chief thing I was employed in, besides my
yearly labour of planting my barley and rice, and cur-
ing my raisins, of both which I always kept up just
enough to have sufficient stock of the year's provisions
beforehand; I fay, besides this yearly labour, and my
daily labour of going out with my gun, I had one la-
bour to make me a canoe, which at last 1 finisiied: so
that by digging a canal to it six feet wide, and four feet
deep, I brought it into the creek, almost half a mile.
As for the first, that was so vastly big, as I made it
without considering beforehand, as I ought to do, how
I should be able to launch it; so never being able to
bring it to the water, or bring the water to it, 1 was
obliged to let it lie where it was, as a memorandum to
teach me to be wiser next time. Indeed the next time,
fho? I could not get a tree proper for it, and was in a
place where I could not get the water to it, at any less
distance than, as I have said, of near half a mile; yet
as I saw it was practicable at last, I never gave it over;
and tho' I was near two years about it, yet I never
grudged my labour, in hopes of having a boat to go
pS to sea at last.
However, though my little periagua was finished,yet
the size of it was not at all answerable to the design
which I had in view, when I made the first; I mean of
venturing over to the Terra firma, where it was above
forty miles broad; accordingly, the smallness of my
boat aflisted to put an end to that design, and now I
thought np more of it: But as I had a boat,my next de-
sign was to make a tour round the island; for as I had
been on the other side, in one place, crossing, as I have
already described it, over the land, so the discoveries I
made in that journey, made we very eager to fee the
other parts of the coast; and nowl had a boat, I thought
of nothing but sailing round the island.
For this purpose, and that I might do every thing
with discretion and consideration, 1 fitted up a little
mast to my boat, and made a sail to it out of some of
the pieces of the ship's fails, which lay in store, and of
which I had a great store by me.
Having fitted my mast and fail, and tried the boat, I
found she would fail very well: then I made little
lockers and boxes at either end of my boat, to put pro-
visions, necestaries, and ammunition, &c. into, to be
kept dry, either from rain, or the spray of the sea;
and a little long hollow place 1 cut in the inside of the
boat, where I could lay my gun, making a flap to hang
down over it to keep it dry.
I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like
a mast, to stand over my head, and keep the heat of
the sun off of me like an awning; and this I every
now-and-then took a little voyage upon the sea, but
never went far out, nor far fiora the little creek; but
at last being eager to view the circumference of my
little kingdom, I resolved upon my tour, and ac-
cordingly I victualed my ship for the voyage; put-
- ting in two dozen of my loaves (cakes I should rather
call them) of barley-bread; an earthen pot full of
parched rice, a food I eat a great deal of, a little bot-
tle of rum, half a goat, and powder with shot for kilIT
ing more, and two large watch-coats, of those which,
as I mentioned before, I had saved out of the seamen's
chests; these 1 took, one to lie upon, and the other
to cover me in the night.
It was the sixth of November, in the sixth year of my
reign, or my captivity, which you please, that I set
out on this voyage, and I found it much longer than
I expected; for though the ifland itself was not very-
large, yet when I came to the east side of it, I found
a great ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues into
the sea, some above water, some under it; and beyond
this a shoal of send, lying dry half a league more; so
that I was obliged to go a great way out to sea to double
that point*
When I first discovered them, I was going to give
over my enterprize, and come back again, not knowing
how far it might oblige me to go out to sea; and above
all, doubting how I should get back again; so I came
to an anchor, for 1 had made me a kind of an anchor
with a piece of broken grappliflg, which I got out of
the ship.
Having secured my boat, I took my gun, and went
on shore, climbling upon an hill, which seemed to o-
verlook (hat point, where I saw the full extent of it,
and resolved to venture.
In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood,
I perceived a strong, and indeed, a most furious cur-
rent, which ran to the east, even came close to the
point; and I took the more notice of it, because I saw-
there might be some danger, that when I came into it,
1 might be carried out to sea by the strength of it, and
qot be able to make the island again : and indeed, had
I not gotten first upon this hill, I believe it would have
been so; for there was the fame current on the other
fide of the ifland, only that it set off at a farther dis-
tance; and I saw there was a strong eddy under the
shore; so I had nothing to do but to get out of the
first current, and I fliould presently be in an eddy,
I lay here, however, two days; because the wind
blowing pretty frefla (E. at S- E. and that being just
contrary to the said current) made a great breach of
the sea upon the point; so that it was not safe for me
to keep too close to the sliore for the breach, nor to
go too far off because of the stream.
The third day in the morning, the wind having
abated over night, the sea was calm, and 1 ventured;
F 4
but I am a warning-piece again to all rasti and ignorant
pilots; for no sooner was I come to the point, when
even I was not my boat's length from the shore, but
I found myself in a great depth of water, and a cur-
rent like the fluice of a mill: It carried my boat along
with it with such violence, that all I could do, could
not keep her so much as on the edge of it; but I found
it hurried me farther and farther out from the eddy,
which was on the left-hand. There was no wind
stirring to help me, and all that I could do with my
paddTes. signified nothing; and now I began to give
myself over for lost; for, as ihe current was on both
sides the island, I knew a few leagues distance they
must join again, and then I was irrecoverably gone;
nor did I fee any possibility of avoiding in; so that 1
had no prospect before me but pf peristiing; not
by the sea, for that was calm enough, but of starving
for hunger. I had indeed found a tortoise on the
shore, as big almost as I could lift, and had tossed it
into the boat; and I had a great jar of frefli water,
that is to fay, one of my earthen pots; but what wa§
all this to being driven into the vast ocean, where, to
be sure, there was no ihore, no main land or island, for
a thousand leagues at least?
And now I saw how easy it was for the providence
of God to make the most miserable condition that man-
kind could be in, worse. Now I looked back upon my
desolate solitary island, as the most pleasant place in the
world, and all the happiness my heart could wish for,
was to be there again; I stretched out my hands to ic
with eager willies; O happy desart( said I, 1 shall ne-
ver see thee more j O miserable creature! said I, whi-
< % )
rher am I going? Then I reproached myself with my un*
thankful temper, and how I had repined at my solitary
condition; and now what would I give to be on shore
there again? thus we never fee the true state of our
condition, till it is illustrated to us by its contraries;
nor know how to value what we enjoy, but by the
want of it: It is scarce possible to imagine the constel-
lation I was now in, being driven from my beloved is-
land (for so it appeared to me now to be) into the wide
ocean, almost two leagues, and in the utmost despair of
ever recovering it again: however, I worked .hard,
till indeed my strength was almost exhausted; and
kept my boat as much to the Northward, that
is, towards the fide of the current which the eddy
lay on, as poffibly I could; when about noon, as
the fun passed the meridian, I thought I felt a little
breeze of wind in my face, springing up from the S.
S. E. This cheared my he^art a little, and especially
when in about half an hour more it blew a pretty
small gentle gale: by this time I was gotten at a
frightful distance from the island; and, had the least
cloud or hazy weather intervened, I had been undone
another way too; for I had no compass on board,
and should never have known how to have steered to-
wards the island, if I had but once lost fight of it;
but the weather Continuing clear, I applyed myself
to get up my mast again, and spread my fail, standing
away to the north as much as possible, to get cut of
the current.
Just as J had set my mast and fail, and the boat begarj
co stretch away, I saw even by the clearness of the wa-
£er, some alteration of the current was near: for where
the current was so strong, the water was foul: but
perceiving the water clear, I found the current abate,
and presently I found on the east, at about half a
mile, a breach of the sea upon some rocks; these
rocks I found caused the current to part again; and
as the main stress of it ran away more southerly, leav-
ing the rocks to the north-east, so the other returned
by the repulse of the rock, and made a strong eddy,
which ran back again to the north-west with a very
sharp stream.
They who know what it is to have a reprieve
brought to them upon the ladder, or to be rescued
from thieves just going to murder them, or who have
been in such like extremities, may guess what my pre-t
sent surprize of joy was, and how gladly I put my boat
into the stream of this eddy; and the wind also frcsti-i
ening, how gladly I spread my sail to it, runningchear-?
fully before the wind, and with a strong tfdv or eddy
under foot.
This eddy carryed me about a league in my way back
again directly towards the island, but about two leagues
more towards the northward than the current lay,
which carried me away at first; so that when I came
near the island, I found myself open to the northerly
shore of it, that is to fay, the other end of the islands
opposite to that which I went out from*
When I had made something more than a league of
way by the help of this current or eddy, I found i;
was spent, and saved me no farther. However I sound,
that being between the two great currents, viz. that
on the south side which had hurried me away, and that
on the north, which lay about two leagues on the o-
ther side; I say, between these two, in the west of the
jsland, I found the water at least still, and running no
way; and having still a breeze of winsd fair for me,
I kept on steering directly for the island, though not
making such frefli way as 1 did before.
About 4 o'clock in the evening, being then within
about a league of the island, I found the point of the
rocks which occasioned this distance stretching out
as is described before, to the southwards, and, cast-
ing off the current more southwardly* had of course
made anorher eddy to the north, and this I found very
strong, but directly setting the way my course lay,
which was due west, but almost full north. However,
having a fresti gale 1 stretched across this eddy, slant-
ing north-west, and in about an hour came within a-
bout a mile of the lhore, where, it being smooth wa-
ter, I soon got to land.
When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and
gave God thanks for my deliverance, resolving to
lay aside all thoughts of my deliverance by my boat;
and refreihing myself with such things as I had, I
brought my boat close to the stiore in 3 little cove that
I had 'spy'd under some trees, and laid me down to
sleep, being quite spent with the labour and fatigue of
the voyage.
I was now at a great loss which way to get home
with my boat; I had run so much hazard, and knew
too much the cafe to think of attempting it by the way
1 went out; and what might be at the other side (L
mean the west side,) I knew not, nor had I any mind
to run any more ventures; so I only resolved in the
corning to make my way westward along the shore,
$nd to see is there was no creek where I might lay \rp
my frigate in safety, so as to have her again if I want-
ed her. In about three miles, or thereabouts, coast-'
jng the shore, I came to a very good inlet, or bay, a-
{x>ut a mile over, which narrowed till it came to a ve-
ry ljtfle rivulet, or brook, where I found a convenient
harbour for my boat, and where she lay as if she had
been in a little dock made on purpose for her; here I
put in, and having stowed my boat very safe, I went
on shore to look about me, and see where I was.
I soon found I had but a little passed by the place
where I had been before, when I travelled on foot to
that fliore; so taking nothing out of my boat, but my
gun and my umbrella, for it was exceeding hot, I be-
gan my march: The way was comfortable enough as-
ter such a voyage as I bad been upon, and I reached
my old bower in the evening, where I found every
thing standing as I left it; for I always kept it ia
good order, being, as I said before, my country*
house,
I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade
to rest my limbs, for I was very weary, and fell a-
fleep*. But judge you, if you can, that read my story,
what a surprise I must be in, when I was awaked out
of my steep, by a voice calling me by my name several
times, Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe, poor Robin Crusoe!
\Vhere are you, Robin Crusoe f Where are you? Where
have you been?
I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with row-
ing, or paddling, as it is called, the first part of the day,
and walking the latter part, that I did not awake tho-
roughly; and dozing between steeping and waking,
thought I dreamed that somebbdy spoke to me: But U
the voice continuedtorepeati^Æ/tfCW/ oe, Robin Crusoe;
at last I began to awake more perfectly, and was at
first dreadfully frighted, and started up in the utmost
consternation: but no sooner were my eyes open, but
I saw my Poll sitting on the top of the hedge, and im-
mediately knew that this was he that spoke to me; for
just in such bemoaning language 1 had used to talk to
him, and teach him; and he had learned it so perfectly,
that he would sit upon my finger, and lay his bill close
to my face, and cry, poor Robin Crusoe, Where are
you? JVhere have you been? How came you here? And
such things as I had taught him.
However, even tho? I knew it was the parrot, and
that indeed it could be nobody else, it was a good
while before I could compose myself. First, I was a-
mazedhow the creature got thither, and then how he
should just keep about the place, and no-where else:
But as I was well satisfied it could be nobody but hon-
est Poll, I got it over; and holding out my hand, and
calling him by his name, Poll, the sociable creature
came to me, and fat upon my thumb, as he used to da,
and continued talking to me, poor Robin Crusoe, and,
How did I come here? And, Where had 1 been? Just
as if he had been overjoyed to fee me again; and so I
carried him home along with me.
I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some
time, and had enough to do for many days to sit still,
and reflect upon the danger I had been in: I would
have been very glad lo have had my boat again -on my
side of the island, but I knew not how it was practi-
cable to get it about: As to the east-side of the island.
^hich I had gdtie round, I knew well enough there
was no venturing that way; my very heart would
flirink, and my very blood run chill, but to think of
it: and to the other side of the island, I did not know
how it might be there; but supposing the current ran
with the same force against the shore ait the east, as it
passed by it on the other, I might run the fame risque
of being driven down the stream, and carried by the
island, as I had been before of being carried away from
it; so with these thoughts I contented myself to be
without any boat, tho' it had been the product of so
many months labour to make it, and of so many more
to get into the sea.
In this government of my temper I remained near
a year, lived a very sedate retired life, as you may well
suppose; and my thoughts being very much composed,
as to my condition, and fully comforted in resigning
myself to the dispositions of providence, 1 thought
I lived really very happily in all things, except that
of society.
I improved myself, in this time, in all the mechanic
exercises which my necessities put me upon applying
myself to; and, I believe, could, upon occasion, have
made a very good carpenter, especially considering how
few tools I had.
Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in
my earthen-ware, and contrived well enough to make
them with a wheel, which I found infinitely easier and
better; because I made things round and fliapeable,
%hich before were filthy things indeed to look on.
feut I think I never was more vain of my own perfor-
Justice, or more joyful for any thing I found out, than
for my being able to make a tobacco-pipe; and tho'
it was a very ugly clumsy thing when it was done, and
only burnt red like other earthen-ware, yet, as it was
hard and firm, and would draw the smoke, I was ex-
ceedingly comforted with it; for I had been always
used to smoke, and there were pipes in the ship, but I
forgot them at first, not knowing that there was tobac-
co in the island; and afterwards, when I searched the
ship again, I could not come at any pipes at all.
In my wicker-ware I also improv'd much, and made
abundance of necessary baskets, as well as my invention
shewed me, tho? not very handsome, yet convenient for
my laying things up in, or fetching things home in.
For example, if I killed a goat abroad, I could hang
it up in a tree, flay it, and dress, and cut it in pieces,
and bring it home in a basket; and the like by
a turtle, I could cut it up, take out the eggs, and.a
piece or two of the flesh, which was enough for me,
and bring them home in a basket, and leave the rest:
behind me: also large deep balkets were my receivers
for my corn, which I always rubbed out as soon as k
was dry, and cured; and kept it in great baJkets in-
stead of a granary.
1 began now to perceive my powder abated consi-
derably; and this was a want which it was impossible
for me to supply, and 1 began seriously to consider what
I must do when I should have no more powder; that is
to fay, how I should do to kill any goats. I had, as
I observed in the third year of my being here, kept
a young kid, and bred her up tame; I was in hopes of
getting an he-kid, but 1 could not by any means bring
it to pass, till my kid grew an old goat j and I could
never find in my heap* to kill her, till flie died, as last
of mere age.
But being now in the eleventh year of my residence,
and, as I have said, my ammunition growing low, I set
myself to study some art to trap and snare the goats, to
fee whether I could not catch some of them alive, and
particularly I wanted a slie-goat great with young..
To this purpose I made snares to hamper them;
and I believe they were more than once taken in
them; but my tackle was not good, for I had no
wire, and always found them broken, and my bait de-
voured.
At length I resolved to try a pit fall, so I dug seve-
ral large pits in the earth, in places where I had observ-
ed the goats used to feed, and over these pits I placed
hurdles of my own making too, with a great weight up-
on them; and several times I put ears of barley, and
dry rice, without setting the trap; and I could easily
perceive, that the goats had gone in, and eaten up the
corn, that I could fee the mark of their feet: at length,
I set three traps in one night, and going the next
morning, I found them all standing, and yet the bait
eaten,and gone: this was very discouraging; however,
I altered my traps; and, not to trouble you with par-
ticulars, going one morning to fee my traps, I found,
in one of them, a large old he-goat; and, in one of the
others three kids, a male and two females.
As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him >
he was so fierce I durst: not go into the pit to him;
that is to fay, to go about to bring him away alive,
which was what 1 wanted: I could have killed him,
but that was not my business, nor would it answer my
end; so I e'en let him our, and he ran away as if he
had been frighten'd out of his wits; but 1 did not then
know what I afterwards learned, that hunger will tartfe
a lion: If I had let him stay there three or four days
without food, and then have carried him some water
to drink, and then a little corn, he would have been
as tame as one of the kids; for they are mighty saga*
cious tractable creatures, where they are well used.
however, for the present I let him go, knowing no
better at that time; then I went to the three kids, and,
taking them one by one, I ty'd them with strings to-
gether, and with some difficulty brought them all
home.
It was a good while before they would feed, but
throwing them some sweet corn, it tempted them, and
they began to be tame: and now I found, that if I ex-
pected to supply myself with goats-fle/h, when I had no
powder or shot left, breeding some up tame was my
only way, when perhaps I might have them about my
house like a flock of slieep.
But then it presently occur'd to me, that I must keep
the tame from the wild, or else they would always run
wild when they grew up ; and the only way for this was
to have-some inclos'd piece of ground, well fenc'd ei-
ther with hedge or pale, to keep them up so effectually,
that those within might not break out, or those with-
out break in.
This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands;
yet as I saw there was an absolute necessity of doing it,
my first piece of work was to find out a proper piece of
ground; viz. where there was likely to be herbage for
them to eat, water for them to drink, and cover td
keep them from the sun.
Those who understand such inclosures, will think I
had very little contrivance, when I pitched upon a
place very proper for all these, being a plain open piece
of meadow-land or Savanna (as our people call it in the
western colonies) which had two or three little drills of
freih water in it, and at one end was very woody; I
fay they will smile at my forecast, when I shall tell
them I began my inclosing of this piece of ground m
such a manner, that my hedge or pale must have been
at least two miles about; nor was the madness of it so
great as to the compass; for if it was ten miles about,
1 was like to have time enough to do it in; but I did
not consider, that my goats would be as wild in so much
compass, as it they had had the whole island; and X
should have lo much room to chace them rn, that I
should never catch them.
My hedge was be^unand carried on, I believe, about
fisry Yards, whet) this thought occurred tome ; so I pre-
sentysto p'd «hort. an I for the first beginning I resolvM
to inclose a piece of about 150 yards in length, and 100
yards in breadth which as it would maintain as many
as I should have in any reasonable time, lo, as my slock
increased, I could add more ground to my inclosure.
Thi> was acting with some prudence, and I went to
work with courage  I was about three mouths hedg-
ing in the first piece; and, till I had done it, I tether'd
the: three kids in the best part of it, and used them to
feed as near meas possible, to make them familiar; and
very often I would go and carry them some ears of
barley, or an handful of rice, and feed them out of my
hand; so thai after ray inclosure-was fini/Vd, and I
Jet them loose, they would follow me up and down,
bleating after me for an handful of corn.
Thisanswer'd my end, and in about a year and a half
I had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all; and in
two years more I had three-and-forty, besides several
that I took and kill'd for my food; and after that I inclos-
ed five several pieces of ground to feed them in, with lictle
pens to drive them into, to rake them as I wanted them;
and gates out of one piece of ground into another.
But this was not all; for now I not only had goat's
flesh to feed on when I pleas'd, but milk too, a thing
which indeed in my beginning, I did not so much as think
of, and which, when it came into my thoughts was
really an agreeable surprize; for now I set up my dai-
ry, and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a
day. And as nature, who gives supplies of food to e-
very creature, dictates even naturally how to make use
of it; so I, that never milk'd a cow, much: less a goat,
or saw butter or cheese made, very readily and handi-
ly, tho' after a great many essays and miscarriages,
made me both butter and cheese at last, and never wan-
ted it afterwards,
How mercifully can our great creator treat his crea-
tures, even in those conditions in which they seem'd to
be overwhelms in destruction! How can he sweeten the
bitterest providences, and give us cause to praise him for
dungeons and prisons! What a table was here spread
for me in a wilderness, where I saw nothing at first but
to perish for hunger!
It would have made?, stoick smile, to have seen me
and my little family sit down to dinner; there was my
G 2
majesty, the prince and lord of the whole island \ t had
the lives of all my subjects at absolute command; I
could hang, draw, give life and liberty, and take it a-
way, and no rebels among all my subjects.
Then to fee how like a king I dined too, all alonef,
attended by my servants! Po//, as if he had been my
favourite, was the only person permitted to talk to me;
my dog, which was now grown very old and crazy>
and found no species to multiply his kind upon, fat
always at my right-hand; and two cats, one on one
side of the table, and one on the other, expecting now
and then a bit trom my hand as a mark of special fa-
vour.
But these were not the two cats which I brought
on shore at first; for they were both of them dead,
and had been interred near my habitation by my own
hands: but one of them having multiply'd by I know
not what kind of creature, these were two which I
preserved tame, whereas the rest ran wild in the woods,
and became indeed troublesome to me at last ; for they
would often come into my house, and plunder me too,
till at lalt 1 was obliged to shoot them, and did kill a
great many; at last they left me with this attendance; -
and in this plentiful manner I lived; neither could I
be said to want any thing but society, and of that, in
some time after this, I was like to have too much.
1 was something impatient, as I had observed, to
have the use of my boat, though very loath to run a-
ny more hazard; and therefore sometimes 1 fat con-
triving ways to get her about the island, and at; other
times I fat down contented enough without her. But
I had a strange uneasiness in my mind to go down ta
the point of the island, where, as I have said, in my
last ramble, I went up the hill to see how the shore
lay, and how the current set, that I might see what I
had to do This inclination increased upon me every
day, and at length I resolved to travel thither by land,
and following the edge of the ihore, 1 did so: But
had any one in England been to meet such a man as
I was, it must either have frighted them, or raised a
great deal of laughter; and as 1 frequently stood it111
to look at myself, 1 could not but smile at the notion
of my travelling through Yorkjlnre with such an equi-
page, and in such a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch
of my figure, as follows:
I had a great high shapeless cap, made of goat's skin,
with a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep the
fun from me, as to shoot the rain off from running in-
to my neck; nothing being so hurtful in these climates,
as the rain upon the flesti under the cloaths.
I had a fliort jacket of goat's skin, the ikirts com*
mg down to about the middle of my thighs, and a pair
of open-kneed breeches of the fame: The breeches
were made of the Ikin of an old he goat, whole hair
hung down such a length on either side, that, like
Pontoloons, it reached the middle of my legs. Stock-
ings and stioes I had none; but I had made me 3 pair
of something, I scarce knew what to call them, like
bulkins, to flap over my legs, and lace on either side
like spatterdafces, but of a most barbarous lhape, as
deed were all the rest of my cloaths.
I had on a broad belt of goat's Ikin dryed, which I
drew together with two thongs of the fame instead of
buckles \ and in a kind of frog on either side of this,
G 3
instead of a sword and dagger, bung a little saw and
an hatchet, one on one side, one on,the other: I had
another belt not so broad, and fastened in the same
manner, which hung over my shoulder; and at the
end of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches, both
made of goat's skin too; in one of which hung my
powder, in the other my (hot; At my back I carried
my basket, on my fhouUer my gun, and over my head
a great clumsy ugly goat skin umbrella, but which, af-
ter all, was the most necessary thing 1 had about me,
next to my gun: As for my face, the colour of it was
not really so Mulatto-Wkt, as one might expect from $
man not at all careful of it, and living within 9 or 10
degrees of the equinox. My beard 1 had once suffer^
ed to grow till it was about a quarter of a yard long;
but as I had both feissars and razors sufficient, I had
cut it pretty Ihort, except wrw grew on my upper lip,
which I had trimmed into a large p^ir of Mahometan
whiskers, such as I had seen worn by some Turks,
whom I saw at Salke; for the Moors did not wear
such, though the Turks did: Of these muslachios, or
whiskers, 1 will not fay they were long enough to hang
my hat upon them; but they were of a length and
shape monstrous enough, apd such as in England would
have passed for frightful.
But all this is by the bye; for as to my figure I had
so few to observe me, that it was of no manner of
consequence; so I say no more of that part: In this
kind of figure 1 went my new journey, and was out
five or six days. 1 travelled first along the sea-fliore,
directly to the place where I first brought my boat to
au anchor, to get up ujpoa the rock; and having no
boat now to take care of, I went over the land a near-
er way, to the same height that I was upon before;
when looking forward to the point of -the rock which
Jay out, and which I was to double with my boat, as I
said above, I was surpriz'd to see the sea all smooth
and quiet; no rippling, no motion, no current, any
more there than in other places.
I was at a strange loss to understand this, and resol-
ved to spend some time in the observing it, to see if no-
thing from the sets of the tide had occasioned it: But
I was presently convinced how it was; viz. That the
tide of ebb setting from the Weft, and joining with the
current of waters from some great river on the shore,
must be the occasion of this current; and that accor-
ding as the wind blew more forcible from the West,
or from the North, this current came near, or went
farther from the {bore % for waiting thereabouts till
evening, I went up to the rock again- and then the
tide of .ebb being made, I plainly law the current a-
gain as before, only that it ran farther off, being near
half a league from the fliore; whereas, in my cafe,
it set close upon the shore, and hurried me in my Ca-
noe along with it, which at another time it would not
have done.
This observation convinced me, that I had nothing
to do Byt to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the
tide, and I might very easily bring my boat about the
island again: But when I began to think of putting it
in practice, 1 had such a terror upon my ipirhs at the
remembrance of the danger 1 had been in, that 1 could
not think of it again with any patience; but on the
contrary, I took up another resolution, which was
G 4
more fase, tho' more laborious; and this Was, that I
would build, or rather make me another Periagua, or
Canoe; and so have one for one side of the island, and
one for the other*
You are to understand, that now I had, as 1 -may
call jr, two plantations in the island; one my little for-
tification or tent, with the wall about it under the
rock, with the cave behind me, which by this time I
had enlarged into several apartments or caves, one
within another. One of these, which was the driest
and largest, and had a door out beyond my wall or for-
tification, that is to Uy, beyond where my wall joined
to the rock, was all silled with the large earthen pots,
of which I have given an account, and with fourteen
or fifteen great baskets, which would hold five or six
bushels each, where I laid up my stores of provision,
especially my com, some in the ear cut off stiort from
the straw, and the other rubbed out with my hand.
As for my wall made, as before, with long stakes or
piles, those piles grew all like trees, and were by thi?
time grown so big, and spread so very much, that there
was not the least appearance, to any one's view, of any
habitatiqn behind them.
Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther wi-
thin the land, and upon lower ground, lay two pieces
of corn-ground; which I kept duly cultivated and low^
ed, and which duly yielded me their harvest in its sea-
son; and whenever I had occasion for more corn, I
had more land adjoining as fit as that.
Besides this, I had my country-seat, and 1 had now
a tolerable plantation there also; for first, I had my
Jitde bower, as I called it, which 1 kept in repair;
that is to fay, I kept the hedge which circled it in\
constantly fitted up to its usual height, the ladder stan-
ding always in the inside: 1 kept the trees, which at
first were no more than my stakes, but were now
grown very firm and tall; 1 kept them always so cut,
that they might spread and grow thick and wild, and
make the more agreeable shade, which they did effec-
tually to my mind. In the middle ot this I had my tent
always standing, being a piece of a fail spread over
poles set up for that purpose, and which never want-
ed any repair or.renewing ; and under this I had made
me a squab or couch, with the skins of the creatures
I had killed, and with other soft things, and a blan-
ket laid on them) such as belonged to our sea-bedding,
which I had saved, and a great watch-coat to cover
me; and here, whenever I had occasion to be absent
from my chief seat, I took up my country habitation.
Adjoining to this I had my inclosures for my cattle,
that is to fay, my goats : And as I had taken an incon-
ceivable deal of pains to fence and inclose this ground,
I was so uneasy to see it kept entire, lest the goats
should break through^ that 1 never left off, till with
infinite labour I had stuck the outside of the hedge so
full of small stakes, and so neap one another, that it
was rather a pale than a hedge, and there was scarce
room to put a hand through between them, which af-
terwards, when these stakes grew, as they all did in the
next rainy season, made the inclosure strong like a
wall, and indeed stronger than any wall.
This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that
I spared no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared
^necessary for my comfortable support j for i consider-
ed the keeping up a breed of tame creatures thus at
my hand, would be a living magazine of flesti, milk,
butter and cheese for me, as long as I lived in the
place, if it were to be forty years; and chat keeping
them in my reach, depended intirely upon my perfect*
ing my inclosures to such a degree, that 1 might be
sure of keeping them togetheri which by this me-
thod indeed 1 so effectually iecured, that when these
little stakes began to grow, 1 had planted them io ve-
ry thick, I was forced to pull some of them up again.
In this place also I had my grapes growing, which
I principally depended on for my winter store of rai-
sins, and which I never failed {o preserve very care*
fully, as the best and most agreeable dainty of my
whole diet; and indeed they were not agreeable only,
but physical, wholesome, nourishing and refreshing
to the last degree.
As this W3& also about half-way between my habi-
tation and the place where I laid up my boat, I gene-
rally staid and lay here in the way thither j for I used
frequently to use my boat, and I kept all things about
or belonging to her in very good order: sometimes I
went out in her to divert myself, but po more hazar-
dous voyages would I go, nor scarce ever above a
stone's cast or two from the fliore. I was so appre-
hensive of being hurried out of my knowledge again
by the currents, or winds, or any other accident; But
now I come to a new scene of my life,
It happened one day about noon, going towards my
boat, 1 was exceedingly surprized with the print of a
iiian's naked foot on the shore? which was very plain
to be seen in the send; I stood like one thunderstruck,
or as if I had seen an apparition; I listened, I looked
round me, I could hear nothing, nor Tee any thing;
I went up to a rising ground to look farther; I went
up the-shore and down the shore, but it was all one, I
could fee no other impression but that one; I went to
it again to fee if there were any more, and to observe
if it might not be ray fancy; but there was no room for
that, for there was exactly the very print of a sooty
toes, heel, and every part of a foot: how it came: thi-
ther I knew not, nor could in the least imagine. But
after innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a man per?
fectiy confused, and out of myself, I came home to my
fortification, not feeling, as we fay, the ground I went
on, but terrified to the last degree, looking behind me
at every two or three steps, mistaking every bush and
tree, and fancying every stump at a distance to be a
pan; nor is it possible to describe, how many various
shapes an affrighted imagination represented things to
me in; how many wild ideas were formed every mo?
ment in my fancy, and what strange unaccountable
Whimsies came into my thoughts by the way-
When 1 came to my castle, for so I think I called it
ever after this, I fled into it like one pursued; whe-
ther I went over by the ladder, as first contrived, of
went in at the hole in the rock, which, I cannot re?
member; for never frighted hare fled to cover, or
fox to earth, with more terror of mind than I to this
retreat.
1 had no sleep that night; the farther I was from
the occasion of my fright, the greater my apprehend
ons were; which is something contrary to the nature
of such things, and especially co the usu^l practice of
all creatures in fear: But 1 was so embarrassed with
my own frightful i^eas of the thing, that I formed
nothing but dismal imaginations to myself, even tho*
I was now a great way off it. Sometimes I fancied^ it
must be the devil; and reason joined in with me in
this supposition*; for how should any other thing in
human shape come into this place? Where was the
vessel that brought them? What marks were there of
any other footsteps? And how was it possible a man
siiould come there? But then to think that Satan
should take a human shape upon him in such a place,
where there could he no manner of occasion for it,
but to leave the print of his foot behind him, and that
even for no purpose too (for he could not be sure I
should see it) this was an amazement the other way:
I considered that the devil might have sound out abun-
dance of other ways to have terrified me, than this of
the single print of a foot: That as I lived quite on
the other side of the island, he would never have been
so simple to leave a mark in a place where it was ten
thousand to one whether I should ever see it or not*
and in the sand too, which the first surge of the sea
upon ad high wind would have defac2d entirely1 All
this seemed inconsistent with the thing itself, and with
all the notions we usually entertain of the subtlety of
the devil.
Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue
me out of all apprehensions of its being the devil \ and
I presently concluded then that it must be some more
dangerous creature, viz. That it must be some of the
iavages of the main land over-against me, who had
wandered out to sea in their canoes, and; either driven
by the currents, or by contrary winds, had made ihi
island; and had been on shore, but were gone away a*
gain to lea being asjoth, perhaps, to have staid in
this desolate island, as I would have been to have had
them.
While those reflexions were rolling upon my mind,
I was very thankful in my thought, that I was so hap-
py as not to be thereabouts at that time, or that they
did not fee my boat, by which they would have con*
eluded, that some inhabitants had been in the place,
and perhaps have searched farther for me: Theft
terrible thoughts racked my imaginations about their
having found my boat, and that there were people here;
and that if so, Istiould certainly have them eomeagairl
in greater numbers, and devour me,' that if it should
happen so that they should not find me, yet they would
find my inclosure, destroy all my corn, carry away all
my flock of tame goats, and I should perish at last for
mere want.
Thus my fear banished all my religious hope; all
that former confidence in God, which was founded
upon such wonderful experience as I had had of hi$
goodness, now vanished; as if he that had fed me by
miracle hitherto, could not preserve by his power the
provision which he had made for me by his goodness.
I reproached myself with my easiness, thau-would not
sow any more corn one year than would just serve me
till the next season, as if no accident could intervene to
prevent my enjoying the crop that was upon the
ground ; And this 1 thought ib just a reproof, that I
resolved for the future to have two or three years corn
Wore-hand, so that whatever might come, I might ndi
periih for want of bread.
How strange a chequer-work of providence is the
life,ot man! And by what secret differing springs are
the affections hurried about, as differing circumstances
present! To-day we love what to-morrow we hatej
to-day we seek what to-morrow we shiin; to-day we
desire what to-morrow we fear; nay, even tremble at
the apprehensions of. This was exemplified in me at
this time in the most lively manner imaginable; for I,
whose only affliction was, that I seemed banished from
human society, that I was alone, circumscribed by the
boundless ocean, cut off from mankind, and condemn-
ed to what I call silent life; that I was as one whom
heaven thought not worthy to be numbered among the
living, or to appear among the rest of his creatures;
that to have seen one of my own species^ would have
seemed to me a raising from death to life, and the grea«*
test blessing that heaven itself, next to the supreme
blessing of salvation, could bestow; 1 say, that I should
How tremble at the very apprehensions of seeing a man,
and was ready to sink inro the ground, at but the
shadow, or silent appearance of a man's having set his
foot on the island.
Such is the uneven state of humara life; and it af-
forded me a great many curious speculations after-
wards, when J had a Ltcie recovered my surprize; I
considered that this was the station of life the infinite*
]y wife and good Providence of God had determined
for me; that as I cou'd not foresee what the ends of
divine wisdom might be in all this, so I was not to dis-
pute his sovereignty, who, as I was his creature, had
jtn undoubted right by creation to govern and dlspafe
of me absolutely as he thought fit; and who, as I was
a creature who had offended him, had likewise a judi-
cial right to condemp me to what punishment he
thought fit; and that it was my part to submit to bear
his indignation, because I had sinned against him.
I then reflected, that God, who was not only righte-
ous, but omnipotent, as he had thought fit thus to pu-
nish and afflict me, so he was able to deliver me; that
if he did not think fit to do it, it was my unquestioned
duty to resign myself absolutely and entirely to his will:
And, on the other hand, it was my duty also to hope
in him, pray to him, and quietly to attend the dictates
and directions of his daily providence.
These thoughts look me up many hours, days, nay,
I may fay, weeks and months; and one particular ef-
fect of my cogitations on this occasion, 1 cannot omit;
viz. One morning early, lying in my bed, and filled
with thoughts about my danger from the appearance
of savages, I found it discomposed me very much ; up-
on which these words of the scripture came into my
thoughts, Call upon me in the day of trouble, and I will
deliver thee, and thou limit glorify me.
Upon this rising chearfully out of my bed, my heart
was not only comforted, but I was guided and encou-
raged to pray earnestly to God for deliverance: When
I had done praying, I took up my bible, and opening
it to read, rhe first words that presented to me, were,
JVait on the Lord, and be oj good cheer, and he shalt
strengthen thy heart \ Wait, 1 Jay, on the Lord. It is
impossible to express the comfort this gave me; aadin
( XI* >
Htufn, thankfully laid down the book, and was m
more fad, at least, not on that occasion.
In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, -
and reflexions, it came into my thoughts one day, chat
all this might be a mere chimera of my own, and that
this foot might be the print of my own foot, when I
Game on shore from my boat: This cheered me up a
little too, and I began to persuade myself it was all a
delusion; that it was nothing else but my own foot;
and why might not I come that way from the boat,
as well as I was going that way to the boat ? Again I
considered also, that I could by no means tell for cer-
tain where I had upd, and where I had not; and that
if at last this was only the print of my own foot, 1
had played the part of those fools, who strive to make
stories of spectres and apparitions, and then are them-
selves frighted at them more than any body else.
Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad
again; for I had not stirred out of my castle for three
days and nights, so that I began to starve for want of
provision; for I had little or nothing within doors,
but some barley-eakes and water. Then 1 knew, that
my goats wanted to be milked too, which usually was
iny evening diversion; and the poor creatures were in
great pain and inconvenience for want of it; and in-
deed it almost spoiled some of them, and almost dried
up their milk.
Heartening myself therefore with the belief, that
this was nothing but the print of one of my own feet
(and so I might be truly said to start at my own sha-
dow) I began to go abroad again, and went to my
country-house to milk my stock; but to see with what,
fear I went forward, and how often I looked behind
me, how 1 was ready, every now and then, to lay down
my basket, and run for my life, it would have made a-
ny one have thought 1 was haunted wich an evil con-
science, or that I had beeti lately most terribly fright-
ed; and so indeed I had*
However, as I went dowii thus two or three days,
and having seen nothing, I began to be a little bolder,
and to think there was really nothing in it but my own
imagination; but I could not persuade myself fully of
this, till I stiould go down to t he shore again, and fee
this print of a foot, and measure it by my own, and see
if there was any similitude or fitness, that I might be
assured it was my own foot: But when I came to the
place first, it appeared evidently to me, that when I laid
up my boat, I could nor possibly be on shore anywhere
thereabouts: Secondly, when I came to measure the
mark with my own foot, I found my foot not so large
by a great deal' Both these things filled my head With,
new imaginations, and gave me the vapours again to the
highest degree; so that I sliook with cold like one in
an ague, and I went home again, silled with the belief
that some man or men had been on sliore there; or,
in fliorc, that the island was inhabited, and I might be
surprised before I was aware ; and what course to take
for my security, I knew not,
O what ridiculous resolutions men take, when pos-
sessed with fear! It deprives them of the use of those
means, which reason offers for their relief. The first:
thing t proposed to myself was, to throw down my in-
closures, and turn all my tame cattle wild into the
woods, that the enemy might not find them, and thea
H
frequent the island in prospect of the same, or the like
booty; then to the simple thing of digging up my two
xœm-fields, that they might not find such a grain there,
and still be prompted to frequent the island; then to
demolish my bower and tent, that they might not see
any vestiges of my habitation, and be prompted to look
farther, in order to find out the persons inhabiting.
These were the subjects of the first night's cogitati-
on, after I was come home again, while the apprehen-
sions which had so over-run my mind were fresh upon
me, and my head was full of vapours, as above. Thus
fear of danger is ten thousand times more terrifying
than danger itself, when apparent to the eyes; and
we find the burden of anxiety, greater by much, than
the evil which we are anxious about; but, which was
worse than all this, 1 had not this relief in that trou-
ble for the resignation I used to practise, that I hoped
to hav^. I looked, I thought, like Saul, who com-
plained not only that the Philistines were upon him,
but that God had forsaken him; for I did not now
take due ways to compose my mind, by crying to God
in my distress, and resting upon his Providence, as
I had done before, for my defence and deliverance;
which if I had done, I had, at least, been more chear-
fully supported under this new surprize, and perhaps
carried through it with more resolution.
This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking all
night; but in the morning I fell asleep, and having
by the amusement of my mind been, as it were, tired,
and my spirits exhausted, I slept very soundly, and a-
waked much better composed than I had been before:
And now 1 began to think sedately; and, upon the ut-
most debate with myself, I concluded, that this island,
which was so exceeding pleasant, fruitful, and no far-
ther from the main land than as I had seen, was not
so intirely abandoned as I might imagine: That al-
though there were no stated inhabitants who lived on
the spot; yet that there might sometimes come boats
off from the sliare, who either with design, or perhaps
never but when they were driven by cross winds, might
come to this place.
That I had lived here 15 years now, and had not
met with the least shadow or figure of any people be-
fore; and that if at any time they sliould be driven
here, it was probable they went away again as soon as
ever they could, seeing they had never thought fit to
fix there upon any occasion, to this time.
That the most I could suggest any danger from,was,
from any such casual accidental landing of straggling
people from the main, who, as it was likely, if they
were driven hither, were here against their wills; so
they made no stay here, but went off again with all pos-
sible speed, seldom staying one night on shore, lest they
should not have the help of the tides and day-light
back again; and that therefore I had nothing to do but
to consider of some safe retreat, in case 1 should see a-
ny savages land upon the spot.
Now I began sorely to repent, that I had dug my
cave so large, as to bring a door through again, which
door, as I said, came out beyond where my fortifica-
on joined to the rock. Upon maturely considering
this therefore, I resolved to draw me a second fortifi-
cation, in the same manner of a semicircle, at a distance
from my wall, just where I had planted a double row
H 2
cs trees about twelve years before, of which I made
mention: These trees having been planted so thick
before, there wanted but few piles to be driven be-
tween them, that they should be thicker and stronger,
and my wall would be soon finished.
So that I had now a double wall, and my outer wall
was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and
every thing I could think of to make it strong; having
in it seven holes, about as big as I might put my arm
out ar it. In the inside of this I thickened my wall to
about ten feet thick, continually bringing earth out of
roy cave, and laying it at the foot of the wall, and
walking upon it; and through the seven holes I con-
trived to plant the mufquets, of which I took notice,
that I got seven on shore out of the ship ; these, I say,
I planted like my cannon, and fitted them into frames
that held them like a carriage, that so I could fire al!
the seven guns in two minutes time: This wall I was
many a weary month in finishing, and yet never thought
myself safe till it was done.
When this was done, I stuck all the ground without
my wall, for a great way every way, as full with stakes
or sticks of the osier-like wood, which I found so apt
to grow as they could well stand; insomuch that I be-
lieve I might set in near twenty thousand of them,
leaving a pretty large space between them and my wall,
that 1 might have room to see an enemy, and they
might have no seelter from the young trees, if they
attempted to approach my outer wall.
Thus in two years time 1 had a thick grove; and in
five or six years time I had a wood before my dwell*
hig, grown so monstrous thick and strong, that it was
indeed perfectly impassable; and no man of what kind
soever, would ever imagine, that there was any thing
beyond it, much less an habitation: As for the way I
proposed to myself to go in and out (for I left no ave-
nue) it was by setting two ladders ; one to a part of
the rock which was low, and then broke in, and left
room to place another ladder upon that; so when the
two ladders were taken down, no man living could
come down to me without mischieving himself; and if
they had come down, they were still on the outside of
my outer wall.
Thus I took all the measures human prudence could
fugged for my own preservation; and it will be seen
at length that they were not altogether without just
reason \ though I foresaw nothing at that time, more
than my mere fear suggested to me.
While this was doing, I was not altogether careless
of my other affairs; so I had a great concern upon me
for my little herd of goats; they were not only a pre-
sent supply to me upon every occasion, and began to be
sufficient tome without the expence of powder and shot,
but also abated my fatigue of hunting after the wild
ones; and I was loth to lose the advantage of them, and
to have them all to nurse up over again.
To this purpose, after long consideration, I could
think of but two ways to preserve them; one was to
find another convenient place to dig a cave under
ground, and to drive them into it every night; and the
other was to inclose two or three little bits of land,
remote from one another, and as much concealed as I
could, where I might keep about half a dozen young
goats in each place; so that if any disaster happened to
H 3
the flock in genera!, I might be able to raise them a-
gain with little trouble and time: and this, though it
would require a great deal of time and labour, 1 thought
Was the most rational design.
Accordingly 1 spent some time to find out the most
retired parts of the island; and I pitched upon one
which was indeed as private as my heart could wish;
for it was a little damp piece of ground in the middle
of the hollow and thick woods, where, as is observed,
I almost lost myself once before, endeavouring to come
back that way from the eastern part of the island;
Here 1 found a clear piece of land near three acres, so
surrounded with woods, that it was almost an inclosure
by nature; at least, it did not want near so much la-
bour to make it so, as the other pieces of ground 1 had
worked so hard at.
I immediately went to work upon this piece of ground,
and in less than a month's time I had so fenced it round,
that my flock or herd, call it which you fl/eafe, which
were not lo wild now as at first they might be suppos-
ed to be, were well enough secured in it. So without
any farther delay, I removed ten stie-goats and two he-
goats to this piece; and when they were there I con-
tinued to perfect the fence, till 1 had made it as secure
as the other, which, however I did at more leisure,
and it took me up more time by a great deal.
All this labour I was at the expence of, purely from
my apprehensions on the account of the print of a
man's foot which I had seen ; for as yet, I never saw
any human creature come near the island, and I had
now lived two years under these uneasinesses, which in*
deed made my life much less comfortable than it was
before; as may well be imagined, by any who know
what it is to live in the constant snare of the fear of
man; and this I must observe with grief too, that the
discomposure of my mind had too great impreffions al-
so upon the religious part of my thoughts; for the
dread and terror of falling into the hands of savages
and canibals lay so upon my spirits, that I seldom found
myself in a due temper for application to my Maker;
at least, not with the sedate calmness and resignation
of foul which I was Wont to do. I rather prayed to
God as under great affliction and pressure of mind,
surrounded with danger, and in expectation every night
of being murdered and devoured before morning; and
I must testify from my experience, that a temper of
peace, thankfulness, love and affection, is much the
more proper frame for prayer than that of terror and
discomposure j and that under the dread of mischief
impending, a man is no more fit for a comforting per-
formance of the duty of praying to God, than he is
for repentance on a sick bed; for these discomposures
affect the mind as the others do the body; and the dis-
composure of the mind must necessarily be as great a
disability as that of the body, and much greater; pray-
ing to God being properly an act of the mind, not of
the body.
But to go on; after I had thus secured one part of
my little living stock, I went about the whole ifland,
searching for another private place, to make such an-
other deposit; when wandering more to the west point
of the ifland than I had ever done yet, and looking out
to sea, I thought I saw a boat upon the sea, at a great
distance > I had found a perspective glass or two, in one
H 4
of the seamen's chests, which I saved out of our ship;
but 1 had it not about me, and this was. so remote, that
I could not tell what to make of it, though I looked at
it till my eyes were not able to look any longer; whe-
ther it was a boat, or not, I do not know; but as I de-
scended the hill, I could see no more of it, so I gave it
over; only 1 resolved to go no more without a per-
spective-glass in my pocket.
When I was come down the hill, to the end of the
island, where indeed I had never been before, 1 was
presently convinced, that the seeing the print of a
man's foot, was not such a strange thing in the island
$s I imagined; and, but that it was a special Providence
that I was cast upon the side of the island where the
savages never came, 1 fliould easily have known, that
nothing was more frequent than for the Canoes from
the main, when they happened to be a little too far
out at sea, to shoot over to that side of the island for
* harbour; likewise as they often met and fought in their
Ganoes, the victors having taken any prisoners, would
bring them over to this fliore. where, according to their
dreadful customs, being all canibals, they would kill
and eat them: Of which hereafter.
When I was come down the hill to the sliore, as I
said above, being the S. W. point of the island, I was
perfectly confounded and amazed; nor is it possible for
me to express the horror of my mind, at seeing the
fliore spread with IkuIIs, hands, feet, and other bones
of human bodies; and particularly I observed a place
where there had been a fire made, and a circle dug in
{he earth, like a cock-pit, where it is supposed the sa-
vage wretches had fat down to their inhuman feastings
upon the bodies of their fellow creatures.
I was so astonished with the sight of these things,
that I entertained no notions of an? danger to myself
from it, for a long while; all my apprehensions were
buried in the thoughts of such a pitefe^o£ inhuman,
hellish brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of
human nature; which, though I had often heard of,
yet I never had so near a view of before; in short, I
turned away my face from the horrid spectacle; my
stomach grew sick, and I was just at the point of faint-
ing, when nature discharged the disorder from my sto-
mach, and, having vomited with an uncommon vio-
lence, I was a little relieved^ut could not bear to stay
in the place a moment; so I got up the hill again/with
all the speed I could, and walked on towards my owir
habitation.
When I came a little out of that part of the island,
I stood still a while as amazed; and then recovering
myself, I looked up with the utmost aflection of my
foul, and, wuh a flood of tears in my eyes, gave God
thanks, that had cast my first lot in apart of the world,
where I was distinguished from such dreadful crea-
tures as these; and that tho71 had esteemed my present
condition very miserable, had yet [given me so many
comforts in it, that I had still more to give thanks for,
than to complain of; and above all, that I had even in
this inferable condition, been comforted with the know-*
ledge of himself, and the hope of his blessing, which
was a felicity more than sufficiently equivalent to all
the misery which I had suffered, or could suffer.
Iu this frame of thankfulnefsi I went home to my
castle, and began to be much easier now, as to the
safety of my circumstances, than ever I was before;
for I observed, that these wretches never came to this
island in search of what they could get; perhaps not
seeking, not wanting, or not expecting any thing here;
and having often, no doubt, been up in the covered
woody part of it, without finding any thipg to their
purpose: I knew I had been here now almost eighteen
years, and never saw the least footsteps of a human
creature there before; and might be here eighteen
more as intirely concealed as I was now, if 1 did not
discover myself to them, which I had no manner of
occasion to do, it being my only business to keep my-
self intirely concealed, where I was, unless I found a
better fort of creatures than canibals to make myself
known to.
Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage
'wretches that I have been speaking of, and of the
wretched inhuman custom of their devouring and eat-
ing one another up, that I continued pensive and sad,
and kept close within my own circle for almost two
years after this: When I fay my own circle, 1 mean
by it, my three plantations, viz. my castle, ray coun-
try-seat, which 1 called my bower, and my inclosure in
the woods; nor did I look after this for any other use,
than as an inclosure for my goats; for the aversion
which nature gave me to these hellifii wretches was
such, that I was as fearful of feeing them, as of seeing
the devil himself; nor did I so much as go to look as-
ter my boat in all this time, but began rather to think
of making me another; for I could not think of ever
making any more attempts to bring the other boat
round the island to me, lest: I should meet wkh some
of those creatures at sea, in which, if 1 had happened
to have fallen into their hands, I knew' what would
have been my lot.
Time however, and the satisfaction I had, that I was
in no danger of being discovered by these people, be-
gan to wear off my uneasiness about them; and 1 be-
gan to live just in the lame composed manner as before,
only with this difference, that I used more camion,
and kept my eyes more about me, than I did before,
lest I ihould happen to be seen by any of them; and
particularly, 1 was more cautious of firing my gun,
lest any of them on the island should happen to hear it,
and it was therefore a very good providence to me,
thai I had furnished myself with a tame breed of goats,
that I had no need to hunt any more about the woods,
or shoot at them; and if I did catch any more of them
after this, it was by traps and snares, as I had done be-
fore; so that for two years after this, 1 believe, I ne-
ver fired my gun once off, though I never went out
without it; and, which is more, as I had saved three
pistols out of the stiip, I always carried them out with
me, or at least two of them, sticking them in my goat-*
/kin belt: I likewise furbished up one of the great cut-
laces that 1 had out of the ship, and made me a belt
to put in on also; so that I was now a most formidable
fellow to look at, when 1 went abroad, if you add to
the former description of myself, the particular of two
pistols, and a great broad sword hanging at my side in
a belt, but without a scabbard.
Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time,
I seemed, excepting these cautions; to be reduced to my
former calm sedate way of living; all these things ten-
ded to fliew me more and more how far my condition
was from being miserable, compared to some others;
nay, to many other particulars of life, which it might
have pleased God to have made my lot. It put me up-
on reflecting, how little repining there would be among
mankind, at any condition of life, if people would ran-
cher compare their condition with those that are worse,
in order to be thankful, than be always comparing them
with those which are better, to" assist their murmur-
ings and complaints.
As in my present condition there were" not really
many things which I wanted, so indeed I thought that
the frights I had been in about these savage wretches,
and the concern I had been in for my own preservati-
on, had taken off the edge of my invention for my own
conveniences, and I had dropt a good design, which I
had once bent my thoughts upon; and that was, to
try if 1 could not make some of my barley into malt,
and then try to brew myself some beer : this was real-
ly a whimsical thought, and I reproved myself often
for the simplicity of it; for I presently saw there
would be the want of several things necessary to the
making my beer, that it would be impossible for me to
supply; as, first, casks to preserve it in, which was a
thing that, as I have observed already, I could never
compass; no, though I spent, not many days, but
weeks, nay months, in attempting it, but to no pur-
pose. In the next place, I had no hops to make it
keep, no yeast to make it work, no copper or kettle
to make it boil; and yet, had not all these things in-
tervened, I mean the frights and terrors I was in a-
bout the savages, I had undertaken It, and perhaps
brought it to pass too; for I seldom gave any thing
over without accomplishing it, when I once had in my
head enough to begin it.
But my invention now ran quite another way; for
night and day I could think of nothing, but how I
might destroy some of these monsters in their cruel
bloody entertainment; and, if possible, save the victim
they should bring hither to destroy. It would take up
a larger volame than this whole work is intended to
be, to set down all the contrivances I hatched, or ra-
ther brooded upon in my thoughts, for the destroying
these creatures, or at least frightening them, so as to
prevent their coming hither any more; but all was a-
bortive; nothing could be possible to take effect, unless
I was to be there to do it myself; and what coald one
ifcan do among them, when perhaps there might be
twenty or thirty of them together, with their darts,
or their bows and arrows, with which they would
shoot as true to a mark as I could with my gun?
Sometimes I contrived to dig a hole under the place
where they made their fire, and put in five or six
pounds of gunpowder, which, when they kindled their
fire, would consequently take fire* and blow up all that
was near it; but, as in the first place I should be very
loth to waste so much powder upon them, my store
being now within the quantity of a barrel; so neither
could I be sure of its going off at any certain time*
when it might surprize them; and, at best, that it
would do little more than blow the fire about their
ears, and fright them, but not sufficient to make them
forsake the place; so I laid it aside, and then proposed,
that I would place myself in ambufli, in some conveni-
ent place, with my three guns all double loaded, and
in the middle of their bloody ceremony Jet fly at them,
when I should be sure to kill or wound perhaps two
or three at every shot; and then fallin5 in upon them
with my three pistols, and my sword, I made no doubt
but that, if there were twenty, J should kill them all:
This fancy pleased my thoughts for some weeks, and
I was so full of it, that I often dreamed of it; and
sometimes that I was just going to let fly at them in
my sleep.
'I went so far with it in my imagination, that I em-
ployed myself several days, to find out proper places to
put myself in ambuscade, as I said, to watch for them;
and I vvent frequently to the place itself, which was
now grown more familiar to me; and especially while
my mind was thus filled with thoughts of revenge, and
of a bloody putting twenty or thirty of them to the
sword, as I may call it; but the horror I had at the
place, and at the signals of the barbarous wretches de-
vouring one another, abated my malice.
Well, at length I found a place in the side of the hill
where I was satisfied I might securely wait till I saw
any of the boats coming, and might then, even before
they would be ready to come on Chore, convey myself
unseen into thickets of trees, in one of which there
was an hollow large enough to conceal me entirely; and
where I might sit, and observe all their bloody doings,
and take my full aim at their heads, when they were so
close together, as that it would be next to impossible
that I should miss my shot, or that I could fail wound-
ing three or four of them at the first flior.
In this place then I resolv'd to fix ray design; and
accordingly I prepared two mulkets, and my ordinary
fowling-piece. The two mulkets I loaded with a brace
of slugs each, and four or five smaller bullets, about
the size of pistol-bullets;' and the fowling-piece I load-
ed with near an handful of swan-shot; of the largest
size; I also loaded my pistols with about four bullets
each: and in this posture, well provided with ammuni-
tion for a second and third charge, I prepared myself
for my expedition/
Aster I had thus laid the scheme for my design, and
in my imagination put it in practice, I continually made
my tour every morning up to the top of the hill, which
was from my castle, as I called it, about three miles,
or more, to fee if I could observe any boats upon the
sea, coming near the island, or standing over towards
it; but I began to tire of this hard duty, after I had
for two or three months constantly kept my watch;
but came always back without any discovery, there
having not in all that time been the least appearance,
not only on or near the fliore, but not on the whole
ocean, so far as my eyes or glasses could reach every
way.
As long as I kept up my daily tour to the hill to
look our, so long also 1 kept up the vigour of my de-
sign, and my spirits seemed to be all the while in a suit-
able frame, for so outrageous an execution, as the kill-
ing twenty or thirty naked savages for an offence, which
1 had not at all enter'd into a discussion of in my thoughts
any further than passions were are first fired by the
horror I conceived at the unnatural custom of the peo-
ple of ihat country, who, it seems, had been sufFeied by
frovidenec, in his wife disposition of the world/ td
have no other guide than that of their own abominable
and vitiated passions; and consequently were left, and
perhaps had been for some ages, to act such horrid
things, and receive such dreadful customs as nothing
but nature, intirely abandoned of heaven, and actuated
by some hellish degeneracy^ could have run them into:
but now, when, as I have said, I began to be weary of
the fruitless excursion which 1 had made so long, and
so far, every morning in vain; so my opinion of the
action itself began to alter, and I began with cooler
and calmer thoughts to consider what it was 1 was go-
ing to engage in; what authority or call I had* to pre-
tend to be judge and executioner upon these men as
criminals, whom heaven had thought fit for so many
ages to suffer, unpunished, to go on, and to be, as it
were, the executioners of his judgments upon one ano-
ther; also how far these people were offenders against
me, and what right 1 had to engage in the quarrel of
that blood, which they stied promiscuously one upon ano-
ther: I debated this very often With myself thus; how
do I know what God himself judges in this particular
cafe? It is certain these people do not commit this as a
crime; it is not against their o vn consciences reprov-
ing, or their light reproaching them. They do not
know it to be an offence, and then commit it in defiance
of divine justice, as we do in almost* all the sins we
commit. They think it no more a crime to kill a cap-
tive taken in war, thati we do to kill an ox* nor to
eat human flesh, than we do to eat mutton.
When I bad considered this a little, it follow'd ne-
cessarily, that I was certainly in the wrong in it j that
these pe6ple Were not murderers in the fense that I had
before condemned them in my though ts, any more than
those christians were murderers, who often put to
death the prisoners taken in battle, or more frequently,
upon many occasions, put whole troops of men to the
sword, without giving quarter, though they threw down
their arms, and submitted.
In the next place, it occured to me, that albeit the
usage they gave one another was thus brutish and in-
human, yet it was really nothing to me: these people
had done me,no injury: that if they attempted me, or
1 saw it necessary for my immediate preservation to fall
upon them, something might be said for it; but that
I was yet out of their power, and they had really no
knowledge of me, and consequently no design upon me;
and therefore it could not be just for me to fall upon
them: that this would justify the conduct of the Spa-
niards,\na\\ their barbarities practised in^merica, where
they destroyed millions of these people, who, however
they were idolaters and barbarians, and had several
bloody and barbarous rites in their customs, such as sa-
crificing human bodies to their idols, were yet, as to the
Spaniards, very innocent people; and that the rooting
them out of the country is spoken of with the utmost
abhorrence and detestation, even by the Spaniards them-
selves, at this time, and by all other christian nations
of Europe, as a mere butchery> a bloody and unnarural
piece of cruelty, unjustifiable either to God or man:
and such, as for which the very name of & Spaniard Is
reckoned to be frightful and terrible to all people of
humanity, or of christian compassion: as if the king-
dom of Spain were particularly eminent for the product
I
of a race of men, who were without principles of ten-
derness and humanity.
'These considerations really put me to a pause, and
to a kind of full stopj and I began by little and little
to bcLoff of my design, and to conclude that 1 had taken
wrong measures in my resolutions to attack the sava-
ges; that it was not my business to meddle with them,
unless they first attacked me, and this it was my busi-
ness, if possible, to prevent; but that, if I were disco-
vered and attacked, then I knew my duty.
On the other hand 1 argued with myself, that this
really was the way not to deliver myself, but intirely
to ruin and destroy myself; for unless 1 was sore to kill
every one that not only should be on shore at that time,
but that ever should come on stiore afterwards, if but
one of them escaped to tell their country-people what
had happened, they would come over again by thou-
sands to retffcnge the death of their fellows, and Isliould
only bring upon myself a certain destruction, which at
present I had no manner of occasion for.
Upon the whole, I concluded, that neither in prin-
ciples nor in policy, I ought oneway or other to con-
cern myself in this affair: That my business was, by
all possible means to conceal myself from them, and not
to leave the least signal to them to guess by, that there
were any living creatures upon the ifland, 1 mean of
human fliape.
Religion joined in with this prudential, and I was
convinced now many ways, that I was perfectly out of
my duty, when 1 was laying all my bloody schemes for
the destruction of innocent creatures, I mean innocent
is to me: As to the crimes they were guilty of *o-
wards one another, I had nothing to do with them,
there were national punishments to make a just re^
tribution for national offences; and to bring publick
judgments upon those who offend in a publick manner,
by such ways as best please God.
This appeared so clear to me now, that nothing was
a greater satisfaction to me, than that I had not been
suffered to do a thing which I now saw so much rea-
son to believe would have been no less a sin than that
of wilful murder, if I had committed it; and ] gave
most humble thanks on my knees to God, that had
thus delivered me from blood-guiltiness; beseeching
him to grant me the protection of his Providence, that
I might not fall into the hands of Barbarians; or that
I might not lay my hands upon them, unless I had a
more clear call from heaven to do it, in defence of my
own life.
In this disposition I continued for near a year after
this; and so far was I from desiring an occasion of sal*
Kng upon these wretches, that in all that time I never
once went up the hill to fee whether there was any of
them in sight, or to know whether any of them had
been on shore there or not \ that I might not be temp-
ted to renew any of my contrivances against them, or
be provoked by any advantage which might present it-
self, to fall upon them; only this I did, I went and re-
moved my boat, which I had on the other side of the
island, and carried it down to the East end of the whole
island, where I ran it into a little cove which I found
under some high rocks, and where I knew, by reason
of the currents, the savages durst not, at least would not,
come with their boats, upon any account whatsoever.
With my boat I carried away every thing that I had
I 2
left there belonging to her, though not necessary for
the bare going thither, viz. a mast and a sail, which I
had made for her, and. a thing like an anchor, but in-
deed, which could not be called either anchor ot grap-
ling; however, it was the bell: I could make of its
kind. All these I removed, that there might not be
the least shadow of any discovery, or any appearance
of any boat, or of any habitation upon the island.
Besides this, I kept myself, as 1 said, more retired
than ever, and seldom went from my cell, other than
upon my constant employment, viz. to milk my stie-
goats, and manage my little flock in the wood; which,
as it was quite on the other part of the island, was
quite out of danger; For certain it is, that these sa-
Tage people, who sometimes haunted this island, never
came with any thoughts ot finding any thing here, and
consequently never wandered off from the coast; and I
doubt not, but they might have been several times on
ftiore, after my apprehensions of them had made me
cautious, as well as before; and I looked back with
some horror upon the thoughts of what my condition
would have been, if I had chopped upon them, and
been discovered before that, when naked and unarm-
ed, except vtfith one gun, and that loaded only with
small shot. I walked every where, peeping and peer-
ing about the island, to see what I could get: what a
surprize should I have been in, if, when I discovered
the print of a man's foot, I had instead of that seen
fifteen or twenty savages, and found them pursuiug
ire, and. by the swiftness of their running, no possibi-
lity of my escaping them!
The thoughts of this sometimes funk my very foul
within me, and distressed my mind so much, that I
could not soon recoyer it; to think what I sliould have
done, and how I not only should not have been able to
resist them, but even should not have had presence of
mind enough to do what I might have done; much
less, what now after so much consideration and prepa-
ration I might not be able to do. Indeed, after serious
thinking of these things, I would be very melancholy,
and sometimes it would last a great while; but I re-
solved it at last all into thankfulness to that Providence
which had delivered me from so many unseen dangers,
and had kept me from those mischiefs, which I could
no way have been the agent ia delivering myself from*
because I had not the least notion of any such thing
depending, or the least supposition of its being possible.
This renewed a contemplation, which often had come
to my thoughts in former time, when first J began to
fee the merciful dispositions of Heaven, in the dangers
we run through in this life; how wonderfully we are
delivered when we know nothing of it: How when
we are in a quandary (as we call it) a doubt or hesitati-
on,-.whether we go this way, or that way, a secret hinc
shall direct us this way, when we intended to go that
way; nay, when fense, our own inclination, and per-
haps business, has called us to go the other way, yet a
strange impreffion upon the mind, from we know not
what springs, and by we know not what power, stull
over-rule us to go this way ; and it fliall afterwards ap^
pejr, that had we gone that way which we would have
gone, and even to our imagination ought to have gone,
we flioukl have been ruined and lost: Upon these, and
many like reflections, I afterwards made it a certain
I 3
f tile with me, that whenever I found these secret
hints, or pressings of my mind, to doing or not doing
any thing that presented, or to going this way or that
way, I never failed to obey the secret dictate j though
I knew no other reason for it, than that such a pres-
sure, or such an hint, hung upon my mind: I could
give many examples of the success of this conduct in
the course of my life; but more especially in the lat-
ter part of my inhabiting this unhappy island: besides
many occasions which it is very likely I might have ta-
ken notice of, if I had seen with the fame eyes then,
that 1 saw with now: But 'tis never too late to be
wife; and I cannot but advise all considering men,
whose lives are attended with such extraordinary in-
cidents as mine, or even though not so extraordinary,
not to flight such secret intimations of Providence, let
them come from what invisible intelligence they will;
that I shall not discuss, and perhaps cannot account
for; but certainly they are a proof of the converse of
spirits, and the secret communication between those
embodied, and those unembodied; and such a proof as
can never be withstood: Of which 1 shall ha.ve occasi-
on to give some very remarkable instances, in the re-
mainder of my solitary residence in this dismal place.
I believe the reader of this will not think it strange,
if I confess that these anxieties, these constant dangers
1 lived in, and the concern that was now upon me, put
an end to all invention, and to all the contrivances that
1 had laid for my future accommodations and conveni-
ences. J had the care of my safety now more upon
iny hands, than that of my food. 1 cared not to drive
a nail, or chop a piece of wood now, for fear the noise
I sliould make should be heard; much less would I fire
a gun, for the fame reason; and, above all, I was very
uneasy at making any fire, lest the smoke, which is vi-
sible ac a great distance in the day, sliould betray me;
and for this reason I removed that part of my business,
which required fire, such as burning of pots and pipes,
&c. into my new apartment in the wood, where after
1 had been some time, 1 found, to my unspeakable con-
solation, a mere natural cave in the earth, which went
in a vast way, and where, I dare say, no savage had
he been at the mouth of it, would be so hardy as to
venture in, nor indeed would any man else, but one
who, like me, wanted nothing so much as a safe re-
treat.
The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a
great rock, where, by mere accident (I would fay, if I
did not fee an abundant reason to ascribe all such things
now to providence) I was cutting down some thick
branches of trees to make charcoal; and before I go
on, I must observe the reason of my making this char*
coal, which was thus •*
1 was afraid of making a smoke about my habitation,
as I said before; and yet I could not live there with-
out baking bread, cooking my meat, &c. so I con-
trived to burn some wood here, as I had seen done in
England under turf, till it became chark, or dry coal:
and then putting the fire out, I preserved the coal to
carry home, and perform the other-services, which sire
was wanting for at home, without danger of smoke.
But this by the by: While 1 was cutting down some
wood here, 1 perceived that behind a very thick branch
of low brush-wood, or under-wood, there was a kind
14
of hollow place: I was curious to look into it, and get-
ting with difficulty into the mouth of it, I found it was
pretty large, that is to fay, sufficient for me to stand
upright in it, and perhaps another with me; but I must:
confess to you, I made more haste out than I did in;
when looking farther into the place, which was per-
fectly dark, I saw two broad shining eyes of some crea-
ture, Whether devil or man, 1 knew not, which twin-
kled like two stars, the dim light from the cave's mouth
shining directly in, and making the reflection.
However, after some pause, I recovered myself, and
began to call myself a thousand fools, and tell myself,
that he that was afraid to fee the devil, was not fit to
Jive twenty years in an ifland all alone, and that I durst
to believe there was nothing in this cave that was more
frightful than myself: Upon this, plucking up my cou-
rage, I took up a large firebrand, and in 1 rusti'd a-
"gain with the, stick flaming in my hand: I had not gone
three steps in, but 1 was almost as much frightened as
I was before; for I heard a loud sigh, like that of a
man in some pain; and it was followed by a broken
noise, as of words half expressed, and then a deep sigh
again; I stepped back, and was indeed struck with such
a surprize, that it put me into a cold sweat; and if I had
had a hat on my head, I will not answer for it, that my
hair might not have lifted it off. But still plucking
up my spir its as well as I could, and encouraging my-
self a little, with considering that the power and pre-v,
fence of God was every uhere, and was able to pro*
tect me; upon this I stepped forward again, and by the
light of the firebrand, holding it up a little over my
head; I saw lying on the ground a most monstrous and
frightful old he-goat, just making his will, as we fay,
gasping for life, and dying indeed of mere old age.
I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out,
and he essayed to get up, but was not able to raise
himself; and 1 thought with myself, he might even lie
there; for if he had frightened me so, he would cer-
tainly fright any of the savages, if any of them should
be so hardy as to come in there, while he had any life
in him.
1 was now recovered from my surprize, and began
to look round me, when I found the cave was but ve-
ry small; that is to fay, it might be about twelve feet
over, but in no manner of shape, either round or square,
no hands having ever been employed in the making it>
but those of mere nature: I observed also, that there
was a place at the farther side of it that went in far-
ther, but, so low, that it required me to creep upon
my hands and knees to get into it, and whether it
went, I knew not; so having no candle, I gave it over
for some time, but resolved to come again the next day,
provided with candles and a tinder-box, which I had
made of the lock of one of the muskets, with some
wildfire in the pan.
Accordingly, the next day, I came provided with six
large candles of my own making, for I made very good
candles now of goats tallow; and, going into this low
place, I was obliged to creep upon all fours, as I have
said, almost ten yards; which, by the way, I thought
was a venture bold enough, considering that I knew
not how far it might go, or what was beyond it:
When 1 was got through the streight, I found the roof
rose higher up, I believe near twenty feet; but never
was such a glorious fight seen in the ifland, I dare say,
as it was, to look round the fides and roof of this vault,
or cave: The walls reflected an hundred thousand
lights to me from my two candles; what it was in the
rock, whether diamonds, or any other precious stones,
or gold, which I rather supposed it to be, I knew not.
The place I was in was a most delightful cavity, or
grotto, of its kind, as could be expected, though per-
fectly dark; the floor was dry and level, and had a sort
of small loose gravel upon it ,* so that there was-no
nauseous creature to be seen; neither was there any
damp or wet on the sides of the roof: The only dif-
ficulty in ic was the entrance, which, however, as it
was a place of security, and such a retreat as I want-
ed, I thought that was a convenience; so that I was
really rejoiced at the discovery, and resolved, without
any delay, to bring some of those things which I was
most anxious about, to this place; particularly, I re-
solved to bring hither my magazine of powder, and
all my spare arms, viz. two fowling pieces (for I had
three in all) and three mulkets (for of them I had
eight in all;) so I kept at my castle only five, which
stood ready mounted, like pieces of cannon, on my
outmost fence; and were ready also to take out upon
any expedition.
Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition, I
was obliged to open the barrel of powder which I took
up out of the sea, and which had been wet; and I
found that the water had penetrated about three or
four inches into the powder on every side, which,
caking and growing hard, had preserved the inside like
a kernel in a (hell; so that I had near sixty pounds of
e 137 >
very good powder in the centre of the calk; and this
was an agreeable discovery to me at that time; so I
carried al) away thither, never keeping above two or
three pounds of powder with me in my castle, for fear
of a surprize of any kind. I also carried thither all the
lead I had left for bullets.
I fancied myself now like one of the antient giants,
who were said to live in caves and holes of the rocks,
where none could come at them; for I persuaded my-
self while I was here, if five hundred savages were to
hunt me, they could never find me out; or if they did,
they would not venture to attack me here.
The old goat, which I found expiring., died in the
mouth of the cave, the next day after I made this dis-
covery; and I found it much easier to dig a great hole
there, and throw him in, and cover him with earth,
than to drag him out: So I interred him there, to pre*
vent offence to my nose,
I was now in my twenty third year of residence ia
this island, and was so naturalized to the place, and to
the manner of living, that could 1 have but enjoyed
the certainty, \hat no savages would come to the place
to disturb me, £ could have been content to have capi-*
tulated for spending the rest of my time there, even to
the last moment, till I had laid me down and died,
like the old he-goat* in the cave: I had also arrived
to some little diversions and amusements, which made
the time pass more pleasantly with me a great deal than
it did before; as, first, 1 had (aught my Poll, as I not-*
ed before, to speak; and he did it so familiarly, and
talked so articulately and plain, that it was very plea*
fain to mej and he lived with me no less than six-and*
twenty years: How long he might live afterwards, I
know not; though I know they have a notion in Bra-
sil that they live an hundred years; perhaps some of
my Polls may be alive there still, calling after Poor
Robin Crusoe to this day: I wish no Englishman the
ill luck to come there and hear them; but if he did,
he would certainly believe it was the devil. My dog
was a very pleasant and loving companion to me for no
less than sixteen years of my time, and then died of
mere old age; as for my cats, they multiplied, as I
have observed, to that degree, that I was obliged to
{hoot several of them at first, to keep them from de-
vouring of me, and all I had; but at length, when the
two old ones I brought with me were gone, and after
some time continually driving them from me, and let-
ting them have no provision with roe, they all ran wild
into the woods, except two or three favourites, which
I kept tame, and whose young, when they had any, I
always drowned, and these were part of my family:
Besides these, I always kept two or three houfliold kids
about me, which \ taught to feed out of my hand; and
I had also more parrots, which talked pretty well, and
could all call Robin Crusoe, but none like my first; nor
indeed, did I take the pains with any of them that I had
done with him : I had also several tame sea-fowls, whose
names I know not, which I caught upon the shore, and
cut their wings; and the little slakes, which I had
planted before my castle-wall being now grown up a
good thick grove, these fowls all lived among the low
trees, and bred there, which was very agreeable to me,
so that, as I said before, I now began to live very well
contented with the life lied, if it might but have been
secured from the dread of savages.
But it was otherwise directed; and it may not be a*
miss for all people who shall meet with my story, to
make this just observation from it; viz. How fre-
quently, in the course of our lives, the evil, which in
itself we seek most to shun, and-which, when we are
fallen into, is the most dreadful to us, is oftentimes the
very means or door of our deliverance, by which a-
lone we can be raised again from the affliction we are
fallen into: I could give many examples of this in the
course of my unaccountable life; but in nothing was
it more particularly remarkable, than in the circum-
stances of my last years of solitary residence in this is-
land..
It was now the month of December, as I said above,
in my twenty third year; and this being the southern
solstice, for winter I cannot call it, was the particular
time of my harvest, and required my being pretty much
abroad in the fields; when going out pretty early in
the morning, even before it was thorough daylight, I
was surprised with seeing a light of some fire upon the
shore, at a distance from me of about two miles, to-
wards the end of the island, where I had observed some
savages had been, as before; but not on the other fide;
but, to my great affliction, it was on my side of the
island.
1 was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stop-
ped short within my grove, not daring to go out, lest I
might be surprised; and yet I had no more peace with-
in, from the apprehensions 1 had, that if these savages,
in rambling over the island, slaould find my corn stand-
mg, or cut, or any of my works and Improvements, they
would immediately conclude, that there were people
in the place, and would then never give over till they
found me out: In this extremity I went back directly to
my castle, puli'd up the ladder after me, having made
all things without look as wild and natural as I could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a
posture of defence,- I loaded all my cannon, as 1 called
them, that is to fay, my musquets, which were mount*
ed upon my new fortification, and all my pistols, and re-
solved to defend myself to the last gasp; not forgetting
seriously to recommend myself to the divine protection,
and earnestly to pray to God to deliver me out of the
hands of the barbarians; and in this posture I cominu'd
about two hours, but began to be mighty impatient for
intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to fend out.
After sitting a while longer, and musing what I
{hould do in this cafe, I was not able to bear sitting in
ignorance longer; so setting up my ladder to the side
of the hill, where there was a flat place, as I observed
before, and then pulling the ladder up after me, 1 set
it up again, and mounted to the top of the hill; and
pulling out my perspective-glass, which I had taken on
purpose, I laid me down flat on my belly on the ground
and began to look for the place: I presently found
there were no less than nine naked savages sitting round
a small fire they had made; not to warm them, for
they had no need of that, the weather being extreme
hot; but as I supposed, to dress some of their barba-
rous diet of human flesh, which they had brought with
them, whether alive or dead, I could not know.
They had two Canoes with them, which they had haled
up upon the fliore; and as it was then tide of ebb, they
seemed to me to wait the return of the flood to go a-
way again. It is not easy to imagine what confusion
this sight put me into, especially feeing them come on my
side the island, and so near me too; but when 1 ob-
served their coming must be always with the current
of the ebb, 1 began afterwards to be more sedate in
my mind, being satisfied that I might go abroad with
safety, all the time of tide of flood, if they were not on
fliore before; and having made this observation, 1 went
abroad about my harvest-work with the more compo-
sure.
As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the tide
made to the westward, I saw them all take boat, and
row (or paddle, as we call it) all away: I should have
observed, that for an hour and more before they went
off, they went to dancing, and I could easily discern
their postures'and gestures by my glasses : I could not
perceive, by my nicest observation but that they were
stark-naked, and had not the least covering upon them;
but whether they were men or women, that I could
not distinguish.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two
guns upon my 'shoulders, and two pistols at my girdle,
and my great sword by my side, without a scabbard;
and with all the speed I was able to make, I went a-
way to the hill, where I had discover'd the first appear-
ance of all. As soon as I got thither, which was riot
less than two hours (for I could not go apace, being so
loaden with arms as I was) I perceived there had been
three Canoes more of savages on that place; and look-
ing out further, I saw they were all at sea together*
making over for the main.
This was a dreadful sight to me, especially when go*
ing down to the shore, 1 could see the marks of hor*
ror which the dismal work they had been about had
left behind it, viz. the blood, the bones, and part of
the flelh of human bodies, eaten and devoured by those
wretches, with merriment and sport. I was so filled with
indignation at the sight, that 1 began now to premedi-
tate the destruction of the next that I saw there, let
them be who or how many soever.
It seemed evident to me, that the visits which they
thus made to this island, were not very frequent; for
it was above fifteen months before any more of them
came on fliore there again; that is to /ay, I never saw
them, or any footsteps or signals of them, in all that
time; for as to the rainy seasons, then they are sure
not to come abroad, at least not so far ; yet all this
while I lived uncomfortably, by reason of the constant
apprehensions I was in of their coming upon me by
surprise; from whence I observe, that the expectati-
on of evil is more bitter than the suffering, especially
if there is no room to shake off that expectation or those
apprehensions.
During all this time,I was in the murdering humour;
and took up most of my hours, which {bould have been
better employed, in contriving how to circumvent and
fall upon them the very next time I stiould fee them;
especially if they should be divided, as they were the last
time, into two parties; nor did I consider at all, that if
I killed one party, suppose ten or a dozen, I was still
the next day, or week, or month, to kill another, and
if another, even ad injinitum, till 1 should be at length
no less a murderer than they were in being meri-eaters,
and perhaps much more so.
I spent my days now in great perplexity and anxiety
of mind, expecting that I should one day or other fall
into the hands of these merciless creatures; if I did at
any time venture abroad, it was not without looking
round me with the greatest care and caution imagina-
ble; and now I found, to my great comfort, how haf>-
py it was that I had provided a tame flock or herd of
goats ; for I durst not, upon any account, fire my gun,
especially near that side of the ifland, where they usu*
ally came, lest I iliould alarm the savages; and if they
had fled from me now, I was sure to have them come
back again, with perhaps two or three hundred C&noes
with them in a few days, and then I knew wh&t to ex*
pect.
However, 1 wore out a year and three months more,
before I ever saw any more of the savages, and then I
found them again, as I shall soon observe: It is true,
they might have been there once or twice; but either
they made no stay, or, at least, 1 did not hear them;
but in the month of May, as near as I could calculate,
and in my four-and-twentieth year, I had a very strange
encounter with them, of which in its place.
The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or
sixteen months interval, was very great; I stept unquiet,
dreamed always frightful dreams, and often started out
of my sleep in the night; in the day great troubles
overwhelmed my mind; in the night I dreamed often
of killing the savages, and the reasons why I might
jtistify the doing of it: But to wave all this for a while,
K
it was in the middle of May, of the sixteenth day, 1
think, as well as my poor wooden calendar would rec-
kon ; for I marked all upon the post still; I fay, it was
on the sixteenth of May, that it blew a very great storm
of wind all day, with a great deal of lightning and
thunder, and a very foul night was after it: I know
not what was the particular occasion of it; but as I was
reading in the bible, and taken up with serious thoughts
about my present condition, I was surprised with the
noise of a gun, as I thought, fired at sea.
This was, to be sure, a surprise of a quite different
nature from any I had met with before; for the noti-
ons this put into my thoughts were quite of another
kind: I started up in the greatest haste imaginable;
and in a trice stepped up my ladder to the middle
place of the rock, and pulled it after me, and, mount-
ing it the second time, got to the top of the hill; that
very moment a flafli of sire bad me listen for a second
gun, which accordingly in about half a moment I
heard, and by the sound knew that it Was from that
part of the sea where I was driven out with the cur-
rent in ray boat.
1 immediately considered, that this must be some ship
in distress, and that they had some comrade, or some
other ship in company, and fired these guns for signals
of distress, and to obtain help: I had this presence of
mind at that minute, as to think, that though I could
not help them, it may be they might help me; sol
brought together all the dry wood I could get ac
hand, and making a good handsome pile, 1 set it on
fire upon the hill; the wood was dry, and blazed
freely; and tho' the wind blew very hard, yet it burnt
fairtytfut, fa that I was certain, if there was any socli
thing as a ship, they must needs fee it, and no doubt
they did; for as soon as ever my fire blazed up, I heard
another gun, and after that several others, all from
the fame quarter. I plied my fire all night long, till
day broke; and when it was broad day, and the air
cleared up, I saw something at a great distance at sea,
full east of the island, whether a sail, or an hull, I
could not distinguish, no not with my glasses, the dis-
tance was so great and the weather still something hazy
also} at least it was so oat at sea,
I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon per-
ceived that it did not move: so 1 presently concluded,
that it was a ship at anchor; and being eager, you
may be sure to be satisfied, I took my gun in my hand,
and ran towards the South-east side of the island, to the
rocks, where I had been formerly carried away with,
the current; and getting up'there, the weather by this
time being perfectly clear, I could plainly fee, to my
great sorrow, the wreck of a /hip cast away in the
night upon those concealed rocks which I found when I
was out in my boat; and which rocks, as they check-
ed the violence of the stream, and made a kind of coun-
ter-stream, or eddy, werejhe occasion of my recover-
ing then from the most desperate hopeless condition
that ever I had been in all my life.
Thus, what is one man's safety, is another man's
destruction; for it seems, these men, whoever they
were, being out of their knowledge, and the rocks be-
ing wholly under water, had been driven upon them
in the night, the wind blowing hard at E. and E. N. E.
Had they ieen the island, as I must necessarily suppose
K z
they did not, they must, as 1 thought, have endeavour*
ed to have saved themselves on shore by the help of
their boat; but their firing of their guns for help, e-
specially when they saw, as I imagined, my fire, filled
me with many thoughts; first I imagined, that, upon
seeing my light, they might have put themselves into
their boat, and have endeavoured to make the shore;
but that the sea going very high, they might have been
cast away; other times I imagined, that they might have
lost their boat before, as might be the cafe many ways;
as particularly, by the breaking of the sea upon their
ship, which many times obliges men to stave, or take
in pieces their boat; and sometimes to throw it over-
board with their own hands: other times I imagined,
they had some other ship or ships in company, who,
upon the signals of distress they had made, had taken
them up, and carried them off: other whiles I fanci-
ed, they were all gone off to sea in their boat, and
being hurried away by the current that I had been
formerly in, were carried out into the great ocean,
where there was nothing but misery and perishing;
and that perhaps they might by this time think
of starving, and of being in a condition to eat one an-
other.
As all these were but conjectures at best, so, in the
condition I was in, I could do no more than look upon
the misery of the poor men, and pity them; which
had still this good effect on my side, that it gave me
more and more cause to give thanks to God, who had
so happily and comfortably provided for me in my
desolate condition; and that of two ships companies,
who were now cast away upon this part of the world,
not one life should be spared but mine. I learnt here
again to observe, that it is very rare, that the providence
of God casts us into any condition of life so low, or a-
ny misery so great, but we may iee something or other
to be thankful for, and may see others in worse cir-
cumstances than our own.
Such certainly was the cafe of those men, of whom
I could not so much as fee room to suppose any of them
were saved } nothing CQuld make it rational, so much
as to wisti or expect that they did not all perish there,
except the possibility only of their being taken up by
another ship in company: And this was but mere pos-
sibility indeed; for I saw not the least signal or appear-
ance of any such thing.
I cannot explain, by any possible energy of words
and a strange longing, or hankering of desire, I felt in
my foul upon this sight; breaking out sometimes thus:
0 that there had been but on£ or two, nay, or but one
foul saved out of the fliip, to have escaped to me, that
1 might but have had one companion, one fellow-crea-
ture, to have spoken to me, and to have con-
versed with! in all the time of my solitary life, I ne-
ver felt so earnest, so strong a desire after the society
of my fellow-creatures, or so deep a regret at the want
of ir.
There are some secret moving springs in the affec-
tions, which, when they are set a going by some ob*
ject in view, or be it some object though not in view,
yet rendered present to the mind by the power of ima-
gination, that motion carries out the foul by its impe-
Hisioty to such violent, eager embracing of the object,
that the absence of it is insupportable.
Such were these earnest wilhings, that but one man
had been saved! O that it had been but one! I believe
1 repeated the words, O that it had been but one! a
thousand times, and my desires were so moved by
it, that when I spoke the words, my hands would
clinch together, and my fingers press the palms of my
hands, that if I had had any soft thing in my hand, it
•would have crushed it involuntarily; and my teeih
in my head would strike together, and set against one
another so strong, that for some time 1 could not part
them again.
Let the naturalists explain these things, and the rea-
son and manner of them: All I can^say of them, is,
to describe the fact, which was very surprising to me
when I found it; tho' 1 knew not from what it should
proceed; it was doubtless the effect of ardent wislies,
and of strong ideas formed in my mind, realizing the
comfort which the conversation of one of my fellow- ^
christians would have been to me.
But it was not to be; either their fate, or mine, or
both, forbad it; for till the last year of my being on
this jsland, I never knew, whether any were saved out
of that ship or no; and had only the affliction some
days after, to fee the corpse of a drowned boy come on
shore, at the end of the island, which was next the
jsbip-wreck: he had on no cloaths, but a seaman's
waistcoat, a pair of open-keed linen drawers, and
a blue linen shirt; but nothing to direct me so much
as to guess what nation he was of: be had nothing in
his pocket but two pieces of eight, and a tobacco-pipe;
the last was lo me of ten times more value than the
first.
It was npw calm, and I Jiad a great mind to venture
out in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might
find something on board, that might be useful to me;
but that did not altogether press me so much, as the
possibility that there might yet be some living creature
on board, whose life I might not only save, but might
by saving that life, comfort my own to the last de-
gree: And this thought clung so to my heart, that I
could not be quiet, night nor day, but I must venture
out in my boat on board this wreck j and committing
the rest to God's Providence, I thought the impressi-
on was so strong upon my mind, that it could not be
resisted, though it must come from some invisible di-
rection, and that 1 ihould be wanting to myself, if I
did not go.
Under the power os this impression, I hastned back
to my castle, prepared every thing for my voyage,
took a quantity of bread, a great pot of fresh water,,
a compass to steer by, a bottle of rum (for I had still
a great deal of that left) a ba&et full of raisins: And
thus loading myself with every thing necessary, I went
down to my boat, got she water out of her, and gat
her afloat, loaded all my cargo in her, and then went
home again for more: My second cargo was a great
bag full of rice, the umbrella to set up over my head
for a shade, another large pot full of fresh water, and
about two dozen of my small loaves, or barley-cakes,
more than before, with a bottle of goat's milk, and a
cheese; all which, with great labour and sweat, I
brought to my boat; and praying to God to direct my
voyage, I put out, and rowing or paddling the Canoe
along the sliore, I came at last to the utmost point of
K 4
the island, on that side, viz. N. E. And now I was
to launch out into the ocean; and either to venture,
or not to venture; I looked on the rapid currents
which ran constantly on both sides of the island",, at a.
distance, and which were terrible to me, from the re-
membrance of the hazard I had been in before, and
my heart began to fail me ; for I foresaw, that if 1 was
driven into either of those currents I should be car-
ried a vast way out to sea, and perhaps out of my
reach, or sight of the island again; and that then, as
my boat was but small, if any little gale of wind should
rise, I should inevitably be lost.
These thoughts so oppressed my mind, tfeat I began
to give over my enterprise, and having haled my boat
into a little creek on the shore, I stepped out, and sat
me down upon a little rising spot of ground, very pen-
sive and anxious, between fear and desire about my
voyage; when as I was musing, I could perceive that
the tide was turned, and the flood came on, upon
which my going was for so many hours impracticable:
Upon this it presently occurred tome, chat I should go
up to the highest piece of ground I could find, and ob-
serve, if I could, how the sets of the tide or currents
Jay, when the flood came in, that I might judge whe-
ther, if I was driven one way out, I might not expect
to be driven another way home with the fame rapid-
ness of the currents: This thought was no sooner in
my head, but I cast my eye upon a little hill which
sufficiently overlooked the sea both ways, and from
whence I had a clear view of the currents, or sets of
the tide, and which way I was to guide myself in my
return: Here I found, that as the current of the ebb
set out close to the south point of the island, so the
current of the flood set in close by the shore of the
North-side; and that I had nothing to do but to keep
to the North of the island in my return, and I fliould
do well enough.
Encouraged by this observation, I resolved the next
morning to set out with the first of the tide; and re*
posing myself for that night in the Canoe, under the
great watch-coat I mentioned, I launched out; I made
first a little out to sea full north, till I began to seel
the benefit of the current, which set eastward, and
which carried me at a great rate, and yet did not so
hurry me as the southern side current had done be-
fore, and so as to take from me all government of the
boat; but having a strong steerage with my paddle, I
went, I say, at a great rate, directly for the wreck,
and in less than two hours I came up to it.
It was a dismal sight to look at: The ship, which
by its building was Spanish, stuck fast, jambed in be-
tween two rocks; all the stern and quarter of her was
beaten to pieces with the sea; and as her forecastle,
which stuck in the rocks, had run on with great vio-
lence, her main-mast and fore-mast were brought by
the board, that is to fay, broken short off, but her bow-
sprit was found, and the head and bow appeared firm:
When I came close to her, a dog appeared upon her,
which seeing me coming, yelped and cryed, and as soon
as I called him, jumped into the sea to come to me;
and 1 took him into the boat, but found him almost
dead for hunger and thirst: I gave him a cake of my
bread, and he eat it like a ravenous wolf, that had
f>eep starving a fortnight in the snow: I then gave the
poor creature some fresh waiter, with which, if I would
h^ve let him, he would have burst himself.
After this I went on board; the first sight I met
with,was two men drowned in the cook-room, or fore-
castle of the ship, with their arms fast about one ano-
ther. I concluded, as is indeed probable, that when
the ship struck, it being in a storm, the sea broke so
high, and so continually over her, that the men were
not able to bear it, and were strangled with the con-
stant rustling in of the water, as much as if they had
been under water: Besides the dog, there was no-
thing left in the sliip, that had life, nor any goods
that 1 could fee, but what were spoiled by the water;
There were some casks of liquor, whether wine or
brandy I know not, which lay lower in the hold, and
which, the water being ebbed out, I could fee; but
they were too big to be meddled with: I saw several
chests, which I believed belonged to some of the sea-
men, and I got two of them into the boat, without ex-
amining what was in them.
Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the fore-
part broken off, I am persuaded J might have made a
good voyage; for by what 1 found in these two chests
1'had room to suppose the sliip had a great deal of
wealth on board; and if I may guess by the course she
steered, she must have been bound from the Buenos
JlyreS) or the Rio de la Plata, in the south part of
America, beyond the Braji/s, to the Havannah in the
gulph of Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain: She had
no doubt a great treasure in her, but of no use at that
time to any body; and what became of the rest of her
people, 1 then knew not.
I found, besides these cbelb, a little calk full of li-
quor, of about twenty gallons, which I got into ray
boat, with much difficulty: There were several mus-
quets in a cabin, and a great powder-horn, with about
four pounds of powder in it; 3s for the ipusquets, I
had no occasion for them, so I left them, but took the
powder-horn: I took a fire-shovel and tongs, which I
wanted extremely; as also two litrle brass kettles, a
copper pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron; ao4
with this cargo, and the dog, I came away, the tide
beginning to make home again j and the fame even-
ing, about an hour within night, I reached the island
again weary and fatigued to the last degree,
I repos'd that night in the boat, and in the morning
I resolved to harbour what I had gotton in my new
cave, not to carry it home to my castle: After refresh-
ing myself, I got all my cargo on shore, and began tp
examine the particulars: The cask of liquor I found
to be a kind of rum, but not such as we had at the
Brasils\ and in a word* not at all good; but when I
came to open the chests, I found several things which
I wanted: For example, I found in one chest a fine
case of bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and filled
with cordial waters, fine, and very good; the bottles
held about three pints each, and were tipped with sil-
ver; I found two pots of very good fuccades, or sweet
meats, so fastened also on the top, that the fait water
had not hurt them ; and two more of the fame which
the water had spoiled : I found some very good sliirts,
which were very welcome to me, and about a dozen
and a half of white linen handkerchiefs* and coloured
neckcloths; the former were also very welcome, be-
ing exceeding refreshing to wipe my face in a hot day;
besides this, when I came to the till in the chest, I
found there three great bags of pieces of eight, which
held about eleven hundred pieces in all; and in one of
them, wrapt up in a paper, six doubloons of gold, and
some small bars or wedges of gold; 1 suppose they
might all weigh near a pound.
The other chest I found had some cloaths in it, but
of little value; but by the circumstances it must have
belonged to the gunner's mate, though there was no
powder in it, but about two pounds of glazed powder,
in three stalks, kept, I suppose, for charging their
fowling-pieces on occasion: Upon the whole, I got
very little by this voyage, that was of much use to me;
for, as to the money, I had no manner of occasion for
it, it was to me as the dirt under my feet: and I would
have given it all for three or four pair of Englijh
shoes and stockings, which were things I greatly wan-
ted, but had not had on my feet now for many years;
I had indeed gotten two pair of stioes now, which I
took off of the feet of the two drowned men, whom I
saw in the wreck; and 1 found two pair more in the
chests, which were very welcome to me; but they
were not like our Englijh stioes, either for ease or ser-
vice, being rather what we call pumps than sti9es: i
found in this seaman's chest about fifty pieces of eight
in royals, but no gold; 1 suppose this belonged to a
poorer man than the other, which seemed to belong
to some officer.
Well, however, I lugged this money home to my
cave, and laid it up, as I had done that before, which I
brought from our own ship; but it was great pity, as I
said, that the other part of the ship had not come t6
my share, for I am satisfied I might have loaded my
Canoe several times over with money, which if I had
ever escaped to England, would have Iain here safe c-
nough till I might have come again and fetched it.
Having now brought all my things on shore, and se-
cured them, I went back {o my boat, and rowed or
paddled her along the shore to her old harbour,where
1 laid her up, and made the best of my way to my old
habitation, where I sound every thing safe and quiet;
so I began to repose myself, live after my old saihion,
and take care of my family-aftairs; and for a while I
lived easy enough; only that I was more vigilant than
I used to be, looked out oftener, and did not go a-
broad so much; and if at any time I did stir with any
freedom, it was always to the east part of the ifland,
where I was pretty well satisfied the savages never
came, and where I could go without so many precau-
tions, and such a load of arms and ammunition, as J
always carried with me, if 1 went the other way,
I lived in this condition near two years more; but
my unlucky head, that was always to let me know it
was born to make my body miserable, was all those two
years filled with projects and designs, how, if it were
possible, I might get away from this island ; for some-
times I was for making another voyage to the wreck,
though my reason told me, that there was nothing left
there worth the hazard of my voyage; sometimes for
a ramble one way, sometimes another; and I believe
verily, if I had had the boat that I went from Sailee in,
I should have ventured to sea, bound any-where, I
knew not whither.
I hdve been, in all my cifcuittstarices^ a thsmentd td
those who are touched with that general plague of
nidrikind, whence, for aught I know, one half of their
miseries flow; I mean that of not being satisfied with
the station wherein God and nature hath plac'd them;
for, not lo look back upon my primitive condition, and
the excellent advice of my father, the opposition to
which was, as 1 may call it, my original Jin, my subse-
quent mistakes of the fame kind have been the means
of my coming into this miserable condition for had
that Providence, which so happily had seated me ar
iht Brajils, as a planter, blessed me with confined de-
sires, and could I have been contented to have gone on
gradually I might have been by this time, 1 mean the
time of my being in this island, one of the most consi-
derable planters in the Braji/s; nay, I am persuaded,
that by the improvements I had made in th*t little time
I lived there, and the increase 1 should probably have
made, if I had stayed, I might have been worth an
hundred thousand moidores; and what business had I
to leave a settled fortune, well-stocked plantation, im-
proving and increasing, to turn supercargo to Guinea,
to fetch Negroes, when patience and time would have
so increased our slock at home, that we could have
bought them at our own doors, from those whose bu-
siness it was to fetch them? And though it had cost
us something more, yet the difference of that price
was by no means worth saving at so great a hazard.
But as this is ordinarily the fate of young heads, so
reflection upon the folly of it is more ordinarily the
exercise of more years, or of the dear-bought experi-
ence of time; and so it was with me now, and yet so
deep had the mistake taken root Iri my temper,
that I could not satisfy myself in my station, but was
continually poring upon the means and possibility of
my escape from this place; and that I may, with the
greater pleasure to the reader, bring on the remain-
ing part of my story, it may not be improper to give
some account of my first conceptions on the subject of
this foolish scheme for my escape; and how, and upon
what foundation I acted.
I am now to be supposed to be retired into my ca-
stle after my late voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid
up, and secured under water as usual, and my conditi-
on restored to what it was before: I had more riches,
indeed, than I had before, but was not at all the rich-
er; for I had no more use of it, than the Indians of
Peru had before the Spaniards came thither.
Ic was one of the nights, in the rainy season ia
March, the four and twentieth year of my first fet-
ing foot in this island of solitariness, 1 was lying in my
bed, or hammock, awake, very well in health, had no
pain, no distemper, no uneasiness of body, no nor a-
ny uneasiness of mind more than ordinary, but could
by no means close my eyes; that is, so as to sleep;
no, not a wink all nightlong, otherwise than as fol-
lows:
It is as impossible as needless, to set down the innu-
merable crowd of thoughts that whirled through that
great thoroughfare of the brain, the memory, in this
night's time; I ran over the whole history of my life
in miniature, or by abridgement, as I may call it, to my
coming to this island; and also of that part of my life
since 1 came to this island; in my reflections upon the
state of my case, since I came on shore on this island )
I was comparing the happy posture of my affairs, in
the first years of my habitation here, ro that course of
anxiety, fear and care, which I had lived in ever since
I had seen the print of a food in the sand; not that I
did not believe the savages had frequented the island
even all the while, and might have been several hun-
dreds of them at times on shore there; but as I had
never known it, and was incapable of any apprehensi-
ons about it, my satisfaction was perfect, though my
danger was the fame; and I was as happy in not
knowing my danger, as if 1 had never really been ex-
posed to it; this furnished my thoughts with many ve*
ry profitable reflections, and particuhrly this one,How
infinitely good that Providence is, which has settled iti
its government of mankind such narrow bounds to his
sight and knowledge of things; and though he walks
in the midst of many thousand dangers, the sight of
which, if discovered to him, would distract his mind,
and sink his spirits, he is kept serene and calm, by ha-
Ting the events of things hid from his eyes, and know-
ing nothing of the dangers which surround him.
After these thoughts had for some time entertained
me, I came to reflect seriously upon the real danger I
had been in for many years in this very island; and
how I had walked about in the greatest security, and
with all possible, tranquillity, even when perhaps no-
thing but a brow of an hill, a great tree, or the casual
approach of night, had been between me and the worst
kind of destruction, that of falling into the hands
of canibals and savages, who would have seized on me
with the same view, as I did on a goat or a turtle, and
have thought It no more a crime to kill and devdttr
me, than I did of a pigeon or a eurlieu; I lhould un*
justly slander myself, if I sliould say I was not sincere-
ly thankful to ray great preserver, to whose singular
protection I acknowledged, with great humility, that
all these unknown deliverances were due, without
which I should inevitably have fallen into their merci-
less- hands.
When these thoughts were over, ray head was for
some time taken up in considering the nature of these
Wretched creatures, 1 mean the savages; and how it
Came to pass in the world, that the wife governour of
all things {hould give up any of his creatures to such
inhumanity, nay, to something so much below even
brutality itself, as to devour its own kind : But as this
ended in some (at that time fruitless) speculations, it oc*
curred to me to inquire what part of the world these
wretches lived in; how far off the coast was from
Whence they came» what they ventured so far from
home for; what kind of boats they had; and why I
might not order myself and my business so, that I
might be as able to go over thither, as they were to
come to me*
I never so much as troubled myself to consider what
I {hould do with myself when I came thither; what
sliould become ot me, if 1 fell into the hands of sava-
ges; or how (hould I escape from them, if they at-
tempted me; no, nor so much as how it was possible
for me to reach the coast, and not be attempted bj
some or other of them, without any possibility of de-
livering myself; and if I should not fall into their
hands, what I should do for provision, or whither I
should bend my course; none of these thoughts, I fay,
so much as came in my way; but my mind was whol-
ly bent upon the notion of my passing over in my boat
to the- main land: I looked back upon my present
condition, as the most miserable that could possibly be;
that I was not able to throw myself into any thing but
death that could be called worse ; that if 1 reached the
fliore of the main, I might, perhaps, meet with relief;
or I might coast along as I did on the shore of Afri-
ca, till I came to some inhabited country, and where I
might find some relief; and after all perhaps 1 might
fall in with some Christian (hip that might take me in,
and if the worst came to the worst, 1 could but die,
which would put an end to all these miseries at once.
Pray note, All this was the fruit of a disturbed mind,
an impatient temper, made, as it were, desperate by
the long continuance of my troubles, and the disap-
pointments I had met in the wreck I had been oa
board of, aud where I had been so near the obtaining
what I so earnestly longed for, viz* somebody to speak
to, and to Jearn some knowledge from, of the place
where I was, and of the, probable means of my deli*
verance: I fay, I was agitated wholly by these thoughts.
All my calm of mind in my resignation to providence,
and waiting the issue of the dispositions of heaven,
seemed to be suspended; and I had, as it were, no
power to turn my thoughts to any thing, but the pro-
ject of a voyage to the main, which came upon me
with some force, and such an impetuosity of desire, that
it was not to be resisted.
When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours
or more, with such viollbce, that it set my very blood
4
itito a ferment, and ray pulse beat as high as if I had
been in a fever, merely with the extraordinary fervour
of my mind about it; nature, as if I had been fatigu*
ed and exhausted with the very thought of it, threw
me into a sound sleep: One would have thought I
should have dreamed of it; but I did hot, nor'of any
thing relating to it, but I dreamed, that as I was go*
ing out in the mdrning, as usual from my castle, I saw
tapon the sliore two Canoes, and eleven savages com-
ing ro land, and that they brought with them another
savage, whom they were going to kill, in order to eat
him; when on a sudden, the savage that they werd
going to kill jumped away, and ran for his life; then
1 thought in my sleep, that he came running into my
little thick grove, before my fortification, to hide him-
self; and that I seeing him alone, and not perceiving
that the others sought him that way, (hewed myself ta
him, and smiling upon him, encouraged him: That
he kneeled down to me, seeming to pray me to affift
him; upon which I shewed my ladder, made him go
iip it, arid carried him into my cave, and he became
my servant; and that as soon as i had gotten this man,
1 said to myself, Now I may certainly ventute to the
maih land; for this fellow will serve me as a pilot, and
will tell me what to do, and whither to go for provi*
sions, and whither not to go for fear of being devour-
ed, what places to venture into, and what to escape. I
waked with this thought, and was under inexpressible
impreffions of joy at the prospect of my escape in my
dream that the disappointments which I felt upoa
coming to myself, and finding it was no more than a
L 2
dream, "were equally extravagant the other way, and
threw me into a very great dejection of spirit.
Upon this, however, I made this conclusion, That
my only way to go about an attempt for an escape,was,
if possible, to get a savage in my possession; and, if
possible, it should be one of their prisoners whom they
had condemned to be eaten, and should bring hither
to kill; but these thoughts still were attended with
this difficulty, that it was impossible to effect this,
without attacking a whole caravan of them, and kill-
ing them all; and this was not only a very desperate
attempt, and might miscarry v but on the other hand,
I had greatly scrupled the lawfulness of it to me, and
my heart trembled at the thoughts of shedding so much
blood, though it was for my deliverance *• I need not
repeat the arguments which occurred to me against
this, they being the fame mentioned before: But tho*
I had other reasons to offer now, viz. that those men
were enemies to my life, and would devour me, if they
could j that it was self-preservation in the highest de-
gree, to deliver myself from this death of a life, and
was acting in my own defenc e as much as if they were
actually assaulting me, and the like; I fay, tho' these
things argued for it yet the thoughts of shedding hu-
man blood for my deliverance, were very terrible to
me, and such as I could by no means reconcile myself
to a great while.
However, at last, after many secret disputes with
myself, and after great perplexities about it (for all these
arguments, one way and another, struggled in my head
a Jong time) the -eager prevailing desire of deliverance
M length mastered all the rest, and I resolved, if pos-
s sible to get one of these savages into my hands, cost-
what it would: My next thing then was to contrive
how to do it; and this indeed was very difficult to re-
solve on: But as I could pitch upon no probable means
for it, so I resolved to put myself upon the watch, to
see them when they came orf shore, and leave the rest
to the event, taking such measures as the opportunity
should present, let ic be what it would.
Wiih these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself
upon the scout, as often as possible, and indeed so often
till I was heartily tired of it; for it was above a year
and an half that I waited, and for a great part of that
time went out to the west end, and to the south-west
corner of the island, almost every day to fee the Ca-
noes, but none appeared: This was very discourag-
ing, and' began to trouble me much; though I cannot
say that it did in this cafe as it had done some time be-
fore that, viz. wear off the edge of my desire to the
thing; but the longer u seemed to be delayed, the
more eager I was for it; In a word, I was not at first
more careful to Ihun the sight of those savages, and a-
void being seen by them, than I was now eager to be
upon them.
Besides, I fancied myself able to manage one, nay,
two or three savages, if I had them, so as to make
them entirely slaves to me, to do whatever I should
direct them, and to prevent their being able, at any
time, to do me any hurt; It was a great while that I
pleased myself with this affair, but nothing still pre-
sented; all ray schemes and fancies came to nothing,
for no savages came near me for a great while.
About a year and an half after 1 had entertained
L 3
these notions, and, by long musing, had, as it were re?
solved them all into nothing, for want of an occasion
to put them in execution, 1 was surprised one morn-
ing early, with seeing no less than five Canoes all on
sliore together, on, my side of the island, and the pep-
pie who belonged to them all landed, and out of my
fight: The number of them broke all my measures;
for seeing so many, and knowing that they always
came four, or six, or sometimes more in a boat, I could
not tell what to think of it, or how to take my mea-
sures to attack twenty or thirty men single-handed; so
I lay still in my castle, perplexed, and discomforted;
however, 1 put myself into the same posture for an
attack, that I had formerly provided, and was just rea-
dy for action, if any thing had presented : Having wai-
ted a good while, listening to hear if they made any
noise, at length being very impatient, I set my guns at
the foot of my ladder, and clambered pp to the top
of the hill by my two stages, as usual j standing so
however, that my head did not appear above the hill;
so that they could not perceive me by any means:
JJere I observed, by the help of my perspective-glass,
that they were no Jess than thirty in number, that they
had a fire kindled, and that they had had meat dresr
fed; how they cooked it, that 1 know pot, or what it
was; but they were all dancing, in I know not how
many barbarous gestures <and figures, their own way,
round the fire.
When I was thus looking on theip, ] perceived by
niy perspective two miserable wretches dragged frorp
the boats, where, it seems, they were laid by, and were
now brought opt for .the slaughter; 1 perceived onp
of them iramediately fell, being knocked down, I sup-
pose, with a club or wooden sword, for that was their
way; and t.vo or three others were at work immedi-
ately, cutting him open for their cookery, while the
other victim was left standing by himself, tiil they
should be ready for him: In that very moment this
poor wretch seeing himself a little at liberty, nature
inspired him with hopes of life, and he started away
from them, and ran with incredible swiftness along the
sands, directly towards me, I mean towards that part
of the coast where my habitation was.
1 was dreadfully frighted (that I must acknowledge)
when 1 perceived him to run my way; and especially
when, as 1 thought, I saw him pursued by the whole
body ; and now I expected that part of my dream was
coming to pass, and that he would certainly take shel-
ter in the grove; but I could not depend by any means
upon my dream for the rest of it, viz that the other
savages would not pursue him thither, and find him
there: However, 1 kept my station, and ray spirits be-
gan to recover, when I found that there were not a*
bove three men that followed him; and (till more was
I encouraged, when 1 found that heoutstript them ex-
ceedingly in running, and gained ground of them, so
that if he could but hold it out for half an hour, I
saw easily be would fairly get away from them all.
There was between them and my castle the creek
which I mentioned often at the first part of my story,
when 1 landed my cargoes out of the ship; and this I
knew, he must necessarily swim over, or the poor
wretch would be taken there: But when the savage
escaping; came thither, he made nothing of it tho* the
L 4
tide was then up; but plunging in, swam through in
about thirty strokes, or thereabouts, landed, and ran
on with exceeding strength and swiftness; when the
three pursuers came to the creek, 1 found that two of
them could swim, but the third could not, and that he
standing on the other side, looked at the other, but
went no farther, and soon aster went softly back again,
Which, as it happened, was very well for him in the
main.
I observed that the two that swam, were yet more
^han twice as long swimming over the creek, than the
fellow was that fled from them: It came now very
Warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that
jiow was my time to get me a servant, and perhaps a
companion or assistant, and that I was called plainly by
providence to save this poor creature's life; I inline*
^iately got down the ladders with all possible expediti-
on, fetched my two guns, for they were both at th§
foot of the ladder, as I observes above; and getting
up again with the fame haste to the top of the hill, I
crossed towards the sea; and, having a very short cut,
and all down hill, clapped myself in the way between
the pursuers and the pursued, hollowing aloud to him
that fled, who, looking back, was at first perhaps as
much frighted at me as them; but I beckoned with
my hand to him to come back, ^nd in the mean time,
I flowly advanced towards the two that followed; then
rustling at once upon the foremost, 1 k pock ed him
down with the stock of my piece; I was loath to fire,
because I would not have the rest bear; though at the
distance it would not have been easily heard; and be-
ing otjt of the sight of the smoke too, they would tiof
have easily known what to make of it. Having knoc-
ked this fellow down, the other wha pursued him stop-
ped, as if he had been frightned, and I advanced apace
towards him; but as I came nearer, I perceived pre-
sently he had a bow and arrow, and was fitting to {hoot
at me; so I was then necessitated to shoot at him first,
which I did, and killed him at the first ihot. The poor
savage who fled, hut had stopped, though he saw both
his enemies fallen and killed (as he thought) yet was
so frighted with the fire and noise of my piece, that
he stood stock still, and neither came forward nor went
backward, tho' he seemed rather inclined to fly still,
than to come on, I hollowed again to him, and made
signs to him to come forward, which he easily under-
stood, and came a little way, then stopped again, and
then a little farther, and stopped again, and I could
then perceive that he stood trembling, as if he had
been takea prisoner, and had just been to be killed as
his two enemies were. I beckoned him again to come
to me, and gave him all the signs of encouragement I
could think of; and he came nearer and nearer, knee*
ling down every ten or twelve steps, in token of ac-
knowledgment for saving his life. 1 smiled at him, and
looked pleasantly, and beckoned to him to come still
nearer. At length he came close to me, and then he
kneeled down again, kissed the ground, and laid his
head upon the ground, and taking me by the foot, set
my foot upon his head : This, it seems, was in token
of swearing to be my stave for ever. I took him up,
?md made much of him, and encouraged him all I could.
But there was more work to do yet; for 1 perceived
she sayage, whom I knocked down, was not killed,.bus
stunned with the blow, and began to come to himself t
So I pointed to him, and shewed him the savage, that
he was not dead, upon this he spoke some words to me,
and tho' I could not understand them, yet I thought
they were pleasant to hear, for they were the first sound
os a man's voice that I had heard (my own excepted)
for above five and twenty years: but there was no
time for such reflections now; the savage who was
knocked down, recovered himself so far as to sit upon
the ground; and I perceived that my savage began to
be afraid ; but when he s^w that, I presented my other
piece at the man, as if I would shoot him; upon this
my savage, for so I call him now, made a motion to me
to lend him my sword, which hung naked in a belt by
my side; so I did: He no sooner had it, but he runs
to his enemy, and at one blow cut off his head so cle«*
verly, no executioner in Germany could have done it
sooner or better; which I thought very strange, for
one, who, I had reason to believe, never saw a sword
in his life before, except their own wooden Iwords;
however, it seems, as I learned afterwards, they make
their wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood
is so hard, that they will cut off heads even with them,
ay, and arms, and that at one blow too. When he had
done this, he comes laughing to me in sign of tri-
umph, and brought me the sword again, and with a«?
bundance of gestures, which I did not understand, laid
it down with the head of the savage that he had kill-
ed, just before me*
But that which astonished him most was, to know
how I had killed the other Indian so far off; so poin<!
tiEg to him, he made signs to me to let him go to him,:
So I bade him go, as well as I could; when he caisif
to him, he stood like one amazed, looking at him *
turned him first on one side, then on t'other; looked
at the wound the bullet had made, which it seems was
just in his breast, where it had made a hole, and no
great quantity of blood had followed, but he had bled
inwardly, for he was quite dead Then he took up
Jiis bow and arrows, and came back ; so I turned to go.
away, and beckoned to him to follow me, making sigas
to him, that more might come after them*
Upon this he signed to me, that he should bury thera
with sand, that they rryght not be seen by the rest, if
they followed; and so I made signs again to him to do
so; he fell to work, and in an instant he had scraped
an hole in the sand with his hands big enough to bu»
ry the first in, and then dragged him into it> and
Covered him, and did so also by the other. 1 believer
he had buried them both in a quarter of an hour;
then calling him away, I carried him not to my castle,
but quite away to my cave, on the further part of the
island; so I did not let my dream come to pass in that
part, viz. that he came into my grove for shelter.
Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to.
eat, and a draught of water, which 1 found he was in-,
deed in great diItrefs for, by his running; and hav-
ing refreshed him, I made signs for him to go lie dowo^
and sleep, pointing to a place where I had laid a great
parcel of rice straw, and a blanket upon it, which I
Vised to sleep upon myself sometimes ; io the poor crea-
ture lay down, and went to sleep.
He was a comely handsome fellow, perfectly well
made, with strait long limbs, not too large, aud well
shaped, and, as I reckon, about 26 years of age. He
had a very good countenance, not a fierce and surly a-
spect, but seemed to have something very manly in his
face, and yet he had all the sweetness and softness of
an European in his countenance too, especially when
he smiled: His hair was long and black, not curled
like wool; his sorehead very high, and large, and a
great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes,The
colour of his ikin was not quite black, but very tawny,-
and yet not of an ugly yellow nauseous tawny, as thi
BrasilianSy Virginians, and other natives of America
are, but of a bright kind of a dun olive colour, that
had in it something very agreeable, tho' not very easy
to describe, His face was round and plump, his nose
small, not flat like the Negroes, a very good mouth,
thin lips, and his teeth fine, well-set, and white as ivo*
ry: After he had flumbered, rather than slept, about
an hour, he waked again, and comes out of the cave
to me, for I had been milking my goats which I had
in the inclosure just: by : When he espied me, he came
running ro me, laying himself down again upon the
ground, with all the possible signs of an humble thank-
ful disposition, making many antic gestures to fliew iu
At last he lays his head flat upon the ground, close to
my foot, and sets my other foot upon his head, as he
had done before; and after this, made all the signs to
me of subjection, servitude and submission imaginable,
to let me know how much he would serve me as long
as he lived 1 understood him in many things, and let
him knowl was very well pleased with him; in a little
time I began to speak to him, and teach him to speak
to me; and first, 1 made him know his name should be
Friday, which was the day I saved his life; and 1 call-
ed him so for the memory of the time; I likewise
taught him to say Master, and then let him know that
was to be my name; I likewise taught him to say Yes
and No, and to know the meaning of them) 1 gave him
some milk in an earthen pot, and let him see me drink
it before him, and sop my bread in it; and I gave
him a cake of bread to do the like, which he quickly
Complied with, and made signs that it was very good
for him.
I kept there with him all that night, but as soon as
it was day, I beckoned him to come with me, and let
him know I would give him some cloaths, at which he
seemed very glad for he was siai k naked As we went
by the place where he had buried the two men, he
pointed exactly to the spot, and shewed me the marks
that he had made to find them again, making signs td
me that we should dig thercsup again, and eat them;
at this I appeared very angry, expressed my abhor-
rence of it, made as if 1 would vomit at the thoughts
of it, and beckoned with my hand to him to come a-
way, which he did immediately with great submission:
I then led him up to the top of the hill to fee if his e-
nemies were gone, and pulling out my glass, I looked,
and saw plainly the place where they had been, but no
appearance of them, or of their Canoes; so that it was
plain that they were gone, and had left their two com-
rades behind them, without any search after them.
But I was not content with this discovery, but hav-
ing now more courage, and consequently more curio-
sity, I took my man Friday with me, giving him the
sword in his hand, with the bow and arrows at his
feaclc, which I found he cou!d use very dexterously,
making him carry one gun for me, and I two for my-
self, and away we marched to the place where these
creatures had been for 1 had a mind now to get some
suiter intelligence of them: When I came to the place
xny very blood ran chill in my veins, and my heart
funk within me at the horror of the spectacle: Indeed
it was a dreadful sight, at least it was so to me, though
Friday made nothing of it: The place was covered
with human bones, the ground dyed with the blood,
great pieces of flefli left here-and-there, half-eaten,
mangled, and scorched; and, in short, all the tokens of
the triumphant feast they had been making there, af-
ter a victory over their enemies: I saw three ikulls,
five hands, and the bones of three or four legs and
seer, and abundance of other parts of the bodies; and
Friday^ by his signs, made me understand, that they
brought over four prisoners to feast upon; that three
of them were eaten up* and ihat he, pointing to him*
self, was the fourth; that there had been a great bat*
tie between them and their next king, whose subjects^
it seems, he had been one of and that they had taken
a great dumber of prisoners all which were carried to
fevetal places by those who had taken them in the
flight, in order to feast upon them, as was done here
by these wretches upon those they brought hither.
I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, flesh, bones
and whatever remained and lay them together on an
heap, and make a great fire upon it, and burn them
all toasees: I found Friday had still an hankering sto-
mach after some of the flesh, and was still a canibal in
his nature; but I discovered so much abhorrence at the
tery thoughts of it, and at the least appearance of it,
that he durst not discover it; for I had, by some means,
let him know, that I would kill him if he offered it.
When we had done this, we came back to our cattle,
and there I fell to work for my man Friday; and fitst
of all, I gave him a pair of linen drawers, which I had
out of the poor gunner's chest I mentioned, and which
1 found in the wreck; and which, with a little altera-
tion, fitted him very well; then I made him a jerkin
of goat's-lkin, as well as my skill would allow, and I
was now grown a tolerable good taylor; and I gave
him a cap, which I had made of a hare-skin, very con-
venient, and fashionable enough: and he was dressed,
for the present, tolerably well, and mighty well was
he pleased to see himself almost as well cloathed as his
master: It is true, he went aukwardly in these things
at first; wearing the drawers was very auk ward to
him, and the fleeves of the waistcoat galled his should-
ers, and the inside of his arras; but a little easing them,
where he complained they hurt him, and using him-
self to them, at length he took to them very well.
The next day after I came home to my hutch with
him, I began to consider where I stiould lodge him;
and that I might do well for him, and yet be perfectly
easy myself, I made a little tent for him in the vacant
place between my two fortifications, in the inside of the
last, and in the outside of the first: and as there was
a door or enterance there into my cave, I made a for-
mal framed door-case, and a door to it of boards, and
set it up in the passage, a little within the entrance;
and causing the door to open on the inside, I barred it
up in the night, taking in my ladders too; so that
Friday could no way come at me in the inside of mf
innermost wall, without making so much noise in get-
ting over, that it must needs awaken me > for my first
Wall had now a complete roof over it of long poles*
covering all my tent, and leaning up to a side of the hill,
Which was again laid cross, with small sticks instead of
laths, and then thatcVd over a great thickness with
the rice-*straw, which was strong like reeds; and ag
the hole or place which was left to go in or out by thd
ladder, I had placed a kind of trap-dodr, Which if it
had been attempted on the outside, would nqt have
pened at al], but would have fallen down, and made a.
great noise; and as to weapons, I took them all in to
my side every night.
But I needed none of all this precaution; for never
man had a more faithful, loving, sincere servant than
Friday was to me; without passions, sullenness,Or deA
signs; prefectly obliged and engaged; his very affecti-
ons were tied to me, like those of a child to a father •
and I dare say, he would have sacrificed his life
for the saving mine, upon any occasion whatsoever:
the many testimonies he gave me of this, put it out
of doubt; and soon convinced me, that I needed to use
no precautions as to my safety on his account. .
This frequently gave me occasion to observe and
that with wonder, that, however it had pleased God
Id his providence, and in the government of the works
of his hands, to take from so great part of the tfforld
O' his creatures, rhe best uses to which their faculties,
and ih,e powers of .theif fouls, are adapted; yet that
he has behoved upon them the fame powers, the fame
reason, the fame affections, the fame sentiments of kind*
Less and obligation, the fame passions and resentments of
wrongs, the fame fense of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity,
and all the capacities of doing good, and receiving good,
that he has given to us; and that when he pleases to
offer them occasions of exerting these, they are as rea-
dy, nay, more ready to apply them to the right uses
for which they were bestow'd, than we are. And this
made me very melancholy sometimes, in reflecting, as
the several occasions presented, how mean an use we
make of all these, even though we have these powers en-
lightened by the great lamp of instruction, the spirit of
God, and by the knowledge of his word, added to our
understanding; and why it has pleased God to hide the
like saving knowledge from so many millions of fouls,
who, if I might judge by this poor savage, would make
a much better use of it than we did.
From hence I sometimes was led too far to invade the
sovereignty of providence; and,,as it were, arraign the
justice of sp arbitrary a disposition of things, that should
hide that light from some, and reveal it to others, and
yet expect a like duty from both: But I shut it up, and
check'd my thoughts with this conclusion: first, That
we do not know by what light and law these should
be condemns; but that, as God was necessarily, and by
the nature of his being, infinitely holy and just, so it
could not be, but that if these creatures were all sen-
tenced to absence from himself, it was on account of
sinning against that light, which, as the scripture fays,
was a law to themselves, and by such rules as their
consciences would acknowledge to be just, though the
foundation was not discovered to us: And, secondly,
That still, as we are all the clay in the hand of the potter,
M
no vessel could say to him, Why hast thou form'd me
thus?
But to return to my new companion: I was greatly
delighted with him, and made it my business to teach
him every thing that was proper to make him useful,
handy, and helpful; but especially to make him speak,
and understand me when I spake; and he was the aptest
scholar that ever was; and particularly was so merry,
so constantly diligent, and so pleas'd when he could bug
understand me, of make me understand him, that it
was very pleasant to me to talk to him; and now my
hfe began to be so easy, that I began to say to myself,
that could I but have been safe from more savages I car'd
not if I was never to remove from the place while I
liv'd.
After I had been two or three days returned to mjr
castle, I thought, that, in order to bring Friday off from
his horrid way of feeding, and from the relish of a Ca-
nibal's stomach, I ought to let him taste other flefli; so
I took him out with me one morning to the woods: I
went, indeed, intending to kill a kid out of my own
lock, and bring it home and dress it: But as 1 was go-
ing, I saw a she-goat lying down in the shade, and two
young kids sitting by her: 1 catched hold of Friday,
hold, said I, stand still ; and made signs to him not to stir;
immediately I presented my piece, shot and killM one
of the kids. The poor creature, who had at a distance
indeed, seen me kill the savage, his enemy, but did not
know, or could imagine, how it was done, was sensibly
surprised, trembled and shook, and look'd so amaz'd,
that 1 thought he would have sunk down: He did not
fee the kid I had sttot ac, or perceive 1 had kilPd it,
but ripp'd up his waistcoat to feel if he was not Wound-
ed; and, as 1 found, presently thought 1 was resolv'd
to kill him ; for he came and kneePd down to me, and,
embracing my knees, said a great many things I did not
understand, but I could easily fee, that his meaning was
to pray me not to kill him,
I soon found a way to convince him, that 1 would
do him no harm; and taking him up by the hand, laughM
at him, and, pointing to the kid which I had kill'd, beck«
bn'd to him to run and fetch it, which he did; and
while he was wondering and looking to fee how the
creature waskill'd, I loaded my gun again, and by-and-
by I saw a great fowl, like an hawk, sit upon a tree
within shot; so, to let Friday understand a little what
I would do, I call'd him to me again, pointing at the
fowl, which was indeed a parrot, tho' I thought it had
been an hawk; I fay, pointing to the parrot, and to
my gun, and to the ground under the parrot, to let
him fee I would make him fall, I made him understand
ihat I would shoot and kill that bird; accordingly I fir'd,
and bid him look, and immediately he saw the parrot
fall: He stood like one frighted again, notwithstand-*
ing all that I had said to him; and I found he was the
more amazed, because he did not see me put any thing
into the gun; but thought there must be some won-
derful fund of death and destruction in that thing, able
to kill man, beast, bird, or any thing near or far off;
for the astonishment this created in him, was such, as
could not wear off for a long time; and I believe, if I
would have let him, he would have worsliipp'd me and
my gun: As for the gun itself, he would not so much
as touch it for several days after; but would speak to it,
M 2
and talk to it, as if it had answered him, when he
by himself; which, as I afterwards learn'd of him, was
to desire it not to kill him.
Well: after his astonishment was a little over at this,
I pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I had shot,
which he did, but staid some time; for the parrot, not
being quite dead, was fluttered a good way off from the
place whefe she fell; however he found her, took her
up, and brought her to me; and, as I had perceiv'd his
ignorance about the gun before, I took this advantage
to charge the gun again, and not let him fee me do it,
that I might be ready for any other mark that might
present; but nothing more offer'd at that time; so I
brought home the kid; and the same evening I took
the ikin off, and cut it out as well as I could, and hav-
ing a pot for that purpose, I boil'd or stew'd some of
the flesh, and made some very good broth; aster I had
begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seem'd
very glad of it, and lik'd it very well; but that which
Was strangest to him, was, to fee me eat salt with it,
He made a sign to me, that salt was not good to eat,
and putting a little into his own mouth, he seemed to
nauseate it. and would spit and sputter at it, washing
his mouth with fresh water after it; on the other hand
I took some meat in my mouth without salt, and I pre-
tended to spit and lputter for want of salt, as fast as he
had done at the salt; but it would not do, he would ne-
ver care for salt with meat, or in his broth; at least,
not a great while, and then but a very little.
Having thus fed him with boil'd meat and broth, I
Was resolv'd to feast him the next day with roasting a
piece of the kid; this 1 did by hanging it before the
fire in a string, as I had seen many people do in Eng-
land, setting two poles up, one on each side the fire and
one cross on the top, and tying of the string to the
cross stick, letting the meat turn continually: This
Friday admir'd very much; but when he came to taste
the flesh, he took so many ways to tell me how well he
lik'd it, that 1 could not but understand him: And at
last he told me he would never eat man's fle£h any more
which I was very glad to hear.
The next day I set him to work to beating some corn
out, and sifting it in the manner I used to do, as I ob-
served before; and he soon understood how to do it as
well as 1, especially after he had seen what the mean-
ing of it was, and that it was to make bread of; for af-
ter that I let him fee me make my bread, and bake it
too; and in a little time Friday was able to do all the
work for me, as well as I could do it myself.
I began now to consider, that having two mouths to
feed instead of one, I must provide more ground for
my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn, than
I us'd to do; sol mark'd out a larger piece of land,
and began the fence in the fame manner as before, in
which Friday not only workM very willingly, and very
hard, but did it very chearfully; abd I told him what
it was for, that it was for corn for to make more bread,
because he was now with me, and that I might have
enough for him and myself too: He appeared very sen-
sible of that part, and let me know, that he thought I
had much more labour upon me on his account, than
I had for myself, and that he would work the harder
for me, if I would tell him what to do.
This was the pleafantest year of all the life I led in
M 3
this place: Friday began to talk pretty well, and ua*
derstand the names of almost every thing I had occa-?
sion to call for, and of every place I had to fend him to*
and talk a great deal to me; so that, in fliort, I began
now to have some use for my tongue again, which in-
deed I had very little occasion for before; that is to
spy, about speech: Besides the pleasure of talking to
him, I had a singular satisfaction in the fellow himself;
his simple unfeigned honesty appeared tome more and
more every, day, and I began really to love the crea-
ture; and on his side, ] believe he lov'd me more than
it was possible for him ever to love any thing before,
I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering
inclination to his own country again; and having learn'd
him Englijty so well, that he could answer me almost any
questions; I aik'd him, whether the nation that he be-
longed to never conquered in battle. At which he smil'4
and said, yes, yes, we always 6ght the better; that is,
he meant, always get the better in fight, and so we be-
gan the following discourse. You always fight the bet-
ter! said I: How came you to be taken prisoner theo^
Friday?
Friday. My nation beat much for all that.
Ma/Jer-How beat; if your nation beat them, how
came you to be taken?
Iriday. They more than my nation in the place where
me was; they take one, two, three, and me: My nation
ever beat them in the yonder place, where me no was;
there my nation take ope, two, great thousand,
Master. But why did not your side recover you
from the hands of your enemies then?
Friday. They run one* two, three, and me, and make
go in the Canoe', my nation have no Canoe that time.
Master. Well, Friday, and what does your nation
do with the men they take i Do they carry them a*
way, and eat them as these did?
Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too, eat all up;
Master. Where do they carry them?
Friday. Go to other place where they think.
Master. Do they come hither? (place.
Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else
Master. Have you been here with them?
Friday. Yes, I been here [Points to the NT W. Side of
the Island, which, it seems, was their Side.^\
By this I understood, that my man Friday had for-
merly been among the savages, who used to come on
shore on the farther part of the island, on the said man-
eating occasions that he was now brought for; and some
time after, when I took the courage to carry him to
that fide, being the fame I formerly mentioned, he pre-
sently knew the place, and told me, he was there once
when they eat up twenty men, two women, and one
child: He could not tell twenty in Englijh, but he
oumberM them by laying so many stones in a row, and
pointing to me to tell them over.
I have told this passage, because it introduces what
follows; that after 1 had this discourse with him,
I aslc'd him, how far it was from our island to the
siiore, and whether the Canoes were not often lost:
He told me there was no danger, no Canoes ever lost:
but that after a little way out to sea, there was a cur-
rent, and a wind always one way in the morning, the
other in the afternoon.
This I understand to be no more than the sets of the
M4
tide, as going out, or coming in; but I afterwards ut}-*
derstood it was occasions by' the great draught and
reflux of the mighty river Oroonoque; in the mouth of
Which river, as I thought afterwards, our ifland lay;
and that this land, which I perceived to the W. and
N- W was the great ifland Trinidad, on the north
point of the mouth of the ri ver: I aik'd Friday a thou-
sand questions about the country, the inhabitants, the
sea, the coast, and what nations were near: he told
me all he knew, with the greatest openness imaginable:
I aik'd him the names of the several nations of his
sort of people, but could get no other name than Caribs;
from whence I easily understood, that these were the
Caribbees, which our maps place on that part of *Ame-
rica which reaches from the mouth of the river Oro$-
noque to Guiana, and onwards to St. Martha". He
told me, that up a great way beyond the moon, that was
beyond the setting of the moon, which must be W. from
their country, there dwelt white-bearded men, like
me, and pointed ro my great whiskers, which I men-
tioned beforehand that they had kill'd much mans,
that was his word •* By all which I understood he means:
the Spaniards, whose cruelties in ^America had been
spread over the whole countries, and were rememberM
by all the nations from father to son.
1 inquired if he could tell me how I might come from
this island, and get among those white men; he told
me, Yes, yes, I might go in two Canoe) I coujd not
understand what he meant by two Canoe y till at last,
with great difficulty, I found he meant, that it must
be in a large great boat, as big as two Canoes.
This part of Friday's discourse began to relisti with
me very well; snd from this time I entertained (omt
hopes, that one time or other I might find an opportu-
nity to make my escape from this place, and that this
poor savage might be a means to help me to do it.
1 During the long time that Friday had now been
with me, and that he began to speak to me, and un-
derstand me, I was not wanting to lay a foundation of
religious knowledge in his mind; particularly, I aikM
him one time, who made him? The poor creature did
pot understand me at all, but thought I had aik'd who
was his father: Bat I took it by another handle, and
afk'd him, who made the sea, the ground he walk'd
on, and the hills and woods? He told me, it was one
old Benamuckee that liv'd beyond all: He could de-
scribe nothing of this great person, but that he was very
old; much older, he said, than the sea or the land, than
the moon or the stars: I afk'd him then, if this old
person had made all things, wjiydid not all things wor-
ship him i He look'd very grave, and with a perfect
look of innocence, said, *4ll things said O to him: I
aslcM him, if the people who die in his country, went
away any where: He said, yes, they all went to Be-
namuckee; Then I alked him, whether those they eat
up went thither too? He said, yes.
From these things 1 began to instruct him in the
knowledge of the true God. I told him, that the great
maker of all things liv'd there,pointingup towards hea-
ven; That he governs the world by the fame power
and providence by which he made it: that he was om-
nipotent, could do every thing for us; give every thing
to us, take every thing from us; and thus, by degrees,
I open'd his eyes • He listen'd with great attention,
and received with pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ
being sent to redeem us, and of the manner of making
our prayers to God, and his being able to hears us, e-
ven in heaven: He told me one day, that if our God
could hear us up beyond the fun, he must needs be a
greater God than their Benamuckee, who liv'd but a
little way off, and yet could not hear, till they went
up to the great mountains where he dwelt, to speak
to him. I afk'd him, if ever he went thither to speak
to him? He said, no, they never went that were young
men; none went thither but the old men / whom he
call'd their Oowokakee, that is, as I made him explain
it to me, their religious, or clergy; and that they went
to fay O (so he call'd saying prayer?) and then came
back, and told them what Benamuckee said; By this
I observed, that there is Priestcraft even amongst the
most blinded ignorant pagans in the world; and the
policy of making a secret of religion, in order to preserve
the veneration of the people to the clergy, is not only
to be found in the Roman but perhaps in all religions
in the world, even among the most brutifli and barba-
rous savages.
I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man Fri-
day) and told him, that the pretence of their old men
going up to the mountains to sayO to their God Bena-
muckee, was a cheat; and their bringing word from
thence what he said, was much more so; that if they
met with any answer, or spoke with any one there, ic
must be with an evil spirit: And then I enrer'd into a
Jongdiscourse with himaboutthe devil, the original of
him, his rebellion against God, his enmity to man, the
reason of it, his setting himself up in the dark parts of
the world to be worlhipp'd instead of God, and as God,
£nd the many stratagems he made use of, to deluds
mankind to their ruin; how he had a secret access to
our passions, and to our affections, to adapt his snares
so to our inclinations, as to cause us even to be our
own tempters, and to run upon our own destruction by
pur own choice.
I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions in
his mind about the devil, as it was about the being of
a God: nature assisted all my arguments to evidence
to him even the necessity of a great first cause, and
over-ruling governing power, a secret directing pro-
vidence, and of the equity and justice of paying homage
to him that made us, and the like; but there appeared
nothing of all this in the notion of an evil spirit, of his
original, his being, his nature, and above all, of his inr
clination to do evil, and to draw us in to do so too .- and
the poor creature puzzled me once in such a manner,
by a question merely natural and innocent, that I
scarce knew what to say to him. I had been talking a
great deal to him of the power of God, his omnipo-
tence, his dreadful aversion to sin, his being a consum-
ing fire to the workers of iniquity; how, as he had
made us all, he could destroy us, and all the world*
io a moment; and he listened with great seriousness to
me all the while.
After this. I had been telling him how the devil
was God's enemy in the hearts of men? and used all
his malice and skill to defeat the good designs of pro-
vidence* and to ruin the kingdom of Christ in the
world, and the like: Well, fays Friday, but you fay,
God is so strong, so great, is he not much strong, much
plight, as the devil? Yes, yes, said I, Friday* God i$
stronger than the devil, God is above the devil, an4
therefore we pray to God to tread him under our
feet, and enable us to resist his temptations, and quench
his fiery darts. < But, fays he again, if God much
* strong, much might, as the devil, why God not kill
1 the devil, so make him no more wicked?''
I was strangely surprised at this question* and after
all, though I was now an old man, yet I was but a
young doctor, and ill enough qualified for a cafuisti
or a solver of difficulties: And at first, I could not
tell what to fay ; so I pretended not to hear him, and
asked him what he said: But he was too earnest for
an answer to forget his question; so that he repeated
it in the very fame broken words, as above By this
time I had recovered myself a little, and I said, 'God
'will at last punish him severely, he is reserved for the
€ judgment, and is to be cast into the bottomless pit* to
4 dwell with everlasting firethis did not satisfy Friday;
but he returns upon me, repeating my words,4 reserve
• at last, me no understand: but why not kill the der
€ vil now, not kill great ago?' You may as well alk
jne> said I, why God does not kill you and me, when
we do wicked things here that offend him: we are
preservec} to repent and be pardoned. He muses a
while at this j PP ell, well, fays he* mighty affectionate-
ly, that welh sq you* L devil, all wicked* all preserve,
repent* God pardon all: here 1 was run dovfa again by
him to the last degree, $nd it was a testimony to me,
how the mere potions of nature, thQugh they will
guide reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a God,
and of a worship or homage due to the supreme being
of God, as the consequence of our nature; yet no-
thUig but divine revelation can form the knowledge of
Jesus Christ, and of a redemption purchased for us; of
a mediator of a new covenant; and of an intercessor at
the footstool of God's throne, I fay, nothing but a re-
velation from heaven can form these in the foul; and
that therefore the gdspel of our Lord and Saviour
Jesus Christ, I mean the word of God, and the spirit
of God, promised for the guide and sanctifier of his
people, are the absolutely necessary instructors of the
souls of men in the saving knowledge of God, and the
means of salvation.
I therefore diverted the present discourse between
me and my man, rising up hastily, as upon some suddeii
occasion of going out; then sending him for something
a great way off, I seriously prayed to God, that he
would enable me to instruct savingly this poor savage,
assisting by his spirit the heart of the poor ignorant
creature to receive the light of the knowledge of God
in Christ, reconciling him to himself, and would guide
me to speak so to him from the word of God, as hi$
conscience might be convinced* his eyes opened, and
his foul saved •> when he came again to me? I entered
into a long discourse with him upon the subject of the
redemption of man by the saviour of the world, and
of the doctrine of the gospel preached from heaven,
viz. of repentance towards God, and faith in our blefc
fed Lord Jesus: I then explained to him, as well as I
could, why our blessed redeemer took not on him the
nature of angels, but the feed of .Abraham, and how
for that reason the fallen angels had no ihare iti the
redemption; that he came only to the lost (beep of the
house of Israel, and the like*
1 had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge,
in all the methods I took for this poor creature's in-
struction; and must acknowledge, what I believe all.
that act upon the fame principle will find> that in laying
things open to him, I really informed and instructed
myself in many things that either I did not know, or
had not fully considered before; but which occurred
naturally to my mind, upon my searching into them,
for the information of this poor savage; and I had
more affection in my inquiry after things upon this oc-
casion, than ever I felt before; so that whether this
poor wild wretch was the better for me or no, I had
great reason to be thankful, that ever he came to me:
iny grief sat lighter upon me, my habitation grew com-
fortable to me beyond measure; and when I reflected,
that in this solitary life which I had been confined to*
I had not only been moved myself to look up to heaven,
and to seek to the hand that brought me thither, but
was now to be made an instrument, under providence>
to save the life, and, for aught I knowi the soul, of a
poor savage, and bring him to the true knowledge of
religion, and of the christian doctrine, that he might
know Christ Jesus, to know whom is life eternal; I
fay, when I reflected upon all these things, a secret
joy ran thro' every part of my soul, and I frequently
rejoiced, that ever I was brought to this place, which
I had often thought the most dreadful of all afflicti-
ons, that coilld possibly have befallen me.
In this thankful frame I continued all the remain-
der of my time, and the conversation which employed
the hours between Friday and me was such, as made
the three years which we lived there together, perfect-
ly and completely happy* if any such thing as corapfetd
happiness can be found in a sublunary state: the sa-
vage was now a good christian, a much becter than I;
though 1 have reason to hope, and bless God for it,
that we were equally penitent, and comforted restor-
ed penitents: we had here the word of God to read*
and no farther off from his spirit to instruct, than if
we had been in England.
I always applied myself to reading the scripture, and
to let him know, as well as I could, the meaning of
what I read; and he again, by his serious inquiries
and questions, made me, as I said before, a much bet-
ter scholar in the scripture-knowledge^ than I should
ever have been by my own mere private reading: An-
other thing I cannot refrain from abserviag here also
from experience, in this retired part of my life; viz.
how infinite and inexpressible a blessing it is, that the
knowledge of God, and of the doctrine of salvation by
Jesus Christ* is so plainly laid down in the word of
God, so easy to be received and understood, that as the
bare reading the scripture made me capable of under-
standing enough of my duty to carry me directly on to
the great work of sincere repentance of my fins, and
laying hold of a saviour for life and salvation, to a sta-
ted reformation in practice, and obedience to all God's
commands, and this without any teacher or instructor
(I mean, human) so the fame plain instruction sufficient-
ly served to the enlightening this savage creature, ancs
bringing him to be such a christian, as I have known
few equal to him in my life.
As to the disputes, wranglings, strife, and contenti-
on which has happened in the world about religion,
Whether niceties in doctrines, or schemes of church*
government, they were all perfectly useless to us, as,
for aught I can yet fee, they have to all the rest in the
world: We had the sure guide to heaven, viz. the
word of God; and we had blessed be God, comforta-
ble views of the spirit of God, teaching and instruc-
ting us by his word, leading us into all truth, and mak-
ing us both willing and obedient to the instruction of
his word; iand I cannot fee the least use that the great-
est knowledge of the disputed points in religion, which
have made such confusions in the world, would have
been to us, if we could have obtained it: But I must
•go on with the historical part of things, and take e~
Very part in its order.
After Friday and I became more intimately acquaint-
ted, and that he could understand almost all I said to
him, and speak fluently, though in broken English, to
hie; I acquainted him with my own story, or at least:
so much of it as related to my coming into the place,
how I had lived there, and how long: I let him into
the mystery (for such it was to him) of gunpowder
and bullets* and taught him how to shoot: 1 gave him
a knife, which he was wonderfully delighted with, and
I made him a belt with a frog hanging to it, such as in
England we wear hangers in j and in the frog, instead
of an hanger> I gave him an hatchet, which was not
only as good a weapon in some cafes, but much more
useful upon many occasions.
I described to him the countries of Europe, and par-
iticularly England, which I came from; how we lived,
how we worshipped God, how we behaved to one an-
bther* and how we traded in ships to all the parts of
ihe World: Igave him an account of the wreck which
I had been on board of, and IhewM him, as near as I
could, the place where she lay; but Ihe was all beaten
in pieces long before, and quite gone.
I fhew'd him the ruins of our boat, which we lost
When we escap'd, and which I could not stir with my
whole strength then, but was now fallen almost all to
pieces: upon seeing this boat, Friday stood musing a
great while, and said nothing; I alk'd him what it
was he studied upon? at last, fays he, Me see such boat
like come to place dt my nation* 1
I did not understand him a good while; but at last*
when I had examined further into it, I understood by
him, that a boat, such as that had been, came onshore
upon the country where he liv'd; that is, as he explain'd
it, was driven thither by stress of weather : I presently
imagined, that some European ship must have been cast
away upon their coast, and the boat might get loose,
and drive ashore; but was so dull, that I never once
thought of men making escape from a wreck thither,
much less wheHce they might come; so I only inquired
after a description of the boat* y
Friday described the boat to me well enough; but
brought me better to understand him, when he added,
with some warmth; We save the white mans from drown:
then I presently alk'd him, if there were any white mans,
as he called them, in the boat: Tes, he said, the boat
full of white mam i I alk'd him, how many? He told
upon his fingers seventeen; I ask'd him then, what be*
eame of them? He told me, They live, they dwell at
my nation.
This put new thoughts into my head again; for I
N
ftesehtly imagraed,that these might be themen belong-
ing to the ship that was cast away in sight of my island,
as I now call it; and who, after the ship was struck ost
the rock, and they saw her inevitably lost, had saved
themselves in their boat, and were landed upon that
wild {bore among the savages.
Upon this I inquired of him more critically, what was
become of them; he assur'd me they liv'd still there,
that they had been there about four years, that the sa-
vages let them alone, and gave them victuals to live:
I ask'd him, how it came to pass they did not ki|J them,
and eat them? He said, No, they make brother with
them-, that is, as I understand him, a truce - and then
he added, They eat no mans bat when make the war
Jight: That is to fay, they never eat any men, but such
as come to fight with them, and are raken in battle.
It was after this, some considerable time, that being
on the top of the hill, at the east-side of the island,
from whence, as I have said, I had in a clear day dif-
cover'd the main or continent of America; Friday, the
weather being very serene, looks very earnestly towards
the main land* and in a kind of surprise falls a jumping
and da&cing* and calls out to me, for I was at some
distance from him: I ask'd him what was the matter?
O joy I fays he, O glad / Therefee my country, there my
nation!
I observed anextraordinary fense of pleasure appear-
ed in his face, and his eyes sparkled, and his counte-
nance discovered a strange eagerness, as if He had a
mind to be in his own: country again; and this obser-
vation of mine put a great many thoughts into me,
which made me gt first not fo easy about my new man
(ml
Friday, is I tvas before; and I made no dohht, but that
if Friday cotild get back to his own nation again, he
would not only forget all his r£!igibn> but all his obli-
gations to nie; and would be forward etiough to give
his countrymen an account of me and come back per-
haps, with an hundred or two of them, and make a
feast upon me, at which he might be as merry as he
used to be with those of his enemies, when they were
taken in war.
But I wrong'd the poor honest creature very much,
for which 1 was very sorry afterwards: however, as
my jealousy increased, and held me fomie weeks, I was
a little more circumspect, and not so familiar and kind
to him as before* in which I was certainly in the wrong
too, the honest grateful creature having no thought a*
bout it, but What consisted of the best principles, both
as a religious christian, and as a grateful friend* as ap-
peared afterwards to my full satisfaction.
Whilst my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure
I was every day pumping him to fee if he would
discover any of the new though, which I suspected
were in him; but 1 found every thing he said was ho-
aest, and so innocent, that I could find nothing to nou-
rish my suspicion; and, in spite of all my uneasiness, he
uiade me at last intirdy his own again; nor did he in
the least perceive, that I was uneasy; and therefore I
could dot suspect him of deceit.
One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather
being hazy at the sea, so that we could not see the con-
tinent, I called to him, and said, Friday, do not you
wisli yourself in your own country, your own nation?
Tts> he said, 1'bt much O glad to be at my own nation.
N 2
"What Would you do there? said I s would you tuni
tvild again, eat mans flesli again, and be a savage as you
were before?'He lookM full of concern, and shaking
his head, said, No, no, Friday tell them to live good, tell
them to pray God, tell them to eat corn-bread, cattle*
flejh, milk, no eat man again. Why then, said I to him,
they will kill you: he look'd grave at that, and then
said, No * they no kill me, they willingly love learn; he
meant by this, they would be willing to learn: he ad-
ded, they learn'd much of the bearded mans that came
in the boats then I afk'd him, it he would go back to
them? He siniPd at that, and told me he could not
swim so far: I told him I would make a Canoe sot him s
he told me he would go* if 1 would go with him. I
go! said I, why they will eat me if I come there:
iV<v no, soys he, me make them no eat you, me make them
much love you: He meant he would tell them how I
had kilPd his enemies and sav'd his life, and so he would
make them love me: then he told me as well as hecould
how kind they Were to seventeen white men, or bear-*
ded men, as he call'd them, who came on fliore in di-
stress.
From this time, I confess, I had a mind to venture
©ver, and fee if I could possibly join with these bearded
men, who, I made no doubt, were Spaniards or Portu*
guefe-, not doubting but, if I could, we might find some
method to escape from thence, being upon the conti-
nent, and a-good company together, better than I could
from an island forty miles off the fliore* and alone with
out help: so> after some days, I took Friday to work
again, by way of discourse; and told him, I would
give him a boat to go back to his own nation; and
accordingly 1 carried him to my frigate, which lay on
the other side of the island; and having cJear'd it of
water (for I always kept it funk in the water) I brought
it out, sliew'd it him, and we both went into it,
I found he was a most dextrous fellow at managing
it, would make it go almost as swift and fast again as I
could; so when he was in, I said to him, well, now
Friday, shall we go to your nation I He look'd very
dull at my saying so, which* it seems, was because he
thought the boat too small to go so far: I told him then
I had a bigger; so the next day, I went to the place
where the first boat lay which I had made, but which
I could not get into the water; he said that was big
enough; but then, as I had taken no care of it, and it
had lain two or three-and-twenty years there, the fun
had split and dry'd it, that it was in a manner rotten.
Friday told me, such a boat would do very well, and
would carry much enough vittle, drink, bread, that was
his way of talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixM upon
my design of going over with him to the continent,
that 1 told him we would go and make one as big as
that, and he should go home in it. He answer'd
not one word, but look'd very grave and sad. Iafk'd
him what was the matter with him. He ask'd me a-
gain thus, Why you angry mad with Friday? what mt
done f I ask'd him what he meant; I told him I was
not angry with him at alb N o angry! No angry / fays
he, repeating the words several times, why send Friday
home away to my nation? Why, said I, Friday, did you
not say you wifli'd you were there? Tes, yes, says he,
wijhbe both there, no wish Friday there, no mailer there.
Jn a word, he would not think of going there with-
N i
out me. I go there, Friday! ftid I: what Ihould \
do there? He turnM yery quick upon me at this; Yw do
great deal much good, fays he, you teach wild mans be
good,sober, tame mans; you tell them ino;%v God, pray
God, and live new Use. Alas, Friday, said I, thou
krtoWest not what thou sayest; I am but qn ignorant
min myself. Yes, yes, says he, you te^achee me good, you
te&th'ee them good. No, no, Friday, said I, you shall
go without me; Ieaye me hgfe to live by myself, as I
dfd before He look'd confqs'd again at that word,
and running to one of the hatchets which he used to
weaf, he takes it up hastily, and gives it me. What
must: I do With this? said I to him: You take kill
Friday, says hp. What must I kill you for? said I a?
gain. He returns very quick, What you fend Friday
away for? Taie kill Friday, no fend Friday away.
This he spoke (q earnestly, that I saw tears stand it;
his eyes. In a word, 1 so plainly discover'd the utmost
affection in him to me, and a firm resolution in him,
that I fold him then, apd often after, that I would ne*
ver sepd him ^way from me, is he w$s willing to stay
with me.
Upon the whole, as I found by all his discoprse, 4
settled affection to me, and that nothing Ihould part
him from me, sol found all the foundation of his de-
sire to go tp his own country, was laid in his ardent
affection to the people, and his hopes of my dQing them
good; a thing, which as I h^d no notion of myself,
so I had not the least thought, or intentiop, or desire
of undertaking it. But still I found a strong inclination
to my attempting an escape, as above, founded on th$
supposition gathered frost* the former discourses viz*
That there were seventeenbearded men there; andthere-
fore, without any delay* I went to work with Friday,
to find out a great tree proper to fell, and make a large
Periagua or Canoe, to undertake the voyage • there
were trees enough in the island to have built a little
fleet, not of Periaguas and Canoes only, but even of
good large vessels: but the main thing I looked at,
was to get one so near the water that we might launch
it when it was made, to avoid the mistake I committed
at first.
At last, Friday pitched upon a tree; for 1 found he
knew much better than I, what kind of wood was fit-
test for it; nor can I tell to this day, what wood to call
the tree we cut down, except that it was very like the
tree we call Fustic, or between that and the Nicara-
gua wood, for it was much of the fame colour and
smell: Friday was for burning the hollow or cavity of
this tree out, to make it into a boat; but I shewed him
how rather tocutit out with tools, which after I fhew'd
him how to use, he did very handily, and in about a
month's hard labour we finished it, and made it very
handsome, especially when with our axes, which I
(hewed him how to handle, we cut and hew'd the out-
side into the true shape of a boat; after this however,
it cost us near a fortnight's time to get her along, as
it were inch by inch, upon great rollers* into the wa-
ter: but when (he was in, Jhe would have carried twen-
ty men with great ease.
When (he was in the water, and tho' she was so big,
it amaz'd me to fee with what dexterity and how swift
my man Friday would manage her, turn her, and pad-
dle her along; so I asked him if he would, and if we
N4
might ventureover in her: Ves,hc said, he venture over
in her very well, though great blow wind' However,
I had a farther design that he knew nothing of, and
that was to make a mast and fail, and to fit her with
an anchor and cable: as to a mast, that was easy enough
to get; so I pitched upon a strait young cedar-tree,
which I found near the place, and which there was
great plenty of in the ifland; and I set Friday to work
to cut it down, and gave him directions how to shape
and order it: but as to the fail, that was my particu-
lar care; I knew I had old fails, or rather pieces of
old fails enough; but as I had them now twenty six
years by me, and had not been very careful to preserve
them, not imagining that 1 should ever have this kin4
of use for them, I did not doubt but they were all rot-r
ten; and indeed most of them were so ; however, I
found two pieces which appeared pretty good, and with
these I went to work, and with a great deal of pains,
and aukward tedious stitching (you may be sure) for
want of needles, I at length made a three-eorner'd ug-
ly thing, like what we call in England a fhoulder-of-
mutton fail, to go with a boom at bottom, and a little
ftiort sprit at the top, such as usually our ships long-
boats fail with, and such as I best knew how to manage:
because it was such a one as I used in the boat in which
1 made my escape from Barbary, as related in the first
part of my story,
I was near two months performing this last work;
viz. rigging and fitting my mast and fails; for I finifh'd
them very complete, making a small stay, and a sail or
foresail to it, to assist, if we should turn to windwards
and, which was more than all, 1 fix'd a rpdder to the
ftern of her, to steer with ; and tho* I was but a bung*
Jing shipwright, yet as I knew the usefulness and ever*
necessity of such 3 thing, I applied myself with so much
pains to do it, that at last I brought it to pass, tho*
considering the many dull contrivances I had for it
that fail'd, I think it coast me almost as much labour
as making the boat.
After all this was done, I had my man Friday to,
teach as to what belongM to the navigation of my boat;
for tho* he knew very well how to paddle the Canoe, he
knew nothing what belonged to a fail and a rudder,
and was the most amaz'd when he saw me work the
boat to and again in the sea by the rudder, and how the
fail gyb'd, and filPd this way or that way, as the course
we sail'd chang'd; I say, when he saw this, he stood
like one astonisli'd and amazed: however with a little
use, I made all these things familiar to him, and he be-
came an expert sailor, except that as to the compass, I
could m^kc him understand very little of that: on the
other hand, as there was very little cloudy weather,
and seldom or never any fogs in those parts, there was
the less occasion for a compass, seeing the stars were
always to be seen by night, and the ihore by day, ex-
cept in the rainy seasons / and then nobody cared tq
stir abroad, either by land or sea.
I was now enter'd on the feven-and-twentieth yeap
of my captivity in this place; though the three last
years that I had this creature with me, ought rather to
be left out of the account, my habitation being quite of
another kind than in all the rest of my time. I kept
the anniversary of my landing herewith the same thank-
fulness to God for his mercies as at first and if I had
fech cause of acknowledgment at first, I had much more
so now, having such additional testimonies of the care
of providence over me, and the great hopes 1 had of
being effectually and speedily deliver'd; for 1 had an
invincible impression upon my thoughts, that my deli-
verance was at hand, and that I should not be another
year in this place- however, I went on with my hufe
bandry, digging, planting, fencing as usual; I gathered
and cur'd my grapes, and did every necessary thing, as
before.
The rainy season was in the mean time upon me,
when I kept more within-doors than at other times;
so I had stow'd our new vessel as secure as we could,
bringing her up into the creek, where, as I said in
the beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship; and
haling her up into the shore, at high-water mark, I
made my man Friday tig* little dock, just big enough
to hold her, and just deep enough to give her water
enough to float in; and then when the tide was out,
we made a strong dam cross the end of it, to keep the
water out; and so fkz lay dry, as to the tide from the
sea; and to keep the rain off, we laid a great many
boughs of trees so thick, that flie was as well thatch'd
as an house; and thus we waited for the months of
November and December, in which I designed to make
my adventure.
When the settled season began to come in, as the
thought of my design return'd with the fair weather,
I was preparing daily for the voyage; and the first
thing I did was to lay up a certain quantity of provi-
sion, being the store for the voyage; and intended in
a week or a fortnight's time, to open the dock, and
launch out our bqat ; I was busy one morning up<s>^
something of this kind, when I calPd to Friday, am}
bid him go to the seashore, ancl see if he could find 4
turtle or tortoise, a thing which we generally got once
a week, for the sake of the eggs, as well as the flesh.
Jfsriday had not been long gone, when he came run-:
ning back, and flew over my outward wall, or fence,
like one tb^t felt not the ground, or the steps he sec
his feet on; and before I had time to speak to him, he
cry'd out to me, Q master! O muster! O sorrow! Q
badl What's the matter, Friday? fad I; O yonder
there, fays he, one, two, three canoe! one7 two, three I
By this way of speaking I concluded there were six;
but on inquiry I found there were but three. Well
Friday, said I, dp not be frightedso 1 hearten'd him
Up as vyell as I could: however, I saw the poor fellow
most terribly scar'd; for nothing ran in his head but
jhat they were come to look for him, and would cut
him in pieces, and eat him; the poor fellow trembled
so, that I scarce knew what to do with him: I com?
sorted him as well as I could* and told him I was in
as much danger as he, and that they would eat me as
well as him. But, said L Friday, we mujl resolve to
sight them: can you fight, Friday? Me shoot, says he,
but there come many great number. No matter for that
said I again, our guus will fright them that we do not
kill. So lalk'd him, whether, if I refolv'd to defend
him, he would defend me, and stand by me. and do
just as I bade him? He said, me die, when you bid die,
mas}er; so I went and fetch'd a good dram of rum,
and gave him; for I had been so good an husband of
pay rum, that I had a great deal left: when he ha<idr?nk
Jt,Imade him take the two fowling-pieces which we al-
ways carry'd, and load them with large swan-ihot, as
big as small pistol-bullets; then I took four musquets,
and loaded them with two slugs, and live small buk
lets each; and my two pistols I loaded with a brace
of bullets each: 1 hung my great sword, a$ usual, naked
by my side, and gave Friday, his hatchet.
When I had thus prepared myself, I took my per-
spective-glass, and went up to the side of the hill to
fee what I could discover; and 1 found quickly by
my glass, that there were one and twenty savages, three
prisoners, and three Canoes; and that their whole bu-
siness scem'd to be the triumphant banquet upon these
three human bodies; a barbarous feast indeed but no-
thing more than as I had observed was usual with them.
I observed also, that they were landed, not where
they had done when Friday m^dc his escape, but nearer
to my creek, where the shore wa§ low, and where a
thick wood came close almost down to the sea: this,
with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these wret-
ches came about, so fillcl me with indignation, that I
came down again to Friday, and told him, I was re-
solv'd to go down to them, and kill them all; and alk'd
him if he would stand by me. He was now gotten o*
ver his fright, and his spirits being a little raised with
the dram I had given him, he was very chearful ; an4
told me, as before, he would die when I bid die.
In this fit of fury, I took first and divided the arms
which I had charg'd, as before, between us: I gave
Friday one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three guns
upon his shoulder; and I took one pistol, and the o-
ther three, myself; and in this posture we march'd
out; I took a small bottle of rum in my pocket, and
gave Friday a large bag with more powder and bulleifj
and as to orders, I charg'd him to keep close behind
me, and not to stir, or shoot, or do any thing till I bid
him ;\ and in the mean time, not to spe;ak<a word: in
this posture I fetched a compass to my right hand of
near a mile, as well to get over the creek as to get in-
to the wood; so that I might come within shot of them
before I (hould be discovers which I had seen by my
glass it was easy to do.
While I was making this march, my former thoughts
returning, I began to abate my resolution; I do not
mean, that I entertain'd any fear of their number; for
as they were naked,unarm'd wretches, 'tis certain 1 was
superior to them; nay, though I had been alone; but
it occurred to my thoughts, what call, what occasion,
much less, what necessity, I was in to go and dip my
hands in blood, to attack people, who had neither done
or intended me any wrong: who as to me, were in-
nocent, and whose barbarous customs were their own
disaster, being in them a token indeed of God's hav*
ing left them, with the other nations of that part of the
world, to such stupidity, and to such inhuman courses
but did not call me to take upon me to be a judge of
their actions, much less an executioner of his justice;
that whenever he thought fit, he would take the cause
into his own hands, and by national vengeance punish
them for rational crimes; but that in the mean time/
it was none of my business that it was true, Friday
might justify it, because he was a declared enemy, and
in a state of war with those very particular people, and
it was lawful for him to attack them; but I could not
fay the fame with respect to me: these things were so
Warmly pressM iipon my thoughts all the wd? as t weni
that I resolv'd I would only go to place myself near
them, that I might observe their barbarous seas}, and
that I Would act then as God sliduld direct; but that
unless something offered that was more a call to me thaii
yet I knew of, I would not meddle with them-
IVith this resolution I enterM the vtood, and witH
all pbffible wariness arid silence (Friday following close
at my heels,) I march'd till I came to the skirt of the
wood ; bh the side which was netft to them; only that
one corner bf the wood lay between me and them *
here I call'd softly to Friday, and stiewing him a great
tree, which wisjust at the corner of the wood, I bade
him go to the tree, and bring me word if he cotild fee
there plainly what they were doihg: he did so, and
came immediately back io me. and told me they might
be plainly view'd there; that they were all about the
fire, eating the fiesti of one of their prisoners; and that
another lay bound upon the sand, a little from them,
tvhom he said they would kill next, and which fir'd
the very soul within me, He told me, it was not onfe
of their nation, but one of the bearded men whom he
had told me of, who came to their country in the boat
1 was filPd with horror at the very naming the white-
bearded marl, atid going to the tfee, I saw plainly, by
itiy glass, a white man, who lay upon the beach of the!
sea, with his hands and his feet tyM with flags, or things
like ruihes; and that he was £n European, and had
doaths on.
There was another tree, and a little thicket beybnd
lt,about fifty yards nearer to them than theplace where
I was, which, by going a little way abontf* I saw I might
Come at undiscover'd, and that then I should be witmri
half (hot of them; so I with-held my paffion, tho' 1
was indeed enrag'd to the highest degree; and going
back about twenty paces, I got behind some bushes,
which held all the way till I came to the other tree,
and then I came to a little rising ground, which gave
me a full view of them, at the distance of abouTeTjjhty
yards.
1 had now not a moment to lose; for nineteen of the
dreadful w retches fat upon the ground all close huddled
together, and had just sent the other two to,butcher'
the poor Christian, and bring him, perhaps limb by
limb, to their fire; and they were stoop'd down to un-
tie the bands at his feet. I turn'd to Friday; Now,
Friday, said I, do as I bid thee- Friday said, he would. *
Then, Friday, said I, do exactly as you fee me do;
fail in nothing. So I set down one of the musquets
and the fowling-piece upon the ground, and Friday
did the like by his; and with the other musquet I took
ray aim at the savages, bidding him do the like. Thed
asking him if he was ready> he said, yes. Then sire
at them, said I; and the same moment I fir'd also,
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that
on the side that he (hot, he kill'd two of them and
wounded three more; and on my side, I kill'd one,
and wounded two. They were, you may be sure, in
a dreadful consternation; and all of'em, who were
not hurt, jump'd up upon their feet immediately, but
did not know which way to run, or which way to look
for they knew not from whence their destruction came.
Friday kept his eyes close upon me> that as I had bid
him, he might observe what 1 did; so, as soon as the
irst {hot Was made* I threw down the piece, arid tddK
bp the fowling-piece, and Friday did the like; he fees
fate cock, and present; he did the same again. Arc
you ready, Friday? said L Yes, fays he: . Let fly
then, said 1, in the name of God; and with that I fir'd
again among the amazed wretches, and so did Friday;
&nd as our pieces were now loaded with what 1 called
swan-flidt, or small pistol bullets, we fouiid drily two
drop; but so many were wounded, that they ran about
yelling and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody
and miserably wounded, most of them; whereof three
more fell quickly after, though not quite dead.
Now, Friday, said I, laying down the discharged
pieces, and taking up the musquet, which was yet load-
en, follow trie, said I; which he did, with a deal of
fcouragS; upon which I rustled out of the wood, and
(hewed myself, and Friday dose at my foot; As soon
is 1 perceived they saw me, 1 shouted as loud as I
tould> and bade Friday do so too, and running as fast
as I could, which by the way was not very fast, being
loaded with arms as I was, I made directly towards
the poor victim, who was, as 1 said, lying upon the
beach, or shore, between the place where they fat and
the sea; the two butchers, who were just going to
tvork with him, had left him, at the surprise of our
first fire, and fled in a terrible fright to the sea-side,
and had jumped into a Canoe, and three more of thd
rest made the same way; I turned to Friday, and bade
him step forwards, and fire at them; he understood
the immediately, and running about forty yards to be
near them, he (hot at them, and I thought he had kill-
ed them all; for I saw them all fall on an heap into
tfteboat; though I saw two of them up again quickfy:
However, he killed two of them, and wounded the
third, so that he lay down in the bottom of the boat,
as if he had been dead.
Whiie my man Friday fir'd at them, I pull'd out my
knife, and cut the flags that bound the poor victim,
and loosing his hands and feet, I lifted him up, and ask-
ed him in the Portuguese tongue, what he was? he an-
swered in Latin}Chriflianus) but was so weak and faint,
that he could scarce stand or speak; I took my bottle
out of my pocket, and gave it him, making signs that he
should drink, which he did ; and I gave him a piece of
bread, which he eat; then I asked him, what country-
man he was; and he said, Espagnole\ and, being a lit-
tle recovered, let me know, by all the signs he could
possibly make, how much he was in my debt for his de-
liverance: Seignior, said I, with as much Spanijh, as I
could make up, we will talk afterwards, but we mufl
fight now: If you have any strength left, take this pis-
tol and sword, and lay about you: he took them very
thankfully, and no sooner had he the arms in his hands,
biit as if they had put new vigour into him, he flew up-
on his murderers like a fury, and had cut two of them
in pieces in an instant; for the truth is, as the whole
was a surprise to them, so the poor creatures were so
much frighted with the noise of our pieces, that they
fell down for mere amazement and fear, and had no
more power to attempt their own escape, than their
flesh had to resist our shot; and that was the case of
those five that Friday (hot in the boat; for as three
of them fell with the hurt they received, so the other
two fell with the fright.
O
I kept my piece in my hand still, without firiag,being
willing to keep my charge ready, because I had given
the Spaniard my pistol and sword; so I called to Fri-
day, and bade him run up to the rree from whence we
first fired, and fetch the arms which lay there, that had
been discharged, which he did with great swiftness;
and then giving him my mufquet, I sat down myself to
load all the rest again, and bade them come to me when
they wanted: While I was loading these pieces there hap-
pened a fierce engagement between the Spaniard and
one of the savages, who made at him- with one of their
great wooden swords, the fame weapon that was to
have killed him before, if I had not prevented it; The
Spaniard, who was as bold and as brave as could be
imagined, tho' weak, had fought this Indian a good
while, and had cut him two great wounds on his head;
but the savage, being a stout lusty fellow, closing in
with him, had thrown him down (being faint) and was
wringing my sword out of his hand, when the Spaniard,
tho' undermost, wisely quitting his sword, drew the
pistol from his girdle, sliot the savage through the
body, and killed him upon the spot, before I, who
was running to help, could come near him,
Friday, being now left at his liberty, pursued the
flying wretches with no weapon in his hand but his
hatchet, and with that he dispatched those three, who,
as I laid before, were wounded at first and fallen, and
all the rest he could come up with; and the Spaniard
coming to me for a gun, I gave him one of the fowl-
ing-pieces, with which he pursued two of the savages,
and wounded them both; but as he was not able to run,
fchey both got from him into the wood, where Friday
ph tsued them, and killed one of theiri; but the other
Was coo nimble for him;., and tho* he was wounded,
yet he plunged into the sea, arid swam with all his
might off to those who were left in the Canoe, which
three in the Canoe, with one wounded, who we know
hot whether he died or no, were all that escap'd our
hands of one-and-tw£nty« The account oi the rest is
as Follows;
3 Killed at our shot from the tree.
2 Killed at the tiext shot.
2 Killed by Friday in the boat.
2 Killed by ditto, of those at first wounded.
I Killed by ditto, in the wood.
3 Killed by the Spaniard.
4 Killed, being found dropt here^and-there of their
wounds, or killed by Friday in his chace of them.
4 Escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if nor
dead.
2i In all.
Those that tvere in the Canoe, worked hard to get
ottt of gun-stiot; and tho' Friday made two or three
shot at them, I did not find that he hit any of them:
Friday would fain have had me take one of their Ca*
noes, and pursue them; and indeed I was very anxious
about their escape, lest carrying the news home to
their people, they should come back, perhaps, with
two or three hundred of their Canoes, and devour us
by mere multitudes; so 1 consented to pursue them by
O 2
sea; and running to one of their Canoes, I jumped irv
and bade Friday follow me; but when I was in the
Canoe, I was surprised to find another poor creasture
lie there alive, bound hand and foot, as the Spaniard
was, for the slaughter, and almost dead with fear, not
knowing what the matter was; for he had not been a-
ble to look up over the side of the boat, he was tied
to hard, neck and heels, and had been tied so long, that
he had really little life in him.
I immediately cut the twisted flags, or rustles, which
they had bound him with, and would have helped him
up; but he could not stand, or speak, but groaned
most piteoufly, believing, it seems still, that he was on-
ly unbound fe order to be killed.
When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to hinv
and tell him of his deliverance; and pulling out my
bottle, made him gitfe the poor wretch a dram, which,
with the news of his being delivered, revived him,
andi he fat up in the boat; but when Friday came to
hear him speak, and looked in his face, it would have
moved any one to tears, to have seen how Friday kiss-
ed him, embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed,
hallooed, jumped about, danced, sung, then cried again,
wrung his hands, beat his own face and head, and then
fung and jumped about again, like a distracted crea-
ture: Is was a good while, before I could make him
speak to me, or tell me what was the matter, but
when he came a little to himself, he told me, that it
was his father.
It was not easy for me to express how it moved me,
to fee what ecstasy and filial astection had worked in
this poor savage, at the sight of his father, and of his
feeing delivered from death; nor indeed can I des
scribe half the extravagancies of his affection after
this; for he went into the boat and out of the boat a
great many times s When he went into him, he would
fit down by him, open his breast, and hold his father's
head close to his bosom, half an hour together, to
nourish it: then he took his arms and ankles, which
were numb'd and stiff with the binding, and chafed
a«d rubbed them with his hands; and I, perceiving
what the cafe was, gave him some rum out of my bot-
tle to rub them with, which did them a great deal of
good.
This action put an end to our pursuit of the Canm
with the other savages, who were now gotten al-
most out of sight; and it was happy for us, that we
did not; for it blew so hard within two hours after, and
before they could he gotten a quarter of their way,
and continued blowing so hard all night, and that from
the north west, which was against them, that I could
not suppose their boat could live, or that they ever
reached to their own coast.
But to return to Friday; he was so busy about his
father^ that I could not find in my heart to take him
off for some time: but after I thought he could leave
him a little, I called him to me, and he came jumping
and laughing, and pleased to the highest extreme.
Then I asked him, if he had given his father any
bread ? He stxook his head, and said, none: Ugly dog
eat all up self . So I gave him a cake of bread out of
a hue pouch I carried on purpose; I also gave him a
dram for himself, but he would not taste it, but car-
ried it to his father *. I had in my pocket also two or
three bunches &f my raisins, so I gave him a handful
of them for his father* He had no sooner given hi§
father these raisins, but I saw him come out of the
boat, and run away as if he had been bewitched. JHe
ran at such a rate (for he wa$ the swiftest fellow of
his sept that ever I saw) I say, he ran at such a rate,
that he was put of fight, as it were in an instant; anc}
tho' I called and hallooed too after him, it was all one;
away he went, and in a quarter of an hour I saw him
come back again, tho' not so fast as he went; and as
he came nearer, 1 found his pace was flacker* because
he had something in his hand.
When he came up to me, I found he had been quite,
hiome for an earthen jug, or pot, to bring his father
some fresh water; and that he had got two more cakes
or loaves of bread, The bread he gave me, but the
water he carried to his father: fioweyer, as I was
very thirsty too, I took a little sup of it: Thi§
water revived hjs father more than all the rum or
spirits I had given him: for he was just fainting with
thirst.
When his father had drank, I called him to know
if there was any water left; he said, yes; and I bade
him give it to she poor Spaniard, who was in as much
want of it as his father; and I sent one of the cakes,
that Friday brought, to the Spaniard too, who was
indeed Very weak, and was reposing hjmsplf upon a
green place, under the shade of a tree, and whose limbs
were also very stiff, and very much swelled with the
rude bandage he had beep tied with: When 1 saw tha|
upon Friday's coming to him with the water, he sat
up and drank, and took the bread/ and began to eat.
I went to Km, and gavehim an handful of raisins; he
look'dupinmy face with all the tokens of gratitude and
thankfulness that could appear in any countenance; but
was so weak, notwithstanding he had so exerted him-
self in the sight, that he could nor stand up upon his
feet; he tried to do it two or three times, but was re-
ally not able, his ankles were so fwelPd, and so pain-
ful to him; so I bade him sit still, and caus'd Friday
to rub his ankles, and bathe them with rum, as he had
done his father's.
I obfei v'd the poor affectionate creature every two
minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was here,
turn'd his head about, to fee if his father was in the fame
place and posture as he left him sitting; and at last he
found he was not to be seen; at which he started up,
and without speaking a word, flew with that swiftness
to him, that one could scarce perceive his feet to touch
the ground as he went - but when be came, he only
found he had laid himself down to ease his limbs; so
Friday came back to me presently! and I then spoke
to the Spaniard to let Friday help him up* if he could
and lead him to the boat, and then he should carry him
to our dwelling! wThere I would take care of him: but
Friday', sl lusty young fellow, took the Spaniard quite
up upon his back, and carried him away to the boat,
and set him down softly upon the side or gunnel of the
Canoe, with his feet in the inside of it, and then lifted
them quite in, and set him close to his father, and pre-
sently stepping out again, launchM the boat off, and
paddled it along the shore faster than I could walk,
tho' the wind blew pretty hard too; so he brought
them both safe into our creek; and leaving them in
O 4
the boat, runs away to fetch the other Came: as he
pass'd me, I spoke to him, and afk'd him? whither he
went? He told me, go fetch more boat; so away bp
went, like the wind; for sure never man or horse ran
like him, and he had the other Canoe in the creek, al-
most as soon as I got to it by land; so he wafted
me over, and then went to help our new guests out of
the boat, which he did ) but they were neither of
them able to walk ; so that poor Friday knew not what
to do.
To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and
calling to friday to bid them fit down on the bank
while he came to me> I soon made a kind of handbar-
row to lay them on, and Friday and I carried them up
both together upon it between us: but when we got
them to the outside of our wall, or fortification, we
were at a worse loss than before; for it was impossible
to get them over; and I was resolv'd not to break it
down; so l set to work again; and Friday and I, in a*
bout two hours time, made a very handsome tent co-
vered with old fails, and above that with boughs of
trees, being in the space without our outward fence,
and between that and the grove of young wood which I
had planted; and here we made two beds of such things
aslhad *, viz of good rice-straw, withblankets laid upon
it to lie on, and another to coyer them on each bed.
My island was now peopled, and 1 thought myself
very rich in subjects; and it was a merry reflection
which I frequently made, how like a king I Jook'd:
first of all, the whole country was my own mere pro-
perly; so thar I had an undoubted right of dominion*
2i'tp JVJy people were perfectly subjected i 1 was ab~
solute lord and lawgiver; they all owM their lives t^
me, and were ready to lay down their lives, if there
had been occasion for it, for me: it was remarkable too
I had but three subjects, and they were of three dif-
ferent religions. My man Friday was a protestant;
his father a Pagan and a Ganibdl\ and the Spaniard
was a Papijl: however I allowed liberty of conscience
throughout my dominions: but this is by the way.
As soon as I had secured my two Weak rescued pri-
soners, and given them shelter* and a place to rest them
upon, I began to think of making some provision for
them: and the first thing I did, I order'd Friday to
take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, out of
my particular flock, to be kilPd: then I cutoff the
hinder quarter, and, chopping it into small pieces, I set
Friday to work, to boiling and stewing, and made them
a very good dish, I assure you. of flelh and broth;
having put some barley and rice also, into the broth;
and as I cook'd it without doors (for I made no fire
within my inner wall) so I carried it all into the new
tent ; and having set a table there for them, I sat down
and eat my dinner also with them; and, as well as t
could, chear?d them and encouraged them, Friday be-
ing my interpreter, especially to his father, and indeed
to the Spaniard too; for the Spaniard spoke the lan-
guage of the Savages pretty well.
'After we had din?d or rather supp'd, I ordered Fri-
day to take one of the Canoes, and go and fetch our^
musquets and other fire-arms, which for want of time
we had left upon the place of battle; and the next
day I ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies of
jthe savages, which lay open to the fun, and would pre-
sently be offensive; and I also order'd him to bury the
horrid remains of their barbarous feast, which I knew
were pretty much., and which I could not think of do-
ing myself; nay, I could not bear to see them, if I
went that way > ail which he punctually perform'd
and defac'd the very appearance of the Savages being
there; so that when 1 went again, I could scarce know
where it was, otherwise than by the corner of the
Wood pointing to the place.
I then began to enter into a little conversation with
my two new subjects; and first I set Friday to inquire
of his father, what he thought of the escape of the Sa-
vages in that Canoe* and whether he might expect a
return of them with a power too great for us to resist?
his first opinion was, that the Savages in the boat ne*
ver could live out the storm, which blew that night
they went off, but must of necessity be drown'd or dri-
ven south to those other shores, where they were as sure
to be devour'd, as they were to be drown'd if they were
cast away; but as to what they would do if they came
safe on shore, he said, he knew not; but ir was his o-
pinion, that they were so dreadfully frighted with the
manner of being attacked, the noise* and the fire* that
he believ'd they would tell their people they were all
killM by thunder and lightning, and not by the hand
of man; and that the two which appearM(wV, Friday
and /) were two heavenly spirits or furies comedown
to destroy them, and not men with weapons. .This,
he said* he knew, because he heard them all cry out
so in their language to one another ; for it was impos-
sible to them, to conceive that a man should dart fire,
and speak thunder, and kill at a distance, without lift-
tog up the hand, as was done now. And this old se*
vage was in the right; for, as I understood since by o*
ther hands, the savages of that part never attempted
to go over to the island afterwards. They were so
terrifyM with the accounts given by those four met*
(for it seems they did escape the sea) that they believ'd,
whoever went to that inchanted island, would be de-
stroyed with fire from the Gods*
This, however, I knew not, and therefore was un-
der continual apprehensions for a good whiter and kept
always upon my guard, I and all my army; for as we
were now four of us* I would have ventured upon an.
hundred of them fairly in the open field at any time*
In a little time however, no more Canoes appearing,,
she fear of their coming wore off, and I began to take
my former thoughts of a voyage to the main into con-
sideration, beiqg likewise affur'd by Friday\ father,
that I might depend upon good usage from their nati-
on on his account, if I ^ould go.
But my thoughts were a little suspended, when I
Jiad a serious discourse with the Spaniards and when
J understood, that there were sixteen more of his coun-
trymen and Portuguese, who having been cast away,
and made their escape to that side, liv'd there at peac^
indeed with the savages* but were very fore put to it
for necessaries, and indeed for life: I afk'd him all the
particulars of their voyage, and found they were a Spa*'
nijh ship bound from the Rio de la Plata* to the Ha-
vanna, being directed to leave their loading there,
which was chiefly hides and silver, and to bring back
what European goods they could meet with there;
fhat they had five Portuguese seamen on board, whom
they took out of another wreck ; that five of their own
men were drown'd when first the fliip was lost; and
that these escaped thro'infinite dangers^and hazards, and
arriv'd almost slarvM on the Canibal coast, where they
expected to have been devoured every moment,
Hetold me, they had some arms with them, but they
svere perfectly useless, for that they had neither pow-
der or ball, the washing of the sea having spoil'd all
their powder, but a little which they used at their first
landing to provide themselves some food.
I afk'd him what he thought would become of them
there; and if they had form'd no design of making a-
ny escape? He said, they had many consultations about
it; but that having neither vessel, nor tools to build
one, or provisions of any kind, their counsels always
ended in tears and despair.
I afk'd him how he thought they would receive a
proposal from me, which might tend towards an escape;
and whether, if they were all here, it might not be
done I I told him with freedom, I fear'd mostly their
treachery and ill usage of me, if I put my life in their
hands; for that gratitude was no ipherent virtqe in
the nature of m<m; nor did men always square their
dealings .by the obligations they had received, so much
as they did by the advantages they expected: 1 tojd
him, it would be very hard, that I should be the in-
strument of their deliverance, and that they should af-
terwards make me their prisoner in new Spain, where
an Englishman was certain to.be made a sacrifice, what
necessity, or what accident soever, brought him thi-
ther: and that I had rather be deliver'd up to* the Sa-
pages, and be devoured alive, than fall into the merci-
less claws of the priests, and be carried into the inqui-
sition. I added, that otherwise I was persuaded, if they
were all here, we might, with so many hands, build a
bark farge enough to carry us all away either to the
Braftls southward, or to the ifland9 or Spanijb coast
northward: but that if in requital they should, when
1 had put weapons into their hands, carry me by force
among their own people, 1 might be ill us'd for my
kindness, to them, and make my cafe worse than it was
before.
He answer'd with a great deal of candour and inge-
nuity, that their condition was so miserable, and they
were so sensible of it, that he bdiev'd they would ab-
hor the thought of using any man unkindly that should
contribute to their deliverance; and that, if I pleas'd,
he would go to them with the old man, and discourse
with them about it, and return again, and bring me
their answer: that he would make conditions with them
upon their solemn oath, that they would be absolutely
under my leading, as their commander and captain j
and that they should swear upon the holy sacraments
and gospel, to be true to me, and to go to such chris-
tian country as I should agree to, and no other; and to
be directed wholly and absolutely by my orders, till
they were landed safely in such country as I intended,
and that he would bring a contract from under their
hands for chat purpose.
Then he told me, he would first swear to me him*
self, that he would never stir from me as long as he
Jiv'd, till I gave him order; and that he tvould take
my side to the last drop of blood, if there should hap-
pen the least breach of faith among his countrymen*
He toM me, they were all df them very civil holiest:
turn, and they were under the greatest distress imagi-
nable, having neither weapons or ckmhs, nor any food
but at the mercy and discretion of the Savages ; our of
all hopes of ever returning to their own country; and
that He was fare, if I would undertake their relief,
they would liVe and die by me.
Upon these assurances, 1 resolvM to venture to re-
lieve them, if possible, and to fend the old Savage and
this Spaniard over to them to treat: but when he had
gotten all things in readiness to go, the Spaniard him-
self flirted an objection, which had so much prudence
In it on one hand, and so much sincerity on the other
hand, that I could not but be very well satisfied in it;
and, by his advice, put off the deliverance of his com-
rades for at least half a year. The cafe was thus:
He had been with us now about a month; during
which time I had let him fte in what manner I had
provided, with the assistance of providence, for my sup-
port; and he saw evidently whdt stock of corn and rice
I had laid tip; which, as it was more than sufficient
for myself so It was not sufficient at leasti without good
husbandry, for my family, now it was incfeas'd to num-
ber fours but much less Would it be sufficient, if his
countrymen, who were, sis he said, fourteen still alive,
stiould come over; and least of all would it be suffici-
ent to victual our vessel, if we stiould build one, for a
Voyage to any of the christian colonies of ^America*
So he tdld me, he thought it wo'Uld be more advisea-
ble, to let him and the two other dig and cultivate
sortie more landi as much as I could fprire feed to sow,
tod that we stiould wait another harvest; that we might
hare a supply of corn for his countrymen when this
should come; for want might be a temptation to them
to disagree, or not to think themselves delivered, o-
therwise than out of one difficulty into another: You
know, fays he, the children of Israel, tho' they re*
joiced at first at their being delivered out of E-
gypt, yet rebelled even against God himself, that deli-
vered them, when they came to want bread in the wil-
derness.
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so
good, that I could not but be very well pleased with
his proposal, as well as I was satisfy'd with his fidelity:
so we fell to digging all four of us, as well as the wood-
en tools we were furnished with permitted; and in a-
bout a month's time, by the end of which it was feed
time, we had gotten as much land cured and trimmed up
as we sowed twenty-two bustiels of barley on, and six-
teen jars of rice, which was, in short, all the feed we
had to spare; nor indeed did we leave ourselves barley
sufficient for our own food for the six months that
we had to expect our crop, that is to fay, reckoning from
the time we set our seed aside for sowing j for it is
not to be supposed it is six months in the ground in
that country.
Having now society enough, and our number being
sufficient to put us out of fear of the savages, if they
had come, unless their number had been very great,
we went freely all over the island, where-ever we
found occasion; and as here we had our escape or de-
liverance upon our thoughts, it was impossible, at leaft
for me, to have the means of it out of mine: to this
purpose, I marked out several trees, which I thought
fit for our work, and I set Friday and his father id
tutting them down; and then I caused the Spaniards
to whom 1 imparted my thoughts on that affair,to over-
see and direct their work: I shewed them with what
indefatigable pains I had hewed a large tree into single
planks, and 1 caused them to do the like till thejr had
Jtiade about a dozen large planks of good oak, near
two feet broad, thirty-five feet long, arid from two in-
ches to four inches thick; What prodigious labour it
took up, any one may imagine.
At the fame time I contrived to increase my little
flock of tame goats as much as I could; and to this
purpose I made Friday and the Spaniard go out one
day, and myself> with Friday, the next day, for we
took our turns: And by this means wegot about twen-
ty young kids to breed up with the rest; for when-
ever we shot the dam, we saved the kids, and addedi
them to our flock: but above afll the season for curing
the grapes coming on, I caused such a prodigious quan-
tity to be hung up in the fun, that I believe, had we
been at AUcanty where the raisins of the fun are cur-
ed, we should have filled sixty or eigthy barrels; and
these, with our bread, was a; great part of our food,
and very good living too, 1 assure you; for it is an ex-
ceeding nourishing food.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order;
it was not the most plentiful increase I had seen in the
island, but, however, it was enough to answer our
tnd; for from twenty-two bushels of barley we
brought in and threstied out above two hundred and
twenty bushels, and the like in proportion of the rice,
which was store enough for our food to the next har-
Vest, iho' all the sixteen Spaniards had been on shore
tyith me; or, if we had been ready for a voyage, it
would v£ry plentifully have victualled bur ship, to
have carried us to any part of the world, that is to
fay, of America. When we had thus housed and se-
cured our magazine of corn, \fre fell to work to make
more wicker-work; viz. great baskets in which we
kept it; and the Spaniard was very handy and'dex-
trous at this part, and often blamed me, that I did
hot make some things for defence, of this kind of
work; but I saw no need of it: And now having a
full supply of food for all the guests cxpected> I gave
the Spaniardleave to go over to the main, to fee what
lie could do with these he left behind him there; I
gave him a strict charge in writing not to bring any
man with him, Who would not first swear in the pre-
sence of himself and of the old savage, that he would
Sao way injure, fight with, or attack the person he should
find in the istand, who was so kind to fend for them
in order to their deliverance; but that they would
stand by and defend him against all such attempts; and
fyhere-ever they went, would be intirely under, and
subjected to his command; and that this should be put
in writitig, and signed with their hands: How we
were to have this done, when I knew they had neither
pen or ink, that indeed, was a question which we ne-
ver aiked.
Under these instructions, the Spaniard, and the old
savage(the father of Friday) Went away in one of the
Canoes % which they might be said to come in, or rather
toere brought in, when they came as prisoners to be
devoured by the savages.
P
I gave tidk of them a niusquet with a firdfeek
on it, arid about eight charges of powder and ball,
charging them to be tery good husbands of both,
and not to use either of them but upon urgent occa-
sion.
This was a ehearfiil work, being the first measures
used by me in view of my deliverance for now 27
years and some days; I gave them provisions of bread,
and of dry'd grapes, sufficient for themselves for many
days, and suiScient for their countrymen for about
eight days time; and wishing them a good voyage, I
let them go, agreeing with them about a signal they
should hang out at their return, by which I should
know them again* when they came back, at a distance,
before they came on shore.
They went away with a fair gale on the day that
the moofi was at the full; by my aceount in the month
of Gftober j but as for the exact reckoning of days, af-
ter I had once lost it, I could never recover it again;
nor had I kept even the number of years so punctual-
ly, as to be sure that I was right, tbo' as it proved,
when I afterwards examined my account, I found I had
kept a true reckoning of years.
It Was no less than eight days I waited for them,
when a strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of
which the like has not, perhaps, been heard of in his-
tory. I was fast asleep in my hutch one morn**
ing, when ray man Friday came running in to me,
and called aloud, Master} Master, they are come, they
are come.
I jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I went out
as soon as I could get my cloaths on, through my lit-
4& gfore, winch (by the way) was by this time growa
lo be a very thick wood: I fay, regardless of danger,
I went without rhy arms, which was not my custom to
do; but I was surprised, when turning my eyes to
the sea, I presently saw a boat at about £ league aud
an halPs distance, standing ill for the shore, with a
jshmlfatymutten-sdil, as they call it, and the wind
blowing pretty fair td bring them id; Also I observed
^resentljr, that they did not come from that side which
the shore lay on, but from the southermost end of the
island; Upoii this I callfcd Friday in, aud bid him lis
tlofe, for these were iaot the people we looked for,
knd that tire did n« know yet whether they were
friends or enemies;
In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective*
glase> to see what I could make of them; and having
taken the Iaddjer out, I climbed up to the top of the
hill, as 1 used to do when 1 was apprehensive of any
thing, aha to takfe my view the plai&er without being
discovered.
1 had scarce set my foot on the hill, when my tyt
plainly discovered a ship lying at an anchor, at about
two leagues and an half's distance from me, S. S. &
but not above a league and an half from the shore.
By my observation it appeared plainly to be an Eng~
fl/b fliip, iiid the boat appeared to be an Englijh long-
boat.
I cannot express the confusion 1 was in, though
the joy of seeing a {hip, and one whom I had reason
to believe was manned by Etiy own countrymen, and
consequently friends, wa$ such as I cannot describe $
but yet I had some secret doubts hung about me, I
?2
cannot tell from whence they came, bidding me keeps
upon my guard. In the first place, it occurred to me
to consider what business an English ship could have
in that part of the world; since it was not the way to
or from any part of the world where the English had
any traffick; and I knew there had been no storms to
drive them in there, as in distress; arid that if they
were English really, it was most probable, that they
were here upon no good design; and that I had bet-
ter continue as 1 was, than fall into the hands of thieves
and murderers.
Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of
danger, which sometimes are given him when he may
think there is no possibility of its being real. That
such hints and notices are given us, 1 believe few that
have made any observations of things can deny; that
they are certain discoveries of an invisible world, and
a converse of spirits, we cannot doubt; and if the ten-
dency of them seems to be to warn us of danger,
why should we not suppose they are from some friend-*
ly agent (whether supreme, or inferior and subordi-
nate, is not the question) and that they are given sot
our good?
The present question abundantly confirms me in the
justice of this reasoning; for had 1 not been made cau-
tious by this secret admonition, come it from wheiice
it will, 1 had been undone inevitably, and in a far
worie condition than before, as you will fee present-
1 had not kept myself long in this posture, but I saw
the boat draw near v e stidre, as if they looked for a
creek to thrust in at for the convenience of landing;
however, as they did not come quite far enough, they
did not fee the little inlet where I formerly landed ray
rafts, but ran their boat on shore upon the beach, at
about half a mile from me, which was very happy for
me; for otherwise they would have landed just, as I
may fay, at my door, and would soon have bearen me
out of my castle, and, perhaps, have plundered me of
all I had.
When they were on fliore, I was fully fatisfy'd they
were Englishmen, at least most of them; one or two
I thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so- There
were in all eleven men, whereof three of them I found
were unarmed, and (as I thought) bound; and when
the.first four or five of them were jumped on shore,
they took those three out of the boat as prisoners: One
of the three I could perceive using the most passion-
ate gestures of intreaty, affliction, and despair, even
to a kind of extravagance; the other two, I could
perceive lifted up their hands sometimes, and appear-
ed concerned indeed, but not to such a degree as the.
first.
I was perfectly confounded at the fight, and knew
not what the meaning of it should be; Friday called
out to me in English, as well as he could, O Ma-
iler \ Tou see English mans^eat prisoners as well as
savage mans. Why, said I, Friday do you think they
are going to eat them then? Tes, fays Friday, they will
eat them. No, no, said I, Friday: I am afraid they
will murder them indeed; but you may be sure they
will not eat them.
All this while I had no thought of what the matter
really was, but stood trembling with the horror of the
P3
tfgbt,expe&iftg $*ery moment when the th*ee p^fefc*
ers should be kitted ; nay> once I saw one of the vil*
Jains lift up his arm with a great cutlace (as the feame*
call it) or sword, to strike one of the poc^r men; $nd I
expected to see him fall eyery moment, ^t which aty
the blood in my body seemed to run chill in my
veins.
1 wished heartily now for my Spaniard, and the fa*
vage that was gone with him ; or that 1 had any way
to have come undiscovered within fliot of them, that I
might have rescued the three men; for I saw no fire*
arms they had among them; but it fell out to my mipc^
another way.
After I had observed the outrageous usage of the
three men by the insolent seamen, I observed the fel*
lows ran scattering about the lanc}> as if they wanted
to fee the country; I observed also, that the three o*
ther men had liberty to go where they pleased; but
they sat down all three upon the ground very pensive*
and looked like men in despair.
This pur me in mind of the first $ime when I cam$
on shore, and began to look about me; how I gavQ
myself over for lost, bow wildly I looked round me^
what dreadful apprehensions I had, and how I lodged ,
in the tree all night for fear of being devoured by
wild beasts. - - ,
As 1 knew nothing that night of the supply I was
to receive by the providential driving of the fliip near*
er the land, by the storms and tide, by which I have
since been so long nouristied and supported; so these
three poor desolare men knew nothing fiow certain of
deliverance and supply they were, how near it was to
them, and how effectually and really they were in a
condition of safety, at the same time they thought
themselves lost, aad their cafe desperate*
So little do we see before us in the world, and so
much reason have we to depend chearfully upon the
great maker of the world, that he does not leave his
creatures so absolutely destitute, but that in the worst
circumstances they have always something to be thank*
ful for, and sometimes are nearer their deliverance
than they imagine; nay, are even brought to their
deliverance by the means by which they seem to be
brought to their destruction.
It was just at the top of high-water when these peo-
ple came on shore, and while partly they stood pariy-
ing with the prisoners they brought, and partly while
they rambled about to fee what kind of place they
were in, they had carelefly staid till the tide was spent,
jand the water was ebbed considerably away, leaving
their boat arground.
They had left two men in the boat, who, as 1 found
afterwards, having drank a little too much brandy,
fell afleep; however, one of them waking sooner than
the other* and finding the boat too fast a-ground for
him to stir it, halloo'd for the rest who were straggling
about, upon which they all soon came to the boat:
but it was past all their strength to launch her, the
boat being v$ry heavy, and the share on that side be-*
ing a soft ousy sand, almost like a quicksand.
In this condition, like true seamen, who are, per-
haps, the least of all mankind, given to forethought,
they gave it over, and away they strolled about the
pountry again; and I heard one of them fay aloud to
P4
another (calling them off from the boat;) Why, lek
her akne> Jack, carUt ye? Jhfll float next tide: By
which I was fully confirmed in the ntain inquiry, of
what countrymen they were.
All this while I kept myself close, not once daring
to stir out of my castle, any farther than to my place
of observation, near the top of the hill \ and very
glad 1 was, to think how well it was fortified: I knew
it was no lese than ten hours before the boat could be.
on float again, and by that time it would be dark, and
I might be more at liberty to fee their motions, and
to hear their discourse, if they had any.
In the mean time I fitted myself up for a battle, as
before, tho' with more caution, knowing I had to do
with another kind of enemy than I had at firsts I or-
dered Friday also, whom I had made an excellent
marksman with his gun, to load himself with arms; I
topk myielf two fipwling-pieces, and I gave him three
musquets: My figure, indeed, was very fierce; I had
my formidable goat-skin coat on, with the great cap I
mentioned, a naked sword, two pistols in my belt, and
a gun upon each shoulder.
It was my design, as I said above, not to have
m§de any attempt till it was dark; but about two
o'clock, being the heat of the day, I found that in
short they were all gone straggling into the woods,
and, a? I thought, were all laid down to sleep: The
three poor distressed men, tco anxious for their con-
dition to get any sleep, were however set down under
the shelter of a great tree, at about a quarter of a
mile frpm me, and, as J thought, out sight of any of
the rest.
Upon this I resolved to discover myself to then*,
and learn something of their condition: immediately
I march'd in the figure above, my man Friday at a
good distance behind me, as formidable for his arms,
asl, but not making quite so staring a Spedre-like figure
as I did.
I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and
then, before any of them saw mef, I called aloud t<f>
them in Spanish, JVhat are you, Gentlemen?
They started up at the noise, but were ten tinjes
more confounded when they saw me, and'the uncouth
figure that I made; They made no answer as all, but
I thought I perceived them just going to fly from me,'
when I spoke to them in English: Gentlemen, said I>
do not be surprised at me; perhaps you may have a
friend near you, when you did not expect it: He must
be sent directly from heaven then, said one of them ve-
ry gravely to me, and pulling off his hat at the fame
time, for our condition is past the help of man. AIJ
help is from heaven, sir, said I But can you put a
stranger in the way how to help you? for you seem
to me to be in some great distress: 1 saw you when
you landed; and when you leemed to make applicati-
on to the brutes that ca^e with you, I saw one of them
lift up his sword to kill you.
'The poor man, with tears running down his face/
and trembling, looking like one aslonisiied, returned,
Jim I talking to God or man? Is it a real man, or an
angel? Be in no fear about chat {ir,/aid 1' If God
had sent an angel to relieve you, he would have come
better cloathed, and armed after another manner, thaq
you see me in; pray lay aside all your sears; I am ^
m$n, an Englishman, and disposed to assist you, you
fee; I have one servant only; we have arms and am*
munition; tell us freely, can we servejyou ?—What is
your cafe?
Our cafe, said he, sir, is too long to tell you, while
our murderers are so near; but, in sliort, sir, I wa$
commander of that ship, my men having mutinied a*
gainst me, they have been hardly prevailed on not to
murder me, and at last have set me on shore in this de-
solate place, with these two men with me, one my
mate, the other a passenger, where we expected to
perish, believing the pla.ee to fye uninhabited, and know
Dot yet what to think of it.
Where are those brutes, your enemies? said I j dp
you know where they are gone? Iherp they are,str, saic} ^
he, pointing ro a thicket of trees; my heart trembles
for J ear they have seen us, and heard yau/peak\ if they
have, they will certainly murder us all.
Have they any firearms i said T: He answered,
jhey had only two pieces, and one which they left \q
jthe boat. Well then, said I, leave the rest to me; \
see they are all asleep; it is an easy thing to kill them
all; but shall we rather t^ke them prisoners? He told
roe there were two desperate villains among them, that
it was scarce safe to Ihew any mercy to; but if they
were secured, he believed all the rest would return to
their duty: i aiked him, which they were? He told
me, he could not at that distance describe them; but
Jie would obey my orders in any thing I would direct;
Well, said I, let us retreat out of their view or hear-
ing, lest they awake, and we will resolve farther; sq
they mllingl? went back with me, till the woq^s cqwrs
ed us from them.
Look yog, fir, said I, if J venture upon yoqr deli-
yeranee, ar$ you willing fa make two copditioas witfy
me? He anticipated my proposals, hy telling me tha*
both he and the (hip if recovered, should be wholly
directed and commanded by me in everything; and if
the ship was pot recovered, he would live and die witl|
me in what part of the world soever I wonW fend
sum; and the two other men said the sa ne
Well, said I, my conditions are but twa' i. 1 hat
while you stay on this ifland with me, you will not
pretend to any authority here; and if I put arms into
you hands, you will upon all occasions give them up
jo me, and do no prejudice to me or mine, upoij
this island, and in the mean time be governed by my
orders.
2. That if the ship is or may 4>e recovered, you wil|
carry me and my man to England passage-free.
He gave me all the assurance that the invention and
faith of a man could devise, that he would comply with
these most reasonable demands, and besides would'owe
Ifih life to me, and ^knowledge it upon all occasions as
long as he lived.
Well then, said I. here are three musquets for you,
with powder and ball j tell me next what you think is
proper to be done: He (hewed all the testimony of
his gratitude that he was able; but offered to be whoi*
ly guided by me: 1 cold him, I thought it was hard
venturing any thiug, but the best method 1 could think
of, was to fire upo i them at once, as they lay;. and i£
$ny were not killed at the first volley, and ossered to
submit, we might save them, and so put it wholly u*
pon God's providence to direct the shot.
He said very modestly, that he was loth to kill them
if he could help it; but that those two were incorrigi*
ble villains, and had been the authors of all the mutiny
in the ship; and if they escaped, we should be undone
still; for they would go on board, and bring the whole
ship's company, and destroy us all: well then, said I,
necessity legitimates mv advice ; for it is the only way to
save our lives. However, seeing him still cautious of
shedding blood, I told him, they stiould go themselves,
and manage as they found convenient.
In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them
awake, and soon after we saw two of them on their feet;
I afk'd him, if either of them were the men, who, he
had said, were the heads of the mutiny? He said No.
Well then, said I, you may let them escape, and provi-
dence seems to have waken'd them on pufpofe to save
themselves: paw, said I, if the rest elcape you, // is
your fault.
. Animated with this, he took the musquet I had given
him in his hand, and pistol in his belt, and his two
comrades with him, with each man a piece in his hand:
the two men, who were with him, going first, made
fpjne npife at which one of the seamen, who was a-
wake, turned about, and, feeing them coming, cried out
to the rest; but it was too late then; for the moment
he cried out, they fir'd, / mean the two men, the cap-
tain wifely reserving his own piece: they had so well
aimed their (hot at the men they knew that one of them
SE-as killed on the spot, and the other very much woun-
ded; but not being dead, he started up upon his feet,
md called eagerly for help to the other; but the tip*
tain, stepping to him, told him it was too late to cry
for help; he should call upon God to forgive his vil-
lainy; and with that word knocked him down with the
stock of his mufquet; so that he never spoke more:
there were three more in the company, and one of them
was also slightly wounded: by this time 1 was come:
and when they saw their danger, and that it-Was in vaiii
to reflst> they begg'd for mercy: the captain told them
he would spare their lives, if they would give him any
assurance of their abhorrence of the treachery they had
been guilty of, and would swear to be faithful to him
in recovering the ship, and afterwards in carrying her
back to Jamaica, from whence they came: they gave
him all the protestations of their sincerity that could
be desired, and he was willing to believe them, and spare
their lives, which I was not against; only I obliged
him to keep them bound hand and foot while they were
upon the island.
While this was doing, T sent Friday with the cap-
tain's mate to the boat, with orders to secure her, and
bring away the oars and fail, which they did: and by*
and-by, three straggling men, that were (happily for
them) parted from the rest, came back upon hearing
the guns fired; and seeing their captain, who before
was their prisoner* now their conqueror, they submit-
ted to be bound also; and so our victory was complete.
It now remained, that the captain and I should in-
quire into one another's circumstances- I began first,
and told him my whole history, which he heard with
an attention even to amazement, and particularly at thd
Wonderful manner of my being furnista'd with provi-
(ions and atœhunirioTi; aud indefed^ as my story Is a whole
fcottectlon of wanders, it alfe&ed him deeply; but when
tie reflected from thenee%>on himself, arid how 1 seem-
fed to feavfc bfcen preserved there oti purpose tosave hia
life, tlie teats Pka dawn ii is fact, and tie could Hot speak
iwofri more.
After this ednimunfcation was at ah end, I Carried
him md his two mm, i»to my apartments, leading them
in ju t wtieri 1 cinte out, vte. at the top of the bouse)
where 1 rfcfrefh'd them with stich provisions as I had,
and shewed tHeoi ill the contrivances I had made, dti-
Hng my long inhabiting that place.
All I fliew'd them, all I said to them, was perfectly
amazing; fettt; above all* the captairi admired my for-
tification, and how perfectly I had concealed my retreat
toith a grove of trees, wtiich* having noVv been planted
ifear t%edty ^edrs, aikJ irhe tfrees gtdwing mtich faster
than in England, was become a littlb Wood and ib
thick, thdt it was dripassable in arty pant of it, kut at
tkat one fide, Where 1 had reserved itsf little winding
passage into it; this 1 tdld him w4s twf castle* and my
residence; but that 1 had Heat in theebdrirry, as most
princes hate, whithef I could retreat upon occasion,
and I would Ihew hint that tod ariothei* time; but at
present our business was to cbnstdeh how to recover
the stitp: He agreed With me as to Mat; but told ma,
he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take, foi*
(hat there wefe still six and twentjr harids on board,
who huving enrerfcd into" a cursed Conspiracy, by which
they had all forfeited their lives to the law, would be
hardens in it now by desperation; and would carry
it on, knowing that if they Were reducedi they should
ht brought to the galiows as soon as they caifee tor £rig&
land, or to any of the English colonies; and that there-
fore there would be no attacking them with so small
a number as we were.
I mused for some time upon what he had safid, and
found it was a very rational conclusion* and that there-
fore something was to be resolved on very speedily* atf
well to draw the men on board into some snare for theif
surprise, as to prevent their landing upon us, and de-
stroying us: upon this it presently occur'd to me, thit
in a little while, the strip's crew* wondering what was
become of their comrades, and of the boat, would cer-
tainly come on shore in their other boat to fee for them;
and that then perhaps they might come armed, and be
too strong for us: this he allowed, was rational.
Upon this I told him, the first thing we had to do^
was to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, soth^f
they might not carry her off; and, taking every thing
out of her, leave her so far useless as not to bfe fit to
swim; accordingly we went on board, took the anxfc
which were left on board, out of her, and whatever elffe
we found there, which was a bottle of brandy, ^hd a-
nother of rum, a few biscuit-cakes, an horn of powdefj
and a great lump of sugar, in a piece of canvas; the
sugar, was five or six pounds; all which was very wel-
come to me, especially the brandy and sugar, of which
I had had none left for many years.
When we had carried all these things on shore (the
6ars, mast, fail, and rudder of the boat, Were carried
away before, as above) we knock'd a great hole in her
bottom, that if they had come strong enough to master
tis, yet they could not carry off the boat.
Indeed it wa§ not much ih niy thoughts, that xfe
could be capable to recover the (hip; but my view was,
that if they went away without the boat, I did not
tnuch question to make her fit again to carry us away
to the Leeward Islands, and call upon our friends
the Spaniards in my way, for I had them still in niy
thoughts,
While we were thus preparing our designs, and had
first, by main strength, heav'd the boat up upon the
beach, so high that trÆ tide would not float her off at
high-water mark; and, besides, had Broken an hdle
in her bottom, too big to be quickly stopp'd, arid werfe
fat down musing what we should do; we heard the
ship fire a gun, and saw her make a waft with her ari-
cient, as a signal for the boat to come on board; but
ob boat stirred; and they fir'd seteral times, making
other signals for the boat.
At last, when all their signals and firings proved fruit-
less, and they found the boat did not stir, we saw them
(by the help of our glasses,) hoist another boat out, and j
row towards the /bore; and we found* as they approach-
ed, that there were no less than ten men in her, add
that they had fire arms with them.
As the fliip lay almost two leagues from the sliore,
we had a full view of them as they came, and a plain
fight of the men, even of their faces; because the tide
having set them a little to the east of the other boat*
they rowed up under shore, to come to the same place,
where the other had landed, and where the boat lay.
By this means, 1 fay, we had a full view of them, and
the captain knew the persons and characters of all the
men in the boat -} of whom he said that there were
ihrSe v&ry honest fellows, who, he was fuse, were led
into this conspiracy by the rest, being overpower'd and
frighted.
But that for the boatswain>*who, it seerrls, was the
chief officer among them, and all the rest, they were
as outrageous as arty of the ship's crew; and were, no
doubt, made desperate in their new enterprise s and
terribly apprehensive he was, that they would be too
powerful for us.
I smil'd at him, and told him, that men in our cir-
cumstances were past the operations of fear: that see-
ing almost every condition that could be, was better
than that we were suppos'd to be in, we ought to ex-
pect, that the consequence, whether death or life, would
be sure to be a deliverance; I alk'd him, what he
thought of the circumstances of my life: and whether
a deliverance were not worth venturing for. And,
where, sir, said I, is your belief of my being preserved
here on purpose to save your life, which elevated you
a little while ago? For my part, said 1, there seems
to be but one thing amiss in all the prospect of it.
What's that? says he. Why, said I, 'tis that, as you
fay, there are three or four honest fellows among them
which should be spar'd; had they been all of the wicked
part of the crew, 1 should have thought God's provi-
dence had singled them out to deliver them into your
hands; for depend upon it,* every man of them that
comes astiore, are our own, and shall die ox live> as they
behave to us.
As I spoke this with a raisM voice,and chearfulcoun-
tenance, I found it greatly encourag'd him; so we set
vigorously to our business: we had, upon the first ap-
pearance of the boat's corarag from the strip, considers
of separating our prisoners, and had indeed feear'd them
effectually.
Two of them, of whom the captain was less affur'd
than ordinary* I sent with Friday, and one of the three
(delivered men) to my cave, where they were remote
enough, and out of danger of being heard or discovered*
or of finding their way out of the woods, if they could
have delivered themselves: here they left 'em bound,
but gave 'em provisions, and promised 'em, if they con-
tinued there quietly, to give 'em their liberty in a day
or two j but that if they attempted their escape, they
should be put to death without mercy. They promised
faithfully to bear their confinement with patience, ami
were very thankful, that they had filch good-usage as
to have provisions, and a light left 'em; for Friday
gave 'em candles (such as we made ourselves) for their
comfort; and they did not know but that he stood cen-
tinel over 'em at the entrance.
The other prisoners had better usage; two of them
were kept pinion'd indeed, because the captain was not
free to trust them; but the other two were taken in-
to my service upon their captain's recommendation, and
upon their solemnly engaging to live and die with us;
so, with them and the three honest men, we were se-
ren men well arm'd; and I made no doubt we should5
be able to deal well enough with the ten that Were a
coming, considering that the captain had said, there
were three or four honest men among them also.
As soon as they got to the place where their other
boat lay, they ran their boat into the beath, and came
all on slxore, haling the boat up after them, which I
Wts glad to sec; for I was afraid they would father bare
left the boat at an anchor, some distance from the
ithore, with some hands in her to guard her; and I®
we should not be able to seize the boat.
Being oh shore, the first thing they did they ran all
to the other boat; and it Was easy to see they were
under a great surprise, to find her stfipp'd, as above,
of ail that was in her, and a great hole in her bottom.
After they had mus'd a while upon this, they set up
two or three great shouts, hallooing with all their might,
so try if they could make their companions hear *, but
all was to no purpose ; then they eame all close in a
ring, and fir'd a volley of their small artns, which in-
deed we heard, and the echoes made*the woods sing j
but it was all one ,* those in the cave, wd Were sure*
could not hear; and those in otir keeping, though they
heard it well enough, yet durst give no answer to them.
They were so astonish'd at the surprise of this, that*
as they told us afterwards, they resolv'd to go all o§
board again to their ship, aftd let them know there, that
the men were all murdered, and the Ions: boat stav'd; -
accordingly,they immediately launched their boat agaid
and got all of them on board.
The captain was terribly amaz'd, and even confound-
ed at this, believing they would go on board the ship
again, and set sail, giving their comrades for lost, and
so he should still lose the fhip> which he was in hopes
We should have recovered; but he was quickly as much
frighted the other way.
They had not been long put off with the boat, but
we perceiv'd them all coming on (bore again; but with
this new measure in their conduct, which, it seems,
a*
they'consulted together upon; viz. to leave three met*
in the boat* and the rest to go on (hore> and go up in-
to the country to look for their fellows.
This was a great disappointment to us; for now we
were at a loss what to do > for our seizing those 7 men
on shore would be no advantage to us if we let the
boat escape, because they would then row away to the
stiip; and then the rest of them would be sure to weigh,
and set sail, and so our recovering the ship would be
lost.
However we had no remedy but to wait and see
what the issue of things might present: the seven men
came onshore, and the three who remained in the boat,
put her off to a good distance from the stiore, and came
to an anchor to wait for them; so that it was impossible
for us to come at them in the boat.
Those that came on shore kept close together, march-
ing towards the top of the little hill, under which my
habitation lay; and we could fee them plainly, tho'
they could not perceive us: we could have been
Very glad they would have come nearer to us, so that
we might have fir'd at them; or that they would have
gone farther off, that we might have come abroad.
But when they were come to the brow of the hill,
where they could fee a great way in the valley and
woods, which lay towards the north-east part, and
where the island lay lowest, they shouted and halloo'd
till they were weary j and not caring, it seems, to ven-
ture far from the lhore, nor far from one another, they
fat down together under a tree, to consider of it; had
they thought fit to have gone to sleep there, as the
other party of them had done, they had done the job
for us; but they were too full of apprehensions of dan-
ger, to venture to go to sleep, though they could not
tell what the danger was they had to fear, neither.
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon
this consultation of theirs; viz. That perhaps they
would all fire a volley again, to endeavour to make
their fellows hear, and that we should all sally upon
them, just at the juncture when their pieces were all
discharged, and they would certainly yield, and we
stiould have them without bloodstied; 1 liked the pro-
posal, provided it was done while we were near enough
to come up to them, before they could load their pieces
again.
But this event did not happen, and we lay still a long
time, very irresolute what course to take, at length I
told them, there would be nothing to be done in my
opinion till night; and then, if they did not return
to the boat, perhaps we might find a way to get
between them and the stiore, and so might, use
some stratagem with them in the boat, to get them on
shore.
We waited a great while, though very impatient,
for their removing, and were very uneasy; when,
after long consultations, we saw them start all up, and
march down towards the sea: it seems, they had
such dreadful apprehensions upon them of the dan-
ger of the place, that they resolved to go on board
the sliip again, give their companions over for lost,
and so go on with their intended voyage with the
sliip.
As soon as I perceived them go towards the stiore, I
as
Imagined it to he as it really was; that they kad ghe$
over their search, and were far going back again; and
the captain, as soon as I told him my thoughts, was
ready to sink at the apprehensions of it; but 1 present-
ly thought of a stratagem to fetch them back again,
and which answered my end to a tittle.
I ordered Friday, and the captain's mate, to go o-
ver the little creek westward, towards the place where
the savages came on shore when Friday was rescued;
and as soon as they came to a little rising ground, at
about half a mile's distance, I bade them halloo as loud
as they could, and wait till they found the seamen
heard them; that as soon as ever they heard the sea-
men answer them, they should return in again, and
then keeping out of sight, take a round, always an-
swering when the others halloo'd, to draw them as
far into the island, and among the woods, as possible,
and then wheel about again to me, by such ways as I
directed.
They were just going into the boat, when Friday
and the mate halloo'd and they presently heard them,
and answering, run along the shore westward, towards
the voice they heard, when they were presently stop-
ped by the creek, where the water being up, they
could not get over, and called for the boat to come up,
and set them over, as indeed I expected*
\Vhen they had set themselves over, I observed
that the boat being gone up a good way into the creek,
and as it were in an harbour within the laud, they
took one of the three men out of her to go along
with them, and left only two in the boat, having
fastened her to the slump of a little tree on the stiore.
This was what I wished for, and immediately lea?-
jag Friday and' the captain's mate to their business, I
took the rest with me, and, croffing the creek out of
their fight, we surprised the two men before they were
aware, one of them lying on shore, and the other being
in the boat; the fellow on shore was between sleeping
and waking, and going to start up, the captain, who
was foremost, ran in upon him, and knocked him down,
and then called out to him In the boat to yield, or he
was a dead man.
There needed very few arguments to persuade a
single man to yield, when he saw five men upon him,
and his comrade knocked down; besides, this was, it
seems, one of the three, who were not so hearty in the
mutiny as the rest of the crew, and therefore was ea-
sily persuaded, not only to yield, but afterwards to joia
very sincerely with us.
In the mean time Friday, and the captain's mate, so
well managed their business with the rest, that they
drew them, by hallooing and answering, from one hill
to another, and from one wood to another, till they
* not only heartily tired them, but left them where they
were very sure they csuld not reach back to the boat
before it was dark; and indeed they were heartily tir-
ed themselves also by the time they came back to us.
We had nothing now to do but to watch for them
in the dark, and to fall upon them, so as to make sure
work with them.
It was several hours after Friday came back to me,
before they came back to their boat > and we could
hear the foremost of them, long before they came quite
up, calling to those behind to come along, and could
CL4
also hear them answer, and complain how lame and
tired they were, and not being able to come any fas*
ter, which was very welcome news to us.
At length they came up to the boat; but Jtis im«?
possible to express their confusion, when they found
the boat fast a-ground in the creek the tide ebbed out,
and their two men gone; we could hear them call to
one another in a most lamentable manner, telling one
another they were gotten into an inchanted island;
that either there were inhabitants in it, and they
should all be murdered; or else there were devils or
spirits in it, and they should be all carried away and
devoured.
They halloo'd again, and called their two comrades
fcy their names a great many times, but no answer:
After some time, we could see them, by xhe little
light there was, run about wringing their hands, like
men in despair; and that sometimes they would go
and sit down in the boat to rest themselves, then come
ashore, and walk about again, and so the fame thing
over again,
My men would fain have had me given them leave
to fall upon them at once in the dark; but I was will-
ing to take them at some advantage, so to spare them,
and kill as few of them as I could; and especially I
was unwilling tp hazard the killing any of our men,
knowing the other were very well armed: I resolved
tp wait to see if they did not separate; and therefore,
%o make sure of them, I drew my ambuscade nearer,;
and ordered Iricfay and the captain, to creep up-
on their hands and feet as close to the ground as they
could, that they might not be discovered, and get as
pear them as they could postibly, before they offered
to fire.
They had not been long io that posture, but thafr
the boatswain, who was the principal ringleader of the
mutiny, and had now shewn himself the most dejected
and dispirited of all the rest, came walking towards
them with two more of their crew; the captain was
so eager, at having the principal rogue so much in his
power, that he could hardly have patience to let hirdt
come so near as to be sure of him; for they only heard
his tongue before; But when they came nearer, the
captain and Friday, starting up on their feet, let fly at
them.
The boatswain, was killed upon the spot; the next
man was fliot into the body, and fell just by him, tho?
he did not die till an hour or two after; and the third
f un lor it.
At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced with
my whole army, which was now eight men; viz. my-
self generalissimo; Friday, my lieutenant-general; the
captain and his two men, and the three prisoners of
war, whom he had trusted with arms.
We came upon them indeed in the dark, so that they
could not fee our number; and 1 made the man they
had left in the boat, who was now one of us, to call
them by name, to try if I could bring them to a parley,
and so might perhaps reduce them to terms; which fell
out just as we desired: For indeed it was easy to think,
as their condition then was, they would be very will-
ing to capitulate; so he calls out, as loud as he could,
to one of them, Tom Smith, Tom Smith. Tom Smith
answered immediately, Whfs thqtt Robinson? fork
fems he knew his voice. T'other answered, Ay, ay;
for GocVs fake, Tom Smith, throw down your arms, at}d
yield, or you are all dead men this moment.
Who mull we yield to? Where are they? says Smith
again. Here they are, fays he; here is our captain
and fifty men with him, have been hunting you this
two hdurs; the boatswain is killed; Will Frye is
wounded, and I am a prisoner; and if you do not yield,
you are all lost.
Will they give us quarter then? fays Tom Smith;
and we will yield* PU go and aji, if you promise to yield,
feys Robinson. So he alked the captain/ and the cap-
tain himself then calls out; You, Smith, you know my
yoice, if you lay down your arms immediately, and
submit, you shall have your lives, all but Will Atkins.
Upon this Will Atktns cried out, for God's Jake,
captain, give me quarter: What have 1 done? they have
been all as bad as I; which by the way was not true,
peither; for it seems, this Will Atkins was the first
man that laid hold of the captain, when they first mu-
tiny'd, and used him barbarously, in tying his handsj,
and giving him injurious language: However, the
captain told him he must lay down his arms at discre?
tion, and trust to the governor's mercy, by which he
meant me; for they all called me governor.
In a word, they all laid down their arms, and beg-
ged their lives; and I sent the man that had parleyed
with them, and two more, who bound them all; and
then my great army of fifty men, which particularly
with those three, were all but eight, came up and
seized upon them all, and upon their boat, only that
i kept myself, and one more, out of sight, for reason^
of state.
Our next work was tp repair the boat, and to think
of seizing the ship; and as for the captain, now he had
leisure to parley with them, he expostulated with them
upon the villainy of their practices with him, and at
length, upon the farther wickedness of their design;
and how certainly it must bring them to misery and
distress in the end, and perhaps to the gallows.
They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard
for their lives: As for that, he told them they were
none of his prisoners, but the commanders of the is-
land; that they thought they had set him on shore ia
a barren uninhabited island; but it had pleased God
so to direct them, that the island was inhabited, and that
the governor was an Englishman; that he might hang
them all there if he pleased; but as he had given them
all quarter, he supposed he would send them to Eng-
land to be dealt with there, as justice required* except
Atkins, whom he was commanded by the governor to
advise to prepare for death; for that he would be
hanged in the morning.
Though this was all a fiction of his own, yet it had(
its desired effect: Atkins fell upon his knees to beg
the captain to intercede with the governor for his life;
and all the rest begged of him for God's fake, that
they might not be lent to England.
It now occured to me, that the time of our delive-
rance was come and that it would be a moil easy thing
to bring these fellows in, to be hearty in getting pos-
session of the ship; so I retired in the dark from them,
that they might not see what kind of a governor they
had, and called the captain to me; when I called, as
at a good distance, one of the men was ordered to
speak again, and say to the captain, Captain, the com*
mander calls for you\ and presently the captain repli-
ed, Tell his excellency 1 amjufl a coming. This more
perfectly amused them; and they all believed, that the
commander was just by with his fifty men.
Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him my
project for seizing the ship, which he liked of wond-
erfully well, and resolved to put it in execution the
next morning.
But, in order to execute it with more art, and to be
secure of success, I told him we must divide the pri-
soners, and that he should go and take Atkins, and
two more of the worst of them, and fend them pini-
oned to the cave where the others lay: This was com-
mitted to Friday > and the two men who cameonstiore
with the captain.
They conveyed them to the cave, as to a prison;
and it was indeed 3 dismal place, especially to men in
their condition*
The other I ordered to my bower, as I called it, of
which I have given a full description; and as it was
fenced in, and they pinioned, the place was secure e*
nough, considering they were upon their behaviour.
To these in the morning 1 sent the captain, who
was to enter into a parley with them; in a word, to
try them, and tell me, .whether he thought they might
be trusted or no, to go on board, and surprise the
ship: He talked to them of the injury done him, of
the condition they were brought to; and that tho'the
governor had given them quarter for their lives, as to
the present action, yet that if they were sent to Eng*
land* they would all be hang'd in chains, to be fore;
but that if they would join in such an attempt, as to re-
cover the ship, he would have the governor's engage-*
roent for their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would
be accepted by men in their condition; they fell down
on their knees to the captain, and promised with the
deepest imprecations, that they would be faithful to him
to the last drop, and that they fliould owe their lives
to him, and would go with him all over the world \
that they would own him for a father to them as long
as they liv'd.
Well, fays the captain, T must go and tell the go-
vernor what you fay, and fee what I can do to bring
him to consent to it: so he brought me an account of
the temper he found them in; and that he verily be-
lieved they would be faithful.
However, that we might be very secure, I told him
he should go back again,,and choose out five of them/
and tell them, that they fliould see that they did not
want men; but he would take out those five to be his
assistants, and that the governor would keep the other
two, and the three that were sent prisoners to the cas-
tle {my cave) as hostages, for the fidelity of those five;
and that if they prov'd unfairhsul in the execution, the
five hostages should be hang'd in chains.alive upon the
shore.
This look'd severe, and convinced them, that the go-
vernor was in earnest; however, they had no way left:
them but to accept it; and it was now the business of
4 ( 252 ) . .
the prisoners, as much as of the captain, to perfuadfe
the other five to do their duty.
Our strength was now thus order'd for the expedi-
tion: 1. The captain, his mate, and passenger. 2. Then
the two prisoners of the first gang, to whom, having
their characters frotti the captain, I had given their
liberty, smd trusted theni with arms. 3^ The other
two whom I kept till now in my bower pinion'd; but
iapon the captain's motion, had now releas'd. 4. These
five releas'd at last; so that they \Vere twelve in all,
besides five we kept prisoners in the cave for hostages.
I asle'd the captain, if he was willing to venturd
with these hands on board the ship: for, as for me,
and my man Friday, 1 did not think it was proper sot*
tis to stir, having seven men left behind; 3std it was
employment enoiigh for us to keep them asunder, and
supply them with victuals.
As to the five in the cave, I refolv'd to keep them
fast; but Friday went twice a day to them, to supply
them with necessaries; and I made the other two
carry provisions to a certain distance, where Friday
vrzs to take it.
When I sliew'd myself tb the two hostages, it was
With the captain, who told them, I was the person
the governor had order d to look after them, and that
k was the governor's pleasure they should not stir any
where but by my direction; that if they did, they should
be fetch'd into the castle, and be laid in irons; so that
as we never suffer M them to see me as governor, so I
now appeared as another person, and spoke of the go-
vernor, the garrison, the castle, and the like, upon all
occasions.
*the captain now had no difficulty before him, kits'
to furnifli his two boats, stop the breach of one, and
man them: he made his passenger captain of one, with
four other men; and himself, and hisjnate, and five
more, went in the other: and they contriVd their bu-
siness very well; for they came up to the ship about
midnight: as soon as they came within call of the ship*
he made Robinson hail them, and tell them he had
brought off the men and the boat, but that it was a long
time before they had found them, and the like; hold-
ing them in a chat, till they came to the {hip's side;
when the captain and the mate, entering first with their
arms, immediately knocks down the second mate and
carpenter with the but-end of their musquets, being
very faithfully seconded by their men they secur'cf
all the rest that were upon the main and quarter-deck^
and began to fasten the hatches ttx keep them dowri
who were below, when the other boat, and .their men,
entering at the fore-chains, secur'd the forecastle of the
ship, and the Ikuttle which Went down into the cook*
room, making three men they found there prisoners.
When this was done, and all safe upon the deck, the
captain order'd the mate with three men to break into
the round-house, where the new rebel captain lay*
arid, having taken the alarm, was gotten up. and with
two men and a boy had gotten fire-arms in their hands;
and when the mate With a crow split open the door,
the new captain and his men fir'd boldly among them,
and wounded the mate with a mnfquet-ball, which broke
his arm, and wounded two more of the men, but kilPd
nobody.
The mate, calling for help, rusti'd* however, inta
the fround-house, wounded as he was, and frith his pis-
tol shot the new captain through the head, the bullet
entering at his mouth, and came out again behind
one of his ears; so that he never spoke a word; upon
which the rest yielded, and the sliip was taken effectu-
ally, without any more lives lost.
As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain or-
dered seven guns to be fir'd, which was the signal agreed
upon with me, to give me notice of his success; which
you may be fuse I was very glad to hear, having fat
watching upon the shore for it, till near two of the
clock in the morning.
Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me down;
and it having been a day of great fatigue to me, 1 slept
very found, till I was something surprised with the noise*
of a gun ; and presently starting up, 1 heard a man call
me by the name of governor, governor; and presently
I Tcnew the captain's voice, when climbing up to the
top of the hill, there he stood, and pointing to the (hip,
he embrac'd me in his arms; My dear friend and deli*
verer, fays he, there's your Jbip, for /be is all yours, and
so are we, and all that belong to her. I cast my eyes
to the ship, and there flie rode within little more than
half a mile of the sliore; for they had weighed her
anchor as soon as they were masters of her ; and the
weather being fair, had brought her to an anchor just
against the mouth of a little creek; and the tide be-
ing up, the captain had brought the pinnace in near the
place where i first landed my rafts, and so landed just
at my door.
I was, at first, ready to sink down with the surprise 3
for I saw my deliverance indeed visibly put into my
hands, all things easy, and a large ship just ready to
carry me away whither I pleased to go: at first, for
some time, I was not able to answer one word; but
as he had taken me in his arms, I held fast by him, or
1 should have fallen to the ground.
He perceiv'd the surprise, and immediately pulFda
bottle out of his pocket, arid gave me a dram of cor-
dial, which he had brought on purpose for me: after
I drank it, I sat down upon the ground, and though it
brought me to myself, yet it was a good while before
I could speak a word to him.
All this while the poor man was in as great an ec-
stasy as 1, only not under any surprise, as I was; and
he said a thousand kind tender things to me, to com-
pose and bring me to myself; but such was the flood of
joy in my breast, that it put all my spirits into confu-
sion; at last it broke into tears, and in a little while af-
ter I recovered my speech.
Then I took my turn and embrac'd him as my de-
liverer; and we rejoic'd together: I told him I lookM
upon him as a man sent from heaven to deliver me,
and that the whole transaction seem'd to be a chain
of wonders; that such things as these were the testi-
monies we had of a secret hand of providence gover-
ning the world, and an evidence, that the eyes of aa
infinite power could search into the remotest corner
of the world, and send help to the miserable whenever
he pleas'd.
I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness to
heaven; and what heart could forbear to bless him,
who had not only in a miraculous manner provided for
R
one in such a wilderness, and in s-Jch a desolate con-
dition, but from whom every deliverance must always
be acknowledged to proceed?
When we had talk'd awhile, the captain told me,
he had brought me some little refreshments, such as the
ship afforded, and such as the wretches, who had been
so long his masters, had not plundered him of; upon
this he callM aloud to the boat, and bid his men bring
the things afliore that were for the governor; and in-
deed it was a preseni,as if I had been one, not that
was to be carried along with them, but as if I had been'
to dwell upon the island still, and they were to go with-
out me.
First, he had brought me a cafe of bottles full of ex-
lent cordial waters, six large bottles of Madeira wine;
the bottles held two quarts apiece*, two pounds of ex-
cellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the ship's
beef and six pieces of the pork, with a bag of peas, and
about an hundred weight of biscuit.
He brought me also a box of sugar, a box of flour,
a bagful! of lemons, and two bottles of lime-juice/and
abundance of other things* but besides these, and what
was a thousand times more useful to me, he brought
me six clean new fliirts, six very good neckcloths* two
pair of gloves? one pair of stioes an hat, and one pair of
stockings, and a very good suit of cloaths of his owd^
which had been worn but very little: in a word, he
cloath'd me from head to foot.
It was a very kind and agreeable present, as any one
may imagine, to one in my circumstances; but never
was any thing in the world of that kind so unpleasant,
auk ward,-and uneasy, as it was to rhe to wear such
cloaths at their first putting on.
After these ceremonies past, and after all his good
things were brought into my little apartment* we began
to consult what was to be done with the prisoners we
had; for it was worth considering whether we might
venture to take them away with us or no, especially two
of them, whom we knew to be incorrigible and refrac-
tory to the last degree; and the captain said he knew
they were such rogues, that there was no obliging them,
and if he did carry them away, it must be in irons, as
malefactors to be delivered over to justice at the first
English colony he could come at; and I found that the
captain himself was very anxious about it.
Upon this, I told him, that if he desired it, I durst
undertake to bring the two men he spoke of, to make
it their own request that he should leave them upon
the ifland: /Jhould be very glad of that, says the cap-
tain, with all my heart.
Wtll, said I> I will fend for them, and talk with them
for you: so I caus'd Friday and the two hostages, for
they were now discharg'd, their comrades having per-
formed their promise; I say, I caus'd them to go to the
cave, and bring up the five men, pinion'd as they were
to the bower, and keep them there till 1 came.
After some time* I came thither dress'd in my new
habit, and now I was call'd governor again. Being all
met, and the captain with me, I caus'd the men to be
brought before me., and I told them, I had had a full
account of their villainous behaviour to the captain,
and how they had run away with the ship, and were
preparing to commit farther robberies; but that pro-
R 2
vidence had ensnar'd them in their own ways, and that
they were fallen into the pit which they had digg'd
for others,
I let them know, that by my direction the ship had
beenseiz'd, thatlhe lay now in the road, and they might
fee by and by, that their new captain had receivM the
reward of his villainy; far that they might fee him
hanging at the yard-arm.
That as to them, I wanted to know what they had'
to fay, why I should not execute them as pirates taken1
in the fact, as by my commission they could not doubt
I had authority to do.
One of them anfwer'd in the name of the rest, that
they had nothing to fay but this, that when they were
taken, the captain promised them their lives, and they
humbly implor'd my mercy: but I told them I knew
not what mercy to (hew them ; for, as for myself, 1 had
resolv'd to quit the island with all my men, and had
taken passage with the captain to go for England' and
as for the captain, he could not carry them to England,
other than as prisoners in irons to be try'd for mutiny,
and running away with the ship; the consequence of
which, they must needs know, would be the gallows;
so that I could not tell which was best for them, un-
less they had a mind to take their fate in the island, if
they desir'd that, I did not care, as I had liberty to
leave it *. I had some inclination to give thra their lives,
if they thought they could shift on shore. They seem'd
\ery thankful for it; laid they would much rather ven-
ture to flay there., than to be xarry'd to England to
be hang'd; so I left it on that issue.
Kowever* the captain seem'd to make some difficul-
ty of it, as if he durst not leave them there: Upon this
I seemed a little angry with the captain, and told him,
that they were my prisoners, not his; and that feeing
I had offered them so much favour, I would be as
good as my word; and that if he did not think fit to
consent to it, I would set them at liberty as I found
them; and if he did not like that, he might take them
again, if he could catch them.
Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I ac-
cordingly set them at liberty and bade them retire
into the woods, to the place whence they came, and I
would leave them some fire-arms, some ammunition,
and some directions how they should live very well, if
they thought fit.
Upon this, I prepared to go on board the ship; but
told the captain, that I would stay that night to pre-
pare my things, and desired him to go on board in the .
mean time, and keep all right in the ship, and fend the
boat on shore the next day for me; ordering him in
the mean time, to cause the new captain who was kill-
ed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that these men might
see him*
When the captian was gone, I sent for the men up to
me to my apartment, and entered seriously into dis-
course with them of their circumstances: I told them,
I thought they had made a right choice; that if the
captain carried them away, they would certainly be
hanged: I shewed 'em their captain hanging at the yard-
arm of the ship, and told them they had nothing less
to expect.
When they had all declared their willingness to
stay, I told them, I would let them into the story of
R 3
my. living there, and put them into the way of making
it easy to them: accordingly I gaye them the whole
history of the place, and of my coming to it; shew-
ed them m fortifications, the way I made my bread,
planted my corn, cured my giapes; and, in a w?rd,
all that was necessary to make them easy : I told them the
story also of the sixteen Spaniards that were to be ex-
pected; for whom I left a letter, and made them pro-
mise to treat them in common with themselves.
I left them my fire-arms j viz. five musquet's, three
fowling-pieces, and three swords: I had about a
barrel of powder left; for after the first year or two
J used but little, and wasted none: I gave them a de-
scription of the way I managed the goats, and directi-
ons to milk and fatten them, to make both butter and-
cheese*
In a word, I gave them every part of my own story;
and I told them, 1 would prevail with the captain to
leave them two barrels of gunpowder more, and some
garden feed, which I told them I would have been
very glad of; also I gave them the bag of peas which
the captain had brought me to eat, and bade them be
sure to sow and increase them
Having done all this, I left them the next day, and
went on board the ship: We prepared immediately to
sjil, but did riot weigh that night: The next morning
early, two of the five men came swimming to the
jhip's side, and, making a most lamentable complaint
of the other three, begged ro be taken into the Ihip,
jor Goi's fake, for they should be murdered r and
begged the captain to take them on board, tho' he
hanged them immediately;
Upon this, the captain pretended to have no power
without me j but after some difficulty, and after their
solemn promises of amendment, they were taken on
board, and were some time after soundly whipped aud
pickled; after which they proved very honeit and
quiet fellows.
Some time after this, I went with the boat on (bore,
the tide being up, with the things promised to the men,
to which the captain, at my intercession, caused their
chests and cloaths to be added, which they took, and
were very thankful for: I also encouraged them, by
telling them, that if it lay in my way to send any vessel
to take them in, I would not forget them.
When I took leave of this island, 1 carried on board
for reliques the great goat's-Jkin cap I had made, my
umbrella, and one of my parrots; also I forgot not to
take the money I formerly mentioned, which had lain
by me so long useless that it was grown rusty, or tar-
nished, and could hardly pass for silver, till it had been
a little rubbed and handled; and also the money I
found in the wreck of the Spanish (hip.
And thus I left the island the nineteenth of 7)ecem-
ber, as I found by the ship's account, in the year 1686,
after I had been upon it eight-and-twenty years, two
months, and nineteen days; being delivered from the
second captivity the same day of the month that I first:
made my escape in the Barco-Longo, from among the
Moors of Sal lee.
Iii this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in Eng-
land the eleventh of June, in the year 1687, having
been thirty-and-five years absent.
When I came to England I was a perfect stranger
R 4
to all the world, as if I had never been known there t
my benefactor, and faithful steward, whom I had left
in trust with my money, was alive, but had had great
misfortunes in the world, was become a widow the
second time, and very low in the world: I made her ea-
sy as to what (he owed me, assuring her, I would
give her no trouble; but on the contrary, in gratitude
to her former care and faithfulness to me, I relieved
her as my little stock would afford, which at that time
would indeed allow me to do but little for her; but I
assured her, I would never forget her former kindness
to me; nor did I forget her, when I had sufficient to
help her; as shall be observed in its place.
1 went down afterwards into Tork/hire; but my fa-
ther was dead, and my mother, and all the family ex-
tinct; except that 1 found two sisters, and two of the
children of one of my brothers; And as I had been
long ago given over for dead, there had been no pro-
vision made for me, so that, in a word, I found no-
thing to relieve or assist me; and that little money I
had, would not do lo much for me, as to settling in
the world.
I met with one piece of gratitude indeed, which I
did not expect; and this was, that the master of the
ship, whom I had so happily delivered, and by the lame
meanssavedthefliipandcdrgo, havinggivena Very hand-
some account to the owners, of the manner how 1 hsd
saved the lives of the men, and the ship, they invited
me to mce> them, and some other merchants concern-
ed, and all together made me a very handsome compli-
ment upon that subject, and a present of almost tvyp
hundred pounds sterling,
But after making several reflexions upon the cir-
cumstances of my life, and how little way this would go
towards settling me in the world, I resolved to go to
Lisbon, and see if 1 might not come by some informa-
tion of the state of my plantation in the Brafils, and
what was become of my partner, who, i had reason to
suppose, had some years now given me over for dead.
With this view I took shipping for Lisbon, where I
arrived in April following; my man Friday accom-
panying me very honestly in all these ramblings, and
proving a most faithful servant upon all occasions.
When I came to Lisbon, I found out by inquiry,
and to my particular satisfaction, my old friend the cap-
tain of the ship, who first took me up at sea, off the
shore of Africa: He was now grown old, and had left
off the sea, having put his son, Who was far from a young
man, into his ship; and who still used the Brasu trade.
*thc old man did not know me, and, indeed, I hardly
knew him; hut I soon brought myself to his remem-
brance, when I told him who 1 was.
After some passionate expressions of our old ac-
quaintance, I inquired, you may be sure, after my plan-
tation, and my partner: The old man told me, he had
not been in the Brasih for about nine years: but that
he could assure me, that when he came away, my part-
ner was living; but the trustees, whom 1 had jomed
with him to take cognizance of my part, were both
dead; that, however, he believed that I would have a
very good account of the improvement of the planta-
tion; for that, upon t^e general belies of my being
cast away and drowned my trustees had given in the
^ccjuntos the produce of my pare oi the plantation, to
|he procurator fiscal; who had appropriated it, in case
J never came to claim it, one third to the king, and
two thirds to the monastery of St. Jlugustin, to be ex-
pended for the benefit of the poor, and for the conver-
sion of the Indians to the catholic faith ; but that if
I appeared, or any one for me, to claim the inheritance,
it would be restored; only that the improvement, or
annual production, being distributed to charitable uses,
.could not be restored; but he assured me, that the
steward of the king's revenue (from lands) and the
provedore, or steward of the monastery, had taken great
care all along, that the iucumbent, that is to fay, my
partner, gave every year a faithful account of the pro-
duce, of which they received duly my moiety.
I aiked him, if he knew to what height of improve-
ment he had brought the plantation: And whether he
thought it might be worth looking after: Or whe-
ther, on my going thither, I lhould meet with no ob-
struction to my possessing my just right in the moiety.
He told me, he could not tell exactly to what degree
the plantation was improved; but this he knew, that
my partner was grown exceeding rich upon the enjoy-
ing but one half of it; and that, to the best of his re-
membrance he had heard, that the king's third of my
part, which was, it seems, granted away to some other
monastery, or religious house, amounted to above two
hundred moidores a year; that, as to my being restor-
ed to a quiet possession of it, there was no question to
be made of that, my partner being alive to witness my
title, and my name being also inrolled in the register
of the country. Also he told me, that the survivors
of my two trustees were very fair honest people, and
?ery wealthy, and he believed I would not only fiay§
their assistance for putting me in possession, but would!
find a very considerable sum of money in their hands,
for my account,, being the produce of the farm, while
their fathers held the trull, and before it was given
up, as above, which, as he remembered, -was for about
twelve years,
I shewed myself a little concerned and uneasy at
this account, and inquired of the old captain, how it
came to pass, that the trultees should thus dispose of
my effects, when he knew, that I had made my will,
and had made him, the Portuguese captain, my univer-
sal heir, &c.
He told me, that was true; but that, as there-was
no proof of my being dead, he could not act as exe-
cutor, until some certain account should come of my
death; and that, besides, he was not willing to inter-
meddle with a thing so remote: That it was true, he
had registered my will, and put in his claim; and coulcj
he have given any account of my being dead or alive,
he would have acted by procuration, and taken posses-
sion of the lngen'io (so they called the sugar-house) and
had given his son, who was now at the Brafus, orders
to do it.
But, fays the old man, I have one piece of news to
tell you, which perhaps may not be so acceptable to
you as the rest; and that is, that believing you were
lost, and ail the world believing so also, your partner
and trustees did offer to acc >unt to me in your name,
for six or eight of the first years of profits, which I
leceived , but there being at that time, fays he, great:
disbursements for increasing the works, building an in-
genfo, and buying slaves, it did not amount to near so
much as afterwards it produced: However, fays the
old man, I (hall give you a true account of what I have
received in all, and how I have disposed of it.
After a few days farther conference with thisantient
Iriend, he brought me an account of the six first years
income of my plantation, signed by my partner, and
the merchant's trustees, being always delivered in
goods; viz. tobacco in roll, and sugar in chefis, be-
sides rum, melasses, &c> which is the consequence of
a sugar-work; and 1 found by this account, that every
year the income considerably increased; But, as above,
the disbursement being large, the sum at first wassnjall:
However, the old man let me ice, that he was debtor
to me 470 moidpres of gold, besides 60 chests of su-
gar, and 15 double rolls of tobacco, which were lost
in his ship, he having been shipwrecked coming
home to Lisbon, about eleven years after my leaving
the place.
The good man then began to complain of his misfor-
tunes, and how he had been obliged to make use of
my money to recover his losses and buy him a fliare
in a new ship: However, my old friend, fays he, you
fliall riot want a supply in your necessity; and as soon
as my son returns, you shall be fully satisfy'd.
Upon this he pulls out an old pouch, and.gives me
two hundred Portugal moidoresin gold; and giving me
the writings of his title to the soip which his son was
gone to the Brasils in, of which he was a quarter-part
pwner,and his son another, he put$ them both in my
hands for security of the rest.
I Was too much mov'd with the honesty and kindness!
of the poor man, to be able to bear this; and remem-
bring what he had done for me, how he had taken me
up at sea, and how generously he had used me on all
occasions, and particularly, how sincere a friend he was
now to me, I could hardly refrain weeping at what he
said to me: therefore first I aik'd him if his circum-
stances admitted him to spare so much money at that
time, and if it would not slreighten him? He told me
he could not say but it might streighten him a little;
but, however, it was my money, and I might want it
more than he.
Every thing the good man said was full of affection,
and I could hardly refrain from tears while he spoke.
Infliort, I took one hundred of the moidores, and call'd
for a pen and ink to give him a receipt for them; then
I return'd him the rest, and told him, if ever I had
possession of the plantation, I would return the other
to him also, as indeed I afterwards did; and that, as to
the bill of sale of his part in his son's fliip, I would not
take it by any means; but that if I wanted the money,
I found he was honest enough to pay me; and if I did'
not, but came to receive what he gave me reason to ex-
pect, I would never have a penny more from him.
When this was passM, the old man began to aikme,'
if he should put me in a method to make my claim tc?
my plantation. I told him, I thought to go over to it
myself: he said 1 might do so if I pleas'd; but that if
1 did not, there were ways enough to secure my right,
and immediately to appropriate the profits to my use;
and as there were ships in the river of Lisbon, just rea-
dy to go away to Braftl, he made me enter my name
in a public register, with his affidavit, affirming upon
bath that 1 was alive, and that I was the fame person
who took up the land for the planting the said planta-
tion ^t first.
This being regularly attested by a notary, and i
procuration affix'd he directed me to fend it with a
letter of his writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance
at the place; and then propos'd my staying with him
till an account came of the return.
Never any thing was more honourable than the pro-
ceedings upon this procuration; for in less than seven
months I receivM a large packet from the survivors of
tny trustees, the merchants, for whose account I went
to sea, in which were the following particular letters
and papers iriclosed.
First} There was the acfcount current of the pro-
duce of my farm, or plantation, from the year when
their fathers had balanced with my old Portugal cap-
tain, being for fix years; the balance appeared to be
1174 moidores in my favour.
Secondly, There was the account of four years more
while they kept the effects in their hands, before the
government claimM the administration, as being the
effects ot a person hot to be found, which they call C/-
t'il cieatn\ and the balance of this, the value of the
plantation increasing, amounted to cruisadoes, which
riiade 3241 moidores.
Thirdly. There was the prior of the duguflines ac?
count, who had teceiv'd the profits for above fourteeti
years; but not being able to account for what was dif-
pos'd to the hospital, very honestly declared he had 872
moidores not distributed, which he acknowledged to
my account: as to the king's part, that refunded hb«
thing.
1 iiere was also a letter of my partner's, congratu-
lating me very affectionately upon my being alive; giv-
ing me an account how the estate was improved, and
what it produced a year, with a particular of the num-
ber of squares or acres that it contained; how planted,
how many slaves there were upon it; and making two-
and-twepty crosses for blessings, told me, he had said
so many Ave Maria's to thank the blessed virgin that
I was alive; inviting me very passionately to come over
and take possession of my own, and in the mean time
to give him orders to whom he should deliver my ef-
fects, if I did not come myself; concluding with an hearty
tender of his friendship, and that of his family; and
sent me, as a present, seven fine leopards Ikins, which
he had, it seems, received from Africa by some other
ship which he had sent thither, and who, it seems,
had made a better voyage than I: he sent me also
five chests of excellent sweetmeats, and an hundred
pieces of gold uncoin'd, not quite so large as moidores.
By the fame fleet my two merchant-trustees sliipp'd
me 1200 chests of sugar, 800 rolls of tobacco, and the
rest of the whole account in gold.
I might well fay now, indeed, that the latter end of
Job was better than the beginning: it is impossible to
express the flutteringsof my very heart, when Ilook'd
over these letters, and especially when I found all my
wealth about me; for as the Brasil (hips come all in
fleets, the fame (hips which brought my letters brought
my goods; and the effects were safe in the Tagus be-
fore the letter came to my hand: in a word, I turn'd
pale, and grew sick; and had not the old man run and
fetched me a cordial, I believe the sudden surprise of
joy had overset nature, and 1 had dy'd upon the spot.
Nay, after that, 1 continu'd very ill, and was so
some hours, till a physician being sent for, and some-
thing of the real cause of my illness being known, he
ordered me to be let blood; after which I had relief,
and grew well; but I verily believe, if I haid not beeci
easM by the vent given in that manner to the spirits,
I should have dy'd.
I was now master, all on a sudden, of above 50,000/.
flerling fn money, and had an estate, as 1 might well
tali it, in the Brajils, of above a thousand pounds a
year, as fuse as an estate of lands in England; and,
in a word, I was in a condition which I scarce knew
how to understand, or hofw to compose myself for the
enjoyment of.
The first thing I did, was to recompense my ori-
ginal benefactor, my good old captain, who had been
first charitable to me in my distress, kind to me in the
beginning, and honest to me at the end: I fhew'd him
all that was sent me; I told him, that, next to the
providence of heaven, which disposes all things, it was
owing to him; and that it now lay on me to reward
him. which 1 would do an'hundredfold: so I first re-
turned to him the hundred moidores 1 had received of
him; then I sent for a notary, and caus'd him to draw
up a general release or discharge for the 470 moidores,
which he had acknowledged he owed me, in the f ullest
and firmest manner possible; after which, I caus'd a
procuration to be drawn i npo vering him to be my
feceiver of the annual profits of my plantation, and
( ill ) _ , .
^pointing my partner to account to hliti, drid make
she returns by the usual fleets to him in my name;
and a clause in the end, being a grant of 100 moidores
a year to him during his life, out of the effects} and
50 moidores a year to his soft after him, for his life:
and thus I requited my old man.
I was now to consider which way to steer my course
next, aiid what to do with the estate that providence
had thus put into my hands; and, indeed, I had more
care upon my head now, than 1 had in my silent state
of life in the ifland, where I wanted nothing but what
I had, and had nothing but what I Wanted; whereas I
had now a great charge upon me, and my business was
how to secure it; I had never a cavd to hide my mo-
ney in, or a place where it might lie without lock or
key, till it grew mouldy and tarnished before any bo-
dy would meddle with it: on the contrary, I knew
not where to put it, or whom to trust with it; my old
patron the captain, indeed was honest, and that was
the only refuge I had.
In the next place, my interest in the Brdfils seemM
$o summon me thither; but now I could not tell how
to think of going thither till I had settled my affairs,
and left my effects in some safe hands behind me: at
first I thought of my old friend the widow, who I knew
Was honest, and would be just to me; but then flie was
in years, and but poor, and* for aught I knew, might
be in debt; so that, in a word* I had no way but to
gt) back to England myself, and take my effects with
me
1 was some months, however, before I resolv'd upon
this; and therefore as I had rewarded the old captain
S
fully, and to satisfaction, who had been my former be-
nefactor, so I began to think of my poor widow whose
husband had been my first: benefactor, and she, while
k was in her power, vtiy faithful steward and instruc-
tor: so the first thing 1 did, 1 got a merchant in Lis-
bon to write to his correspondent in London* ttoidnly to
pay a bill, but to go find her out, and carry tier iff
money an hundred pounds from me, and to talk with
her, and comfort her in her poverty, by telling her,
she fliould, if I liv'd, have a farther supply: at the
fame time 1 sent my two sisters in the ciouritry, each
of them, an hundred pounds, they being, though not
in want, yet not in very good circumstances; one hav-
ing been married and left a* widow, and the other hav-
ing an husband not so kind to her as he should be.
But among all my relations or acquaintances I could
not yet pitch upon one, to whom I durst commit the
gross of my stock* that I might go away to the JBrafi/s,
and leave things safe behind me j and this greatly per-
plexed me.
I had once a mind to have gone to the Brqftls* and
have settled myself there; for I was, as it were, natu-
ralized to the place; but' I had some little scruple nr
my mind about religion, which insensibly drew me
back, of which I fliall say more presently. However,
it was not religion that kept me from going thither
for the present; and as 1 had made no scruple of be-
fog openly of the religion of the country, all the while
1 was among them; so neither did I yet; only that now
and then having of late thought more of it than for-
merly, when I began to think of living and dying a-
mong them, I began to regret my having professed my-
|elf a thought it might riot be tfet best
ligjon to die in.
But; as I have said, this,was not the main thing that
kept me from going to the Brasus, but that,really 1 did
not know with whom to leave my effects behind me;
so T resplvM at last; tp go to England with them, where,
if I arrivM, I concluded I should make some acquain-
tance, or find some relations, that would be faithful to
fpe; and accordingly I prepar'd to go for England
with all my wealth.
In order to prepare things for my going home, I first
(the Brafil fleet being just going away) resolv'd to give
pnswers suitable to the just and faithful iccount of
things I had from thence; and first to the prior of Se.
\Augulline I wrote a letter full of thanks for his just
dealings, and the offer of the .872 moidbres, which
^ras, undisposed of, which I desir'd might be given> 500
to the monastery, and 372 to the poor, as the prior
should direct, desiring the good Padres prayers for me,
and the like.
I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees,
yith ail the acknowledgment that so much justice and
honesty calPd for; as for sending them any present,
.they were far above having any occasion of it.
Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging his
industry in the improving the plantation, and his in-
tegrity in increasing the stock of the works, giving him
instructions for his future government of my part, ac-
cording to the powers I had left with my old patron,
to whom I desir'd him, to fend whatever became due
to me, till he should hear from me more particularly;
asluring him, that it was my intention, not only to come
S 2
to Him, but to settle myself there for the remainde? di
my life: to this I added a very handsome present of
some Italian G\ks for his wife and two daughters, for
such the captain's son informed me he had; with twb
pieces of fine English broad cloth, the best I could get
in Lisbon, five pieces of black bays, and some slanders
lace of a good value.
Having thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and
eurn'd all my effects into good bills of exchange, my
next difficulty was, which way to go to England: I
had been accustom'd enough to the sea, and yet I had
a strange aversion to go to England by sea at that time;
and though I could give no reason for it, yet the dif-
ficulty increased upon me so much, that though I had
once fhipp'd my baggage in order to go, yet I alter'd
my mind, and that not onc£, but two or three times.
It is true, I had been very unfortunate by sea, and
this might be one of the reasons; but set no man slight
the strong impulses of his own thoughts in cases of
such moment: two of the ships which I had singled
out to go in, I mean, more particularly singled out than
any other, that is to fay? so as in one of them to put
my things on board, and in the other to have agreed
with the captain; I fay, two of these ships miscarry'd;
viz. One was taken by the Algerines, and the other
was cast away on the Start near T'orbay, and all thfc
people drowned except three; so that in either of those
vessels I had been made miserable, and in which most,
h was hard to fay.
Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old
pilot, to Whom I communicated every thing, press'd me
earnestly not to go to sea; but either to go by land to
the Groyne}an& cross over the bay of Biscay or'Rochelfa,
from whence it was but an easy and safe journey by
land to Paris, and so to Calais and "Dover; or to
go up to Madrid, aijd so all the way by land through
France.
In a word, I was so prepossess'd against my going by
sea at all, excepf from Calais to 'Dover, that I resolv'd
to travel all the way by land; which, as I was not in
haste, and did not value the charge, was by much the
pleasanter way; and to make it more so, my old captain
brought an English gentleman, the son of a merchant
in Lisbon, who was willing to travel with me: after
which we pick'd up two who were English and mer-
chants also, and two young Portuguese gentlemen* the
jast going to Paris only; so that we were in all six of us,
and five servants, the two merchants, and the two Por-
tuguese, contenting themselves with one servant between*
two, to sgve the charge; and as for me, I got an Eng*
lifh sailor to travel with me as a servant besides my man
Friday, who was too much a stranger to be capable
of supplying the place of a servant upqn the road.
In this manner I set out from Lisbon: and our com-
pany being all very well mounted and arm'd, we made
a little troop, whereof they did me the honour to call
me captain, as well because 1 was the oldest man, as
because I h^d two servants, and, indeed, was the origi-
nal of the whole journey.
As I have troubled you with none of my sea journals,
so shall I trouble you with none of my land journal i
but some adventures that happened to us in this tedious
and difficult journey, I must not omit.
When we came to Madrid, we, being all of us strang-
8.3
e*s to Spain, tt&re willing to stay some time to see the
court of Spain, and to see what was worth observing;
but it being the latter part of the summer, we hasten'd
away*, anii set out from Madrid about the middle of
Oftober: but when we cam<* to the edge of Navarre,
we were alarms at several towns on the way, with aft
account that so much snow was fallen on the French
side of the mountains, that several travellers wereoblig'd*
to come back to Pampeluha, after having attempted,
at an extreme hazard, to pass on.
When we came to Pampelunci itself, we found it so
indeed; and to nie that had been always us'd to an hot'
climate, and indeed to countries where we could scarce
pear any cloaths on, the cold was unsufferable; nor,
indeed, Was it more painful than it was surprising, to
come but ten days before out of the old Castile, where
the weather was not only Warni but very hot; and|
immediately to feel ia wind frbm the Pyrenean moun-
tains, so very keen, so severely cold, as to be intolera-
bJe, and to endanger benumbing and perishing of our
fingers and toes, Was very strange; r
Poor Friday was really frighted when he saw the
mountains all covered with snow, and felt cold Weather
tyhich he had never seen or felt before in his life.
To mend the matter, after we came to Pampeluna%
it continued showing with so much violence, and so long;
that the people said, winter was come before its time,
and the roads which were difficult before, wete now
quite impassable; in a word; the snow lay in som6
places too thick for us to travel; and being not hard
frozen, as is the cafe in northern countries, there was
no going without being in danger of being buryM a-
Jive every step: We staid no less than twenty days at
Pampeluna; when (feeing the winter coming on, and
co likelihood of its being better, for it was the severest
winter all over Europe that had been known in many
years) I proposed that we should all go away to Font*
arabia, and there take shipping for Bourdeaux, which
was a very little voyage.
But while we were considering this, there came in
four French gentlemen, who, having been slopp'd on
the French side of the passes, as we were on the Spanish,
jhad found out a guide, who, traversing the country near
the head of Languedoc, had brought them over the.
mountains by such ways, that they were not much in-
commoded with the snow; and where they met with
snow in any quantity, they said it was frozen hard e-
nough to bear them and their horses.
We sent for this guide, who told us, he would unr
dertake to carry us the fame way, with no hazard from
the snow, provided we were arm'd sufficiently to pn>
test us from wild beasts; for, he said, upon these great
snows, it was frequent for some wolves to (hew them-
selves at the foot of the mountains, being made rave-
nous for want of food, the ground being cover'd with
snow: we told him we were well enough preparM for
such creatures as they were, if he would insure us
from a kind of two legged wolves, which we were told
we were in most danger from, especially on the French
fide of the mountains
Jie satisfy'd us there was no danger of that kind in
the way that lyewere to go: so we readily agreed to fol-
low him; as did also twelveother gentlemen, with their
servants, some French, some Spanish, who, as I said,
S 4
had attempted to go, and were obligM to come back a-
gain. -
Accordingly we all set out from T>ampeluna> with
our guide, on the fifteenth of November; and indeed,
I was surpris'd, when, instead of going forward, he
came directly back with us, on the fame road that we
came from Madrid, above twenty miles; when having
pafs'd two rivers, and come into the plain country, we
found ourselves in a warm climate again, where the
country was pleasant, and no snow to be seen; but on
a sudden, turning to the left, heapproach'd the moun-
tains another way; and tho! it is true, the hills and the
precipices looked dreadful, yet he made so many cours,
such meanders, and led us by such winding ways, we
insensibly pafs'd the height of the mountains, without
being much incumber'd with the snow; and all on a
sudden he stiew'd us the pleasant fruitful provinces of
Languedqc and Gascvigne, aJJ green and flourishing \
tho' indeed they were at a great distance, and we hac|
some rough way to pass yet.
We were a little uneasy however, when we found it
snow'd one w|iole day, and a night, so fast, that we
could not travel; but he bid us be easy, we should soon
be past it all: We found, indeed, that we began to de-
scend every day, and to come more north than before,
and so depending upon our guide, we went on.
It was about two hours before night, when our guide
being something before us, and not just in sight, out
rvish'd three monstrous wolves, and after them a bear,
cut of an hollow way, adjoining to a thick wood; two
of the wolves flew upon the guide, and had he been
half a mile before us, he had been devoured indeed, be*
fore we could have help'd him; one of them fastened gpoj|
Lis horse, and the other attacked the man with that vi-
olence, that he had no time, or not presence of mind
enough, to draw his pistol, but halloo'd and cry'd out;
tp us most lustily; my man Friday being next ro me,
I bid him ride up, and fee what was the matter: as
foon as Friday came in fight of the man, he halloo'd as
loud as t'other, O Mailer J O Master! But like a bold
fellow, rode directly up to the man, and with his pis-
tol shot the wolf that attacked him, into the head.
It was happy for the poor man, that it was my man
Friday; for he, having been i}s!d to that kind of crea-
tures in his country, had no fear upon him, but went
close up to him, and (hot him, as above; whereas any
of us would havefir'd at a farther distance, and have
perhaps either miss'd {he wolf, or endangers shooting
the man.
But it was enough to have terrify'd a bolder man
than 1, and indeed it alarmed al! our company, when,
with the noise of Friday's pistol, we heard on both fides
the dismallest howling of wolves, and the noiie redoubl-
ed by the echo of the mountains, that it was to us as if
there had been a prodigious multitude of them; and
perhaps indeed there were not such a few, as that we
had no cause of apprehensions.
However, as Friday had kill'd this woJf, the other,
that had fastened upon the horse, left him immediately,
apd fled, having happily fastened upon his head, where
the bolses"of the bridle had stuck in his teeth, so that
he had not done him much hurt; The man, indeed,
Was most hurt: For the raging creature had bit hini
twice, once on the arm, and the other time a little
.above his knee; and he was just as it were tumbling
down by the disorder of the horse, when Friday came
tup, and shot the wc^lf.
It is easy to suppose, that at tfje noise ps Friday's
pistol we all mended our pace, and rid up as fait as the
fray (which was very difficult; would give us leave, tp
fee what was the matter; As soon as we came clear
©f the trees, which blinded us before, we saw plainly
what had been the case, and how Friday had disen-
gaged the poor guide; though we did not presently
discern what kind of creature it was he had killed.
But never was a fight managed so hardily, and in
such a surprising manner, as that which follqwed be-
tween Friday and the bear, which gave us all (though
at first we were surprised and afraid for him) the great-
est diveriipp imaginable: As the bear is an heavy, clum-
sy creature, and does not gallop as the wolf does,
which is swift and light; so he has two particular qua-
lities, which generally are thje rule of his actions: First,
As to men, who are not his proper prey, I fay, not
his proper prey, because, tho* f can't say what excesT
five hunger might dp, which was now their case, the
ground being all covered with snow; y$t as to men,
Jie does not usually attempt them, tinless thqy first at-
tack hjm: On the contrary, if you meet him in the
woods, tho' if you don't meddle: with him; he won't
meddle with you; yet then you must take care to be
very civil to him, an4 give him the road > for he is
a very nice gentleman, he won't go a step put of the
way for a prince; nay, if yop are really afraid, your
best way is to look another way, and keep, going onj
c m j
for sometimes, if you stop, and stand stitt, an<$ logk
stedfastly at him, he takes it for an affront; but if you
throw or toss any thing at him, and it hits him, thougti
it were but a bit of stickas big as your finger he takes
it for an affront, and sets all other business aside to pur-
sue his revenge; for he will have satisfaction in point
of honour, and this is his first quality: The next is,
that if he be once affronted, he will never leave you
night or day, till he 'has his revenge, but follow ait a
good round rate till he overtakes you.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when
we came up to him, he was helping him of£ from his
horse1; for the man Was both hurt and frighted, and
indeed the last more than the first; when, on a sud-
clen, we spy'd the bear come out of the wood, and a
vast monstrous one it was, the biggejl by far that ever
I saw: We were all a little surprised when we sa#
fiim; but when Friday saw him^ it was easy to see joy
and courage in the fellows countenance: OJ Of O*
says Friday, three times, pointing to him O master I
You give me te leave, me Jhakee te hand with him} m
makee you good laugh.
I was surprised to see the fellow so pleased; you fool
you, said I, he will eat you up • Eatee me up/ eatee me
up! says Friday, twice over again; me eatee hhn upi
Me makee you gogd laugh You all stay here, me jbew
you good laugh • So down he sits, and gets his boots off.
in a moment, and put on a pair ot pumps"fas we calt
the fiat flioes they wear) and which he'had in his poc-
ket, gives my other servant his hone, and, with his
gun, away he flew, swift like the wind.
* The bear was walking softly on, and offered to med-
die with noboy, till Friday, coming pretty near, calls
to him, as if the bear could understand him: Hark ye,
hark ye. s$ys Friday, me Ipeakee ujityow* We follow-:
ed at a distance; for now being come down to the
Gafcoigne side of the mountains, we were entered a vast
great forest, where the counrry was plain, and pretty
open, tho' many trees in it scattered here-and-there.
Friday, who had, as we fay, the heels of the bear,
came qp with him quickly, and takes up a great stone,
and throws at him, and hit him just on the head; but
did him nQ more harm, than if he had thrown it a-
gainst a wall; but it answered Fridays end; for the
rogue was so void of fear, that he did it purely to
make the bear follow him, and shew us some laugh,
as he called it.
As soon as the bear felt the stone, ?nd saw him, he;
turns about, and comes after him, taking devilish long
strides, and shuffling along at a strange rate, so as
would put $n horse to a middling gallop, away runs
Friday aqd takes his course, as if he ran towards us
for help; so we $11 resolved to fire 4t once upon the
bear, and deliver my man; though I was angry at him
heartily for bringing the bear back upon us, when he
was going about his own business another way; and e-
specially I was angry that he had turned the bear up-
on us, apd then rijn away; ai\dl called out, You dog,
said I, is this your making us laugh? Come away> and,
take your horse, that we may shoots the creature. He
hears me, and cries out, No foot, no shoot, stand sti11,
you get much laugh: And as the nimble creature ran
two feet for the beast's pne, he turned on a sudden, on
one side of us, and seeing a great oak-tree, fit for his
purpose', he beckoned us to follow, and, doubling his
pace, he gets nimbly up the tree, laying his gun down
upon the ground, at about five or six yards from the
bottom of the tree*
The bear soon came to the tree, and we followed
at a distance; the first thing he did, he stopt at the
gun, smelt to it, but let it lie, and up he scrambles in-
to the tree, climbing like a cat, though so monstrous-
ly heavy: I was amazed at the folly, as 1 thought it,
of my man, and Could not for my life fee any thing
to laugh at yet, till, feeitfg the bear get up the tree,
we all rode nearer to him.
When we came to the tree, these was Friday got
out to the small of a large limb of the tree, and thfc
bear got about half way to him: As soon as the bear
got out to that part where the limb of the tree was
weaker, ha, fays he to us, now you fee me tea'chee the
bear dance: so he falls a jumping, and shaking the
bough, at which the bear began to totter, but stood1
still, and begdn to look behind him, to fee how he
fliould get back: then indeed we did laugh heartily:
But Friday had not done with him by a great deal;
when he fees him stand still, he calls out to him again,
as if he had supposed the bear could speak English,
IVhat, you no come farther? Pray you come farther.
So he left jumping and shaking the bough; and the
bear, just as if be had understood what he said, did
come a Jitte farther; then he fell a jumping again, and
the bear stopped again*
We thought now was a good time to knock him on
the head, and called to Friday to stand still, and we
would slioot the bear; but he cried out earnestly, O
fynyi Opray! msimt, me jhoot byatydthen\ he Would
have said by-andby. however, to shorten the story^
Friday dancM so much, and the bear stpod so ticklislo,
that we had laughing enough indeed, but still coul4
iiot imagine what the fellow would do; for first we
thoiight he depended upon fliaking the bear off; and we
found the bear was too cunning for that too; for he
Would not go out far enough to be thrown down, but
fclings fast with his great broad claws and feet, so thai
we could not imagine what Wotild be the end of it, and
where the jest would be at last. . . ,
But Friday put us out of doubt cjuickly; for seeing
she bear cling fast to the bough, and that he would not
be persuaded to come any farther; tVell, well, said
Friday; you no come farther, me go, me go; you no come
to me, me come to you: and upon this he goes out to the
smallest end of the botigh, where; it. should bend with
nis weight, arid gently lets himself down by it, sliding
clown the bough, till he came near enough to jump
down on his feet, and away he ran to his gun, takes it
up and stands still. , , . ,
Well, said t to him, Friday, What Will you do now I
Why don't you shoot him? No /hoot, says Friday, nc
yet, me Jhoot noiv, me no kill; me slay, give you one more
laugh] and indeed so he did, as you will fee presently;
for when the bear saw his enemy gone, he comes back
ixom the bough where he stood, but did it mighty lei*
surely, looking behind him every step, and coming back-
ward till he got into the body of the tree; then* wich
{he same hinder end foremost, he came down the tree,
grasping it wuft his claws, and moving one foot at a
time very leisurely; at this juncture, and just before
he could set his hind feet upon the ground, Friday step-
ped close to htm, dapped the mutzle of his piece mtd
his ear, and (hot him dead as a stone.
Then the rogue turn'd about, to fee if we did not
laugh ; and when he sow we were pleas'd by our fooks,
he falls a laughing himself tfery loud: So w kill bear
in my country, says Friday; so you kill them, said I,
Why you have no guns: No, fays he, nd gun} but Jboot
grtat much long arrow.
This was, indeed, a good diversion to us; but we
were strll in a wi ld place, and our guide very much hurt,
and what to do we hardly knew; the howling of wolves
fan much in my head; and indeed, except the noise I
once heard on the shore of Africa, of Which I have
said something already, I never heard any thing that
filled me with so much horror.
These things, and the approach of night, called us
6ff, or else, as Friday vfould have had us, we should
certainly have taken the lkin of this monstrous crea-
ture off, which was worth saving; but we had three
leagues to go, and our guide hastened us; so we left
him, and went forward on our journey.
The ground was still covered with snow, tho' not
so deep and dangerous as on the mountains; and the
ravenous creatures, as we heard afterwards, were come
down into the forest, and plain country, press'd by
hunger, to seek for food; and had done a greatdeal of
mischief in the Villages, where they surprised the coun*
try-people, killed a great many of their iheep and hor-
sqs, and some people too.
We had one dangerous place to pass, of which our
guide told us, if there were any more Wolves in the
country, we stioitld find them there ; and this was a
small plain, surrounded with woods on every sidfc, andf
a long narrow defile or lane, which we were to pass
to get through the wood, and then we should come to
the village where we were to lodge.
It was within half ah hour of suri-set when we en-
tered the first wood; and a little after sun-set wheri
we came into the plain. We met with nothing in the
first wood, except that in a little plain within the wood,
fahich was not above two furlongs over, we saw five
great wolves cross the road, full speed one after ano-
ther, as if they had been in chace of some prey, and
had k in view; they took no notice of us, and wer£
gone, and out of our sight, in a few moments.
Upon this our guide, who, by the way, was a
wretched faint-hearted fellow, bade us keep in a ready
posture; for he believed there were more wolves a-
coming.
We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us;
but we saw no more wolves till we came through that
wood, which was near half a league, and entered the
plain; as soon as we came into the plain, we had oc-
casion enough to look about us; the first object we met
with, was a dead horse; that is to fay, a poor horse
which the wolves had killed, and at least a dozen of
them at work; we could not fay eating of him, but
picking of his bones rather; for they had eaten up alt
tEe fleih before.
We did not think sit to disturb them at their feast/
neither did they take much notice of us {Friday woulcf
have let fly at them, but 1 would not suffer him by a-
ify means; for I found we were Tike to'have more bu-
siness upon our hands than we were aware of. We
faere hot ijalsgone over the plain, but wekegpntohear
the wolves howl in the wood on our lest, ib a fright-
ful manner; and presently after we saw about an hun-
8red corhing on directly towards us, all iri a body, and
most of them in a line, as regularly as an army drawn
up by experienced officers: I scarce knew in what man-
ner to receive them; but found, to draw ourselves in
a close line, was the only way: So we formed in a mo-
ment: But, that we rnight not have too much interval,
I ordered, that only every other man should fire; and
that the others, who had not fired, should stand ready
to give them a second volley immediately, if they con-
tinued to advance upon us; and that then those who
had fired at first, siiould not pretend to load their fusils
again, but stand read, with every one a pistol, for we
were all armed with a fusil, and a pair of pistols, each
man; so we were by this method able to fire six vol-
leys, half of us at a time: however, at present we had
no necessity; for, upon firing the first volley, the ene-
my made a full stop, being terrified, as well with, the
hoise, as with the fire; four of them, being fliot in
the head, dropped; several others were wounded, and
went bleeding off, as we could fee by the snow: I
found they stopped, but did not immediately retreat;
whereupon, remembring that I had been told, that
the fiercest creatures were terrified at the voice of a
man, I caused all our company to halloo as loud as we
could, and I found the notion not altogether mistaken;
for, upon our fliout, they began to retire, and turn a-
bout; then I ordered a second volley to befir^d in their
rear, which put them to the gallop, and away they
went to the woods,
T
*shis gave us leisure to charge our pieces again, and
that we might lose no time, we kept doing; but we
had but little more than loaded our fusils, and pat our-
selves into a readiness, when we heard a terrible noise
in the same wood, on our left ; only that it was farther
onward the (ame way we were to go.
The night was coming on, and the night began to
be dusky, which made it the worse on our side; but,
the noise increasing, we could easily perceive, that it
was the howling and yelling of those hellish creatures;
and, on a sudden, we perceived two or three troops of
wolves, one on our lest, one behind us, and one on our
front; so that we seemed to be surrounded with th£m;
however as they did not fall upon us, We kept our
way forward, as fast as we could make our horses go,
which, the way being very rough, wa$ only a good
large trot; and in this manner we only came in view
of the entrance of the wood, through which we were
to pass, at the farther side of the plain; but we were
greatly surprised, when, coming near the lane, or pass,
we saw a confus'd number of wolves standing just at
the entrance.
On a sudden, at another opening of the wood, we
Heard the noise of a gun; and, looking that i way, out
rulhed an horse, with a saddle and a bridle on him, fly-
ing like the wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves af-
ter him full speed; indeed the horse had the heels of
them; but as we suppose, that he could not hold it at
that rate, we doubted not but they would get up with
him at last; and no question but they did,
Here We had a most horrible sight; for, riding up
to the entrance where thehorse came out, we found the
carcase of another horse, and of two men devoured by
<ehe ravenous creatures, and one of the men was no
doubt the fame whom we heard fire the gun ; for
there lay a gun just by him fir'd off; but, as to the
man, his head, and the upper part of his body, were
eaten up.
This filled us with horror, and we knew not what
course to take; but the creatures resolved us soon;
for they gathered about jus presently, in hopes of prey;
and I verily believe there were three hundred of them:
it happened very much to our advantage, that at the
entrance into the wood, but a little way from it, there
lay some large timber-trees, which had been cut down
the summer before, and I suppose lay there for car-
riage: I drew my little troop in among these trees, and
placing ourselves in a line behind one long tree I ad-
vised them all to alight, and, keeping that tree before
us, for a breast-work, to stand in a triangle, or three
fronts, inclosing our horses in the centre.
We did so, and it was well we did; for never was a
more furious charge thau the creatures made upon us
in this place: they came on us with a growling kind
of a noise, aud mounted the piece of timber (which, as
I said, was our breast-work,) as if they were only rush-
ing upon their prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems,
was priqicipally occasioned by their seeing our horses be-
hind us, which was the prey they aimed at: I order-
ed our men to fire as before, every other man; and
they took their aim so sure, that indeed they killed
several of the wolves at the first volley; but there was"
a necessity to keep a continual firing, for they came on
like devils, those behind pushing on those before,
When we had fired our second volley of pursues,
T 2
Rethought they stopped a little, and 1 hoped they
would have goad off, but it was but a moment, for o-
thers came forward again; so we firM our volleys of
our pistols, and I believe, in these four firing, we kil-
led seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed twice as
many; yet they came on again*
I was loth to spend our last shot too hastily; so I
icall'd my servant, not my man Fridayt for he was bet-
ter employed; for, with the greatest dexterity imagi- .
nable, he charged my fusil, and his own, while we were
engaged; but, as I said, I called my other man; and,
giving him a horn of powder, I bade him lay a train,
all along the piece of timber, and let it be a large train;
he did so, and had but just time to get away., when the
wolves came up to it, and some were got up upon it;
when I, snapping an uncharged pistol, close to the pow-
der, set it on fire; and those that were upon the tim-
ber were scorched with it, and six or seven of them
fell, or rather jumped in among us, with the force and
{right of the fire; we dispatched these in an instant,
and the rest were so frighted with the light, which the
night, for now it was very near dark, made more ter-
rible, that they drew back a little.
Upon which I order'd our last pistols to be fir'd off
in one volley, and after that we gave a shout; upon
this, the**wolves turn'd tail, and we sally'd immediately
ypon near twenty lame ones, which we found struggling
on the ground, and fell a cutting them with our swords,
which answerM oiir expectation; for the crying and
howling they made were better understood by their
fellows,- so that they fled, and left us.
"Whe had, first and last, kill'd about threescore of
ttiem; and had it beeti. day-light, we had kill W man jf
more: the field of battle being thus clear'd; we made
forward again; for we had still near $ league to goj
we heard the ravenous creatures howl and yell in the
woods as we went, several times; and sometimes we
fancied we saw some of them, but the snow dazzling
our eyes we were not certain; so in about an hour
jnore, we came to the town, where we were to lodge,
which we found in a terrible fright, and all in arms;
for it seems, that, the night before, the wolves and
some bears had broken into that village, and put them
in a terrible fright; and they were obliged to keep
guard night and day, but especially in the night to pre-
serve their cattle, and indeed their people.
The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs
so swelFd with the rankling of his two wounds, that he
could go no farther ; so we were oblig'dto take a new
guide there, and go to Tholouse, where we found a warm
climate, a fruitful pleasant country, and no snow, no
wolves, or any thing like them; but when we told our
story at Tholouse, they told us it was nothing but
what was ordinary in the great forest at the foot of the
mountains, especially when the snow lay on the ground;
but they inquirM much what kind of a guide we had
gotten, that would venture to bring us that way in such
a severe season; and told us, it was very much we were
not all devoured When we told them how we plac'd
ourselves, and the horses in the middle, they blam'd us
exceedingly, and told us, it was fifty to one but we
had been all destroy'd; for it was the sight of the hor-
ses that made the wolves so furious, seeing their prey;
and that at other times they are really afraid of a gun j
$>ut they being excessive hungry, and raging on that
account, the eagerness to come at the horses had made
jhem senspless of danger; and that if we had not by
the continued fire, and at last by the stratagem of the
train of powder mastered them,, it had been great odds
but that we had been torn to pieces; whereas, had we
been content to have fat still on horseback, and fir'd
as horsemen* they would not have taken the horses so
much for their own, when men were on their backs,
as otherwise; and withal they told us, that at last, if
we had stood all together, and left our horses, they
would have been so eager to have devour'd them, that
we might have come off safe, especially having our
fire-arms in our hands and being so many in number,
For my part, I was never so sensible of danger in
my life j for seeing sbove three hundred devils come
roaring apd open-mouth'd to devour us, and having
pothing to shelter us, or retreat to, I gave myself
over for lost; $nd as it was, 1 believe, I (hall never
care to cross fhose mountains again; 1 think I would
much rather go a thousand leagues by sea, though I
were lure to meet with a storm once a week.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of, in my
passage through France; nothing but what other tra-
yellers have given an account of, with much more ad~
yantage than I can; I travelled from Tholoufe to Paris,
and without any considerable stay came to Calais, and
landed safe $t Dover, the fourteenth of January, after
slaving had a severe cold season to travel in.
1 was now come to the centre of my travels, and
had in a little time all my new discover'd estate safe
about me, the bills of exchange, which 1 brought with
me having been very currently paid.
My principal guide, add privy counsellor, was my
good antient widow, who, in gratitude for the money
I had sent her, thought no pains too much, or care too'
great, to employ for me; aftd I trusted her so intire-
ly with every thing, that I was perfectly easy as to the
security of my effects; and indeed I was very happy
from my beginning, and now to the end, in the unspot-
ted integrity of this gobd gentlewoman.
And now I began to think of leaving my effects with
this woman, and setting out for Lisben, and so to the
Brafils: but now another scruple came in the way, and
that was religion ; for as I had entertained some doubts
about the Roman religion, even while I was abroad,
especially in my'state of solitude,- so I knew there Was
no going to the Brasils for mer much less going to fet-
tle there, unless I resolved to embrace the Roman ca-
tholic religion, without any reserve; except on the o-
ther hand I resolved to be a sacrifice to my principles,
be a martyr for religion, arid die in the inquisition; so
1 resolved to slay at home, and, if I could fines means
for it, to dispose of my plantauuu.
To this purpose 1 Wrote to my old friend at Lisbon,
who in return gave me notice, tha_t he* could easily dis-
pose of it there: but that if I thought sit to give hhn
leave to offer it in my name to the two merchants, the
survivors of my trustees who lived in the Brasils, who
must fully understand the value of it, who lived just
upon the spot, and whom I knew to be very rich, so
that he believed they would be fond of buying it; he
did not doubt, but I should make 4 or 5000 pfecesof
eight the more of it.
Accordingly I agreed^ gave him orders to offer it
,to them, and he jid so; and, in about eight months
^ore, the ship being then returns, he sent me an ac-
count, that they had accepted the offer, and had remit-
ted 33,000 pieces of eight to a correspondent of theirs
at Lisbon, to pay for it.
In return, I signed . the instrument of sale in the
form which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my
old man, who Jsent me the bills of exchange for 32,800
pieces of eight for the estacp; reserving the payment
of too moidores a year to him, the old man, during
his life, and 50 mojdores afterwards to his son for his
life, which 1 had promised them ; and which the plan-
r tation was to make good as a rent-charge. And thus I
have given the first partof a life of fortune and adven-
ture, a life of providence's chequer-work, and of a va-
riety which the world will seldom be able to shew the
like of; beginning foolishly, but closing much more hap-
,.pily than any part of it ever gave, me leave so much as
to hope for.
Any one would think, that in this state of compli-
cated gOod famine, I was past running any more ha-
zards; and. Ib indeed I had been, if other circumstan-
ces had concurred; but I was inur'd to a wandering
life, had no family, nor many relations; nor, however
rich, had I contracted much acquaintance 5 and tho' I
had fold my estate in the Brafils> yet I couid not keep
that country out of my head, and had a great mind to
be upon the wing again; especially I could not resist
the strong inclination I had to see my island, and to
know if the poor Spaniards were in being there; and
how the rogues 1 left there had used them.
My true friend, the widow earnestly dissuaded me
Irom it, and so far prevaiTd with me, thac almost sot
seven years slie prevented my running abroad; during
which time I took my two nephews, the children of
one of my brothers, into my care: the eldest, having
something of his own, 1 bred up as a gentleman, and
gave him a settlement of some addition to his estate
after my decease ; the other 1 put out to a captain of
a ship; and after five years, finding him a sensible, bold
enterprising young fellow, I put him into a good ship,
and sent him to sea: and this young fellow afterwards
drew me in, as old as I was, to farther adventures ray-
self.
In the mean time, I in part settled myself here: for,
first of all I marry'd, and that not either to my disad-
vantage or dissatisfaction ; and had three children, two
sons and one daughter: but my wife dying, and my
nephew coming home wich good success from a voyage
to Spain, my inclination to go abroad, and his importu-
nity, prevailed, and engaged me to go in his ship as a
private trader to the Eaft-Indies; this was in the year
1694,
In this voyage X visited my new colony in the island,
saw my successors the Spaniards^ had the whole story
of their lives, and of the villains I left there; how at
first they insulted the poor Spaniards, how they after-
wards agreed, disagreed, united, separated, and how at
last the Spaniards were obliged to use violence with
with them; how they were subjected to the Spaniards;
how honestly the Spaniards used them; an history,
if it were entered into, as full of variety and wonder-
ful accidents, as my own part; particularly also as to
their battles with the Caribbeans, who landed several
U
times upon the island, and as to the improvement they
made upon the island itself; and how five of them made
an attempt upon the main land, and brought away e?
leven rnen and five women prisoners; by which, at my
coming, I found about twenty young children on the
island.
Here I stayed about twenty days, left them supplies
pf all necessary things, and particularly of arms, pow-
der, shot, cloaths, tools, and two workmen, which I
brought from England with me; viz. a carpenter and
j& smith.
Besides this, 1 sliarM the island into parts with them,
reserved to myself tfye property of the whole, but gave
them such parts, respectively, as they agreed on; and,
haying settled all things with them, and engaged then?
not to leave the place, 1 left them there.
From thence I touched at the Brqfils, from whence
I sent a bark, which I bought there, with more peo-
ple, to the island; and in it, besides other supplies, I
sent seven women, being such ag I sound prpper for
service, or for wives to such $s would t^ke them: as tp
the Englijhmen^ I promised them to send them some
women from Etigfond, with a good cargo of necessa-
ries, if they would apply themselves to planting, which
I afterwards could not perform: the fellows proved
very honest and diligent, after they were mastered, an4
had their properties set apart for them. I sent them
3U0 from the Brasils five cows, three of them being
big with calf, some flieep, ^nd some hogs, which, when
1 came again, were considerably increased.
But all these things, with an account how 300 Carib-
bees c^meand inyadgfl them, and ruin'd their plantatj*
ags, and how they fought with that whole number
twice, and were at first defeated, and one of them
kill'd; but at last a storm destroying jtheir enemies ca-
noes, they famisti'd or destroyed almost all the rest, and
renew'd and recovered the posseflion of their plantati-
on, and still livM upon the island.
All these things, with some very surprising incidents
in some new adventures of my own, for ten years more,
I may, perhaps give a farther account of hereafter.*
 
MMMM
