 
 
 
FRO'NTISriF, CB
 
T II E
F E
. indf Slran&e. Surjbrczttw
Adventures
— r r , of f 3 ^
Robinson Crusoe,
0 V
York, mariner.
///;,/ t fy/t/ ,^ '/ft; tt /t, //frft., ft// ft/fttf fft ft/t ////
f/t/itf/t/ft/ . /.lArtt*/itt //t, /'rti.i/ f/- //t'i't''<'<r~./t*t7/"
//tt-, //,tt//t ,y ///, OT&U '////; t ^/yr/tryt/f,
liiiviii^ ln"(*n cnsi on ShoTf by Slupvapck ,
/f/ti/,//t , t// Mi. fa /f ^ti t f.>/i t/ //t/ //1ttt.H // ~
WITH AN ACCOUNT
Ar/t /tt ff/t.i /// /tt.i/ if.i t it sty, /y t/> //11 si ////fi//'.i
Written J)v Himself.
vol.i.
 
L O N BON.
/////< f /f / r '/('/,// , 4< 1 /f/f//, , V tff f////
17()0.
ADVERTISEMENT.
rip HE Publisher of this splendid Edition
of Robinson Crusoe has often ex-
perienced the most liberal encouragement for
works which, being large, might seem ha-
zardous for an individual; but on no occa-
sion has he been honoured and assisted by
a Subscription more adequate to the great-
ness of his expences, or more encouraging
to the activity of his future endeavours.-—
He begs leave to return his sincere thanks;
and he will only add, that his gratitude for
such repeated favours will continue through
life.
August 2c;7:, 1790.
Vol. I.
A
DIRECTIONS
FOR
PLACING THE CUTS,
With the SUBJECT of the PLATES.
PLATE I.
TITLE Page to Vol. I. with a beautiful Vignette, com-
posed of the Wreck of a Ship.
SUBJECT of PLATE II,
Frontispiece to Vol. I.—Robinson Crusoe taking leave
of his Father and Mother.
"My father was a wife and grave man; gave me serious and
excellent counsel against what he foresaw was my design. He
called me one morning into his chamber, where he was confined by
the gout, and expostulated very warmly with me upon this sub-
ject/' See page 2.
SUBJECT of PLATE III.
Robinson Crusoe shipwrecked, and clinging to a Rock.
ic I recovered a little before the return of the waves; and fee-
ing I mould be covered again with the water, I resolved to hold
fast by a piece of the rock/' See page 56.
SUBJECT of PLATE IV.
Robinson Crusoe upon his Raft.
"Having plundered the ship of what was portable and sit to
hand out, I began with the cables; and cutting the great cable
in pieces, such as I could move, I got two cables and a hawser on
shore, with all the iron-work I could get; and having cut down
the sprit-sail yard, and the mizen-yard, and every thing I could to
make a large raft, I loaded it with all the heavy goods, and came
away." Seepage 69.
A* SUBJECT
SUBJECT of PLATE V.
Robinson Crusoe at work in his Cave.
"I made abundance of things even without tools, and some
with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet, which perhaps
were never made before, and that with infinite labour." See
page 84.
SUBJECT of PLATE VI.
Robinson Crusoe discovers the Print of a Man's Foot.
"I was exceedingly surprised with the print of a man's naked
foot on the more, which was very plain to be seen in the sand. I
stood like one thunderstruck, or as if I had seen an apparition;
I listened, I looked round me, I could hear nothing, nor see any
thing." See page 19^..
SUBJECT of PLATE VIT.
Robinson Crusoe first: sees and rescues his man Friday.
"Having knocked this fellow down, the other who pursued
him stopped, as if he had been frightened; and I advanced apace
towards him; but, as I came nearer, I perceived presently he had
a bow and arrow, and was fitting it to shoot at me; so I was
then necessitated to shoot at him first, which I did, and killed him
at the first mot." fe page 256.
SUBJECT of PLATE VIII.
Robinson Crusoe and Friday making a Boat.
ci I shewed him how to cut it out with tools, which, after I
had shewed him how to use, he did very readily; and, in about a
month's hard labour, wre finished it, and made it very handsome."
Sl£ page 287.
SUBJECT of PLATE IX.
Robinson Crusoe and Friday making a Tent to lodge Fri-
day's Father and the Spaniard.
"Friday and I carried them up both together between us;
but, when we got them to the outfide of our wall or fortification,
we were at a worse loss than before, for it was impossible to get
them over; and I was resolved not to break it down, so I set
to work again, and Friday and I, in about two hours time, made
a very handsome tent, covered with old sails, and above that,
with boughs of trees." Seepage 30^.
A 3 VOL.
VOL II.
PLATE X,
Title to Vol. II. with a beautiful Vignette, composed of
Robinson Crusoe's Implements of Husbandry.
SUBJECT of PLATE XI.
Frontispiece.—Robinlon Crusoe's first Interview with
the Spaniards on his second Landing.
"First he turned to me, and pointing to them, said, These,
Sir, are some of the gentlemen who owe their lives to you: and
then turning to them, and pointing to me, he let them know who
I was: upon which they all came up one by one, not as if they
had been sailors, and ordinary fellows, and I the like, but really
as if they had been ambassadors or noblemen, and I a monarch
or a great conqueror/' See page 42.
SUBJECT of PLATE XII.
The Plantation of the two Englishmen. A'' ~
"The two men had innumerable young trees planted about
their hut, that when you came to the place, nothing was to be
seen but a wood; and though they had their plantation twice de-
molished, once by their own countrymen, and once by the enemy,
as mall be shewn in its place; yet they had restored all again, and
every thing was flourishing and thriving about them." Seepages.
SUBJECT of PLATE XIII.
The two Englishmen retreating with their Wives and
Children.
"Now, having great reason to believe that they were betrayed,
the first thing they did was to bind the slaves which were left,
and cause two of the three men, whom they brought with the
women, who, it seems, proved very faithful to them, to lead them
with their two wives, and whatever they could carry away with
them, to their retired place in the woods.'* See page 96.
SUBJECT or PLATE XIV. /V.;> .
The Spaniards and Englishmen burning the Indians' boats.
"They went to work immediately with the boats; and getting
some dry wood together from a dead tree, they tried to set some
of them on fire, but they were so wet, that they would scarce
burn; however, the fire so burned the upper part, that it soon
made them unfit for swimming in the sea as boats." Seepage 113.
SUBJECT
SUBJECT of PLATE XV. Nb h\ ;C;
Robinson Crusoe distributing Tools of Husbandry among
the Inhabitants
"I brought them out all my store of tools, and gave every man
a digging-spade, a shovel, and a rake, for we had no harrows or
ploughs; and to every separate place a pick-axe, a crow, a broad-
axe, and a saw." See page
SUBJECT of PLATE XVI. .
A View os the Plantation os the three Englishmen. fU y/
"Upon this he faced about just before me, as he walked
along, aud putting me to a full stop, made me a very low bow:
I most heartily thank God, and you, Sir, fays he, for giving me
so evident a call to so blessed a work." See page 151.
PLATE XVII.
Head of De Foe to face the Title os the LIFE.
LIST
THE
PREFACE.
T F ever the story of any private man's ad-
ventures in the world were worth making
public, and were acceptable when 'published,
the Editor of this account thinks this will be
fe.
The wonders of this man's life exceeds all
that (he thinks) is to be found extant; the life
of one man being scarce capable of a greater
variety.
The story is told with modesty, with se-
riousness, and with a religious application of
events to the uses to which wife men always
apply them; viz. to the instruction of others,
by this example, and to justify and honour
the wisdom of Providence in all the variety
of circumstances, let them happen how they
will.
The
The Editor believes the thing to be a just
history of facts; neither is there any appearance
of fiction in it: and however thinks, because,
all such things are disputed, that the improve-
- ment of it, as well to the diversion, as to the
instruction of the Reader, will be the fame;
and as such, he thinks, without farther com-
pliment to the world, he does them a great
service in the publication.
LIFE
AND
ADVENTURES
O F
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
 imijiiMui"
IWAS born in the year 1632, in the city of Tork,
of a good family, though not of that country,
my father being a foreigner of Breman, who settled
first at Hull: he got a good estate by merchandize,
and leaving off his trade, lived afterward at York,
from whence he had married my mother, whose
relations were named Robinson, a very good family
in that country, and from whom I was called Robin-
son Krcutznaer; but by the usual corruption of words
in England, we are now called, nay we call ourselves,
and write our name Crusoe, and so my companions
always called me.
I had two elder brothers, one of which was lieu-
tenant colonel to an English regiment iof foot in
Flanders, formerly commanded by the famous colo-
Vol. I, B nel
nel Lockhartj and was killed at the battle near Dun-
kirk against the Spaniards; what became of my
second brother I never knew, any more than my
father or mother did know what was become of me.-
Being the third son of the family, and not bred
to any trade, my head began to be filled very early
with rambling thoughts: my father, who was very
ancient, had given me a competent share of learning,
as far as house education, and a country free-school
generally goes, and designed me for the law; but I
would be satisfied with nothing but going to sea, and
my inclination to this led me so strongly against the
will, nay the commands of my father, and against
all the entreaties and persuasions of my mother and
other friends, that there seemed to be something fatal
in that propension of nature tending directly to the
life of misery which was to befal me.
My father, a wife and grave man, gave me seri-
ous and excellent counsel against what he foresaw
was my design. He called me one morning into
his chamber, where he was confined by the gout,
and expostulated very warmly with me upon this sub-
ject: he asked me what reasons more than a mecr
wandring inclination I had for leaving my father's
house and my native country, where I might be well
introduced, and had a prospect of raising my fortune-
by application and industry, with a life of ease and
pleasure* He told me it was for men of desperate
'fortunes on cue hand, or of aspiring, superior for-
tunes on the other, who went abroad upon adven-
tures, to rife by enterprize, and make themselves
famous in undertakings of a nature out of the com-
mon road 3 that these things were all either too far
above
3
"above me, or too far below me; that mine was the
middle state, or what might be called the upper sta-
tion of low life, which he had found by long expe-
rience was the best state in the world, the most
suited to human happiness, not exposed to the mi-
series and hardships., the labour and sufferings of the
mechanick part of mankind, and not embarrassed with
the pride, luxury, ambition and envy of the upper
part of mankind. Ke told me, I might judge of
the happiness of this state, by this one thing, viz.
That this was the state of life which all other people
envied; that kings have frequently lamented the
miserable consequences of being born to great things,,
and wish they had been placed in the middle of the
two extremes, between the mean and the great;
that the wife man gave his testimony to this as the
just standard of true felicity, when he prayed to have
neither poverty or riches.
He bid me observe it, and I should always find,
that the calamities of life were shared among the
upper and lower part of mankind; but that the middle
station had the fewest disasters, and was not exposed
to so many vicissitudes as the higher or lower part
of mankind; nay, they were not subjected to so many
distempers and uneasinesses either of body or mind,
as those were, who by vicious living, luxury and ex-
travagancies on one hand, or by hard labour, want
of necessaries, and mean or insufficient diet on the
other hand, bring distempers upon themselves by
the natural consequences of their way of living;
that the middle station of life was calculated for all
kind of virtues and all kind of enjoyments; that
B 2 peace
4
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
peace and plenty were the hand-maids of a middle?
fortune; that temperance, moderation, quietness*
health, society, all agreeable diversions, and all de-
sireable pleasures, were the blessings attending the
middle station of life; that this way men went silently
and smoothly through the world, and comfortably
out of it, not embarrassed with the labours of the
hands or of the head, not fold to the life of slavery
for daily bread, or harrassed with perplexed circum-
stances, which rob the foul of peace, and the body
of rest j not enraged with the passion of envy, or
secret burning lust of ambition for great things; but
in easy circumstances sliding gently through the world,
and sensibly tasting the sweets of living, without the
bitter, feeling that they are happy, and learning by
every day's experience to know it more sensibly.
After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the
most affectionate manner, not to play the young
man, not to precipitate myself into miseries which
nature and the station of life I was born in seemed
to have provided against; that I was under no ne-
cessity of seeking my bread; that he would do well
for me, and endeavour to enter me fairly into the
station of life which he had been just recommending
to me j and that if I was not very easy and happy in
the world, it must be my meer fate or fault that must
hinder it, and that he fliould have nothing to answer
for, having thus discharged his duty in warning me
against measures which he knew would be to my
hurt: in a word, that as he would do very kind
things for me if I would stay and settle at home as he
directed, so he would not have so much hand in my
misfortunes, as to give me any encouragement to go
away:
5
away: and to close all, he told me I had my elder
brother for an example, to whom he had used the
same earnest persuasions to keep him from going into
the low country wars, but could not prevail, his
young desires prompting him to run into the army,
where he was killed; and though he said he would
not cease to pray for me, yet he would venture to say
to me, that if I did take this foolish step, God would
not bless me, and I would have leisure hereafter to
reflect; upon having neglected his counsel when there
might be none to assist in my recovery.
I observed in this last part of his discourse, which
xvas truly prophetick, though I suppose my father
did not know it to be so himself; I say, I observed
the tears run down his face very plentifully, and es-
pecially when he spoke of my brother who was killed;
and that when he spoke of my having leisure to
repent, and none to assist me, he was so moved, that
he broke off the discourse, and told me, his heart
was so full, he could fay no more to me.
I was sincerely affected with this discourse, as
indeed who could be otherwise? and I resolved not
to think of going abroad any more, but to settle
at home according to my father's desire. But alas!
a few days wore it all off; and in short, to prevent
any of my father's farther importunities, in a few
weeks after, I resolved to run quite away from him.
However, I did not act so hastily neither as my first
heat of resolution prompted, but I took nyy mother,
at a time when I thought her a little pleasanter than
ordinary, and told, her, that my thoughts were so
entirely bent upon seeing the world, that I should
never settle to any thing with resolution enough to gq
B 3 through
6
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
through with it, and my father had better give me
his consent than force me to go without it; that I
was now eighteen years old, which was too late to
go apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an attorney;
that I was sure, if I did, I should never serve out my
time, and I should certainly run away from my
master before my time was out, and go to sea; and.
if she would speak to my father to let me go one
voyage abroad, if I came home again and did nor.
like it, I would go no more, and I would promise by
a double diligence to recover that time I had lost.
This put my mother into a great passion: flie. told
me, {he knew it would be to no purpose to speak to
my father upon any such subject, that he knew too
well what was my interest to give his consent to any-
such thing so much for my hurt, and that she won-
dered how I could think of any such thing after such
a discourse as I had had with my father, and such
kind and tender expressions as she knew my father
had used to me; and that in ssiort, if I would ruin
myself j there was no help for me; but I might de-
pend I ssiould never have their consent to it; that
for her part {he would not have so much hand in my
destruction; and I ssiould never have it to say, that
my mother was willing when my father was not.
Though my mother refused to move it to my
father, yet, as I have heard afterwards, ssie reported
all the discourse to him, and that my father, after
shewing a great concern at it, said to her with a sigh,
"That boy might be happy if he would stay at home,
but if he goes abroad, he will be the most miser-
ablest wretch that was ever born; I can give no
consent to it."
It
7
It was not till almost a year after this that I broke
loose, though in the mean time I continued obstinate-
ly deaf to all proposals of fettling to business, and
frequently expostulating with my father and mother,
.about their being so positively determined against
what they knew • my inclinations prompted me to. .
But being one day at HidU where I went casually*
.and without any purpose .of making an elopement
that time; but I say, being there, and one of my
companions being going by sea to London^ in his fa-
ther's ship, and prompting me to go with them, with
•the common allurement of sea-faring men, viz.
That it should cost me nothing for my passage, I
consulted neither father or mother any more, not so
much as sent them word of it; but leaving them to
hear of it as they might, without asking God's bles-
sing, or my father's, without any consideration of
circumstances or consequences., and in an ill hour,
God knows, on the first of September 1651, I went
on board a fliip bound for London; never any young
adventurer's misfortunes, I believe, began sooner, or
continued longer than mine. The ship was no sooner
gotten out of the Humber, but the wind began to
blow, and the waves to rife in a most frightful man-
ner; and as I had never been at sea before, I was
most inexpressible sick in body, and terrhVd in my
•mind: I began now seriously to reflect upon what I
had done, and how justly I was overtaken by the
judgment of heaven for my wicked leaving my father's
house, and abandoning my duty; all the good
counsel of my parents, my father's tears and my mo-
ther's entreaties came now fresh into my mind,, and
piy conscience, which was not yet come to the pitch
B 4 of ^
8
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
of hardness to which it has been since, reproached
me with the contempt of advice, and the breach of
my duty to God and my father.
All this while the storm encreafed, and the sea,
which I had never been upon before, went very high,
though nothing like what I have seen many times
since; no, nor like what I saw a few days after:
but it was enough to affect me then, who was but
a young sailor, and had never known any thing of
the matter. I expected every wave would have
swallowed us up, and that every time the ship fell
down, as I thought, in the trough or hollow of the
sea, we should never rise more; and in this agony of
mind, I made many vow^s and resolutions, that if it
would please God here to spare my life this one
voyage, if ever I got once my foot upon dry land
again, I would go directly home to my father, and
never set it into a ship again while I liv'd; that I
would take his advice, and never run myself into
such miseries as these any more. Now I saw plainly
the goodness of his observations about the middle
station of life, how easy, how comfortably he had
lived all his days, and never had been exposed to
tempests at sea, or troubles on shore; and I resolved
that I would, like a true repenting prodigal, go
home to my father.
These wise and sober thoughts continued all the
while the storm continued, and indeed some time
after; but the next day the wind was abated and
the sea calmer, and I began to be a little inur'd to it:
however I was very grave for all that day, being also
a little sea sick still; but towards night the weather
cleared up, the wind was quite over, and a charm-
ing
9
ing fine evening followed; the sun went down per-
fectly clear, and rose so the next morning; and
having little or no wind, and a smooth sea, the sun
sliming upon it, the sight was, as I thought, the
most delightful that ever I saw.
I had slept well in the night, and was now no
more sea-sick, but very chearful, looking with won-
der upon the sea that was. so rough and terrible the
day before, and could be so calm and so pleasant in
so little time after. And now, least my good resolu-
tions sliould continue, my companion, who had in-
deed enticed me away, comes to me, "Well, Bob/*
fays he, (clapping me upon the shoulder,) how do
you do after it? I warrant you were frighted, wa'n't
you, last 'nights when it blew but a cap full of wind? A
cap full do you call it? said I, it was a terrible florin;
Attorneyou fool you, replies he, do you call that astonn?
why it was nothing at all; give us but a goodstip and
fca-room, and we think nothing of such a fqual of wind
as that; but you're but a frejh-water sailor, Bob; come
let us make a bowl of punch and we'll forget all that;
do youfee what charming weather it is now? To make
short this fad part of my story, we went the old way
of all sailors, the punch was made, and I was made
drunk with it, and in that one night's wickedness I
drowned all my repentance, all my reflections upon
my past conduct, and all my resolutions for my
future. In a word, as the sea was returned to its
smoothness of surface and settled calmness by the
abatement of that storm,. Ib the hurry of my thoughts
being over, my fears and apprehensions of being
swallowed up by the sea being forgotten, and the
current of my former desires returned, I entirely for-
got
got the vows and promises that I made in my distress*
I found indeed fame intervals of reflection, and the
serious thoughts did, as it were, endeavour to
return again sometimes, but I shook them off, and
rouzed myself from them as it were from a distemper.,
and applying myself to drinking and company, soon
mastered the return of those sits, for so I called them,
and I had in five or six days got as compleat a vic-
tory over conscience as any young fallow that re-
solved not to be troubled with it, could desire; But
I was to have another trial for it still; and Provi-
dence, as in such cases generally it does, resolved to
leave me entirely without excuse, For if I would
not take this for a deliverance, the next was to be
such a one as the worst and most hardened wretch
among us would confess both the danger and the
mercy.
The sixth day of our being at sea we came into
Yarmouth Roads; the wind having been contrary,
and the weather calm, we had made but little wray
since the storm. Here we were obliged to come to
anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing con-
trary, viz. at south-west, for seven or eight days,
during which time a great many (hips from New-
caftle came into the fame roads, as the common har-
bour where the ships might wait for a wind for the
river.
We had not however rid here so long, but should
have tided it up the river, but that the wind blew
too fresh; and after we had lain four or five days,
blew very hard. However, the roads being reckoned
as good as a harbour, the anchorage good, and our
ground-tackle very strong, our men were uncon-
cerned,
II
cerned, and not in the least apprehensive of danger,
but spent the time in rest and mirth, after the
manner of the sea; but the eighth day in the morning,
the wind increased, and we had all hands at work
to strike our top-masts, and make- every thing snug
and close, that the ship might ride as easy as possible.
By noon the sea went very high indeed, and our ship
rid forecastle in, ihipp'd several seas, and we thought
once or twice our anchor had come home; upon
which our master ordered out the sheet anchor; so
that we rode with two anchors a-head, and the cables
vered out to the better end.
By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed, and
now I began to fee terror and amazement in the
faces even of the seamen themselves. The master,
though vigilant in the business of preserving the ship,
yet as lie went in and out of his cabbin by me, I
could hear him softly to himself say several times,
hard be merciful to us, ivc Jhall be all lojl, zve snail be
all undone; and the like. During these first hurries,
I was stupid, lying still in my cabbin, which was in the
steerage, and cannot describe my temper: I could ill
re-assume the first penitence which I had so apparently
trampled upon, and hardened myself against: I
thought the bitterness of death had been past, and
that this would be nothing to like the first. But
when the master himself came by me, as I said just
now, and said we should be all lost, I was dreadfully
frighted: I got up out of my cabbin, and looked
out; but such a dismal sight I never saw :. the sea
went mountains high, and broke upon us every three
or four minutes: when I could look about, I could
fee nothing but distress round us: two ships that rid
near
near us, we found, had cut their masts by the
board, being deep loaden; and our men cryed out,
that a ship which rid about a mile a-head of us was
foundered. Two more ships being driven from their
anchors, were run out of the roads to sea, at all
adventures, and that with not a mast standing. The
light ships fared the best, as not so much labouring
in the sea; but two or three of them drove, and
came close by us, running away with only their sprit-
fail out before the wind.
Towards evening the mate and boatswain begged
the master of our ship to let them cut away the fore*
mast, which he was very unwilling to: but the boat-
swain protesting to him, that if he did not, the ship
would founder, he consented; and when they had
cut away the fore-mast, the main-mast stood so loose,
and shook the ship so much, they were obliged to
cut her away also, and make a clear deck.
Any one may judge what a condition I must be in
at all this, who was but a young sailor, and who had
been in such a fright before at but a little. But if I
can express at this distance the thoughts I had about
me at that time, I was in tenfold more horror of
mind upon account of my former convictions, and
the having returned from them to the resolutions I
had wickedly taken at first, than I was at death it*
self; and these, added to the terror of the storm,
put me in such a condition, that I can by no words
describe it. But the worst was not come yet, the
storm continued with such fury, that the seamen
themselves acknowledged they had never known a
worse. We had a good ship, but she was deep loaden,
and wallowed in the sea, that the seamen every now
and
and then cried out, she would founder. It xvas my
advantage in one respect, that I did not know what
they meant by founder, till I enquired. However,
the storm was so violent, that I saw what is not often
seen, the master, the boat-swain, and some others
more sensible than the rest, at their prayers, and ex-
pecting every moment when the ship would go to the
bottom. In the middle of the night, and under all
the rest of our distresses, one of the men that had
been down on purpose to see, cried out we had sprung
a leak; another said there was four foot water in the
hold. Then all hands were called to the pump. At
that very word my heart, as I thought, died within
me, and I fell backwards upon the side of my bed
where I fat, into the cabbin. However, the men
rouzed me, and told me, that I that was able to do
nothing before, was as well able to pump as another;
at which I stirred up, and went to the pump and
worked very heartily. While this was doing, the
master seeing some light colliers, who not able to
ride out the storm, were obliged to flip and run away
to sea, and would come near us, ordered to sire a
gun as a signal of distress. I who knew nothing what
that meant, was so surprized, that I thought the ship
had broke, or some dreadful thing happened. In a
word, I was so surprized, that I fell down in a swoon.
As this was a time when every body had his own life
to think of, no body minded me, or what was be-
come of me; but another man stept up to the pump,
and thrusting me aside with his foot, let me lye,
thinking I had been dead; and it was a great while
before I came to myself.
We
We worked on, but the water encreasing in the
hold, it was apparent that the ship would founder,
and though the storm began to abate a little, yet as
it was not possible {he could swim till we might run
into a port, so the master continued firing guns for
help; and a light ship who had rid it out just a-head
of us, ventured a boat out to help us. It was with
the utmost hazard the boat came near us, but it was
impossible for us to get on board, or for the boat to
lie near the ship side, till at last the men rowing very
heartily, and venturing their lives to save ours, our
men cast them a rope over the stern with a buoy to
it, and then vered it out a great length, which they
after great labour and hazard took hold of, and we
hauPd them close under our stern and got all into
their boat. It was to no purpose for them or us after
we were in the boat to think of reaching to their own
strip, so all agreed to let her drive, and only to pull
her in towards shore as much as we could, and
our master promised them, that if the boat wras
staved upon fliore he would make it good to their
master, so partly rowing and partly driving, our boat
went away to the norward, sloaping towards the shore
almost as far as Winterton-Ness.
We were not much more than a quarter of an
hour out of our ship but we saw her sink, and then
I understood for the first time what was meant by a
ship foundering in the sea; I must acknowledge 1 had
hardly eyes to look up when the seamen told me
she was sinking; for from that moment they rather
put me into the boat than that I might be said to go
in, my heart was as it were dead within me, partly
with
with fright, partly with horror of mind, and the
thoughts of what was yet before me.
While we were in this condition, the men yet
labouring at the oar to bring the boat near the shore,
we could fee, when our boat mounting the waves we
were able to fee the shore, a great many people
running along the shore to assist us when we should
come near, but we made but flow way towards the
more, nor were we able to reach the shore,
till being past the light-house at Wlnterton, the
shore falls off to the westward towards Cromer, and
so the land broke off a little the violence of the wind:
here we got in, and, though not without much dif-
ficulty, got all safe on shore, and walked afterwards
on foot to Yarmouth, where, as unfortunate men, we
were used with great humanity, as well by the ma-
gistrates of the town, who assigned us good quarters,
as by particular merchants and owners of strips, and
had money given us sufficient to carry us either to
London or back to Hull, as we thought fit.
Had I now had the fense to have gone back to
Hull) and have gone home, I had been happy, and
my father, an emblem of our blessed Saviour's
parable, had even killed the fatted calf for me; for
hearing the snip I went away in was cast away in
Yarmouth Road, it was a great while before he had
any assurance that I was not drowned.
But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obsti-
nacy that nothing could resist; and though I had
ieveral times loud calls from mv reason and my more
composed judgment to go home, yet I had no power
to do it. I know not what to call this, nor will I
urge, that it is a secret over-ruling decree that hur-
ries us onto be the instruments of our own destruc-
tion,
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
tion, even though it be before us, and that we push
upon it with our eyes open. Certainly nothing but
some such decreed unavoidable misery attending, and
which it was impossible for me to escape, could have
pushed me forward against the calm reasonings and
persuasions of my most retired thoughts, and against
two such visible instructions as I had met with in my
first attempt.
My comrade, who had helped to harden me be-
fore, and who was the master's son, was now less
forward than I; the first time he spoke to me after
we were at Yarmouth, which was not till two or
three days, for we were separated in the town to
several quarters: I fay, the first time he saw me, it
appeared his tone was altered, and looking very me-
lancholy, and shaking his head, asked me how I did*
and telling his father who I was, and how I had
come this voyage only for a trial, in order to go
farther abroad; his father turning to me with a very
grave and concerned tone, young man, fays he, you
ought never to go to sea any more, you ought to take
this for a plain and visible token that you are not to be a
seafaring man* Why, Sir, said I, will you go to sea
no more? That is another cafe, said he, it is my
calling, and therefore my duty; but as you made this
voyage for a trial, you fee what a taste heaven has given
you of what you are to exped if you persist; perhaps this
Is all befallen us on your account, like Jonah in the ship os
Tarfhish: Pray, continues he, what are you? and
on what account did you go to sea? Upon that I told
him some of my story; at the end of which he burst
out with a strange kind of passion; what had I done,
says he, that such an unhappy wretch should come
into
into ray fliip; I would not set my foot in the same
ship with thee again for a thousand pounds. This
indeed was, as I said, an excursion of his spirits,
which were yet agitated by the fense of his loss, and
was farther than he could have authority to go.
However lie afterwards talked very gravely to me,
exhorted me to go back to my father, and not tempt
Providence to my ruin; told me I might fee a visible
hand of heaven against me, and young man, said he,
depend upon it, if you do not go back, wherever you
go, you will meet with nothing but disasters and disap-
pointments, till your father's words are fulfilled upon you*
We parted soon after; for I made him little an-
swer, and I saw him no more; which way he went,
I know not. As for me, having some money in
my pocket, I travelled to London by land; and there,
as well as on the road, had many struggles with my-
self, what course of life I should take, and whether
I should go home, or go to sea.
As to going home, sliame opposed the best mo-
tions that offered to my thoughts; and it im-
mediately occurred to me how I should be laughed
at among the neighbours, and should be ashamed to
fee, not my father and mother only, but even every
body else; from whence I have since often observed,
how incongruous and irrational the common tem-
per of mankind is, especially of youth, to that reason
which ought to guide them in such cases, viz. that
they are not ashamed to sin, and yet are ashamed to
repent; nor ashamed of the action for which they
ought justly to be esteemed fools, but are ashamed of
the returning, which only can make them be esteemed
wife men.
Vol. I. G In
iS
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
la this state of life however I remained some time,
uncertain what measures to take, and what course of
life to lead. An irresistible reluctance continued to
going home; and as I stayed a while, the remem-
brance of the distress I had been in wore off; and
as that abated, the little motion I had in my desires
to a return wore off with it, till at last I quite laid
aside the thoughts of it, and looked out for a vovage.
That evil influence which carried me first awav
from my father's house, that hurried me into the wild
and indigested notion of raising my fortune; and
that imprest those conceits so forcibly upon me, as
to make me deaf to all good advice, and to the
entreaties and even the command of my father: 1 say?
the fame influence, whatever it was, presented the
most unfortunate of all enterprises to my view; and
I went on board a vessel bound to the coast of Africa;
or as our sailors vulgarly call it, a voyage to Guinea,
It was my great misfortune that in all these adven-
tures I did not ship myself as a sailor; whereby,
though I might indeed have worked a little harder
than ordinary, yet at the same time I had learned the
duty and office of a fore-mast man; and in time might
have qualified myself for a mate or lieutenant, is not
for a master* But as it was always my fate to choose
for the worse, so I did here; for having money in
my pocket, and good cloaths upon my back, I would
always go on board in the habit of a gentleman \ and
so I neither had any business in the ship, or learned
to do any.
It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good
company in London^ which does not always happen
to such loose and unguided young fellows as I then
was i
xg
was; the devil generally not omitting to lay some
snare for them very early: but it was not so with me,
I first fell acquainted with the master of a ship who
had been on the coast of Guinea; and who having had
very good success there, was resolved to go again;
and who taking a fancy to my conversation, which
was not at all disagreeble at that time, hearing me
say I had a mind to see the world, told me if I would
go the voyage with him I should be at no expence; I
should be his mess-mate and his companion, and if I
could carry any thing with me, I should have all the
advantage of it that the trade would admit; and
perhaps I might meet with some encouragement.
I embraced the offer, and entering into a strict:
friendship with this captain, who was an honest and
plain-dealing man, I went the voyage with him, and
carried a small adventure with me, which by the dis-
interested honesty of my friend the captain, I in-
creased very considerably; for I carried about 40 L
in such toys and trifles as the captain directed me to
buy. This 40 /. I had mustered together by the assist-
ance of some of my relations whom I corresponded
with, and who, I believe, got my father, or at least
my mother, to contribute so much as that to my first
adventure.
This was the only voyage which I may fay was
successful in all my adventures, and which I owe to
the integrity and honesty of my friend the captain,
under whom also I got a competent knowledge of the
mathematicks and the rules of navigation, learned
how to keep an account of the strip's course, take an
observation, and, in short, to understand some things
that were needful to be understood by a sailor: for,
C 2 as
as he took delight to instruct me, I took delight to
learn; and, in a word, this voyage made me both
a sailor and a merchant: for I brought home 5 pound
9 ounces of gold dust for my adventure, which yielded
me in London at my return, almost 300/. and this
filled me with those aspiring thoughts which have
since so compleated my ruin.
Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes too;
particularly, that I was continually sick, being thrown
into a violent calenture by the excessive heat of the
climate; our principal trading being upon the coasts
from the latitude of 15 degrees north even to the
line itself.
I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my
friend, to my great misfortune, dying soon after hh
arrival, I resolved to go the same voyage again, and
I embarked in the same vessel with one who was his
mate in the former voyage, and had now got the
command of the ship. This was the unhappiest
voyage that ever man made; for though I did not
•carry quite 100 /. of my new gained wealth, so that I
had 200 left, and which I lodged with my friend's
widow, who was very just to me, yet I fell into terri-
ble misfortunes in this voyage y and the first was
this, viz. Our ship making her course towards the
Canary Islands, or rather between those islands and
the African shore, was surprized in the grey of the
morning, by a TurkiJJo rover of Sallee0 who gave
chase to us with ail the fail she could make. We
crowded also as much canvass as our yards would
spread, or our masts carry, to have got clear • but find-
ing the pirate gained upon us, and would certainly
come up with us in a few hours, we prepared to fight;
our
<?nr strip having 12 guns, and the rogue 18. About
three in the afternoon he came up with us, and
bringing too by mistake just athwart our quarter,
instead of athwart our stern, as he intended, we
brought 8 of our euns to bear on that fide, and
poured in a broad-side upon him, which made him
sheer off again, after returning our fire, and pouring
in also his small snot from near 200 men which he
had on board. However, we had not a man touched,
all our men keeping close. He prepared to attack
us a?-ain, and wre to defend ourselves; but laving us
on board the next time upon our other quarter, he
entered 60 men upon our decks, who immediately
fell to cutting and hacking the decks and rigging.
'We plyed them with small-shot, half-pikes, powder-
chests, and such like, and cleared our deck of them
twice. However, to cut short this melancholy part
of our story, our snip being disabled, and three of
our men killed, and eight wounded, we were obliged
to yield, and were carried all prisoners into Saliee^ a
port belonging to the Moors.
The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first
I apprehended, nor was I carried up the country to
the emperor's court, as the rest of our men were, but
was kept by the captain of the rover, as his proper
prize, and made his slave, being young and nimble,
and fit for his business. At this surprizing change of
my circumstances, from a merchant to a miserable
slave, I was perfectly overwhelmed; and now I
looked back upon my father's prophetic discourse to
me, that I should be miserable, and have none to
relieve me, which I thought was now so effectually
brought to pass, that I could not be worse; that now
C 3 the
12
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
the hand of heaven had overtaken me, and I was un-
done without redemption. But alas! this was but a
taste of the misery I was to go through, as will appear
in the sequel of this story.
As my new patron or master had taken me home
to his house, so I was in hopes that he would take
me with him when he went to sea again, believing
that it would some time or other be his fate to be
taken by a Spani/h or Portugal man of war; and that
then I should be set at liberty. But this hope of
mine was soon taken away; for when he went to sea,
he left me on"shore to look after his little garden,
and do the common drudgery of slaves about his
house; and when he came home again from his
cruise, he ordered me to lye in the cabbin to look
after the ship.
Here I meditated nothing but my escape; and
what method I might take to effect it, but found no
way that had the least probability in it: nothing pre-
sented to make the supposition of it rational; for I
had no body to communicate it to, that would em-
I bark with me, no fellow-slave, no Englishman, Irijh-
\ man, or Scotsman there but myself; so that for two
years, though I often pleased myself with the imagi-
nation, yet I never had the least encouraging pros-
pect of putting it in practice.
After about two years an odd circumstance pre-
sented itself, which put the old thought of making
some attempt for my liberty again in my head: my
patron lying at home longer than usual, without fit-
ting out his ship, which, as I heard, was for want
of money, he used constantly, once or twice a week,
sometimes oftener, if the weather was fair, to take
the
the ship's pinnace, and go out into the road a fishing;
and as he always took me and a young Maresco with
him to row the boat, we made him very merry, and
I proved very dexterous in catching fish; insomuch
that sometimes he would fend me with a Moor, one of
his kinsmen, and the youth the Maresco as they called
him, to catch a dish of fish for him.
It happened one time, that going a fishing in a
stark calm morning, a fog rose so thick, that though
%ve were not half a league from the shore we lost sight
of it; and rowing we knew not whither or which
way, we laboured all day, and all the next night,
and when the morning came we found we had pulled
off to sea instead of pulling in for the slrore; and
that we were at least two leagues from the shore:
however we got well in again, though-with a great
deal of labour, and some danger; for the wind began
to blow pretty fresh in the morning; but particularly
we were all very hungry.
But our patron, wamM by this disaster, resolved to
take more care of himself for the future; and having
lying by him the long-boat of our English strip he had
taken, he resolved he would not go a fishing any
more without a compass and some provision; so he
I ordered the carpenter of his ship, who also was an
\ Englijh slave, to build a little state-room or cabbin in
the middle of the long-boat, like that of a barge, with
a place to stand behind it to steer and hale home the
main-slieet; and room before for a hand or two to
stand and work the fails; she failed with that we call
a stioulder of mutton fail; and the boom gibed over
the top of the cabbin, which lay very snug and low,
C 4 and
and had in it room for him to lye, with a slave or
two, and a table to eat on, with some small lockers
to put in some bottles of such liquor as he thought sit
to drink; particularly his bread, rice and coffee.
We went frequently out with this boat a fishing,
and as I was most dextrous to catch fish for him, he
never went without me: It happened that he had
appointed to go out in this boat, either for pleasure
or for fish, with two or three Moors of some distinc-
tion in that place, and for whom he had provided
extraordinarily; and had therefore lent on board the
boat over night a larger store of provisions than
ordinary; and had ordered me to get ready three
fuzees with powder and shot, which weie on board
his ship; for that they designed some sport of fowling
as well as fishing.
I got all things ready as he had directed, and
waited the next morning with the boat washed clean,
her antient and pendants out, and every tiling to ac-
commodate his guests; when by and by my patron
came on board alone, and told me his guests had put
off going, upon some business that fell out, and
ordered me with the man and boy, as usual, to go
out with the boat and catch them some sifh, for that
his friends were to sup at his house; and commanded
that as soon as I got fomesiih I should bring it home
to his house j all which I prepared to do.
This moment my former notions, of deliverance
darted into my thoughts, for now I found I was like
to have a little ship at my command; and my master
being gone, I prepared to furnish myself, not for fish-
ing business, but for a voyage; though I knew not,
neither
neither did I so much as consider, whither I should
steer; for any where to get out of that place was
my way.
My first contrivance was to mate a pretence to
speak to this Moor, to get something for our subsist-
ence on board; for I told him we must not presume
to eat of our patron's bread; he said, that was true;
so he brought a laree basket of rust: or bifket of their
o o
kind, and three jarrs with fresh water into the boat;
I knew where my patron's cafe of bottles stood, which
it was evident by the make were taken out of some
Engl[sh prize; and I conveyed them into the boat
while the Moor wras on shore, as if they had been
there before for our master: I conveyed also a great
lump of bees-wax into the boa t, which weighed above
half a hundred weight, with a parcel of twine or
thread, a hatchet, a law, and a hammer, all which
were of great use to us aiterwards; especially the wax
to make candles. Another trick I tryed upon him,
which he innocently came into also; his name was
Jf-mael, who they call Mufy, or Moicy; so I called to
him, Molcy, said I, our patron's guns are on board
the boat, can you not get a little powder and snot, it
may be we may kill some Alcamies (a fowd like our
Cidicus) for ourselves, for 1 know he keeps the gun-
ner's stores in the ship? Yes, fays he, I'll bring some,
and accordingly he brought a great leather pouch
which held about a pound and a half of powder, or
rather more; and another with shot, that had five or
six pounds, with some bullets, and put all into the
boat: at the fame time I had found some powder of
jsny master's in the great cahbin, with which I filled
one
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
one of the large bottles in the cafe, which was almost
empty; pouring what was in it into another: and
thus furnished wuh every thing needful, we sailed out
of the port to fish: the castle which is at the entrance
of the port knew who we Avere, and took no notice
of us 'y and we were not above a mile out of the port-
before we haled in our fail, and set us down to fish:
the wind blew from the N. NE. which was contrary
to my desire; for had it blown southerly I had been
sure to have made the coast of Spain^ and at least
reached to the bay of Cadiz; but my resolutions were,
blew which way it would, I would be gone from
that horrid place where I was5. and leave the rest
to fate.
After we had fished some time and catched nothing,
for when I had fish on my hook I would not pull
them up, that he might not fee them; I said to the
Moor* this will not do, our master will not be thus
served, we must stand farther oil: he thinking no
harm agreed, and being in the head of the boat set
the sails; and as I had the helm I run the boat out
near a league farther, and then brought her too as if
I would fuh, when giving the boy the helm, I stept
forward to where the Moor was, and making as if 1
stoopt for something behind him, I took him by sur-
prize with my arm under his twist, and toft him clear
over-board into the sea; he rose immediately, for he
swam like a cork, and called to me, begged to be
taken in, told me he would go all over the world with
me; he swam so strong after the boat that he would
have reached me very quickly, there being but little
wind; upon which I stept into the cabbin, and fetch-,
ing one of the fowling-pieces, I presented it at him*
and
17
and told him, I had done him no hurt, and if he
would be quiet I would do him none : but, said I, you
swim well enough to reach to the shore, and the sea is
calm, make the best of your way to shore, and I will
do you no harm, but if you come near the boat Fll
shoot you through the head; for I am resolved to
have my liberty; so he turned himself about and
swam for the shore, and I make no doubt but he
reached it with ease, for he was an excellent
swimmer.
I could have been content to have taken this Moor
with me, and have drowned the boy, but there was
no venturing to trust him: when he wras gone
I turned to the boy, who they called Xin vy
and said to him, Xury> if you will be faithful to
me Fll make you a great man, but if you will
not stroke your face to be true to me, that is,
swear by Mahomet and his father's beard, I must
throw you into the sea too; the boy smiled in my
face, and spoke so innocently that i could not mis-
trust him; and swore to be faithful to me, aud go all
over the world with me.
While I was in view of the Mocr that was swim-
ming, I stood out directly to sea with the boat, rather
stretching to windward, that they might think me
gone towards the Straits mouth (as indeed any one
that had been in their wits must have been supposed
to do) for who would have supposed we were sailed
on to the southward to the truly Barbarian coast,
where whole nations of negroes were sure to fur-
round us with the canoes, and destroy us; where
we could never once go on shore but we should be
devoured
ADVENTURES
LIFE
AND
devoured by savage beasts, or more merciless savages
of human kind.
But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I
changed my course, and steered directly south ancf
by east, bending my course a little toward the east,
that I might keep in with the shore; and having-a
fair fresn gale of wind, and a smooth quiet sea, I
made such sail that I believe by the next day at three
o'clock in the afternoon, when 1 first made the land,
I could not be less than 150 miles south of Sallee;
quite beyond the emperor of Morcco's dominions, or
indeed of any other king thereabouts, for we saw no
people.
Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors?
and the dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into
their hands, that I would not stop, or go on snore, or
come to an anchor; the wind continuing fair, ?till I
had sailed in that manner five days: and then the
wind shifting to the southward, I concluded also that
if any of our vessels were in chace of me, they also
would now give over; so I ventured to make to the
, coast, and come to an anchor in the mouth of a little
river, I knew not what, or where; neither what lati-
tude, what country, what nation, or what river: I
neither saw, or desired to see any people, the prin-
cipal thinp' I wanted was fresh water. We came in-
to this creek in the evening, resolving to swim on
snore as soon as it was dark, and discover the country;
but as soon as it was quite dark, we heard such
dreadful noises of the barking, roaring, and howling
of wild creatures of we knew not what kinds, that the
poor boy was ready to die with fear, and begged of
me not to go on shore till day j well Xury, said I3
29
then I won't,'but it may be we may see men by day,
who will be as bad to us as those lions; then %ve give
them the Jlooot gun^ fays Xury^ laughing, make them
run wey; such English Xury spoke by conversing
among us slaves. However I was glad to fee the boy
so chearful, and I gave him a dram (out of our pa-
tron's case of bottles) to chear him up: after all, Xury9s
advice was good, and I took it, we dropped our
little anchor and lay still all night; I fay still, for we
slept none; for in two or three hours we saw vast
great creatures (we knew not what to call them)
of many forts, come down to the sea-fhore and run
into the water, wallowing and washing themselves
for the pleasure of cooling themselves; and they-
made such hideous bowlings and yeilings, that I
never indeed heard the like,
Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was
I too; but we were both more frighted when we
heard one of these mighty creatures come swimming
towards our boat; we could not fee him, but we
might hear him by his blowing to be a monstrous
huge and furious beast; Xury taid it was a lion, and
it might be so for ought I know; but poor Xury cried
to me to weigh the anchor and row away; no, fays I,
Xury, we can slip our cable with the buoy to it and
go off to sea, they cannot follow us far j I had no
sooner said so, but I perceived the creature (whatever
it was) within two oars length, which something sur-
prized me. j however I immediately stept to the cab-
bin-door, and taking up my gun fired at him, upon
which he immediately turned about, and swani
towards the shore again.
- But
But it is impossible to describe the horrible noises,
and hideous cries and howlings, that were raised,
as well upon the edge of the shore, as higher within
the country, upon the noise or report of the gun, a
thing I have some reason to believe those creatures
had never heard before; this convinced me that
there was no going on shore for us in the night upon
that coast, and how to venture on shore in the day-
was another question too; for to have fallen into the
hands of any of the savages, had been as bad as to
have fallen into the hands of lions r,nd tygers; at
least we were equally apprehensive of the danger of it-
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on
shore somewhere or other for water, for we had not
a pint left in the boat; when or where to get to it
was the point: Xury said, if I would let him go on
sliore with one of the jarrs, he would find if there
was any water and bring some to me. I asked him
why he would go? why I should not go and he stay
in the boat; the boy answered with so much affection
that made me love him ever after. Says he, If wild
mans come? they eat me? you go wey. Well, Xury*
said I, we will both go, and if the wild mans come,
we will kill them, they shall eat neither of us; so I
gave Xury a piece of rusk-bread to eat, and a dram
out of our patron's case of bottles which I mentioned
before; and we haled the boat in as near the shore
as we thought was proper, and waded on shore; car-
rying nothing but our arms, and two jarrs for water-
I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fear-
ing the coming of canoes with Savages down the
river: but the boy seeing a low place about a mile
up the country3 rambled to it; and by and by I saw
him
Mm come running towards me. I thought he was
pursued by some savage, or frighted with some wild
beast, and I run forward towards him to help him,
but when I came nearer to him, I saw something
hanging over his shoulders, which wTas a creature that
he had shot, like a hare, but different in colour, and
longer legs, however we were very glad of it, and it
was very good meat; but the great joy that poor
Xury came with, was to tell me he had found good
water, and seen no wild mans.
But we found afterwards that we need not take
such pains for water, for a little higher up the creek
where wre were, we found the water fresh when the
tide was out, which flows but a little way up; so
we filled our jarrs and feasted on the hare we had
killed, and prepared to go on our way, having seen
no foot-steps of any human creature in that part of
the country.
As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I
knew very well that the islands of the Canaries, and
the Cape de Verd islands also, lay not far off from the
coast. But as I had no instruments to take an ob-
servation to know what latitude we wet e in, and not
exactly know, or at least to remember what latitude
they were in, I knew not where to look for them, or
when to stand off to sea towards them; otherwise I
might now easily have found some of these islands.
But my hope was, that if 1 stood along this coast till
I came to that part where the Englifo traced, I should
find some of their vessels upon their usual design of
trade, that would relieve and take us in.
By the best of my calculation, that place where
I now was, must be that country, which lying be-
tween
tween the emperor of Morocco's dominions and the
Negroes, lies waste, and uninhabited, except by wild
beasts; the Negroes having abandoned it, and gone
farther south for fear of the Moors; and the Moors
not thinking it worth inhabiting, by reason of its
barrenness; and indeed both forsaking it because of
the prodigious numbers of tygers^ lions, leopards?
and other furious creatures which harbour there -
so that the Moors use it for their hunting only, where
they go like an army, two or three thousand men at
a time; and indeed for near an hundred miles to-
gether upon this coast, we saw nothing but a waste
uninhabited country by day; and heard nothing but
bowlings and roaring of wild beast by night.
Once or twice in the day time I thought I saw
the Pico of Teneriffe, being the high top of the
mountain Teneriffc in the Canaries; and had a great
mind to venture out in hopes of reaching thither •
but having tried twice, I was forced in again by con-
trary winds, the sea also going too high for my little
vessel, so I resolved to pursue my first design and keep
along the fliore.
Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water,
after we had left this place; and once in particular,
being early in the morning, we came to an anchor
under a little point of land which was pretty high?
and the tide beginning to flow, we lay still to go
farther in; Xury, whose eyes were more about him
than it seems mine were, calls softly to me, and tells
me that we had best go farther oft' the shore; for,
fays he, look yonder lies a dreadful monster on the
fide of that hillock fast asleep: I looked where he
pointed, and saw a dreadful monster indeed, for it
was
\vas a terrible great lion that lay on the side of the
shore, under the shade of a piece of the hill that hung
as it were a little over him. Xury, fays I, you siial}
go on shore and kill him; Xury looked frighted, and
said, Me kill! he eat me at one mouth; one mouthful
he meant; however, I said no more to the boy, but
bad him lie still, and I took our biggest gun, which
was almost mufket-bore, and loaded it with a good
charge of powder, and with two slugs, and laid it
down > then I loaded another gun with two bullets,
and the third, for we had three pieces, I loaded with
five smaller bullets. I took the best aim I could
with the first piece to have shot him into the head,
but he lay so with his leg raised a little above his
nose, that the slugs hit his leg about the knee, and
broke the bone. He started up growling at first, but
finding his leg broke fell down again, and then got
up upon three legs, and gave the most hideous ioar
that ever I heard; I was a little surprised that I had
not hit him on the head; however, I took up the se-
cond piece immediately, and, though he began to
move off, fired again, and shot him into the head,
and had the pleasure to see him drop, and make but
little noise, but lay struggling for life. Then Xury
took heart, and would have me let him go on fliore:
Well, go, said I; so the boy jumped into the water,
and taking a little gun in one hand, swam to fliore
with the other hand, and coming close to the
creature, put the muzzel of the piece to his ear,
and shot him into the head again, which dispatched
him quite.
This was game indeed to us, but this was no food;
and I was very sorry to loose three charges of powder
Vol. L D and
and shot upon a creature that was good for nothing to*
us. However, Xury said he would have some of him 5.
so he comes on board, and alked me to give him the
hatchet. For what, Xury? said I. Me cut off his heady
saidfoe* However, Xury could not cut off his head,
but he cut off a foot, and brought it with him, and
it was a monstrous great one.
I bethought myself however, that perhaps the
skin of him might one way or other be of some value
to us; and I resolved to take off his skin if I could.
So Xury and I went to work with him; but Xury
was much the better workman at it, for I knew very
ill how to do it. Indeed it took us up both the whole
day, but at last we got off the hide of him, and spread-
. ing it on the top of our cabin, the sun effectually
dried it in two days time, and it afterwards served me
to lie upon.
After this stop, we made on to the southward con-
tinually for ten or twelve days, living very sparing
on our provisions, which began to abate very much,
and going no oftner into the shore than we were
"obliged to for fresh water; my design in this was, to
make the river Gambia or Senegal, that is to fay^
any where about the Cape de Verd, where I was in
hopes to meet with some European ship; and if I did
not, I knew not what course I had to take, but to
seek for the Islands, or perish there among the Ne-
groes. I knew that all the ships from Europe, which
sailed either to the coast of Guinea or to Brafil, or to
the East Indies, made this Cape, or those Islands; and
in a word, I put the whole of my fortune upon this:
single point, either that I must meet with some strips
or must perish*
When
35
When I had pursued this resolution about ten days
longer, as I have said, I began to see that the land
was inhabited; and in two or three places, as we
sailed by, we saw people stand upon the snore to look
at us; we could also perceive they were quite blacks
and stark naked. I was once inclined to have gone
on shore to them; but Xury was my better counsel-
lor, and said to me, No go0 no go; however, I hauled
in nearer the shore that I might talk to them, and I
found they run along the shore by me a good way;
I observed they had no weapons in their hands, ex-
cept one, who had a long slender stick, which Xury
said was a lance, and that they would throw them a
great way with good aim; so I kept at a distance^
but talked with them by signs as well as I could ; and
particularly made signs for something to eat; they
beckoned to me to stop my boat, and they would
fetch me some meat; upon this I lowered the top of
my fail, and layby, and two of them ran up into the
country, and in less than half an hour came back,
and brought with them two pieces of dry flesh and
some corn, such as is the produce of their country;
but we neither knew what the one nor the other was;
however, we were willing to accept it, but how to
come at it was our next dispute, for I was not for
venturing on shore to them, and they were as much
afraid of us; but they took a safe way for us all, for
they brought it to the shore and laid it down, and
went and'stood a great way off till we fetched it on
board, and then came close to us again.
We made signs of thanks to them, for we had
nothing to make them amends; but an opportunity
offered that very instant to oblige them wonderfully;
D 3 for
for while we were lying by the shore, came t\\ro
mighty creatures, one pursuing the other (as we'
took it) with great fury, from the mountains towards
the sea; whether it was the male pursuing the fe-
male, or whether they were in sport or in rage, we
could not tell, any more than we could tell whether
it was usual or strange, but I believe it was the lattery
because, in the first place, those ravenous creatures
seldom appear but in the night; and in the second
place, we found the people terribly frighted, espe-
cially the women. The man that had the lance or
dart did not fly from them, but the rest did; how-
ever, as the two creatures ran directly into the water,,
they did not seem to offer to fall upon any of the
Negroes, but plunged themselves into the sea and
swam about as if they had come for their diversion.
At last one of them began to come nearer our boat
than at first I expected, but I lay ready for him, for
I had loaded my gun with all possible expedition,
and bad Xury load both the others; as soon as he
came fairly within my reach, I sired, and stiot him
directly into the head; immediately he funk down
into the water, but rose instantly and plunged up and
down as if he was struggling for life; and so indeed
he was • he immediately made to the shore, but
between the wound, which was his mortal hurt, and
the strangling of the water, he died just before he
reached the shore.
It is impossible to express the astonishment of
these poor creatures at the noise and the sire of my
gun; ionie of them were even ready to die for fear,
and fell down as dead with the very terror. But
when they sow the creature dead, and funk in the
water^
37
crater, and that I made signs to them to come to the
ihore, they took heart and came to the shore, and
began to search for the creature. I found him by
his blood staining the water, and by the help of a
rope, which I flung round him, and gave the Negroes
to haul, they dragged him on shore, and found that
it was a most curious leopard, spotted and sine to an
admirable degree, and the Negroes held up their
hands with admiration to think what it was I had
killed him with.
The other creature, frighted with the flash of fire
and the noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up
directly to the mountains from whence they came,
nor could I at that distance know what it was. I
found quickly the Negroes were for eating the flesh
of this creature, so I was willing to have them take
it as a favour from me, which when I made signs to
them that they might take him, they were very
thankful for; immediately they fell to work with
him, and though they had no knife, yet with a
sharpened piece of wood they took off* his skin as
readily, and much more readily, than we could have
done with a knife; they offered me some of the. flesh,
which I declined, making as if I would give it them,
but made signs for the fldn, which they gave me
very freely, and brought me a great deal more of
their provision, which though I did not understand,
yet I accepted; then I made signs to them for some
water, and held out one of my jars to them,
turning it bottom upward, to shew that it was empty,
and that I wanted to have it filled. They called
immediately to some of their friends, and there came
two women and brought a great vessel made of
D 3 earth,
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
earth, and burnt, as I suppose, in the sun; this
they set down for me, as before, and I sent Xury
on shore with my jars, and filled them all three.
The women were as stark naked as the men.
I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as
it was, and water; and, leaving my friendly Negroes,
I made forward for about eleven days more, without
offering to go near the shore, till I saw the land run
out a great length into the sea, at about the distance
of four or five leagues before me; and, the sea being
very calm, I kept a large offing to make this point;
at length, doubling the point at about two leagues
from the land, I saw plainly land on the other side
to seaward; then I concluded, as it was most certain
indeed, that this was the Cape de Verd, and those
the islands, called from thence Cape de Verd Islands.
However, they were at a great distance, and I could
not well tell what I had best to do, for if I should
be taken with a fresh of wind I might neither reach
one nor the other.
In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stept into
the cabin and fat me down, Xury having the helm,
when on a sudden the boy cried out, Master, master
a stoip with a fail! and the foolish boy was frighted
out of his wits, thinking it must needs be some of his
master's ships sent to pursue us, when I knew we
were gotten far enough out of their reach. I jumped
out of the cabin, aiid immediately saw not only the
ship, but what she was, (viz.) that it was a
Portuguese ship, and, as I thought, was bound to the
coast of Guinea for Negroes. But when I observed
the course she steered, I was soon convinced they
were bound some other way, and did not design to
come
come any nearer to the shore; upon which I stretched
out to sea as much as I could, resolving to speak with
them if possible.
With all the sail I could make, I found I should
not be able to come in their way, but that they would
be gone by before I could make any signal to them;
but after 1 had crowded to the utmost, and began to
despair, they, it seems, saw me by the help of their
perspective-glasses, and that it was some European
boat, which, as they supposed, must belong to some
snip that was lost, so they shortened sail to let me
come up. I was encouraged with this, and as I had
my patron's ancient on board, I made a waft of it to
them for a signal of distress, and nred a gun, both
which they saw, for they told me they saw the
smoke, though they did not hear the gun; upon
these signals they very kindly brought-to, and
lay-by for me, and in about three hours time I came
up with them.
They asked me what I was, in PortNgucsc, and in
Spanijh) and in French; but I understood none of
them; but at last a Scots sailor, who waa on boards
called to me, and I answered him, and told him I
was an EngUflmctn, that I had made my escape out
of slavery from the Moors at Sn/Jee. Then they bad
me come on board, and very kindly took me in,
and all my goods.
It was an inexpressible joy to me, that anyone would
believe that I was thus delivered, as 1 esteemed it,
from such a miserable and almost hopeleis condition
as I was in, and immediately offered all I had to the
captain of the ship, as a return for my deliverance;
but he generously told me, he would take nothing
D 4 from
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
from me, but that all I had should be delivered safe
to me when I came to the Brasils ; for, says he, /
have saved your life on no other terms than I would be
glad to be saved myself; and it may one time or other be
my lot to be taken up in the same condition; besides, said
he, when I carry you to the Brasils, so great a way
from your own country, if I fhoidd take from you what
you have, you will be starved there, and then I only
take away thai life I have given. No, no, Seignor
Inglese, says he, Mr. Englishman, / will carry you
thither in charity, and those things will help you to buy
your subsistence there, and your passage home again*
As he was charitable in his proposal, so he was
just in the performance to a tittle, for he ordered the
seamen, that none should offer to touch any thing I
had; then he took every thing into his own posses-
sion, and gave me back an exact inventory of them,
that I might have them; even so much as my three
earthen jars.
As to my boat, it was a very good one, and that he
saw, and told me he would buy it of me for the ship's
use, and asked me what I would have for it? I told
him, he had been so generous to me in every thing,
that I could not offer to make any price of the boat,
but left it entirely to him ; upon which he told me he
would give me a note of his hand to pay me 80 pieces
of eight for it at Brasil; and when it came there, if
any one offered to give more, he would make it up;
he offered me also 60 pieces of eight more for my
boy Xury, which I was loath to take, not that I was
not willing to let the captain have him, but I was
very loath to fell the poor boy's liberty, who had
assisted me so faithfully inprocming my own. Haw-
ever,
ever, when I let him know my reason, he owned it to
be just, and offered me this medium, that he wTould
give the boy an obligation to set him free in ten years,
if he turned Christian ; upon this, and Xury saying he
was willing to go to him, I let the captain have him.
We had a very good voyage to the Brasds, and
arrived in the Bay de Todos los Sa/nos, or All-Sainis-
Bay, in about twenty-two days after. And now I
was once more delivered from the most miserable of
all conditions of life, and what to do next with mvself
I was now to consider.
The generous treatment the captain gave me, lean
never enough remember; he v/ould take nothing of
me for my pailage, gave me twenty ducats for the
leopard's skin, and forty for the lion's skin which I
had in my boat, and caused every thing I had in the
ship to be punctually delivered me; and what I was
willing to fell he bought, such as the cafe of bottles,
two of my guns, and a piece of the. lump of bees-wax,
for I had made candles of the rest; in a word, I
made about 220 pieces of eight of all my cargo, and
with this stock I went on shore in the Braids.
I had not been long here, but being recommended
to the house of a good honest man like himself, who
had an Ingeino as they call it; that is, a plantation
and a sugar-house, I lived with him some time, and
acquainted myself by that means with the manner of
their planting and making of sugar; and seeing how
well the planters lived, and how they grew rich
suddenly, I resolved, if I could get license to
settle there, I would turn planter among them,
resolving in the mean time to find out some way
to get my money, which I had left in London,
remitted
remitted to me. To this purpose, getting a kind os a
letter of naturalization, I purchased as much land
that was uncured as my money would reach, and
formed a plan for my plantation and settlement, and
such a one as might he suitable to the stock which I
proposed to myself to receive from En?Jand.
I had a neighbour, a Porlugueze of Lisbon^ but
born of Eng/iJIj parents, whose name was Wells, and
in much such circumstances as I was. I call him.
neighbour, because his plantation lay next to mine.,
and we went on very sociable together. My stock
was but low, as well as his: and we rather planted
for food, than any thing else, for about two years.
However, we began to increase, and our land began
to come into order; so that the third year we planted
some tobacco, and made each of us a large piece of
ground ready for planting canes in the year to come;
but we both wanted help; and now I found, more
than before, I had done wrong in parting with my
boy Xury.
But alas! for me to do wrong, that never did
right, was no great wonder: I had no remedy but to
go on; I was gotten into an employment quite
remote to my genius, and directly contrary to the life
I delighted in, and for which I forsook my father's
house, and broke through all his good advice; nay,
I was corning into the very middle station, or upper
decree of low life, which mv father advised me to
before; and which if I resolved to go on with, I
might as well have staid at home, and never have
fatigued myself in the world as I had done; and I
used often to say to myself, I could have done this as
well in England among my friends, as have gone
cooo
5000 miles off to do it, among strangers and savages
in a wilderness, and at such distance, as never to hear
from any part of the world that had the least know-
ledge of me.
In this manner I used to look upon my condition
with the utmost regret. I had nobody to converse
with, but now and then this neighbour; no work
to be done, but by the labour of my hands; and I
used to say, I lived just like a man calf away upon
some desolate island, that had nobody there but
himself. But how just has it been, and how should
all men reflect, that, when they compare their pre-
sent conditions with others that are worse, heaven
may oblige them to make the exchange, and be
convinced of their former felicity, by their experi-
ence: I say. how just has it been, that the truly soli-
tary life I reflected on in an island of mere desolation
Ihouklbemy lot, who had so often unjustly compared
it with the life which I then led, in which had I
continued, I had in all probability been exceeding
prosperous and rich.
I was in some degree fettled in my measures for car-
rying on the plantation, beiore my kind friend the
captain of the snip, that took me up at lea, went
back j for the ship remained there, in providing his
loading, and preparing for his voyage, near three
months; when, telling him what little stock I had left
behind me in London, he gave me this friendly and
sincere advice: Scignor Ingle/e, says he, for so he
always called me, if you will give me letters, and a
procuration here in form to me, with orders to the
person who has your money in London, to fend you?
effects to Lisbon, to such persons as I Avail direct, and
in
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
in such goods as are proper for this country, I will
bring you the produce of them, God willing, at my
return; but since human affairs are all subject to
changes and disasters, I would have you give orders
but for one hundred pounds sterlings which you fay is
half your stock, and let the hazard be run for the
first; so that if it come safe, you may order the rest
the same way; and if it miscarry, you may have the
other half to have recourse to for your supply.
This was so wholesome advice, and looked so
friendly, that I could not but be convinced it was the
best course I could take; so I accordingly prepared
letters to the gentlewoman with whom J had left my
money, and a procuration to the Portuguese captain3
as he desired.
I wrote the English captain's widow a full account
of all my adventures, my slavery, escape, and how
I had met with the Portugal captain at sea, the huma-
nity of his behaviour, and what condition I was
now in, with all other necessary directions for my
supply; and when this honest captain came to Lisbon,
he found means, by some of the English merchants
there, to fend over, not the order only, but a full
account of my story, to a merchant at London^ who
represented it effectually to her; whereupon, fte not
only delivered the money, but out of her own pocket
sent the Portugal captain a very handsome present for
his humanity and charity to me-
The merchant in London vesting this hundred
pounds in English goods, such as the captain had
writ for, sent them directly to him at Lisbon^ and he
brought them all safe to me to the Brasih7 among
which, without my direction (for I was too young
In
45
in my business to think of them), he had taken care
to have all fort of tools, iron-work, and utensils
necessary for my plantation, and which were of great
use to me.
When jthis cargo arrived, I thought my fortune
made, for I was surprised with joy of it; and my
good steward the captain had laid out the five pounds
which my friend had sent him for a present for him-
self, to purchase, and bring me over a servant under
bond for six years service, and would not accept of
any consideration, except a little tobacco, which I
would have him accept, being of my own produce.
Neither was this all; but my goods being all
Eng//Jh manufactures, such as cloth, stuffs, baize,
and things particularly valuable and desirable in the
country, I found means to fell them to a very great
advantage; so that I may fay, I had more than four
times the value of my first cargo, and was now infi-
nitely beyond my poor neighbour, I mean in the
advancement of my plantation; for the first thing I
did, I bought me a Nerro slave, and an Euro-bean
servant also; I mean another besides that which the
captain brought me from Lijbon.
But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the
very means of our greatest adversity, so was it with
me. I went on the next year with great success in my
plantation: I raised fifty great rolls of tobacco on
my own ground, more than I had disposed of for ne-
cessaries among my neighbours; and these fifty
rolls, being each of above zoo ict. were well cured
and laid by against the return of the fleet from Lisbon:
And now, increasing in business and in wealth, my
head began to be full of projects and undertakings
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
beyond my reach; such as are indeed often the ruia
of the best heads in business.
Had I continued in the station I was now in, I had
room for all the happy things to have yet befallen
me, for which my father so earnestly recommended a
quiet retired life, and of which he had so sensibly
described the middle station of life to be full; but
ether things attended me, and I was still to be the
wilful agent of all my own miseries ; and particularly
to increase my fault, and double the reflections upon
myself, which in my future sorrows I should have
leisure to make; all these miscarriages were procured
by my apparent obstinate adhering to my foolish in-
clination of wandering abroad, and pursuing that,
inclination, in contradiction to the clearest views of
doing myself good in a fair and plain pursuit of those
prospects and those measures of life, which nature
and providence concurred to present me with, and to
make my duty.
As I had done thus in my breaking away from my
parents, so I could not be content now, but I must
go and leave the happy view I had of being a rich
and thriving man in my new plantation, only to pursue
a rash and immoderate desire of rising faster than the
nature of the thing admitted; and thus I cast myself
down again into the deepest gulph of human misery
that ever man fell into, or perhaps could be consis-
tent with life and a state of health in the world.
To come then by the just degrees to the particulars
of this part of my story; you may suppose, that hav-
ing now lived almost four years in the Brasih^ and
beginning to thrive and prosper very well upon my
plantationa I had not only learned the language, but
had
had contracted acquaintance and friendship among
my fellow-planters, as well as among the merchants
at St. Sahadore, which was our port; and that hi
my discourse among them, I had frequently given
them an account of my two voyages to the coast of
Guinea, the manner of trading with the Negroes there,
and how easy it was to purchase upon the coast, for
trifles, such as beads, toys, knives, scissars, hatchets,
bits of glass, and the like, not only gold dust,
Guinea grains, elephants teeth, &l\ but Negroes for
the service of the Brasils, in great numbers.
They listened always very attentively to my dis-
courses on these heads, but especially to that part
which related to the buying Negroes, which was a
cade at that time not only not far entered intc^
but as far as it was, had been carried on by the
Affiento's, or permission of the kings of Spain and
Portugal, and engrossed in the public, so that few
Negroes were brought, and those excessive dear.
It happened., being in company with some mer-
chants and planters of my acquaintance, and talking
of those things very earnestly, three of them came to
me the next morning, and told me they had been
musing very much upon what I had discoursed with
them of, the last nio-ht. and thev came to make a
secret proposal to me; and after enjoining me secrecy,
they told me, that they had a mind to fit out a ship
to go to Guinea; that they had all plantations as well
as I, and were straitened for nothing so much as ser-
vants; that as it was a trade could not be carried on,
because they could not publickly sell the Negroes when
they came home, so they desired to make but one
voyage, to bring the Negroes on shore privately, and
divide
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
divide them among their own plantations; and in a
word, the question was, whether I would go their
super-cargo in the ship, to manage the trading part
upon the coast of Guinea? and they offered me that
I should have my equal share of the Negroes, without
providing any part of the stock.
This was a fair proposal, it must be confessed, had
it been made to any one that had not had a settle-
ment and plantation of his own to look after, which
was in a fair way of coming to be very considerable,
and with a good stock upon it. But for me, that was
thus entered and established, and had nothing to do
but go on as I had begun, for three or four years more,
and to have sent for the other hundred pounds from
England, and who in that time, and with that little
addition, could scarce have failed of being worth
three or four thousand pounds sterling, and that en-
creasing too; for me to think of such a voyage, was
the most preposterous thing that ever man in such
circumstances could be guilty of.
But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could
no more resist the offer, than I could restrain my first
rambling designs, when my father's good counsel
was lost upon me. In a word, I told them I would
go with all my heart, if they would undertake to look
after my plantation in my absence, and would dis-
pose of it to such as I fliould direct if I miscarried.
This they all engaged to do, and entered into writ-
ings or covenants to do so ; and I made a formal will*
disposing of my plantation and effects, in cafe of my
death, making the captain of the ship that had saved
my life as before, my universal heir, but obliging,
him to dispose of my effects as I had directed in my
will,
49
will, one half of the produce being to himself, and
the other to be shipped to England.
In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my
effects, and keep up my plantation; had I used half
as much prudence to have looked into my ottn
interest, and have made a judgment of what I ought
to have done, and not to have done, I had certainly
never gone away from so prosperous an undertaking,
leaving all the probable views of a thriving circum-
stance, and gone upon a voyage to sea, attended
with all its common hazards; to fay nothing of the
reasons I had to expect particular misfortunes to
myself.
But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the
dictates of my fancy rather than my reason: and
accordingly the ship being fitted out, and the cargo
furnished, and all things done as by agreement by
my partners in the voyage, I went on board in an evil
hour, the th of , being the fame day
eight years that I went from my father and mother at
Hall, in order to act the rebel to their authority, and
the fool to my own interest.
Our ship was about 120 tun burthen, carried 6
guns, and 14 men, besides the master,, his boy, and
myself; we had on board no large cargo of goods,
except of such toys as were fit for our trade with the
negroes, such as beads, bits of glass, shells, and odd
trifles, especially little looking-glasses, knives,
fcissars, hatchets, and the like.
The fame 'day I went on board we set sail,
standing away to the northward upon our own coast,
with design to stretch over for the African coast,
when they came about 1 o or 12 degrees of northern
Vol. I, E latitude,
latitude, which it seems was the manner of theif
course in those Jays. We had very good weather?
only excessive hot, all the way upon our own coast,
till we came the height of Cape St. Aiigiijlino, from
whence keeping farther off at sea we lost sight of
land, and steered as if we were bound for the isle
Fernand de Nofonhay holding our course N. E. by IV*
and leaving those isles on the east; in this course we
past the line in about 12 days time, and were by our
last observation in 7 degrees 22 min. northern
latitude, when a violent tournado or hurricane took
us quite out of our knowledge; it began from the
south-east, came about to the north-west, and then
settled into the north-east, from whence it blew in
such a terrible manner, that for 12 days together
we could do nothing but drive; and scudding away
before it, let it carry us whither ever fate and the
fury of the winds directed 5. and during these 12
days, I need not fay that I expected every day to-
be swallowed up, nor indeed did any in the ship
expect to save their lives.
In this distress, we had, besides the terror of the
storm, one of our men died of the calenture, and
one man and the boy washed over-board; about the
12th day the weather abating a little, the master
made an observation as well as he could,, and found
that he was in about 11 degrees north latitude, but
that he was 22 decrees of longitude difference west
from Cape St. Auguftino; so that he found lie was
gotten upon the coast of Guinea, or the north part of
Brasd) beyond the river A?nozones, toward that of
the river 0ronoquc7 commonly called the Great River y
and began to consult with me what course he should
take,
take, for the ship was leaky and very much
disabled, and he was going directly back to the
coast of Brastl.
I was positively against that, and looking over the
charts of the sea-coasts of America with him, we
concluded there was no inhabited country for us to
have lecourse to, till we came within the circle of the
Caribbee-ijlands, and therefore resolved to stand
away for Barbadocs, which by keeping off at sea, to
avoid the indraft of the bay or gulph of Mexico, we
might easily perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen
days fail; whereas we could not possibly make our
voyage to the coast of Africa without some assistance,
both to our ship and to ourselves.
With this design we changed our course, and
steered away N. W. by W. in order to reach some of
oar Englifo islands, where I hoped for relief; but
our voyage was otherwise determined; for being in
the latitude of 12 deg. 18 min. a second storm came
upon us, which carried us away with the fame
impetuosity westward, and drove us so out of the
very way of all human commerce, that had all our
lives been saved, as to the sea, we were rather in
danger of being devoured by savages than ever
returning to our own country.
In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard,
one of our men early in the morning cried out,
Land! and we had no sooner run out of the cabin
to look out in hopes of feeing whereabouts in the
world we were, but the snip struck upon a sand?
and in a moment, her motion being so stopped, the sea
broke over her in such a manner, that we expected
\yq ihould all have perished immediately, and we
E % were
were immediately driven into our close quarters
to shelter us from the very foam and sprye of
the sea.
It is not easy for any one, who has not been in
the like condition, to describe or conceive the
consternation of men in such circumstances; we
knew nothing where we were, or upon what land it
was we were driven, whether an island or the main,
whether inhabited or not inhabited; and as the
rage of the wind was still great, though rather less
than at first, we could not so much as hope to have
the (hip hold many minutes without breaking in
pieces, unless the winds by a kind of miracle' should
turn immediately about. In a word, we fat looking
one upon another, and expecting death every moment,
and every man acting accordingly, as preparing for
another world, for there was little or nothing more
for us to do in this; that which was our present
comfort, and all the comfort we had, was, that
contrary to our expectation the ship did not break
yet, and that the master said the wind began to
abate.
Now though we thought that the wind did a little
abate,^yet the ship having thus struck upon the sand,
and sticking too fast for us to expect her getting off
we were in a dreadful condition indeed, and had
nothing to do but to think of saving our lives as well
as we could; we had a boat at our stern, just before
the storm, but she was first staved by dashing against
the ship's rudder, and in the next place she broke
away, and either funk or was driven off to sea, so
there was no hope from her; we had another boat
on board, but how to get her off into the sea was a
doubtful
53
doubtful thing; however, there was no room to
debate, for we fancied the ship would break in pieces
every minute, and some told us slie was actually
broken already.
In this distress, the mate of our vessel lays hold of
the boat, and with the help of the rest of the men,
they got her slung over the fhipVside, and getting
all into her, let go, and committed ourselves being
eleven in number, to God's mercy, and the wild
sea; for though the storm was abated considerably?
yet the sea went dreadful high upon the shore, and
might well be called, den wild zee, as the Dutch call
the sea in a storm.
And now our case was very dismal indeed; for
we all saw plainly, that the sea went so high, that
the boat could not live, and that we sliould be
inevitably drowned. As to making fail, we had
none, nor, if we had, could we have done any thing
with it i so we worked at the oar towards the land,
though with heavy hearts, like men going to
execution; for we all knew, that when the boat
came nearer the shore, she would be dashed in a
thousand pieces by the breach of the sea. However,
we committed our souls to God in the most earnest
manner, and the wind driving us towards the shore,
we hastened our destruction with our own hands,
pulling as well as we could towards land.
What the shore was, whether rock or sand,
whether steep or shoal, we knew not; the only
hope that could rationally give us the least lhadow
of expectation, was, if we might happen into some
bay or gulph, or the mouth of some river, where
jpy great chaise we might have run our boat in, or
E 3 got
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
got under the lee of the land, and perhaps made
smooth water. - But there was nothing of this
appeared; but as we made nearer and nearer the
sliore, the land looked more frightful than the sea.
A'fter we had rowed, or rather driven about a
league and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave,
mountain-like, carne rolling a-stern of us, and
plainly bad us expect the conp-de-grace. In a word,
it took us with such a fury, that it overset the boat
at once \ and separating us as well from the boat,
as from one other, gave us not time hardly to
fay, O God ! for we were all swallowed up in a
moment.
Nothing can describe the confusion of thought
which I felt when I sunk into the water; for though
I swam very well, yet I could not deliver myself from
the waves so as to draw breath, till that wave having-
driven me, or rather carried me a vast way on towards
the shore, and having spent itself, went back, and
left me upon the land almost dry, but half dead with
the water I took in. I had so much presence of mind
as well as breath left, that seeing myself nearer the
main land than I expected, I got upon my feet, and
endeavoured to make on towards the land as fast as
I could, before another wave should return, and take
me up again. But I soon found it was impossible
to avoid it; for I saw the sea come after me as high
as a great hill, and as furious as an enemy which I
had no means or strength to contend with; my
business was to hold my breath, and rife myself upon
the water, if I could: and so by swimming to
preserve my breathing, and pilot myself towards the
shore, if possible; my greatest concern now being?
that
55
that the sea, as it would carry me a great way
towards the shore when it came on, might not
carry me back again with it when it gave back
towards the sea.
The wave that came upon me again, buried me
at once 20 or 30 foot deep in its own body; and I
could feel myself carried with a mighty force and
swiftness towards the shore a very great way; but
I held my breath, and assisted myself to swim still
forward with all my might. I was ready to burst
with holding my breath, when, as I felt myself
rising up, so to my immediate relief, I found my
head and hands shoot out above the surface of the
water; and though it was not two seconds of time
that I could keep myself so, yet it relieved me
greatly, ;;ave me breath and new courage, I waS
covered again with water a good while, but not so
long but I held it out; and finding the water had
spent itself, and began to return, I struck forward
against the return of the waves, and felt ground
again with my feet. I stood still a few moments to
recover breath, and till the water went from me,
and then took to my heels, and run with what
strength I had farther towards the sliore. But
neither would this deliver me from the fury of the
sea, which came pouring in after me again, and
twice more I was lifted up by the waves and carried
forwards as before, the shore being very flat.
The last time of these two had well near been
fatal to me; for the sea having hurried me along as
before, landed me, or rather dashed me against a
piece of a rock, and that with such force, as it
Jest me senseless, and indeed helpless, as to my own
E 4 deliverance j
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
deliverance; for the blow taking my side and breast,
beat the breath as it were quite out of my body;
and had it returned again immediately, I must have
been strangled in the water; but I recovered a little
before the return of the waves, and seeing I should be
covered again with the water, I resolved to hold fast
by a piece of the rock, and so to hold my breath, if
possible, till the wave went back; now as the waves
were not so high as at first, being near land, I held
my hold till the wave abated, and then fetched
another run, which brought me so near the shore,
that the next wave, though it went over me, yet did
not so swallow me up as to carry me away, and the
next run I took I got to the main land, where,
to my great comfort, I clambered up the clifts
of the fliore, and fat me down upon the grafs, free
from danger, and quite out of the reach of the water.
I was now landed, and safe on stiore, and began
to look up and thank God that my life was saved in
a case wherein tl^ere was some minutes before scarce
any room to hope. I believe it is impossible to
express to the life what the extasies and transports of
the soul are, when it is so saved, as I may fay, out
of the very grave; and I do not wonder now at
that custom, viz. that when a malefactor, who
has the halter about his neck, is tied up, and just
going to be turned off, and has a reprieve brought
to him: I fay, I do not wonder that they bring a
surgeon with it, to let him blood that very mo-
ment they tell him of it, that the surprize may not
drive the animal spirits from the heart, and over-
whelm him:
For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first*
I walked
57
I walked about on the sliore, lifting up my hands
and my whole being, as I may fay, wrapt up in the
contemplation of my deliverance, making a thousand
gestures and motions which I cannot describe?
reflecting upon all my comerades that were drowned,
and that there should not be one soul saved but
myself; for, as for them, I never saw them after,
wards, or any sign of them, except three of their
hats, one cap, and two flioes that were not fellows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when the
breach and froth of the sea being so big, I could
hardly see it, it lay so far off, and considered, Lord I
how was it possible I could get on shore!
After I had solaced mv mind with the comfortable
part of my condition, I began to look round me, to
fee what kind of place I was in, and what was next
to be done, and I soon found my comforts abate*
and that in a word I had a dreadful deliverance:
for I was wet, had no deaths to shift me, nor any
thing either to eat or drink to comfort me; neither
did I see any prospect before me, but that of perishing
with hunger, or being devoured by wild beasts ; and
that which was particularly afflicting to me, was,
that I had no weapon either to hunt and kill any
creature for my sustenance, or to defend myself
against any other creature that might desire to kill
me for theirs: in a word, I had nothing about me
but a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a little tobacco in
a box; this was all my provision, and this threw
me into terrible agonies of mind, that for a
while 1 run about like a mad-man; night coming
upon me, I began with a heavy heart to consider
what would be my lot if there were any lavenous
beasts.
beast: in that country, seeing at night they always
come abroad for their prey.
All the remedy that offered to my .thoughts at that
time, was, to fret ud into a thick bushy tree like a
fir, but thorny, which grew near me, and where
I resolved to sit all night, and consider the next day
what death I should die, for as yet I saw no prospect
of life; 1 walked about a furlong from the shore, to
see if I could find any fresh water to drink, which I
did, to my great joy; and having drank, and put a
little tobacco in my mouth to prevent hunger, I went
to the tree, and getting up into it, endeavoured to
place myself so, as that if I should sleep I might not
fall; and having cut me a short stick, like a
truncheon, for my defence, I took up my lodging,
and having been excessively fatigued, i fell fast asleep,
and slept as comfortably as, I believe, few could
have done in my condition, and found myself the
most refreshed with it that I think I ever was on such
an occasion.
When I waked it was broad day, the weather
clear, and the storm abated, so that the sea did not
rage and swell as before: but that which surprized
me most, was, that the ship was lifted off in the
night from the land where slie lay, by the swelling of
the tide, and was driven up almost as far as the rock
which I first mentioned, where I had been so bruised
by the dashing me against it; this being within about
a mile from the shore where I was, and the ship
seeming to stand upright still, I wished myself on
board, that, at least, I might save some necessary
things for my use.
When I came down from my apartment in the
tree, I looked about me again, and the first thing I
found
found was the boat, which lay as the wind and the sea
had tossed her up upon the land, about two miles on
my right hand, I walked as far as I could upon the
snore to have got to her, but found a neck or inlet of
water between me and the boat, which was about
half a mile broad, so I came back for the present,
being more intent upon getting at the ship,
where I hoped to find something for my present
subsistence.
A little aster noon I found the sea very calm, and
the tide ebbed so far out, that I could come within a
quarter of a mile of the ship; and here I found a fresh
renewing of my grief; for I saw evidently, that if we
had kept on board, we had been all safe, that is to
fay, we had all got safe on snore, and I had net been
so miserable as to be left entirely destitute of all com-
fort and company, as I now was; this forced tears
from my eyes again, but as there was little relief in
that, I resolved, if possible, to get to the strip, so I
pulled off my cloaths, for the weather was hot to
extremity, and took the water; but when I came to
the ship, my difficulty was'still greater to know how
to get on board, for as fire lay a-ground, and high
out of the water, there was nothing within my reach
to lay hold of. I swam round her twice, and the
second time I spied a small piece of a rope, which
I wondered I did not see at first, hang down by the
fore-chains so low as that with rreat difficulty I rot
O J o
hold of it, and by the help of that rope got up imo
the forecastle of the ihip; here I found that the ship
was bulged, and had a creat deal of water in her hold,
tut that {he lay so on the side of a bank of hard land,
or rather earth, and her stern lay lifted up upon the
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
bank, and her head low almost to the water; by
this means all her quarter was free, and all that was
in that part was dry; for you may be sure my first
work was to search and to see what was spoiled
and what was free; and first I found that all the
ship's provisions were dry and untouched by the
water; and being very well disposed to eat, I
went to the bread-room and silled my pockets with
bilket, and eat it as I went about other things, for I
had no time to lose. I also found' some rum in the
great cabin, of which I took a large dram, and
which I had indeed need enough of to spirit me for
what was before me: Now I wanted nothing but a
boat to furnish myself with many things which I fore-
saw would be very necessary to me.
It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not
to be had, and this extremity rouzed my application;
we had several spare yards, and two or three large
- span's of wood, and a spare top-mast or two in the
ship; I resolved to fall to work with these, and flung
as many of them over-board as I could manage of their
weight, tying every one with a rope that they might
not drive away; when this was done I went down
the ship's side, and pulling them to me, I tied four
of them fast together at both ends as well as I could,
in the form of a raft, and laying two or three short
pieces of plank upon them cross-ways, I found I could
v/alk upon it very well, but that it was not able to
bear any great weight, the pieces being too light .;
lo I went to work, and with the carpenter's saw I
, cut a spare top-mast into three lengths, and added
them to my raft, with a great deal of labour and
pains j but hope of furnishing myself with necessaries
encouraged
6r
encouraged me to go beyond what I should have been
able to have done upon another occasion.
My raft was now strong enough to bear any rea.
sonable weight j my next care was what to load it
with, and how to preserve what I laid upon it from
the surf of the sea; but I was not long considering -
this; I first laid all the planks or boards upon it that
I could get, and having considered well what I most
wanted, I first got three of the seamen's chests, which
I had broken open and emptied, and lowered them
down upon my raft; the first of these I filled with
provisions, viz. bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses,
five pieces of dried goat's flesh, which we lived much
upon, and a little remainder of European corn which-
had been laid by for some fowls which we brought
to sea with us, but the fowls were killed; there had
been some barley and wheat together, but, to my
great disappointment, I found afterwards that the
rats had eaten or spoiled it all; as for liquors, I
found several cases of bottles belonging to our skipper,
in which were some cordial waters, and in ail above
five or six gallons of rack, these I stowed by them-
selves, there being no need to put them into the chest,
nor no room for them. While I was doing this, I
found the tide began to flow, though very calm, and I
fvad the mortification to fee my coat, shirt, and waist-
coat, which I had left ca snore upon tta sand, swim
away; as for my breeches, which were only linen,
and open-knee'd, I swam on board in them and my
stockings: however, this put me upon rummaging
-for cloaths, of which I found enough, but took no
more than I wanted for present use, for I had other
things which my eye was more upon j as first, tools to
work
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
work with on shore, and it was after long searching
that I found out the carpenter's chest, which was
indeed a very useful prize to me, and much more
valuable than a ship-loading of gold would have been
at that time; I got it down to my raft, even whole
as it was, without losing time to look into it, for I
knew in general what it contained.
My next care was for some ammunition and arms;
there were two very good fowling-pieces in the great
cabin, and two pistols, these I secured first, with
some powder-horns, and a small bag of shot, and two
old rusty swords: I knew there were three barrels of
powder in the ship, but knew not where our gunner
had stowed them; but with much search I found
them, two of them dry and good, the third had taken
water ; those two I got to my raft, with the arms;
and now I thought myself pretty well freighted, and
began to think how I should get to shore with them,
having neither sail, oar, or rudder, and the least
cap full of wind would have overset all my navi-
gation.
i had three encouragements: i. A smooth calm
sea: 2. The tide rising and setting into the shore:
3. What little wind there was blew me towards the
land; and thus, having found two or three broken
oars belonging to the boat, and besides the tools
which were in the chest, I found two saws, an axe,
and a hammer, and with this cargo I put to sea:
for a mile, or thereabouts, my raft went very well,
only that I found it drive a little distant from the
place where I had landed before, by which I per-
ceived that there was some indraft of the water, and
consequently I hoped to find some creek or river
there.
there, which I might make use of as a port to get to
land with my cargo.
As I imagined, so it was; there appeared before
me a little opening of the land, and I found a strong
current of the tide set into it, so I guided my raft: as
well as I could to keep in the middle of the stream:
but here I had like to have suffered a second ship-
wreck, which, if I had, I think verily would have
broke my heart; for knowing nothing of the coast,
my raft run a-ground at one end of it upon a shoal,
and not being a-ground at the other end, it wanted
but a little that all my cargo had slipped off towards
that end that was a float, and so fallen into the
water: I did my utmost, by setting my back against
the chests, to keep them in their places, but could
not thrust off the raft with all my strength, neither
durst I stir from the posture I was in, but holding up
the chests with all my might, stood in that manner
near half an hour, in which time the rising of the
water brought me a little more upon a level, and a
little after, the water still rising, my raft floated
again, and I thrust her off with the oar I had, into
the channel, and then driving up higher, I at length
found myself in the mouth of a little river, with
land on both sides, and a strong current or tide run-
ning up; I looked on both sides for a proper place
to get to shore, for I was not willing to be driven
too high up the river, hoping in time to fee some
ship at sea, and therefore resolved to place myself as
near the coast as I could,
At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of
the creek, to which with great pain and difficulty I
guided my raft, and at last got so near, as that,
reaching
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
reaching ground with my oar, I could thrust her
directly in; but here I had like to have dipt all my
cargo in the sea again; for that shore lying pretty
steep, that is to fay sloping, there was no place to
land, but where one end of the float, if it run on
shore, would lie so high, and the other sink lower as
before, that it would endanger my..cargo again: all
that I could do, was to wait 'till the tide was at the
highest, keeping the raft with my oar like an anchor
to hold the side of it fast to the shore, near a flat piece
of ground, which I expected the water would flow
over j and so it did: as soon as I found water enough,
for my raft drew about a foot of water, I thrust her
on upon that flat piece of ground, and there fastened
or moored her by sticking my two broken oars into
the ground; one on one side near one end, and one
on the other side near the other end; and thus I lay
till the water ebbed away, and left my raft and all
my cargo safe on shore.
My next work was to view the country, and seek a
proper place for my habitation, and where to stow my
goods, to secure them from whatever might happen;
where I was I yet knew not; whether on the continent
or on an island, whether inhabited, or not inhabited,
whether in danger of wild beasts or not: there was a
hill not above a mile from me, which rose up very steep
and high, and which seemed to over-top some other
hills which lay as in a ridge from it northward; I took
out one of the fowling pieces, and one of the pistols,
and an horn of powder, and thus armed I travelled
for discovery up to the top of that hill, where, after Ihad
with great labour and difficulty go to the top, I saw
my fates to my great asiliction3 viz. that I was in an
island
isiand environed every way with the sea, no land to
be seen, except some rocks which lay a great wray
off, and two small islands less than this, which lay
kbout three leagues to the west.
I found also that the island I was in was barren,
and, as I saw good reason to believe, uninhabited,
except by wild beasts, of whom however I saw none,
yet I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not their
kinds, neither when I killed them could I tell what
was fit for food, and what not; at my coming back,
I shot at a great bird, which I saw sitting upon a tree
on the side of a great wood, I believe it was the first
gun that had been fired there since the creation of the
world; I had no sooner fired, but from all the parts of
the wood there arose an innumerable number of fowls
of many sorts, making a confused screaming, and
crying everyone according to his usual note; but
not one of them of any kind that I knew: as for the
creature I killed, I took it to be a kind of a hawk, its
colour and beak resembling it, but had no talons or
claws more than common, its flesli was carrion, and
fit for nothing.
Contented with this discovery, I came back to my
raft, and fell to work to bring my cargo on sliore,
which took me up the rest of that day, and what to
do with myself at night I knew not, nor indeed where
to rest; for I was afraid to lie down on the ground,
not knowing but some wild beast might devour me,
though, as I afterwards found, there was really no
need for those fears.
However, as well as I could, I barricado'd myself
round with the chests and boards that I had brought
on sliore, and made a kind of a hut for that night's
Vol. L F lodging-,
LIFE AND ADVENTURE
lodging; as for food, I yet saw not which way t&
supply myself, except that I had seen two or three
creatures like hares run out of the wood where I ihot
the fowl.
I now began to consider, that I might yet get a
great many things out of the snip, which would be
useful to me, and particularly some of the rigging,
and sails, and such other things as mieht come to
J O o
land, and I resolved to make another voyage on
board the vessel, if possible; and as I knew that the
first storm that blew must necessarily break her all in
pieces, I resolved to set all other things apart, 'till I
got every thing out of the ship that I could get ; then
I called a council, that is to fay, in my thoughts,
whether I should take back the raft, but this appeared
impracticable; so I resolved to go as before, when
the tide wras down, and I did so, only that I stripped
before I went from my hut, having nothing on but
a chequered shirt, and a pair of linen trowsers, and
a pair of pumps on my feet.
I got on board the ship, as before, and prepared a
second raft, and having had experience of the first, I
neither made this so unweikly, nor loaded it so hard,
but yet I brought away several things very uses id to
me; as first, in the carpenters stores, I found two or
three bags full of nails and spikes, a great screw-jack^
a dozen or two of hatchets, and above all, that most
useful thing called a grind stone; all these I secured
together, with several things belonging to the gun-
ner, particularly two or three iron crows, and two
barrels of mufquet-bullets, seven musquets, and
another fowling piece, with some small quantity of
powder more; a large bag full of small shot, and a
great
great roll of sheet lead: but this last was so heavy, I
could not hoist it up to get it over the {hip's side.
Besides these things, I took all the men's cloaths
that I could fold, and a spare fore-top-sail, hammock,
and some bedding: and with this I loaded my second
raft, and brought them all safe on shore, to my very
great comfort.
I was under some apprehensions during my absence
from the land, that at least my provisions might be
devoured on shore; but when I came back, I found
no sign of any visitor, only there fat a creature like a
wild cat upon one of the chests, which when I came
towards it, ran away a little distance, and then stood
still; ike fat very composed, and unconcerned, and
looked full in my face, as if sire had a mind to be
acquainted with me; I presented my gun at her, but
as fae did not understand it, sine was perfectly
unconcerned at it, nor did she osier to stir away;
upon which I tossed her a bit of biscuit, though by the
way I was not very free of it, for my store was not
great: however, I spared her a bit, I say, and she
went to it, knelled of it, and ate it, and looked, as
pleased, for more, but I thanked her, and could
spare no more; so Ike marched oik
Having got my second cargo on shore, though I
was fain to open the barrels of powder, and bring
them by parcels, for they were too heavy, being
large calks, I went to work to make me a little tent
with the fail and some poles which I cut for that
purpose, and into this tent I brought every thing that
I knew would spoil, either with rain or sun, and
I piled all the empty chests and casks up in a circle
LIFE AND ADVENTtlRE^'
round the tent, to fortify it from any sudden attends j
either from man or beast.
When I had done this I blocked up the door of
the tent with some boards within, and an empty
chests set up an end without, and spreading one of
the beds upon the ground, laying my two pistols-
just at my head, and my gun at length by me, I went
to bed for the first time, and flept very quietly all
night, for I was very weary and heavy, for the night
before I had flept little, and had laboured very hard
all day, as well to fetch all those things from the ship,
as to get them on shore.
I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that
ever were laid up, I believe, for one man; but I was
not satisfied still; for while the ship fat upright in
that posture, I thought I ought to get every thing out
of her that I could; so every day at low water I went
on board, and brought away some thing or other:
but particularly the third time I went, I brought
away as much of the rigging as I could, as also all
the small ropes and rope-twine I could get, with a
piece of spare canvass, which was to mend the fails
upon occasion, and the barrel of wet gun-powder: in
a word, I brought away all the fails first and last, only
that I was fain to cut them in pieces, and bring as
much at a time as I could; for they were no more
useful to be fails, but as meer canvass only.
But that which comforted me more still, was, that
at last of all, after I had made five or six such voyages
these, and thought I had nothing more to expect;
from the ship that was worth my medling with; I fay,
after all this, I found a great hogshead of bread, and
three
three large runlets of rum or spirits, and a box of
sugar, and a barrel of fine flower; this was surprizing
to me, because I had given over expecting any more
provisions, except what was spoiPd by the water: I
soon emptied the hogshead of that bread, and wrapt
it up, parcel by parcel, in pieces of the fails, which
I cut out: and in a word, I got all this safe on stiore
also.
The next day I made another voyage; and now,
having plundered t^e strip of what was portable and
fit to hand out, I began with the cables; and cutting
the great cable into pieces, such as I could move, I
got two cables and a hawser on shore, with all the
Iron-work I could get; and having cut down the
spritsail-yard, and the mizen-yard, and every thing I
could to make a large raft, I loaded it with all those
heavy goods, and came away: but my good luck
began now to leave me ; for this raft was so unweildy,
and so overladen, that after I was entered the little
cave, where I had landed the rest of my goods, not
being able to guide it so handily as I did the other, it
overset, and threw me and all my cargo into the
water; as for myself it was no great harm, for I was
near the shore; but as to my cargo, it was great part
of it lost, especially the iron, which I expected would
have been of great use to me: however, when the
tide was out, I got most of the pieces of cable ashore;
and some of the iron, though with infinite labour;
for I was fain to dip for it into the water, a work
which fatigued me very much; after this, I ^ent
every day on board, and brought away what I
.could get.
F 3 I had
Lite and adventures
I had been now 13 days on shore, and had been
11 times on board the ship; in which time I had
brought away ail that one pair of hands could well be
supposed capable to bring, though I believe verily,
had the calm weather held, I should have brought
away the whole ship, piece by piece: but preparing
the 12 th time to go on board, I found the wind
began to rife ; however at low water I went on board,
and though I thought I had rummaged the cabin so
effectually, as that nothing more could be found,
yet I discovered a locker with drawers in it, in one
of which I found two or three razors, and one pair ox
large fciflars, with some ten or a dozen of good knives
and forks; in another I found about thirty six pounds
value in money, some European coin, some Brasd^
some pieces of eight, some gold, some silver.
I smiled to myself at the si edit of this money. O
Drug! said I, aloud, what art thou good for? thou
art not worth to me, no not the taking off of the
ground; one of those knives is worth all this heap; I
have no manner of use for thee, even remain where
thou art, and go to the bottom as a creature whose
life is not worth saving. However, upon second
thoughts, I took it away, and wrapping all this in a
piece of canvas, I began to think of making another
raft, but while I was preparing this, I found the iky
over-cast, and the wind began to rife, and in a
quarter of an hour it blew a fresh gale from the shore;
it presently occurred to me, that it was in vain to pre-
tend to make a raft with the wind off shore, and that
it was .my business to be gone before the tide of flood
began, otherwise I might not be able to reach the
snore
shore at ail: accordingly I let myself down into the
water, and swam cross the channel, which lay
between the ship and the sands, and even that with
difficulty enough, partly with the weight of things I
had about me, and partly the roughness of the water,
for the wind rose very hastily, and before it was quite
hirfi water it blew a storm.
But I was gotten home to my little tent, where I
lay with all my wealth about me very secure. It blew
very hard all that night, and in the morning when I
looked out, behold no more ship was to be seen; I was
a little surprized, but recovered myself with this
satisfactory reflection, viz. That I had lost no time,
nor abated no diligence to get every thing out of her
that could be useful to me, and that indeed there was
little left in her that I was able to bring away, if I
had had more time.
I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship,
or of any thing out of her, except what miglrTdrive
on shore from her wreck, as indeed divers pieces of
her afterwards did; but those things were of small
use to me.
My thoughts were now wholly employed about
securing myself against either savages, if any should
appear, or wild beasts, if any were in the island; and
I had many thoughts of the method how to do this,
and what kind of dwelling to make; whether I should
make me a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the
earth: and, in short, I resolved upon both, the
manner and description of which it mav not be im-
proper to give an account of.
I soon found the place I was in was not for my
settlement, particularly because it was upon a low
F 4 mooriih
J 2
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
moorish ground near the sea, and I believed would
not be wholesome, and more particularly because
there was no fresh water near it, so I resolved to find
a more healthy and more convenient spot of ground.
I consulted several things in my situation which I
found would be proper for me, ist. Health, and
fresh water, I just now mentioned. 2dly, Shelter
from the heat of the sun. 3dly, Security from rave-
nous creatures, whether man or beast. 4-thly, A view
to the sea, that if God sent any ship in sight, I might
not lose any advantage for my deliverance, of which
I was not willing to banish all my expectation yet.
In search of a place proper for this, I found a little
plain on the side of a rising hill, whose front towards
this litttle plain was steep as a house-side, so that
nothing could come down upon me from the top; on
the side of this rock there was a hollow place worn a
little way in like the entrance or door of a cave, but
there was not really any cave or way into the rock
at all.
On the flat of the green, just before this hollow
place, I resolved to pitch my tent: this plain was not
above an hundred yards broad, and about twice as
long, and lay like a green before my door, and at
the end of it descended irregularly every way down
into the low grounds by the sea-side. It was on the
N.N. W, side of the hill, so that I was sheltered from
the heat every day, till it came to a W. and by S. fun,
or thereabouts, which in those countries is near the
setting.
Before I set up my tent, I drew a half circle
before the hollow place, which took in about ten
yards in its semi-diameter from the rock, and
twenty
twenty yards in its diameter, from its beginning and
ending.
In this half circle I pitched two rows of strong
stakes, driving them into the ground till they stood
very firm, like piles, the biggest end being out of the
ground about five foot and a half, and sharpened on
the top; the two rows did not stand above fix inches
from one another.
Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in
the snip, and laid them in rows one upon another,
within the circle between these two rows of stakes, up
to the top, placing other stakes in the inside, leaning
against them, about two foot and a half high, like a
spur to a post, and this fence was so strong, that
neither man or beast could get into it or over it: this
cost me a great deal of time and labcur, especially to
cut the piles in the woods, bring them to the place,
and drive them into the earth.
The entrance into this place I made to be not by a
door, but by a short ladder, to go over the top,
which ladder, when I was in, I liked over aster me,
and so I was compleatly fenced in, and fortified, as
I thought, from all the world, and consequently slept
secure in the night, which otherwise I could not have
done, though as it appeared afterward, there was no
need of all this caution from the enemies that I appre-
hended danger from.
Into this fence or fortress, with infinite labour,
I carried all my riches, all my provisions, ammu-
nition and stores, of which vou have the account
above, and I made me a large tent, whiebu to preserve
me from the rains, that in one part of the year are
very violent there, I made double^ viz. one smaller
tent
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
tent within, and one larger tent above it, and covered
the uppermost with a large tarpaulin which I had
saved among the sails.
And now I lay no more for a while in the bed which
1 had brought on shore, but in a hammock, which
was indeed a very good one, and belonged to the
mate of the ship.
Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and
every thing that would spoil by the v/dt; and having
thus enclosed all my goods, I made up the entrance,
which till now I had lest open, and so pasted and re-
pasted, as I said, by_a short ladder.
When I had done this, I began to work my way
into the rock, and bringing all the earth and stones
that I dug down, out through my tent, I laid "them
up within my fence in the nature of a terras, that so
it raised the ground within about a foot and a half;
and thus I made me a cave just behind my tent,
which served me like a cellar to my house.
It cost me much labour, and many days, before
all these things were brought to perfection, and
therefore I must go back to some other things which
took up some of my thoughts. At the fame time it
happened, after I had laidmy scheme for the setting up
my tent, and making the cave, that a storm of rain
falling from a thick dark cloud, a sudden flash os
lightning happened, and after that a great clap of
thunder, as is naturally the effect of it; I was not so
much surprized with the lightning, as I was .with a
thought which darted into my mind as swift as the
lightning itself: O my powder! my very heart sunk
within me, when I thought, that at one blast all my
powder might be destroyed: on which, not my
defence
SL 'HOSn^IO NOSNiaCS rIO
IK
}v:r:u.uux->jrp ]cu si:a\ j inq: moip rc 3iuco 0} ppiOAi
sip hi Buup quotjiTp prom 3ip sha\ 31 uup <joo.y to ijiayj
Oj piIU 'opqilj OJ cAljj OJ 3.I3AY AVq} imp -~/^ C3UI 0.7
oun.]jo;suu sup ippA p3pii3.:ii: shay u u^ip inq f 3111 01
tiopjnuspq n:3jg 1: si:a\ ipupw. cpu;qiT sqj in s^boS 3j_3a\
0-Z?ip 3XUp p3.I0AO3jip ApUOp.ld I 3110 ^UOAV J Sinp.
jjAij: oi]X •p^cmpo.id pmqfi 3ip impiY tpx.w jpjAiu
^Apcnbou 0} ppioD 1 si: u:3it $1: pin: ^pooi jot ;>y .oinip
AUK piilOD J IT 33» 0} S"C ^pTAXLI }XDAip 01 jpAY
se cunS aui tpiAi Ai:p a\<3ao pi;0{ yc 3ouo ino ^uoax
J 6StIIOp STJAV STip 3JUIAY SUIT.} p p:AX3}UT Sip UJ
•it prq
J SISqAY AjplpI13D A\l3A SlipptUT <}I C} SllTCX) Ul/qUI
3 3 ay on 3iup ox cs:po.i sip Sucim: ssjoq in n/Aop
pin: dn puj I pp.i- sip pin: f nsqrnpf Xm psp^UD
J AOITXT. AUI lit qOILTAY c3AV.O AYSU Axil III 31 pSOiqd J Of
€3i:q3 utoxj jsSusp Auk pusqo.iddi: 1011 pip j c3?ay u^oq
pi:q iv?q3 pxiuq sq} 03 si: 'spojiid ps.ipunq k inup sp\
3cu ut pspxAip si:ay cu]Stoav spunod of z 311001: si: ay \\v:
ut qDiqAv cjspA\od Xiu ^puip ppui: 'njSuqjoi i: moqi: ui
:pi0A\ siip psuiujii j \isij}oin: siy }xecl ?uo squill 03
syqiyod sq 3011 pjnouj 31 }\up 'aiudr: oj 31 dsoq' 03 piu:
CS3U0 313 Sill S>p} fp }01I rq^pUT 41 'SIUOS iqSnil .13A3
-}t:qA\ imp cddoi\ in cpD.rcd e ui spqj r. pin: ^pnj kvi
dc)9q 03 pui3 ^i^pAvod sip sv^rad^j oi ssnoq pui: sSuq
o:-piu 04 JpjAin pDijddE pin: cSun(.fpi0j pin: cSuip[tnq
itlll cS>[.IOAV /vlll pp3 Spije pU.{ J *U3A0 SLMV UTICOJ dip
Z5ijK 4oip c3Ui uodn 3^xu sup pip uoxjpidun upng
•31U 11I11J
pi:q OIJAV UAV0U3[ I3A3U puq J C3IIJ >[007 .I3pAV0d
sip p^q qSnoqa' J3.oui:p uavo aui inoqi: snopui?,
oj jtjsu Siuipou sbav j i pspusdsp A"pipii3 ^qSnoip
J 'pOOJ 3UJ SuipiAOid 3qj 3Tiq 6Api0 3DU3j3p
at,this, not doubting but I might now and then shoot
one, as it soon happened, for after I had found their
haunts a little, I laid wait in this manner for them:
I observed, if they saw me in the valleys, though they
were upon the rocks, they would run away as in a
terrible fright; but if they were feeding in the
valleys, and I was upon the rocks, they took no
notice of me; from whence I concluded, that by the
position of their opticks, their fight was so directed
downward, that they did not readily fee objects that
were above them; Ib afterward I took this method
I always climbed the rocks first, to get above them,
and then had frequently a fair mark. The first (hot
I made among these creatures, I killed a stie-goat,
which had a little kid by her, which (he gave fuck to.,
which grieved me heartily; but when the old one
fell, the kid stood stock still by her till I came and
took her up, and not only so, but when I carried
the old one with me upon my shoulders, the kid
followed me quite to my enclosure, upon which I
laid down the dam, and took the kid in my arms*
and carried it over my pale, in hopes to have bred
it up tame, but it would not eat, so I was forced to
kill it and eat it myself; these two supplied me with
flesh a great while, for I eat sparingly; and saved my
provisions (my bread especially) as much as possibly
I could.
Having now fixed my habitation, I found it
absolutely necessary to provide a place to make a fire
in, and fewel to burn • and what I did for that, a$
also how I enlarged my cave, and what conveniences
I made, I shall give a full account of in its place:
but I must first give some little account of myself, and
of my thoughts about living, which it may well be
supposed were not a few.
I had a dismal prospect of my condition; for as
I was not cast away upon that island without being
driven, as is said, by a violent storm quite out of the
course of our intended voyage, and a great way, viz.
some hundreds of leagues out of the ordinary course
of the trade of mankind, I had great reason to
consider it as a determination of heaven, that in this
desolate place, and in this desolate manner I should
end my life; the tears would run plentifully down
my face when I made these reflections, and sometimes
I would expostulate with myself, why Providence
should thus compleatly ruin his creatures, and render
them so absolutely miserable, so without help
abandoned, so entirely depressed, that it could
hardly be rational to be thankful for such a life.
But something always returned swift upon me to
check these thoughts, and to reprove me; and
particularly one day, walking with my gun in my
hand by the sea-fide, I was very pensive upon the
subject of my present condition, when reason as
it were expostulating with me to'ther way, thus:
Well, you are in a desolate condition, *tis true, but
pray remember, where are the rest of you? Did
not you come eleven of you into the boat? Where
are the ten? Why were they not laved and you lost?
Why were you singled out? Is it better to be here or
there? and then I pointed to the sea. AU evils are
to be considered with the good that is in them, and
with what worse attended them.
Then it occurred to me again, how well I was
furnislied for my subsistance, and what would have
been
been my case if it had not. happened, which was an
hundred thousand to one, that the ship floated from
the place where she first struck, and was driven so
near the snore that I had time to cret all these
o
things out of her: what would have been my cafe,,
if i had been to have lived in the condition in which
I at first: came on shore, without necessaries of life,
or necessaries to supply and procure them? particularly
said I, aloud, (though to myself) what should I have
done without a gun, without ammunition, without
any tools to make any thing, or to work with ; without
cloaths, bedding, a tent, or any manner of covering:
and that now I had all these to a sufficient quantity;
and was in a fair way to provide myself in such a
manner, as to live without my gun when my
ammunition was spent; so that I had a tolerable
view of subsisting, without any want, as long as 1
lived; for i considered from the beginning how
I should provide for the accidents that might happen,
and for the time, that was to come, even not only
after my ammunition should be spent, but even after
my health or strength should decay.
I confess I had not entertained any notion of my
ammunition being destroyed at one blast, I mean my
powder being blown up by lightning, and this made
the thoughts of it so surprising to me when it
lightened and thundered, as I observed just now.
And now, being about to enter into a melancholy
relation of a scene of silent life, such perhaps as was
never heard of in the world before, I sliali take it from
its beginning, and continue it in its order. It was, by my
account, the 30th of September when, in the manner
as abovesaid, I first set foot upon this horrid islands
when
\vhen the sun being, to us, in its autumnal equinox,
was almost just over my head, for I reckoned myself,
by observation, to be in the latitude of 9 degrees 22
minutes north of the line.
After I had been there about ten or twelve days,
It came into my thoughts, that I should lose my
reckoning of time for want of books, and pen and
ink, and should even forget the sabbath days from
the working days; but to prevent this, I cut it with
my knife upon a large post, in capital letters, and
making it into a great cross, 1 set it up on the shore
where I first landed, viz. I came on Jhore here on the
$oth of Sept. 1659. Upon the sides of this square
post, I cut every day a notch with my knife, and
every seventh notch was as long again as the rest,
and every first day of the month as long again
as that long one; and thus I kept my calendar, or
weekly, monthly, and yearly reckoning of time.
In the next place we are to observe, that among
the many things which I brought out of the ship in
the several voyages, which, as abovementioned, I
made to it, I got several things of less value, but
not all less useful to me, which I omittted setting
down before; as in particular, pens, ink, and paper,
several parcels in the captain's, mate's, gunner's,
and carpenter's keeping, three or four coinpaiTes,
some mathematical instruments, dials, perspectives,
charts, and books of navigation, all which I huddled
together, whether I might want them or no; also
I found three very good bibles which came to
me in my cargo from England, and which I had
packed up among my things; some Portuguese books
also,
LIFE AND ADVENTURES'
also, and among them two or three popish prayer-
books, and several other books, all which I carefully
secured. And I must not forget, that we had in the
snip a dog and two cats, of whose eminent history
I may have occasion to say something in its place;
for I carried both the cats with me; and as for the
dog, he jumped out of the ship of himself, and swam
on shore to me the day after I went on shore with
my first cargo, and was a trusty servant to me many
years *? I wanted nothing that he could fetch me,
nor any company that he could make up to me;
I only wanted to have him talk to me, but that he
could not do: as I observed before, I found pen,
ink and paper, and I husbanded them to the utmost;
and I (hall (hew, that while my ink lasted, I kept
things very exact; but after that was gone, I could
not; for I could not make any ink, by any means
that I could devise.
And this put me in mind that I wanted many
things, notwithstanding all that I had amassed
together; and of these, this of ink was one, as also
spade, pick-axe and shovel, to dig or remove the
earth; needles, pins, and thread; as for linen,
I soon learned to want that without much difficulty.
This want of tools made every work I did go on
heavily, and it was near a whole year before I had
entirely finished my little pale or surrounded
habitation: the piles or stakes, which were as
heavy as I could well lift, were a long time in cutting
and preparing in the woods, and more by far in
bringing home; so that I spent sometimes two days
in cutting and bringing home one of those posts,
and a third day in driving it into the ground; for
which
which purpose I got a heavy piece of wood at first,
but at last bethought myself of one of the iron crows,
which however, though I found it, yet it made driv-
ing those posts or piles very laborious and tedious work.
But what need I have been concerned at the
tediousness of any thing I had to do, feeing I had
time enough to do it in, nor had I any other
employment if that had been over, at least, that I
could foresee, except the ranging the island to seek
for food, which I did more or less every day.
I now began to consider seriously my condition,
and the circumstance I was reduced to, and I drew
up the state of my affairs in writing, not so much
to leave them to any that were to come after me, for
I was like to have but few heirs, as to deliver my
thoughts from daily poring upon them, and afflicting
my mind 5 and as my reason began now to master
my despondency, I began to comfort myself as well
as I could, and to set the good against the evil, that
I might have something to distinguisli my case from
worse; and I stated it very impartially, like debtor
and creditor, the comforts I enjoyed against the
miseries I suffered, thus;
Evil. Good.
I am cast upon a horri* But I am alive ^ and
ble desolate island, void of not dr ownedras all myship''s
all hope of recovery. company was*
I am singled out and But I am singled out too
separated, as it were from from all the fiip's crew to
all the world, to be miser a* he spared from death; and
hie. he that miraculousy saved ^
me from death, can deliver
me from this condition.
Vol. U G Jam
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
Evil. Good.
/ am divided from man- But I am 7totstarved and
k'mdy a solitaire^ one ba- peristoing on a barren place j
nijliedfrom human society* affording no sustenance.
I have not cloaths so But I am in a hot clU
cover me.~ ?nater> where if I had cloaths
I could hardly wear them.
I am without any de-
fence or means to resist any
violence of man or beast.
But I am cast on an
islands where I see no 'wild
beasts to hurt me^ as I faza
on the coast of Africa: and
what if I had been stoip«>
wrecked there?
I have no foul to speak But Godwonderfidlysens
to, or relieve me* the ship in near enough to
the shore that I have got-
ten out so many necejjary
things as will either supply
my wants) or enable me to
supply myself even as long
as I live.
Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testi-
mony, that there was scarce any condition in the
world so miserable, but there was something negative
or something positive to be thankful for in it; and let
this stand as a direction from the experience of the
most miserable of all conditions in this world, that we
may
\my always find in it something to comfort ourselves
from, and to set in the description of good and evil?
on the credit side of the account-
Having now brought my mind a little to relish
my condition, and given over looking out to sea,
to see if I could spy a ship; I say, giving over these
things, I began to apply myself to accommodate my
way of living, and to make things as easy to me as I
could.
I have already described my habitation, which
was a tent under the fide of a rock, surrounded with
a strong pale of posts and cables, but I might now
rather call it a wall, for I raised a kind of wall up
against it of turfs, about two foot thick on the out-
side, and after some time, I think it was a year and
half, I raised rafters from it, leaning to the rock,
and thatched or covered it with boughs of trees, and
such things as I could get to keep out the rain,
which I found at some times of the year very
violent.
I have already observed how I brought all my
goods into this pale, and into the cave which I
had made behind me: but I must observe too that
at first this was a confused heap of goods, which as
they lay in no order, so they took up all my place,
I had no room to turn myself; so I set myself to
enlarge my cave and works farther into the earth;
for it was a loose sandy rock, which yielded easily to
the labour I bestowed on it: and so when I found I
was pretty safe as to beasts of prey, I worked side-
ways to the right hand into the rock; and then,
turning to the right again, worked quite out, and
G 2 made
made me a door to come out, on the outside of my
a pale or fortification.
This gave me not only egress and regress, as it
were a back-way to my tent and to my store-house,
but gave me room to stow my goods.
And now I began to apply myself to make such
necessary things as I found I most wanted, particularly
a chair and a table; for without these I was not able
to enjoy the few comforts I had in the world ; I could
not write or eat, or do several things with so much
pleasure v\ithout a table.
So I went to work; and here I must needs observe?
that as reason is the substance and original of the
mathematicks, so by stating and squaring every
thing by reason, and by making the most rational
judgment of things, every man may be in time
rnaiier of every mechanick art. I had never handled
a tool in my life, and yet in time by labour, appli-
cation and contrivance, I found at. last that I wanted
nothing but I could have made it, especially if I had
had tods; however, I made abundance of things,
even without tools, and some with no more tools
than an adze and a hatchet, which perhaps were
never made that way before, and that with infinite
labour: for example, if I wanted a board, I had no
other way but to cut down a tree, set it on an edge
before me, and hew it flat on either side with my
axe, till I had brought It to be as thin as a planks
and then dub it smooth with my adze. It is true,
by this method I could make but one board out ot
-a whole tree, but this I had no remedy for but
patience^ any more than 1 had lor the prodigious-
deal
/i>M.rA./f- .;.>. /r/A< S/.r/S.t/.- />..:,./,//»
ideal of lime and labour ^hich it took me up to make
a plank or board: but my time or labour was
little worth, and so it was as well employed one way
as another.
However., I made me a table and a chair, as I
observed above, in the first place, and this I did out
of the short pieces of boards that I brought on my
raft from the ship: but when I had wrought out
some boards, as above, I made large shelves of the
breadth of a foot and a half one over another, all
along one fide of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails,
and iron-work, and in a word, to separate every
thing at large in their places, that I might come
> easily at them; I knocked pieces into the wall of
the rock to hang my guns and all things that would
hang up.
So that had my cave been to be seen, it looked
like a general magazine of all necessary things; and
I had every thing so ready at my hand, that it was
a great pleasure to me to see all my goods in such
order, and especially to find my stock of all neces-
saries so great.
And now it was that I began to keep a journal
of every day's employment; for indeed at first I was
in too much a hurry; and not only hurry as to
labour, but in too much discomposure of mind, and
my journal would have been full of many dull things.
For example, I must have said thus: Sept. the 30th,
after I got to shore, and had escaped drowning,
instead of being thankful to God for my deliverance,
having first vomited with the great quantity of salt
water which was gotten into my stomach, and
recovering myself & little, I ran about the fhore5
G 3 wringing
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
wringing my hands, and beating my head and face*
exclaiming at my misery, and crying out, I was
undone, undone; till tired and faint I was forced to
lie down on the ground to repose, but durst not sleep
for fear of being devoured.
Some days after this, and after I had been on
board the ship, and got all that I could out of her,
yet I could not forbear getting up to the top of a
little mountain, and looking out to sea in hopes of
seeing a ship; then fancy at a vast distance I spied a
sail; please myself with the hopes of it; and then
after looking steadily till I was almost blind, lose it
quite, and sit down and weep like a child, and thus
encrease my misery by my folly.
But having gotten over these things in some
measure, and having settled my houfhoid-stuff and
habitation, made me a table and a chair, and all
as handsome about me as I could, I began to keep
my journal, of which I shall here give you the copy,
(though in it will be told all these particulars over
again) as long as it lasted; for having no more ink3
I was forced to leave it off.
The JOURNAL.
September 30, 1659.
IPOOR miferableRpbinsonCrusoe, being shipwrecked^,
during a dreadful storm, in the offing, came on
shore on this dismal unfortunate island, which 1 called
the Island of Despair? all the rest of the ship's com-
pany being drowned, and myself almost dead.
All the rest of that day I spent in afflicting myself
at the dismal circumstances I was brought to, viz% I
had
87
had neither food, house, cloaths, weapon, or place
to fly to, and in despair of any relies, saw nothing
but death before me, either that I should be devoured
by wild beasts, murthered by savages, or starved to
death for want of food. At the approach of night
I slept in a tree, for fear of wild creatures, but slept
soundly though it rained all night.
Odober 1. In the morning I saw to my great
surprise the strip had floated with the high tide, and
was driven on snore again much nearer the island,
which as it was some comfort on one hand, for seeing
her sit upright, and not broken to pieces, I hoped,
if the wind abated, I might get on board, and get
some food and necessaries out of her for my relief;
so 011 the other hand, it renewed my grief at the loss
of my comrades, who I imagined if we had all staid
on board might have saved the ship., or at least that
they would not have been all drowned, as they were;
and that, had the men been laved, we might perhaps
jhave built us a boat out of the ruins of the ship, to
have carried us to some other part of the world. I
spent great part of this day in perplexing myself on
these things ; but at length, seeing the ship almost dry,
I went upon the sand as near as I could, and then
swam on board; this day also it continued raining,
though with no wind at alb
From the 1st of Odober to the 24th. All these
days entirely spent in many several voyages to
get all I could out of the ship, which I brought
on shore, every tide of flood, upon rafts. Much
rain also in these days, though with some intervals
of fair weather: but, it seems, this was the rainy
season,
C 4 Oil. 20,
Oft. 20. I overset mv raft, and all the poods I
had got up upon it; but being in {hoal water, and
the things being chiefly heavy, I recovered many of
them when the tide was out.
Oft. 25. It rained all night and all day, with
some gusts of wind, during which time the ship
broke in pieces, the wind blowing a little harder
than before, and was no more to be seen, except
the wreck of her, and that only at low water. I
spent this day in covering and securing the goods
which I had saved, that rain might not spoil
them.
Oft. 26. I walked about the snore almost all day,
to find out a place to six my habitation, greatly
concerned to secure myself from any attack in the
night, either from wild beasts or men. Towards
night 1 fixed upon a proper place under a rock, and
marked out a semi-circle lor my encampment, which
I resolved to strengthen with a work, wall, or forti-
fication made of double piles, lined within with cable,
and without with turf.
From the 26th to the 30th I worked very hard
in carrying all my goods to my new habitation,
though some part of the time it rained exceeding
hard.
The 31st in the morning I jvent out into the
island with my gun, to see for some food, and discover
the country; when I killed a she-goat, and her kid
followed me home, which I afterwards killed also,
because it would not feed.
November 1. I set up my tent under a rock, and lay
there for the first night, making it as large as I could
with stakes driven in to swing my hammock upon.
Nov. 2,
Nov. i. I set up all my chests and boards, and
the pieces of timber which made my rafts, and with
them formed a fence round me, a little within the
place I had marked out for my fortification.
Nov. 3. I went out with my gun, and killed
two fowls like ducks, which were very good
food. In the afternoon went to work to make me
a tablet
Nov. 4. This morning I began to order my times
of work, of going out with my gun, time of sleep,
and time of diversion; viz. every morning I walked
out with my gun for two or three hours, if it did not
rain, then employed myself to work till about eleven
o'clock, then eat what I had to live on, and from
twelve to two I lay down to sleep, the weather being
excessive hot, and then in the evening to work
again: the working part of this day and of the
next were wholly employed in making my table, for
I was yet but a very sorry workman, though
time and necessity made me a compleat natural
mechanick soon after, as I believe it would do any
one else.
Nov. 5. This day went abroad with my gun and
rny dog, and killed a wild cat, her ikm pretty soft,
but her slesli good for nothing: every creature I
killed I took oft* the skins and preserved them.
Coming back by the sea-shore I saw many sorts of
sea-fowls, which" I did not understand; but was
surprized and almost frighted with two or three
seals, which, while I was gazing at, not well
knowing what they were, got into the sea, and
escaped me for that time,
Nov. 6.
Nov. 6. After my morning walk I went to work
with my table again, and finished it, though not to
my liking; nor was it long before I learned to
mend it.
Nov. J. Now it began to be settled fair weather.
The 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and part of the 12th,
(for the 1 ith was Sunday) I took wholly up to make
me a chair, and with much ado brought it to a tole-
rable fhape5 but never to please me; and even in
the making I pulled it in pieces several times.
Note, I soon neglected my keeping Sundays, for
omitting my mark for them on my post, I forgot
which was which.
Nov* 13. This day it rained, which refreshed me
exceedingly, and cooled the earth, but it was accom-
panied with terrible thunder and lightning, which
frighted me dreadfully for fear of my powder: as
soon as it was over I resolved to separate my stock of
powder into as many little parcels as possible, that it
might not be in danger.
Nov. 14, 15, 16. These three days I spent in
making little square chests or boxes, which might
hold about a pound, or two pound, at most, of
powder; and so putting the powder in, I stowed it
in places as secure and remote from one another as
possible. On one of these three days I killed a.
large bird that was good to eat, but I knew not
what to call it.
Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent
into the rock, to make room for my farther conve-
niency. Note, Three things I wanted exceedingly
for this work, viz. a pick-axe, a fiiovel, and a wheeU
barrow
16 •sosn'ao nosnisou jo
3lp
joj mosSpviS nc.ii oy.vxu. 0} ac/a sjqTjjocI on pins
j s^pipq' 31 :inoqi3 oS o.) A\oq Avcuq j pip J3ippi£
'jo uopoii on pi;i{ j jcip jaq Cp9q/A 3ip jnq jjb 3-qcm
pinoa ] pcpuvtj j cAVOjjxq-p3ipA 13 o; si; pxxx: i mo
pimOj }3A 31IOU .J139} 3t; C9JUA\ 19^31 A\ 3^X3UI 0} pii3q
ppaoAV yc\n sSuv] si: slnntp xpuj on Suiacij 'siix^iu
Aire Xq oqiuu ion ppx>3 j isqpq \3 1 A\ojJi;q-p3qA\
13 jo }3qp3q e p?ni^Ai ] ioi cya?p\py \\v\j sv.a\ j
•Slipp'-UI V. Sl\0\ OJ JO cUOII[}t;|
3l3Xp J33p 3pl3IlT c3A3Tpq j cpAOl[f 13 S13AV J3A9II Jliq
1 o} ii ind oj uon^Doo pi>q i ipupw S3ju 3ip joj qSnoxi3
pp AY p3AJ3J }1 A3A9AYOIJ S SuOj OJ 3111 p}l3{ 4OII pptOAV
Zi 'uioiioq 413 4} xiodn poi[j. uo.it ou SuiAirq wed pcojq
3ip mp Apio \Pi-!PjSu7j in smo sqq p3d\3i}j Apor.x^
3ppui3q 9in c9pi3dj jo pA0i[f 13 jo iiuoi 9ip 03111 3\W\
PIT'S 3p4j| Aq A[pnp:->-jp }I p9qJ0A\ I JOJ '9inXpl3XU
sup uocln ?|ittav Shot 13 qui ?pp.tn cX\3a\ J3ipo ou
SiiTAi3i| puc cpooA\ sq; jo spupicq DAITJ3DX9 oqj^
•Lveoi|
Suip333X3 ST3A\qpiOJ 'llSllOIIS XqU3)jqp XJ1IA 00} 3IU0q
31 iqSnojq puc c339id c jrd j 49x12 aux Suijiodj
iTOlUp piU3 JilOqq }T33jS ippA 'sup JO f spupjBq
Smp333X3 six joj 'MJjj uouj 3ip ppo iCaip spsvjq 9ip
in xpTq.u c}i 3qi[ jo cpooA\ nup jo 99j} b pimoj
J SpOOAi 3Xp Sl!Iipjl39J III ilVO }X9U 91JJL *g 1 '^Ss
* *30U AV3Xiq J 9^^X11 0} 9UO
jo pupj jBXpA inq' q inoqqA\ A]pnp9jj9 Suiqiou op
pjnoD j psopin yeip S(jin}3j9u i(p;rqojqi3 oj scav sup
t 9prxlj jo pAoiy 13 S13/A Surqj '4X9X1 9qx jnq i ^a\33xj
qSnotp cqSnou3 J9dojd 9J9a\ xppjA\ csa\ojo xiojt
3qi. JO 3JR 9pi3XU l c9XT3-^pld E JOJ S13 :SJOO; 3XXIOJ 3X11
9iji3xu pu"s 4}utba\ vzx]) Xjddnj 0} A\oq jspijuoo o; u'eSaq
put2 cip0AV ilU IUOJJ p94jIJ9p T OJ C}9qil3q JO A\0JJl3q
the spindle or axis of the wheel to run in, so I gave
it over; and so for carrying away the earth which I
dug out of the cave, I made me a thing like a hodd
which the labourers carry mortar in, when they
serve the bricklayers.
This was not so difficult to me as the making the
shovel; and yet this, and the shovel, and the attempt
which I made in vain to make a wheelbarrow, took
me up no less than four days, I mean always, except-
ing my morning walk with my gun, which I seldom
failed; and very seldom failed also bringing home
something to eat*
Nov. 23. My other work having now stood still,
because of my making these tools, when they were
finished I went on, and working every day, as my
strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen days
entirely in widening and deepening my cave, that it
might hold my goods commodioully.
Note^ During all this time, I worked to make this
room or cave spacious enough to accommodate me
as a warehouse or magazine, a kitchen, a dining-
room, and a cellar; as for my lodging, I kept to the
tent, except that sometimes in the wet season of the
year, it rained so hard that I could not keep myself
dry, which caused me afterwards to cover all my
place within my pale with long poles in the form of
rafters, leaning against the rock, and load them with
stags and large leaves of trees like a thatch.
December 10, I began now to think my cave or
vault finished, when on a sudden (it seems I had
made it too large) a great quantity of earth fell down
from the top and one side, so much that in short it
frighted me, and not without reason too j for if I had
been
t'6 *20sn^3 KosKiao'a
f At
V'j.v. ^iuiu A\o.tS q Suoi oj 31 Siuj.tna Aq inq! pa?
sr. Suojhj pin: AvaaS ib} 3qi \ycæ cp^vq 31 }r,qj
cq jo 9ir:D uonj ^jooj j *gr 7^ -s^o.iq stjav ipiqA\
Vb; sai da paiarjqdj pra* punoq \ <3inoq q puq |
xuvq 'A t Stipqy n ui nmoq q pq pire £.q jqSino j lup oj
Sicnpotii: paiuq pirs c4\7.oS -:'unoA n p^qrvj *Zs vj>(j
AIA'UlUl^jd pUE 43I0pq
inqi .u")[ood qotuu quT)3 oqi pu» cuttu oj\j -9s
•ino Suu.q?j
011 i Anp qu put; 3qSra qs tqs.i ipny/j; -t-s -jjq
•sjqB} l?l\10llV. 3111 3p\'AU j ojns
- 3ux tpiA\ i(.i3A 3q 0} ui'ibq sp'jœoq inq 'uodn
^j^npiA Am iDpjo 05 €i3[}3.ip u 3qq c$p:tr:oq .to ssoaid
3iuoj dn iqj piiB co;:ioq Am qqiurq o; læfbq pue
*3Aro sqi oim Simp A.I3A3 poiur.D j ayojsj -os vj>(7
•S.IOOP ITiqqAA 13 DIG 3UTOJ HI 3q 0] ot ib q
j Aiou pu"s cdn Sinrq sq ppnoo T^ip dn Siqqi Ai?a:?
ihiv.i\ oi ST_iod 3Ui no sqr:ii dn p3:pouq pm* fS3Apqj
paoqd j tp^pusAM ?qi 05 X"Op eiip mO.UT 'Ll 'JJ(J
#3uoq Am Jjo ^j.izcl en suopp.red 101 sui poAirq
csaaoi ut Siqpimq 'syod 3741 puii i p3ino3j jooi 3qi
pr.q r 3,10m q33A\ n moqe in cspj\3oq qqA\ dn sqiod
oiom Siinjs[ pne c. Ai?p yx3U aqi pstjjrau j srqi t |jod
qD"2? J3AO sjojo-13 squeoq jo P333]d OAu qq/A 4dca sqi
oi 3uSpTda poqD^id sajod .to ssioqi oau 10S pui: "AjSui
-pioDou q qqAV >pioA\ oj 5U3a\ j Abp stqjL #i i *^7(J
•U/AOP 31U03
ppiOAA oioiu on 3.inj sq ^qSiin j oj 4dn doid 01
Siqpp 3q.) pi2q j ^oiTO-ioduq 3joui jo seav qoiqAA cpir^
cino Aiji23 oi quHS qjooj 3q?f p-gq j .toj i iqi3§i3 J3ao
op 04 qioA\ to [B3p lexxS b puq j i3Tjqqp siqi uodit
: I3§2q^-3AC^S B pSTU'CAV .I3A?U puq J ^ .T3plU\ 113sq
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
fed upon the little green at my door, and would not
go away: this was the first time that I entertained a
thought of breeding up some tame creatures, that
I might have food when my powder and shot was
all spent.
Dec. 28, 29, 30. Great heats and no breeze;
so that there was no stirring abroad, except in the
evening for food; this time I spent in putting all my
things in order within doors.
January 1. Very hot still, but I went abroad early
and late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of
the day* This evening-, going farther into the
valleys, which lay towards the center of the island,
I found there was plenty of goats, though exceeding
slay and hard to come at; however I resolved to try
if I could not bring my dog to hunt them down,
Jan. 2. Accordingly, the next day, I went out
with my dog, and set him upon the goats; but I was
mistaken, for they all faced about upon the dog; and
he knew his danger too well, for he would not come
near them.
Jan. 3. I began my fence or wall; which, being
still jealous of my being attacked by some body, I
resolved to make very thick and strong.
N. B. This wall being described before, I
purposely omit what was said in the Journal;
it is sufficient to observe', that I zvas no less
time than from the yi of January to the 14th
of April, workings sniffing, and perfecting
this wal^ though it was no more than about
24 yards in lengths be'rng a half circle from
one place in the rock to another place about
eight yards from it, the door of the cave being
in the center behind it*
95
Ail this time I worked very hard, the rains
hindering me many days, nay, sometimes weeks
together; but I thought I should never be perfectly
secure until this wail was finished; and it is scarce
credible what inexpressible labour every thing was
done with, especially the bringing piles out of the
woods, and driving them into the ground, for I
made them much bigger than I need to have done.
When this wall was finished, and the out-fide
double fenced with a turf-wall raised up close to it,
I persuaded myself that if any people were to come
on shore there, they would not perceive any thing
like a habitation ; and it was very well I did ib, as may
be observed hereafter upon a very remarkable occasion.
During this time I made my rounds in the woods
for game every day, when the rain admitted me, and
m?de frequent discoveries in these walks of something
or other to my advantage; particularly I found a
kind of wild pigeons, who built not as wood
pigeons in a tree, but rather as house pigeons, in
the holes of the rocks; and taking some young ones,
I endeavoured to breed them up tame, and did ib;
but when they grew older they flew away, which
perhaps was at first for want of feeding them, for I
had nothing to give them; however I frequently
found their nests, and got their young ones, which
were very good meat.
And now, in the managing my heulkold affairs, I
found myself wanting in many things, which I
thought at first it was impossible for me to make, as
indeed as to some of them it was; for instance, I
could never make a calk to be hooped; I had a small
runlet or two, as I observed before, but I could never
LIFE AND ADVENTURE'S
arrive to the capacity of making one by them, though
I spent many weeks about it; I could neither put in
the heads, or joint the staves so true to one another
as to make them hold water, so I gave that also over.
In the next place, I was at a great loss for candle;
so that as soon as ever it was dark, which was gene-
rally by seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed: I
remembered the lump of bees-wax with which I made
candles in my African adventure, but I had none of
that now; the only remedy I had, was, that when I
had killed a goat I saved the tallow, and with a little
dish made of clay, which I baked in the sun, to which
I added a wick of some oakum, I made me a lamp;
tuid this gave me light, though not a clear steady
light like a candle; in the middle of all my labours
it happened, that rummaging my things, I found a
little bag, which, as I hinted before, had been filled
with corn for the feeding of poultry, not for this
voyage, but before, as I suppose, when the ship
came from Lisbon; what little remainder of corn had
been in the bag, was all devoured with the rats, and
I saw nothing in the bag but hulks and dust; and
being willing to have the bag for some other use, I
think it was to put powder in, when I divided it for
fear of the lightning, or some such use, I shook the
hulks of corn out of it on one fide of my fortification
under the rock.
It was a little before the great rains, just now men-
tioned, that I threw this stuff away, taking no notice
of any thing, and not so much as remembering that I
had thrown any thing there; when about a month
after, or thereabout, I saw some few stalks of some-
thing green shooting out of the ground, which I
fancied
97
fancied might be some plant I had not seen, but I
was surprized and perfectly astonished, when after a
little longer time I saw about ten or twelve ears
come out, which were perfect green barley of the
fame kind as our European, nay, as our English
barley.
It is impoffible to express the astonishment and
confusion of my thoughts on this occasion; I had
hitherto acted upon no religious foundation at all;
indeed I had very few notions of religion in my
head, or had entertained any fense of any thing that
had befallen me, otherwise than as a chance, or, as
we lightly fay, what pleases God; without so much
as enquiring into the end of Providence in these
things, or his order in governing events in the world:
but after I saw barley grow there, in a climate which
I knew was not proper for corn, and especially that
I knew not how it came there, it startled me
strangely, and I began to suggest, that God had mira-
culously caused this grain to grow without anv help
of feed sown, and that it was so directed purely for
my sustenance on that wild miserable place.
This touched my heart a little, and brought tears
out of my eyes, and I began to bless myself, that
such a prodigy of nature should happen upon my
account; and this was the more strange to me,
because I saw near it still, all along by the fide of the
rock, some other stragling stalks, which proved to
be stalks of rice, and which I knew, because I had
seen it grow in Africa, when I was ashore there.
I not only thought these the pure productions of
Providence for my support, but not doubting but
that there was more in the place, I went all over
Vol. X. II that
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
that part of the island, where! had been before, peeping
in every corner and under every rock to see for more
of it, but I could not find any; at last it occurred
to my thought, that I had shook a bag of chickens meat
out in that place, and then the wonder began to cease;
and I must confess, my religious thankfulness to God's
providence began to abate too upon discovering*
that all this was nothing but what was common;
though I ought to have been as thankful for fa
strange and unforeseen a providence as if it had been
miraculous ; for it was really the work of Providence
as to me, that should order or appoint 10 or iz
grains of corn to remain unspoiled, when the rats
had destroyed all the rest, as if it had been dropt
from heaven: as also, that I fliould throw it out in
that particular place, where, it being in the shade of
1 a high rock, it sprang up immediately; whereas if I
had thrown it any where else at that time, it had been
burnt up and destroyed.
I carefully saved the ears of corn, you may be
sure, in their season, which was about the end of
yune, and laying up every corn, I resolved to sow
them all agr ln, hoping in time to have some quantity
sufficient to supply me with bread; but it was not till
the fourth year that I could allow myself the least grain
of this corn to eat, and even then but sparingly, as I
shall fay afterwards in its order; for I lost all that I
sowed the first season, by not observing the proper
time; for I sowed it just before the dry season, so
that it never came up at all, at least not as it would
have done: of which in its place.
Besides this barley, there were, as above, 20 or 30
stalks of rice, which I preserved with the same care,
and
99
and whose use was of the fame kind or to the fame
purpose, viz. To make me bread, or rather food;
for I found ways to cook it up without baking, though
I did that also after some time. But to return to
my journal*
I worked excessive hard these three or four months
to get my wall done; and the 14th of April I closed
it up, contriving to go into it, not by a door, but
over the wall by a ladder, that there might be no
sign in the outside of my habitation.
April 16. I finished the ladder, so I went up with
the ladder to the top, and then pulled it up after me,
and let it down on the inside: this was a compleat
enclosure to me; for within I had room enough, and
nothing could come at me from without, unless it
could first mount my wall.
The very next day after this wall was finished, I
had almost had all my labour overthrown at once,
and myself killed; the case was thus: As I was busy
in the inside of it, behind my tent, just in the
entrance into my cave, I was terribly frighted with a
most dreadful surprizing thing indeed; for on a
sudden I found the earth come crumbling down from
the roof of my cave, and from the edge of the hill,
over my head, and two of the posts I had set up in
the cave cracked in a frightful manner: I was
heartily scared, but thought nothing of what was
really the cause, only thinking that the top of my
cave was falling in, as some of it had done before;
and for fear I lhould be buried in it, I ran forward
to my ladder, and not thinking myself safe there
neither, I got over my wall for fear of the pieces of
the hill which I expected might roil down upon me:
H 2 I was
106
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
I was no sooner stept down upon the firm ground,-
but I plainly saw it was a terrible earthquake, for the
ground I stood on shook three times at about eight
minutes distance, with three such stiocks, as would
have overturned the strongest building that could be
supposed to have stood on the earth; and a great
piece of the top of a rock, which stood about half a
mile from me next the sea, fell down with such a
terrible noise as I never heard in all my life * I per-
ceived also the very sea was put into violent motion
by it; and I believe the shocks were stranger under
the water than on the island.
I was so amazed with the thing- itself, having never
felt the like, or discoursed with any one that had?-
that I was like one dead or stupisied; and the motion
of the earth made my stomach sick, like one that was
tossed at sea; but the noise of the falling of the rock
awaked me, as it were, and rouzing me from the
stupisied condition I was in, silled me with horror,
and I thought of nothing then but the hill falling
upon my tent, and all my houfhold goods, and
burying all at once; and this funk my very souk
within me a second time.
After the third sliock was over, and I felt no more
for some time, I began to take courage, and yet I had
not heart enough to get over my wall again, for fear
of being buried alive, but fat still upon the ground,
greatly cast down and disconsolate, not knowing
what to do: all this while I had not the least serious
religious thought, nothing but the common, Lord
have mere j upon vie; and when it was over, that
went away too.
While
lor
While I sat thus, I found the air over-cast, and
grow cloudy,, a$ if it would rain; soon after that
the wind rose by little and little, so that in less than
half an hour it blew a most dreadful hurricane: the
sea was all on a sudden covered over with foam and
froth, the sliore was covered with the breach of
the water, the trees were torn up by the roots,
and a terrible storm it was; and this held about
three hours, and then began to abate, and in two
hours more it was stark calm, and began to rain
very hard.
All this while I fat upon the ground, very much
terrified and dejected, when on a sudden it came
into my thoughts, that these winds and rain being
the consequence of the earthquake, the earthquake
itself was spent and over, and I might venture into
my cave again: with this thought my spirits began
to revive, and the rain also helping to persuade me,
I went in and sat down in my tent, but the rain was
so violent, that my tent was ready to be beaten down
with it; and I was forced to go into my cave,
though very much afraid and uneasy, for fear it should
fall on my head.
This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz,
to cut a hole through my new fortification like a sink,
to let water go out, which would else have drowned
my cave. Aster I had been in my cave some time, and
found still no more iliocks of the earthquake follow,
I began to be more composed; and now, to support
my spirits, which indeed wanted it very much, I
went to my little store, and took a small sup of rum,
which however I did then and always very sparingly,
knowing I could have no more when that was gone-
H 3 It
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
It continued raining all that night, and great part
of the next day, so that I could not stir abroad; but
my mind being more composed, I began to think of
what I had best do, concluding, that if the island
was subject to these earthquakes, there would be no
living for me in a cave, but I must consider of build-
ing me some little hut in an open place, which I
might surround with a wall as I had done here, and
so make myself secure from wild beasts or men: but
concluded, if I staid where I was, I snould certainly,
one time or other, be buried alive.
With these thoughts I resolved to remove my tent
from the place where it stood, which was just under
the hanging precipice of the hill, and which, if it
fliould be shaken again, would certainly fall upon my
tent: and I spent the two next days, being the igth
and 20th of April, in contriving where and how to
remove my habitation.
The fear of being swallowed up alive, made me
that I never slept in quiet, and yet the apprehension
of lying abroad without any fence was almost equal
to it; but still, when I looked about and saw how
every thing was put in order, how pleasantly con-
cealed I was, and how safe from danger, it made
me very loth to remove.
In the mean time it occurred to me that it would
require a vast deal of time for me to do this, and that
I must be contented to run the-venture where I was,
till I had formed a camp for myself, and had secured
it so as to remove to it: so with this resolution I
composed myself for a time, and resolved that I would
go to work with all speed to build me a wall with piles
and cables, &c* in a circle as before; and set my
tent
tent up in it when it was finished, but that I would
venture to stay where I was till it was finished and fit
to remove to. This was the 21st.
April 22. The next morning I began to consider
of means to put this resolve in execution, but I was
at a great loss about my tools; I had three large
axes and abundance of hatchets, (for we carried the
hatchets for traflick with the Indians) but with much
chopping and cutting knotty hard wood, they were
all full of notches and dull, and though I had a grind-
stone, I could not turn it and grind my tools too;
this cost me as much thought as a statesman would
have bestowed -upon a grand point of politicks, or a
judge upon the life and death of a man. At length
I contrived a wheel with a string, to turn it with my
foot, that I might have both my hands at liberty:
Note, I had never seen any such thing in England, or
.at least not to take notice how it was done, though
since I have observed it is very common there;
besides that, my grind-stone was very large and
heavy. This machine cost me a full week's work to
bring it to perfection,
April 28, 29. These two whole days I took up
in grinding my tools, my machine for turning my
grind-stone performing very well,
April 30. Having perceived my bread had been
low a great while, now I took a survey of it, and
reduced myself to one biscuit-cake a day, which
made my heart very heavy.
May 1. In the rooming, looking towards .the sea-
fide, the tide being Low, I saw something lie on the
shore bigger than ordinary; and it looked like a calk:
when I came to it, I found a small barrel, and two
H 4 pr
or three pieces of the wreck . of the ship; which
were driven on shore by the late hurricane;
and looking towards the wreck itself, I thought it
seemed to lie higher out of the water than it used to
do: I examined the barrel which was driven on
snore, and soon found it was a barrel of gunpowder,
but it had taken water, and the powder was caked
as hard as a stone; however I rolled it farther on shore
for the present, and went on upon the sands as near as
I could to the wreck of the ship, to look for more*
When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely
removed; the fore-castle, which lay before buried
in sand, was heaved up at least fix foot; and the
stern, which was broke to pieces, and patted from
the rest by the force of the sea, soon after I had left
rummaging her, was tossed, as it were, up, and cast
on one fide, and the sand was thrown so high on
that fide next her stern, that whereas there was a
great place of wTater before, so that I could not come
within a quarter of a mile of the wreck without
swimming, I could now walk quite up to her when
the tide was out; I was surprized with this at first,
but soon concluded it must be done by the earth-
quake: and as by this violence the snip was more
broken open than formerly, so many things came
daily on shore, which the sea had loosened, and which
the winds and water rolled by degrees to the land*
This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design
of removing my habitation; and I busied myself
mightily that day especially, in searching whether I
could make any way into the ship; but I found
nothing was to be expected of that kind, for that
all the inside of the snip was choaked up with sand:
however,
however, as I had learnt not to despair of any thing,
I resolved to pull every thing to pieces that I could
of the ship, concluding, that every thing I could get
from her would be of some use or other to me.
May 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a
beam through, which I thought held some of the
upper part or quarter-deck together, and when I had
cut it through, I cleared away the sand as well as I
could from the fide which lay highest; but the
tide coming in, I was obliged to give over for
that time.
May 4. I went a fishing, but caught not one fish
that I durst eat of, till I was weary of my sport; when
just going to leave off, I caught a young dolphin. I
had made me a long line of some rope-yarn, but I had
no hooks, yet I frequently caught fish enough, as
much as I cared to eat; all which I dried in the fun,
and eat them dry.
May 5. Worked on the wreck, cut another beam
asunder, and brought three great fir planks off from
the decks, which I tied together, and made swim
pn shore when the tide of flood came on.
May 6. Worked on the wreck, got several iron
bolts out of her, and other pieces of iron-work,
worked very hard, and came home very much tired,
and had thoughts of giving it over.
May 7. Went to the wreck again, but with an
intent not to work, but found the weight of the
wreck had broke itself down, the beams being cut,
that several pieces of the (hip seemed to lie loose,
and the inside of the hold lay so open, that I could
fee into it, but almost full of water and sand.
May 8.
1
May 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron
crow to wrench up the deck, which lay now
quite clear of the water or sand; I wrenched open
two planks, and brought them on shore also with
the tide: I left the iron crow in the wreck for
next day.
May 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crow
made way into the body of the wreck, and felt
several casks, and loosened them with the crow,
but could not break them up \ I felt also the roll of
English lead, and could stir it, but it was too heavy
to remove.
May 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. Went every day to the
wreck, and got a great many pieces of timber,
and boards, or plank, and 2 or 300 weight of
iron.
May 15. I carried two hatchets, to try if I
could not cut a piece off the roll of lead, by
placing the edge of one hatchet, and driving it
with the other; but as it lay about a foot and a half
in the water, I could not make any blow to drive
the hatchet.
May 16. it had bio wed hard in the night, and
the wreck appeared more broken by the force of the
water; but I staid so long in the woods to get
pigeons forjbod, that the tide prevented me going
to,the wreck that day.
May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown
on shore, at a great distance, near two miles off
me, but resolved to see what they were, and found
it was a piece of the head, but too heavy for me to
bring away.
May 24,
May 24. Every day to this day I worked on the
wreck, and with hard labour I loosened some things
so much with the crow, that the first blowing tide
several cafes floated out, and two of the seamen's
chests; but the wind blowing from the shore,
nothing came to land that day but pieces of
timber, and a hogshead, which had some Brazil
pork in it, but the salt-water and the sand had
spoiled it.
I continued this work every day to the 15th of
June, except the time necessary to get food, which
I always appointed, during this part of my employ-
ment, to be when the tide was up, that I might be
ready when it was ebbed out; and by this time I
had gotten timber, and plank, and iron-work enough
to have built a good boat, if I had known how ; and
also, I got at several times, and in several pieces,
near 100 weight of the sheet-lead.
June 16. Going down to the sea-side, I found a
large tortoise or turtle; this was the first I had seen,
which it seems was only my misfortune, not any
defect of the place, or scarcity ; for had I happened
to be on the other fide of the island, I might have
had hundreds of them every day, as I found
afterwards; but perhaps had paid dear enough for
jdiem.
June 17 I spent in cooking the turtle; I found
in her threescore eggs; and her flesh was to me at
that time the most savoury and pleasant that ever
I tasted in my life, having had no flesh, but of
goats and fowls, since I landed in this horrid
place.
June 18.
xo8
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
June 18. Rained all day, and I stayed within. I
thought at this time the rain felt cold, and I was
something chilly, which I knew was not usual in
that latitude.
June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather'
had been cold.
June 23. No rest all night, violent pains in my
head, and feverish.
June 21. Very ill, frighted almost to death with
the apprehensions of my fad condition, to be sick,
and no help: Prayed to God for the first time
since the storm off Hull, but scarce knew what I
said, or why; my thoughts being all confused.
June 22. A little better, but under dreadful
apprehensions of sickness.
June 23. Very bad again, cold and shivering, and
then a violent head-ach.
June 24. Much better.
June 25. An ague very violent; the fit held me
seven hours, cold sit and hot, with faint sweats
after it.
June 26. Bettter; and having no victuals to eat,
took my gun, but found myself very weak; however
I killed a she-goat, and with much difficulty got
it home, and broiled some of it, and eat; I would
fain have stewed it, and made some broth, but had
no pet.
June 27. The ague again so violent, that I lay
a-bed all day, and neither eat or drank. I was ready
to peiiih for thirst, but so weak I had not strength
to stand up, or to get myself any water to drink:
prayed to God again, but was li^ht-headed j and
when
log
wlien I was not I was so ignorant, that I knew not
what to say; only I lay and cried, Lord look upon me;
Lord pity me; Lord have mercy upon me: I suppose
I did nothing else for two or three hours, till the fit
wearing off, I fell asleep, and did not wake till far in
the night; when I waked, I found myseff much
refreshed, but weak, and exceeding thirsty: how-
ever, as I had no water in my whole habitation,
I was forced to lie till morning, and went to
sleep again: In this second sleep I had this terrible
dream.
I thought that I was sitting on the ground on
the out-side of my wall, where I fat when the storm
blew after the earthquake, and that I saw a man
descend from a great black cloud, in a bright flame
of sire, and light upon the ground: He was all over
as bright as a flame, so that I could but just bear to
look towards him; his countenance was most inex-
pressibly dreadful, impossible for words to describe;
when he stepped upon the ground with his feet
I thought the earth trembled, just as it had done
before in the earthquake, and all the air looked to
my apprehension as if it had been filled with flashes
of fire.
He was no sooner landed upon the earth, but he
moved forward towards me, with a long spear or
weapon in his hand to kill me; and when he came
to a rising ground, at some distance, he spoke to
me, or I heard a voice so terrible, that it is impossible
to express the terror of it; all that I can fay I
understood was this, Seeing all these things have not
brought thee to repentance^ ?io%v thou foalt die: at
which
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
which words I thought he lifted up the spear that
was in his hand to kill me.
No one, that shall ever read this account, will
expect that I should be able to describe the horrors
of my foul at this terrible vision; I mean, that even
while it was a dream, I even dreamed of those
horrors; nor is it any more possible to describe the
impression that remained upon my mind, when I
awaked, and found it was but a dream,
I had, alas! no divine knowledge; what I had,
received by the good instruction of my father was
then worn out by an uninterrupted series, for eight
years, of seafaring wickedness, and a constant
conversation with nothing but such as were like
myself, wicked and prophane to the last degree;
I do not remember that I had in all that time one
thought that so much as tended either to looking
upwards toward God, or inwards towards a reflection
upon my own ways: but a certain stupidity of foul,
without desire of good, or conscience of evil, had
entirely overwhelmed me, and I was all that the most
hardened, unthinking, wicked creature among our
common sailors can be supposed to be, not having
the least sense, either of the fear of God in danger, or
of thankfulness to God in deliverances.
In the relating what is already past of my story,
this will be the more easily believed, when I shall
add, that through all the variety of miseries that
had to this day befallen me, I never had so much
as one thought of it being the hand of God, or
that it was a just punishment for my sin, my
rebellious* behaviour against my father, or my
present
present fms, which were great \ or so much as a
punishment for the general course of my wicked
life. When I was on the desperate expedition on
the ddart snores of Africa, I never had so much as
one thought of what would become of me; or one
wish to God to direct me whither I should go, or
to keep me from the danger which apparently
surrounded me, as well from voracious creatures as
cruel savages: but I was meerly thoughtless of a
God, or a Providence, acted like a meer brute from
the principles of nature, and by the dictates of com-
mon fense only, and indeed hardly that.
When I was delivered, and taken up at sea by the
Portugal captain, well used, and dealt justly and
honourably with, as well as charitably, I had not the
least thankfulness on my thoughts: when again I
was shipwrecked, ruined, and in clanger of drowning
on this island, I was as far from remorse, or looking
on it as a judgment; I only said to myself often,
that I was an unfortunate dog, and born to be always
miserable.
It is true, when I got on fliore first here, and
found all my ship's crew drowned, and myself
spared, I was surprized with a kind of extasy, and
some transports of soul, which, had the grace of
God assisted, might have come up to true thank-
fulness; but it ended where it begun, in a meer
common flight of joy, or, as I may fay, being glad
I was alive, without the least reflection upon the
distinguishing goodness of the hand which had
preserved me, and had singled me out to be pre-
served, when all the rest were destroyed; or an
Inquiry why Providence had been thus merciful to
me;
me; even just the same common sort of joy which
seamen generally have, after they have got safe
on shore from a shipwreck, which they drown all in.
the next bowl of punch, and forget almost as
soon as it is over; and all the rest of my life was
like it*
Even when I was afterwards, on due consider
tion, made sensible of my condition, how I was
cast on this dreadful place, out of the reach of
human kind, out of all hope of relief, or prospect of
redemption, as soon as I saw but a prospect of living,
and that I should not starve and perish for hunger,
all the sense of my affliction wore off, and I began
to be very easy, applied myself to the works proper
for my preservation and supply, and was far enough
from being afflicted at my condition, as a judgment
from heaven, or as the hand of God against me 2
these were thoughts which very seldom entered into5
my head.
The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my
journal, had at first some little influence upon me^
and began to affect me with seriousness, as long as I
thought it had something miraculous in it; but a$
soon as ever that part of thought was removed, all
the impression which was raised from it wore off
also, as I have noted already.
Even the earthquake, though nothing could be
more terrible in its nature, or more immediately
directing to the invisible power, which alone directs
such things; yet no sooner was the first fright over,
but the impression it had made went off also. I
had no more fense of God, or his judgments, much
less of the present affliction of my circumstances being
from
i*3
from' his hand, than if I had been in the most
prosperous condition of life.
But now, when I began to be sick, and a leisurely
•view of the miseries of death came to place itself
before me; when my spirits began to sink under the
burden of a strong distemper, and nature was
exhausted with the violence of the fever; conscience,
that had slept so long, began to awake, and I began
to reproach myself with my past life, in which I
had so evidently, by uncommon wickedness, pro-
voked the justice of God to lay me under
uncommon strokes, and to deal with me in so
vindictive a manner.
These reflections oppressed me from the second or
third day of my distemper, and in the violence, as
well of the fever as of the dreadful reproaches of my
conscience, extorted some words from me, like
praying to God, though I cannot fay they were
either a prayer attended with desires, or with hopes;
it was rather the voice of mere fright and distress;
my thoughts were confused, the convictions great
upon my mind, and the horror of dying in such a
miserable condition, raised vapours into my head
with the mere apprehensions; and, in these hurries
of my foul, I knew not what my tongue might
express: But it was rather exclamation, sudi as,
Lord! what a miserable creature am 1! If I should
be sick, I shall certainly die for want of help, and
what will become of me! Then the tears burst
out of my eyes, and I could fay no more for a
good while.
In this interval, the good advice of my father
came to my mind, and presently his prediction,
Vol. I. I which
which I mentioned in the beginning of this story;
viz. That if I did take this foolish step, God would
not bless me, and I would have leisure hereafter to
reflect upon having neglected his counsel, when
there might be none to affist in my recovery.
Now, said I aloud, my dear father's words are come
to pass: God's justice has overtaken me, and I have
none to help or hear me: I rejected the voice of
Providence, which had mercifully put me in a posture
pr station of life wherein I might have been happy
and easy; but I would neither see it myself, nor
learn to know the blessing of it from my parents;
I left them to mourn over my folly, and now I am
left to mourn under the consequences of it: I refused
their h'elp and assistance, who would have lifted me
into the world, and would have made every thing
easy to me; and now I have difficulties to struggle
with, too great for even nature itself to support,
and no assistance, no help, no comfort, no advice.
Then I cried out, Lord, be my help, for I am in
great distress.
This was the first prayer, if I might call it fo?
that I had made for many years. But I return to
my journal.
Ju?ie 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with
the sleep I had had, and the sit being entirely off, I
got up: and though the fright and terror of my
dream was very great, yet I considered, that the fit
of the ague would return again the next day, and
now was my time to get something to refresli and
support myself when I should be ill; and the first
thing I did, I filled a large square case bottle with
water, and set it upon my table, in reach of my bed;
and
snd to take off the chill or aguisli disposition of the
water, I put about a quarter of a pint of rum into it,
and mixed them together j then I got me a piece of
the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals, but
could eat very little; I walked about, but was very-
weak, and withal, very fad and heavy-hearted under
a fense of my miserable condition, dreading the
return of my distemper the next day; at night I
made my supper of three of the turtle's eggs, which
I roasted in the allies, and eat, as we call it, in the
shell; and this was the first bit of meat I had ever
asked God's blessing to, even, as I could remember?
in my whole lire.
After I had eaten I tried to walk; but found
myself so weak, that I could hardly carry the gun
(for I never went out without that;) so I went
but a little way, and sat down upon the ground,
looking out upon the sea, which was just before me,
and very calm and smooth. As I fat here, some
such thoughts as these occurred to me.
What is the earth and sea, of which I have seen so
much? Whence is it produced? And what am I,
and all the other creatures, wild and tame, human
and brutal, whence are we?
Sure we are all made by some secret power, who
formed the earth and sea,. the air and sky; and who
is that?
Then it followed, most naturally: it Is God that has
made it all: well, but then it came on strangely; if
God has made all these things, he guides and governs
them all, and all things that concern them j for the
Being that could make all things, must certainly
have power to guide and direct them,
I 2 If
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
If so, nothing can happen in the great circuit of
his works, either without his knowledge or appoint-*
ment.
And if nothing happens without his knowledge,
he knows that I am here, and am in a dreadful
condition j and if nothing happens without his
appointment, he has appointed all this to befal me.
Nothing occurred to my thoughts to contradict:
any of these conclusions; and therefore it rested
upon me with the greater force, that it must needs
be, that God had appointed all this to befal me;
that I was brought to this miserable circumstance by
his direction, he having the sole power, not of me
only, but of every thing that happened in the world.
Immediately it followed,
Why has God done this to me? What have I done to be
thus used?
My conscience presently checked me in that
inquiry, as if I had blasphemed; and methought it
spoke to me, like a voice; Wretch! doji thou ask.
what thou hajl done? look back upon a dreadful
mis-spent life, and ask thyself what thou haft not done?
alk, why is it that thou wert not long ago destroyed?
why wert thou not drowned in Yarmouth Roads?
killed in the fight when the sloip was taken by the
Sallee man of war? devoured by the wild beajis on the
coast of Africa? Or, drowned HERE, when all
the crczv perished but thyself? Dost thou alk, What
have I done?
I was struck with these reflections as one
astonished, and had not a word to say, no, not to
answer to myself; but rose up pensive and sad,
walked back to my retreat, and went up over my
wall,
II7
wall, as if I had been going to bed; but my thoughts
were sadly disturbed, and I had no inclination to
sleep; so I sat down in my chair, and lighted my
lamp, for it began to be dark. Now, as the
apprehensions of the return of my distemper terrified
me very much, it occurred to my thought, that the
Brasilians take no physic but their tobacco, for
almost all distempers; and I had a piece of a roll
of tobacco in one of the chests, which was quite
cured, and some also that was green, and not quite
£ured.
I went, directed by heaven, no doubt! for in this
chest I found a cure both for foul and body; I opened
the chest, and found what I looked for, viz. the
tobacco; and as the few books I had saved lay there
too, I took out one of the bibles which I mentioned
before, and which, to this time, I had not found
leisure, or so much as inclination, to look into; I
fay I took it out, and brought both that and the
tobacco with me to the table.
What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, as
£0 my distemper, or whether it was good for it or
no; but I tried several experiments with it, as if I
was resolved it should hit one way or other: I first
took a piece of a leaf, and chewed it in my mouth,
which indeed at first almost stupified my brain, the
tobacco being green and strong, and that I had not
been much used to it; then I took some, and steeped
it an hour or two in some rum, and resolved to take
£ dose of it when I lay down ; and lastly, I burnt some
upon a pan of coals, and held my nose close over
the smoke of it, as long as I could bear it, *is well
I 3 for
for the heat as the virtue of it, and I held almost
to suffocation.
In the interval of this operation I took up the
bible, and began to read; but my head was too
much disturbed with the tobacco to bear reading at
least at that time; only having opened the book
casually, the first words that occurred to me were
these. Call on me in the day of trouble, and I %uill
deliver, and thou shalt glorify me.
The words were very apt to my cafe, and made
some impression upon my thoughts at the time of
reading them, though not so much as they did
afterwards; for as for being delivered, the word
had no found, as I may fay, to me; the thing was so
remote, so impossible in my apprehension of things,
that I began to fay as the children of Israel did,
when they were promised flesh to eat, Can God spread
a table in the wilderness? So I began to say, Can God
himself deliver me from this place? And as it was
not for many years that any hope appeared, this
prevailed very often upon my thoughts: but, how-
ever, the words made a very great impression upon
me, and I mused upon them very often. It grew now
late, and the tobacco had, as I said, dozed my head
so much, that I inclined to sleep; so that I left my
lamp burning in the cave, lest I should want any
thing in the night, and went to bed; but before I
lay down, I did what I never had done in all my
life: I kneeled down and prayed to God to fulfil
the promise to me, that if I called upon him in the
day of trouble, he would deliver me: aft'er my
broken and imperfect prayer was over, I drank the
rum in which I had steeped the tobacco, which was
so
II9
to strong and rank of the tobacco, that indeed I could
scarce get it down. Immediately upon this I went
to bed, and I found presently it flew up into my
head violently; but I fell into a sound sleep, and
waked no more, till by the sun it must necessarily be
near three o'clock in the afternoon the next day ; nay,
to this hour I am partly of the opinion, that I slept
all the next day and night, and till almost three the
day after; for otherwise I knew not how I should
lose a day out of my reckoning in the days of the
week, as it appeared some years after I had done;
for if I had lost it by crossing and re-crossing the
line, I should have lost more than a day; but in
my account it was lost, and I never knew which way.
Be that however one way or other, when I
awaked, I found myself exceedingly refreshed, and
my spirits lively and chearful; when I got up, I
was stronger than I was the day before, and my
stomach better; for I was hungry; and, in short,
I had no fit the next day, but continued much
altered for the better: this was the 29th.
The 30th was my well day of course, and I went
abroad with my gun, but did not care to travel too
far: I killed a sea-fowl or two, something like a
brand goose, and brought them home, but was not
very forward to eat them: so I eat some more of
the turtle's eggs, which were very good: this
evening I renewed the medicine which I had sup-
posed did me good the day before, viz. the tobacco
steeped in rum; only I did not take so much aS
before, nor did I chew any of the leaf, or hold my
head over the smoke; however, I was not so well
the next day, which was the istof jfuly^ as I hoped
I 4 I should
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
I should have been; for I had a little spice of the
cold fit, but it was not much.
July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three
ways, and dozed myself with it at first, and doubled
the quantity which I drank.
July 3. I missed the fit for good and all, though I
did not recover my full strength for some weeks
after. While I was thus gathering strength, my
thoughts ran exceedingly upon this scripture, I will
deliver thee; and the impossibility of my deliverance
lay much upon my mind, in bar of my ever-
expecting it: but as I was discouraging myself with
such thoughts, it occurred to my mind, that I pored
so much upon my deliverence from the main
affliction, that I disregarded the deliverance 1 bad
received; and I was, as it were, made to ask myself
such questions as these; viz. Have I not been delivered,
and wonderfully too, from sickness? from the most
distressed condition that could be, and that was lo
frightful to me? and what notice had I taken of it?
had I done my part? God had delivered me: but /
had not glorified him: that is to fay, I had not owned
and been thankful for that as a deliverance; and how
could I expect greater deliverance?
This touched my heart very much, and imme-
diately I kneeled down, and gave God thanks aloud,
for my recovery from my sickness.
July 4. In the morning I took the bible j and, be-
ginning at the New Testament, I began seriously to
read it, and imposed upon myself to read a-while
every morning and every night, not tying inyself to
the number of chapters, but as long as my thoughts
should engage me: it was not long after I set seriously
to this work, but I found my heart more deeply and
sincerely
121
sincerely affected with the wickedness of my past life;
the impression of my dream revived, and the words,
All'these things have not brought thee to repentance,
ran seriously in my thoughts : I was earnestlybegging
of God to give me repentance, when it happened
providentially the very day, that, reading the scrip-
ture, I came to these words, He is exalted a Prince,
and a Saviour, to give repentance, and to give remission:
I threw down the book, and with my heart as well
as my hand lifted up to heaven, in a kind of exOafyof
joy, I cried out aloud, Jesus, thou/on of David, Jesus 7
thou exalted Prince and Saviour, give me repentance!
This was the first time that I could fay in the true
fense of the words, that I prayed in all my life; for
now I prayed with a fense of my condition, and with
a true scripture view of hope, founded on- the
encouragement of the word of God; and from this
time, I may fay, I began to have hope that God
would hear me.
Now I began to construe the words mentioned
above, Call on me, and I zaill deliver thee, in a
different fense from what I had ever done before \ for
then I had no notion of anv thino; beiner called
deliverance, but my being delivered from the cap-
tivity I was in; for though I was indeed at large in
the place, yet the island was certainly a prison to me,
and that in the worst sense in the world; but now I
learned to take it in another sense. Now I looked
back upon my past life with such horror, and my
sins appeared so dreadful, that my soul sought nothing
of God, but deliverance from the load of guilt that
bore down all my comfort. As for my solitary life,
it was nothing; I did not so much as pray to be deli-
vered
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
vered from it, or think of it; it was all of no
consideration in comparison of this ; and I added
this part here, to hint to whoever shall read it, that
whenever they come to a true fense of things, they
will find deliverance from sin a much greater blessing
than diliverance from affliction.
But, leaving this part, I return to my journal.
My condition began now to be, though not less mi-
serable as to my way of living, yet much easier to my
mind; and my thoughts being directed, by a con-
stant reading the scripture, and praying to God, to
tilings of a higher nature, I had a great deal of
comfort within, which till now I knew nothing of:
also as my health and strength returned, I bestirred
myself to furnish myself with every thing that I wanted,
and make my way of living as regular as I could.
From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly
employed in walking about with my gun in my hand
a little and a little at a time, as a man that was
gathering up his strength after a fit of sickness; for
it is hardly to be imagined how low I was, and to
what weakness I was reduced. The application
which I made use of was perfectly new, and per-
haps what had never cured an ague before; neither
can I recommend it to any one to practise by this
experiment; and though it did carry off the fit, yet
it rather contributed to weaken me; for I had
frequent convulsions in my nerves and limbs for
some time.
I learnt from it also this in particular, that being
abroad in the rainy season was the most pernicious
thing
thing to my health that could be, especially in those
rains which came attended with storms and hurri-
canes of wind; for as the rain which came in a dry
season was always most accompanied with such storms,
so I found this rain was much more dangerous than
the rain which fell in September and October.
I had been now in this unhappy island above tea
months; all possibility of deliverance from this con-
dition seemed to be entirely taken from me \ and I
firmly believed that no human shape had ever set
foot upon that place. Having now secured my
habitation, as I thought, fully to my mind, I had a
great desire to make a more perfect discovery of the
island, and to see what other productions I might
find, which yet I knew nothing of.
It was the 15th of July that I began to take a more
particular survey of the island itself \ I went up the
creek first, where, as I hinted, I brought my rafts on
fliore. I found, after I came about two miles up,
that the tide did not flow any higher, and that it was
no more than a little brook of running water, and
very fresh and good; but this being the dry season,
there was hardly any water in some parts of it, at
least not enough to run into any stream, so as it
could be perceived.
On the bank of this brook I found many pleasant
savanna's or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered
with grass; and on the rising parts of them n^xt to
the higher grounds, where the water, as it might be
supposed, never overflowed, I found a great deal of
tobacco, green, and growing to a great and very
strong stalk: there were divers other plants which I
had no notion of, or understanding about; and
might
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
might perhaps have virtues of their own, which I
could not find out.
I searched for the cassave root, which the Indians
in all that climate make* their bread of, but I could
find none. I saw large plants of aloes, but did not
then understand them: I saw several sugar canes, but
wild, and, for want of cultivation, imperfect. I
contented myself with these discoveries for this time,
and came back musing with myself what course I
might take to know the virtue and goodness of any of
the fruits or plants which I should discover, but could
bring it to no conclusion; for, in short, I had made
so little observation while I was in the Brasih^ that I
knew little of the plants of the field, stt least very
little that might serve me to any purpose now in my
distress.
The next day, the 16th, I went up the fame way
again *, and, after going something farther than I had
done the clay before, I found the brook and the
savanna's began to cease, and the country became
more woody than before. In this part I found
different fruits, and particularly Pfound melons upon
the ground in great abundance, and grapes upon the
trees; the vines had spread indeed o^?er the trees,
and the clusters of grapes were just now in their
prime, very ripe and rich. This was a surprising
discovery, and I was exceeding glad of them, but I
was warned by my experience tq eat sparingly of them,
remembering, then when I was ashore in Barbary,
the eating of grapes killed several of our Englijhmen
who were slaves there, by throwing them into fluxes
and fevers: but I found an excellent use for these
grapes, and that was tp cure ox dry them in the fun,
and
&nd keep them as dried grapes or raisins are kept,
which I thought would be, as indeed they were, as
•Wholesome, and as agreeable to eat, when no grapes
might be had.
I spent all that evening there, and went not back
to my habitation, which by the way was the firit
night, as I might fay, I had lain from home. In the
night I took my first contrivance, and got up into a
tree, where I slept well, and the next morning pro-
ceeded upon my discovery, travelling near four miles,
as I might judge by the length of the valley, keeping
still due north, with a ridge of hills on the south and
north side of me.
At the end of this march I came to an opening,
where the country seemed to descend to the west;
and a little spring of fresh water, which issued out of
the side of the hill by me, ran the other way, that is,
due East ; and the country appeared so frefli, so green,
so flourishing, every thing being in a constant verdure
or flourisli of spring, that it looked like a planted
garden.
I descended a little on the side of that delicious
valley, fur**eying it with a secret kind of pleasure
{though mixed with other afflicting thoughts) to
think that this was all my own, that I was king and
lord of all this country indefeasibly, and had a right
of possession; and if I could convey it, I might have
it in inheritance, as completely as any lord of a
manor in England. I saw here abundance of cocoa-
trees, orange and lemon, and citron-trees, but all
wild, and few bearing any fruit; at least, not then:
however, the green limes that I gathered were not
only pleasant to eat, but very wholesome; and I
mixed
I2D
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
mixed their juice afterwards with water, w7hich mad^
it very wholesome, and very cool and refreshing.
I found now I had business enough to gather and
carry home; and resolved to lay up a store, as well
of grapes as limes and lemons, to furnish myself for
the wet season, which I knew was approaching.
In order to do this I gathered a great heap of
grapes in one place, and a lesser heap in another
place, and a great parcel of limes and lemons in
another place; and taking a few of each with me, I
travelled homeward, and resolved to come again, and
bring a bag or sack, or what I could make, to carry
the rest home.
Accordingly, having spent three days in this
journey, I came home (so I must now call my tent5
and my cave ;) but before I got thither, the grapes
were spoiled; the richness of the fruit, and the
weight of the juice, having broken them, and bruised
them, they were good for little or nothing; as to the
limes, they were good, but I could bring but a few.
The next day, being the 19th, I went back, hav-
ing made me two small bags to bring home my
harvest: But I was surprised, when coming to my
heap of grapes, which were so rich and fine when I
gathered them, I found them all spread abroad, trod
to pieces, and dragged about, some here, some there,
and abundance eaten and devoured: By this I con-
cluded there were some wild creatures thereabouts,
which had done this j but what they were I knew
not.
However, as I found there was no laying them up
on heaps, and no carrying them away in a sack, but
that one way they would be destroyed, and the other
way
way they would be crushed with their own weight, J
took another course; for I gathered a large quantity
of the grapes, and hung them upon the out branches
of the trees, that they might cure and dry in the fun;
and as for the limes and lemons, I carried as many
back as I could well stand under.
When I came home from this journey, I contem-
plated with great pleasure on the fruitfulness of that
valley, and the pleasantness of the situation, the security
from storms on that fide of the water, and the wood;
and concluded that I had pitched upon a place to fix
my abode which was by far the worst part of the
country- Upon the whole, I began to consider of
removing my habitation, and to look out for a place
equally safe as where I now was situated, if possible,
in that pleasant fruitful part of the island.
This thought ran long in my head, and I was
exceeding fond of it for some time, the pleasantness
of the place tempting me; but when i came to a
nearer view of it, and to consider that I was now by
the sea side, where it was at least possible that some-
thing might happen to my advantage, and that the
same ill fate that brought me hither might bring
some other unhappy wretches to the fame place; and
though it was scarce probable that any such thing
fliould ever happen, yet to inclose myself among the
hills and woods, in the centre of the island, was to
anticipate my bondage, and to render such an affair
not only improbable, but impossible; and that there-
fore I ought not by any means to remove.
However, I was so enamoured with this place, that
I spent much of my time there for the whole remain-
ing part of the month of July; and though, upon
second
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
second thoughts I resolved as above, not tc remove*
yet I built me a little kind of a bower, and surrounded
it at a distance with a strong fence, being a double
hedge, as high as I could reach, well staked and
filled between with brushwood; and here I lay very
secure, sometimes two or three nights together,
always going over it with a ladder, as before; so that I
fancied now I had my country house, and my seacoast
house: and this work took me up the beginning of
August.
I had but newly finished my fence, and began to
enjoy my labour, but the rains came on, and made
me stick close to my first habitation; for though I
had made me a tent like the other, with a piece of a
sail, and spread it very well, yet I had not the shelter
of an hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave behind
me to retreat into when the rains were extraordinary.
About the beginning of August, as I said, I had
finished my bower, and began to enjoy myself. The
third of August I found the grapes I had hung up
were perfectly dried, and indeed were excellent good
raisins of the fun; so I began to take them down
from the trees, and it was very happy that I did so;
for the rains which followed would have spoiled them,
and I had lost the best part of my winter food; for I
had above two hundred large bunches of them. No
sooner had I taken them all down, and carried most
of them home to my cave, but it began to rain; and
from thence, which was the fourteenth of August, it
rained more or less every day, till the middle of
October; and sometimes so violently, that I could not
stir out of my cave for several days.
In this season I was much surprised with the increase
of my family: I had been concerned for the loss of
one
129
one oic my cats, who ran away from me, or, as I
thought, had been dead; and I heard no more tale
or tidings of her, till to my astonishment she came
home about the end of Augusts with three kittens*
This was the more strange to me, because though I
had killed a wild cat, as I called it, with my gun,
yet I thought it was a quite different kind from our
European cats; yet the young cats were the fame
kind of house breed like the old one; and both my
cats being females, I thought it very strange: but
from these three cats, I afterwards came to be so
pestered with cats, that I was forced to kill them like
vermin, or wild beasts, and to drive them from my
house as much as possible.
From the fourteenth of August to the twenty-sixth,
incessant rain, so that I could not stir, and was now
very careful not to be much wet. In this confinement
I began to be straightened for food \ but venturing
out twice, I one day killed a goat: and the last day,
which was the twenty-sixth, found a very large
tortoise, which was a treat to me, and my food was
regulated thus: I eat a bunch of raisins for my
breakfast, a piece of the goats flesh, or of the turtle,
for my dinner, broiled (for to my great misfortune I
had no vessel to boil or stew any thing ;) and two or
three of the turtle's eggs for sapper.
During this confinement in my cover by the rain,
I worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my
cave; and, by degrees, worked it on towards one
side, till I came to the outside of the hill, and made
a door or way out, which came beyond my fence or
wall; and so I came in and out this way: but I was
not perfectly easy at laying so open j for as I had
Vol. I, K managed
managed myself before, I was in a perfect inclosure,
whereas now I thought I lay exposed and yet I
could not perceive that there was any living thing
to fear, the biggest creature that I had seen upon the
island being a goat.
September the thirtieth. I was now come to the
unhappy anniversary of my landing: I cast up the
notches on my post, and found I had been on shore
three hundred and sixty-five days. I kept this day
as a solemn fast, setting it apart to a religious exer-
cise, prostrating myself to the ground with the most
serious humiliation, confessing myself to God, ac-
knowledging his righteous judgment upon me, and
praying to him to have mercy on me, through Jesus
Christ; and having not tasted the least refreshment
for twelve hours, even till the going down of the fun?
I then eat a biscuit-cake, and a bunch of grapes, and
went to bed, finishing the day as I began it.
I had all this time observed no sabbath-day; for as
at first I had no fense of religion upon my mind, I
had after some time omitted to distinguish the weeks.,
by making a longer notch than ordinary for the
sabbath-day, and so did not really know what any of
the days were; but now, having cast up the days as
above, I found I had been there a year; so I divided
it into weeks, and set apart every seventh day for a
sabbath; though I found at the end of my account I
had lost a day or two of my reckoning.
A little after this my ink began to fail me, and
so 1 contented myself to use it more sparingly, and to
write down only the most remarkable events of my
life, without continuing a daily memorandum of
other things.
The rainy season, and the dry season, began now
to appear regular to me, and I learned to divide them
so as to provide for them accordingly. But I bought
all my experience before I had it; and this I am
going to relate, was one of the most discouraging
experiments that I made at all. I have mentioned,
that I had saved the few ears of barley and rice which
I had so surprisingly found spring up, as I thought,
of themselves, and believe there were about thirty
stalks of rice, and about twenty of barley; and now
I thought it a proper time to sow it after the rains, the
fun being in its southern position going from me.
Accordingly I dug up a piece of ground, as well
as I could, with my wooden spade, and dividing it
into two parts, I sowed my grain; but as I was sow-
ing, it casually occurred to my thought, that I would
not sow it all at first, because I did not know when
was the proper time for it; so I sowed about two
thirds of the feeds, leaving about an handful of each.
It was a great comfort to me afterwards that I did
so, for not one grain of that I sowed this time came
to any thing; for the dry months following, the earth
having had no rain after the feed was sown, it had
no moisture to assist its growth, and never came up
at all, till the wet season had come again, and then
it grew as if it had been newly sown.
Finding my first feed did not grow, which I easily
imagined was by the drought, I sought for a moister
piece of ground to make another trial in; and I dug
up a piece of ground near my new bower, and sowed
the rest of my seed in February, a little before the
vernal equinox; and this, having the rainy months
of March and April to water it, sprung up very plea-
ts 2 santly
fantly, and yielded a very good crop; but having
part of the seed left only, and not daring to sow all
that I had yet, I had but a small quantity at last, my
whole crop not amounting to above haJf a peck of
each kkid^
But by this experience 1 was made mister of my
business, and knew exactly when the proper season
was to sow; and that I might expect two feed times>
and two harvests, every year..
While this corn was growing, I made a little dis-
covery, which was of use to me afterwards: As soon
as the rains were over, and the weather began to
settle, which was about the month of November, I
made a visit up the country to my bovver, where
though I had not been some months, yet I found all
things just as I left them. The circle or double hedge
that I had made, was not only firm and entire, but
the stakes which I had cut off of some trees that grew
thereabouts, were all shot out^ and grown with long,
branches, as much as a willow tree usually shoots the
first year after lopping its head, I could not tell
what tree to call it that these stakes were cut from.
I was surprised, and yet very well pleased, to see the
young trees grow; and I pruned them, and led them
up to grow as much alike as I could; and it is scarce
credible, how beautiful a figure they grew into ill;
three years; so that though the hedge made a circle
of about twenty-five yards in diameter, yet the trees,,
for such I might now call them, soon covered it ^
and it was a complete ihade-, sufficient to lodge under
all the dry season.
This made me resolve to cut some more stakes,,
and make me an hedge like this in a semicircle round
my
my wall, I mean that of my first dwelling, which I
did; and placing the trees or stakes in a double row,
at above eight yards distance from my first fence; they
grew presently, and were at first a fine cover to my
habitation, and afterwards served for a defence also,
as I shall observe in its order.
I found now, that the seasons of the year might
generally be divided, not into summer and winter, as
in Europe, but into the rainy seasons^ and the dry
seasons., which were generally thus:
Half Februarys _ . . r , .
March I ^am}r> t"e *un ^emg then on? or
Half^ri/J near' theequinox*
Half Aprils.
May,
June, I ^*7' **un being then to the north
July] j 0f the Hne
Half August J
Half Augusts^
September^ V Rain, the fun being then come back.
Half October J
Half Oclobers
November,'
December I ^rY> *"un being then to the south
January, .of the line.
llzli February,^
The rainy season sometimes held longer or shorter,
as the winds happened to blow; but this was the
general observation I made. After I had found, by
experience, the ill consequence of being abroad in
the rain, I took care to furnish myself with provision
beforehand, that I might not be obliged to go out;
K 3 and
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
and I sat within doors as much as possible during the
wet months.
In this time I found much employment (and very
suitable also to the time) for I found great occasion
of many things which I had no way to furnish myself
with, but by hard labour, and constant application;
particularly, I tried many ways to make myself a
basket; but all the twigs I could get for the purpose
proved so brittle, that they would do nothing. It
proved of excellent advantage to me now, that when,
I was a boy, I used to take great delight in standing
at a basket-maker's in the town where my father lived,
to fee them make their wicker ware; and being, as
boys usually are, very officious to help, and a great
observer of the manner how they worked those things,
and sometimes lent an hand, I had by this means so
full knowledge of the methods of it, that I wanted
nothing but the materials; when it came into my
mind, that the twigs of that tree from whence I cut
my stakes that grew, might possibly be as tough as
the sallows and willows, and osiers, in England;
and I resolved to try.
Accordingly the next day I went to my country*
house, as I called it, and cutting some of the smaller
twigs, I found them to my purpose as much as I
could desire; whereupon I came the next time pre-
pared with an hatchet to cut down a quantity, which
I soon found, for there was a great plenty of them:
these I set up to dry within my circle or hedges; and
when they were sit for use, I carried them to my
cave; and here during the next season I employed
myself in making, (as well as I could) a, great many
t>aikets? both to carry earth, c •• to carry or lay up
any
any thing, as I had occasion; and though I did not
finish them very handsomely, yet I made them
sufficiently serviceable for my purpose; and thus
afterwards I took care never to be without them;
and as my wicker-ware decayed I made more; espe-
cially I made strong deep baskets to place my corn
in, instead of fecks, when I should come to have
any quantity of it.
Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a
world of time about it, I bestirred myself to see, if
possible, how to supply two wants. I had no vessels
to hold any thing that was liquid, except two rundlets,
which were almost full of rum, and some glass bottles,
some of the common size, and others which were
casebottles square, for the holding of waters, spirits,
&c. I had not so much as a pot to boil any thing in,
except a great kettle which I saved out of the ship,
and which was too big for such uses as I desired it
far, viz. to make broth, and stew a bit of meat by
kself. The second thing I would fain have had, was
a tobacco pipe, but it was impossible for me to make
one; however, I found a contrivance for that too
at last.
I employed myself in planting my second rows of
stakes of piles, and in this wicker work, all the
summer, or dry season; when another business took
me up more time than it could be imagined I could
spare.
I mentioned before, that I had a great mind to see
the whole island, and that I had travelled up the brook,
and so on to where I built my bower, and where I
had an opening quite to the sea, on the other side of
the island. I now resolved to travel quite across to
K 4 the
ADVENTURES
AND
the sea shore on that side: So taking my gun, and
hatchet, and my dog, and a larger quantity of powder
and shot than usual, with two biscuit-cakes, and a
great bunch of raisins in my pouch, for my store, I
began my journey. When I had passed the vale
where my bower stood, as above, I came within
view of the sea, to the west; and it being a very clear
day, I fairly descried land, whether an island or con-
tinent I could not-tell; but it lay very high, extend-
ing from the west, to the W. S. W. at a very great
distance; by my guess it could not be less than fifteen,
or twenty leagues off.
I could not tell what part of the world this might
be, otherwise than that I knew it must be part of
America; and, as I concluded by all my observations^
must be near the Spanish dominions, and perhaps
was all inhabited by savages, where if I should
have landed, I had been in a worse condition than I
was now; and therefore I acquiesced in the disposi-
tions of Providence, which I began now to own, and
to believe, ordered every thing for the best; I fay,
I quieted my mind with this, and left afflicting my-
self with fruitless wishes of being there,
Besides, after some pause upon this affair, I con-
sidered, that if this land was the Spanifo coast, I
should certainly, onetime or other, see some vessels
pass or repass one way or other; but if not, then it
was the savage coast betwen the Spanish country and
Brasd, which were indeed the worst of savages; for
they are canibals, or men-eaters, and fail not to
murder and devour all the human bodies that fall
into their hands.
With
With these considerations I walked very leisurely-
forward. I found that side of the island where I now
was, much pleasanter than mine, the open or savanna
fields sweet, adorned with flowers and grafs, and
full of very fine woods. I saw abundance of parrots,
and fain would I have caught one, if possible, to
have kept it to be tame, and taught it to speak to
me. I did, after some pains taking, catch a young
parrot; for I knocked it down v/ith a sticks and
having recovered it, I brought it home, but it was
some years before I could make him speak. However,
at last I taught him to call me' by my name very
familiarly: but the accident that followed, though
it be a trifle, will be very diverting in its place.
I was exceedingly diverted with this journey: I
found in the low grounds, hares, as I thought them
to be, and foxes, but they differed greatly from all
the other kinds I had met with; nor could I satisfy
myself to eat them, though I killed several: but I
had no need to be venturous; for I had no want of
food, and of that which was very good too; espe-
cially these three sorts, viz. goats, pigeons, and
turtle or tortoise; which, added to my grapes,
Lcadenhall market could not have furnished a better
table than I, in proportion to the company: and
though my cafe was deplorable enough, yet I had
great cause for thankfulness, that I was not driven
to any extremities for food; but rather plenty, even
to dainties.
I never travelled in this journey above two miles
outright in a day, or thereabouts; but I took so
many turns and returns, to fee what discoveries I could
make, that I came weary enough to the place where
I resolved
I resolved to sit down for all night; and then either
reposed myself in a tree, or surrounded myself with
a row of stakes let upright in the ground;, either from
one tree to another, or so as no wild creature could
come at me without waking me.
As soon as I came to the fea-sliore, I was surprised
to see that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of
the island; for here indeed the shore was covered
with innumerable turtles, whereas on the other fide
I had found but three in a year and an half. Here
was also an infinite number of fowls of many kinds,
some of which I had not seen before, and many of
them very good meat; but such as I knew not the
names of, except those called penguins.
I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was
very sparing of my powder and shot: and therefore
had more mind to kill a she-goat, if I could, which
I could better feed on: and though there were many
goats here more than on the other side of the island,
yet it was with much more difficulty that I could come
near them: the country being flat and even, and
they saw me much sooner than when I was on the
hills.
I confess this side of the country was much plea-
santer than mine, but yet I had not the least inclina-
tion to remove; for as I was fixed in my habitation,
it became natural to me, and I seemed all the while
I was here to be, as It were, upon a journey, and
from home: however, I travelled along the sliore of
the sea towards the east, 1 suppose, about twelve
miles; and then setting up a great pole upon the
sliore for a mark, I concluded I would go home
again; imd the next journey 1 took should be on
the other side of the island, east from my dwelling,
and so round, till I came to my post again: of which
in its place.
I took another way to come back than that I went,
thinking I could easily keep all the island so much
in my view, that I could not miss finding my first
dwelling by viewing the country; but I found myself
mistaken; for being come about two or three miles,
I found myself descended into a very large valley;
but so surrounded with hills, and those hills covered
with woods, that I could not fee which was my way
by any direction but that of the fun 3 nor even then,
unless I knew very well the position of the fun at that
time of the day.
It happened, to my farther misfortune, that the
weather proved hazy for three or four days, while I
was in this valley; and not being able to fee the fun,
I wandered about very uncomfortably, and at last
was obliged to find out the sea-side, look for my post,
and come back the same way I went; and then by
easy journies I turned homeward, the weather being
exceeding hot; and my gun, ammunition, hatchet,
and other things, very heavy.
In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and
seized upon it; and I running in to take hold of it,
caught it, and saved it alive from the dog: I had a
great mind to bring it home, if I could $ for I had
often been musing whether it might not be possible
to get a kid or two, and so raise a breed of tame
goats, which might supply me when my powder and
fliot should be spent.
I made a collar for this little creature, and with a
firing which I made of some rope yarn, which I
always
always carried about me, I led him along, though
with some difficulty, till I came to my bower, and
there I enclosed him, and left him; for I was very
impatient to be at home, from whence I had been
absent above a month.
I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me
to come into my old hutch, and lie down in my
hammock-bed: this little wandering journey, without
a settled place of abode, had been so unpleasant to
me, that my own house, as I called it to myself,
was a perfect settlement to me, compared to that;
and it rendered every thing about me so comfortable,
that I resolved I would never go a great way from
it again, while it should be my lot to stay on the
island.
I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale
myself after my long journey; during which, most
of the time was taken up in the weighty affair of
making a cage for my poll, who began now to be a
mere domestic, and to be mighty well acquainted
-with me. Then I began to think of the poor kid,
which I had pent in within my little circle, and
resolved to go and fetch it home, and give it some
food; accordingly I went, and found it where I left
it; for indeed it could not get out, but was almost
starved for want of food; I went and cut boughs of
trees and branches of such shrubs as I could find,
and threw it over, and having fed it, I tied it as I
did before, to lead it away; but it was so tame with
being hungry, that I had no need to have tied it;
for it followed me like a dog; and as I continually-
fed it, the creature became so loving, so gentle,
and so fond, that it became from that time one
of mv domestics also, and would never leave me
afterwards.
The rainy - season of the Autumnal Equinox was
now come, and I kept the 30th of September in the
fame solemn manner as before, being the anniversary
of my landing on the island, having now been there
two years, and no more prospect of being delivered,
than the first day I came there. I spent the whole
day in humble and thankful acknowledgments of the
many wonderful mercies which my solitary condition
was attended with, and without which it might h ave
been infinitely more miserable. I gave humble and
hearty thanks, that God had been pleased to discover
to me even that it was possible I might be more
happy in this solitary condition than I should have
been in a liberty of society, and in all the pleasures
of the world: that he could fully make up to me the
deficiencies of my solitary state, and the want of
human society, by his presence, and the communi-
cation of his grace to my foul, supporting, com-
forting, and encouraging me to depend upon his
providence here, and hope for his eternal presence
hereafter.
It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much
more happy the life I now led was, with ail its
miserable circumstances, than the wicked, cursed,
abominable life I led all the past pait of my davs;
and now, having changed both my sorrows and my
•joys, my very desires altered, my affections changed
their gust, and my delights were perfectly new from
what they were at first coming, or indeed for the
two vears past.
But
Before as I walked about/ either on my huntings
or for viewing the country, the anguish of my foil!
at my condition would break out upon me on a
sudden, and my very heart would die within me, to
think of the woods, the mountains, the defarts I was
in; and how I was a prisoner, locked up with the
eternal bars and bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited
wilderness, without redemption. In the midst of
the greatest composures of my mind, this would
break out upon me like a storm, and made me wring
my hands, and weep like a child. Sometimes it
would take me in the middle of my work, and I
would immediately sit down and sigh, and look
upon the ground for an hour or two together, and
this was still worse to me; for if I could burst out
into tears, or vent myself by words, it would go
off, and the grief, having exhausted itself, would
abate.
But now I began to exercise myself with new
thoughts ; I daily read the word of God, and applied
all the comforts of it to my present state. One
morning, being very sad, I opened the bible upon
these words, / will never, never leave thee, not
forsake thee! Immediately it occurred, that these
words were to me , why else should they be directed
in such a manner, just at the moment when I was
mourning, over my condition, as one forsaken of
God and man? \yell then, said I, if God does not
forsake'me, of whtit ill consequence can it be, or
what matters it, though the world should all forsake
me; seeing, on the other hand, if I had all the
world, and sliould lose the favour and blessing of
God, there would be no comparison in the loss?
From
From this moment I began to conclude in my
mind, that it was possible for me to be more happy
in this forsaken, solitary condition, than it was
probable I should have ever been in any other par-
ticular state in the world; and with this thought I
was going to give thanks to God for bringing me to
this place.
I know not what it was, but something shocked
my mind at that thought, and I durst not speak the
words: how canst thou be such an hypocrite (said I,
even audibly), to pretend to be thankful for a con-
dition, which, however thou mayst endeavour to be
contented with, thou wouldst rather pray heartily to
be delivered from? So I stopped there; but though
1 could not say I thanked God for being there, yet.
I sincerely gave thanks to God for opening my eyes
by whatever afflicting providences, to fee the former
condition of my life, and to mourn for my wickedness,
and repent. I never opened the bible, or shut it,
but my very foul within me blessed God for directing
my friend in England^ without any order of mine,
to pack it up among my goods; and for assisting
me afterwards to save it out of the wreck of
the ship-
Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began
my third year; and though I have not given the
reader the trouble of so particular an account of my
works this year as at the first, yet in general it may
be observed, that I was very seldom idle; having
regularly divided my time, according to the several
daily employments that were before me; such as,
first, my duty to God, and reading the scriptures,
which I constantly set apart some time for, thrice
every
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
every day. Secondly, the going abroad with my
gun for food, which generally took me up three
hours every morning when it did not rain*
Thirdly, the ordering, curing, preserving, and
cooking what I had killed or catched for my
supply; these took up great part of the day: also it
is to be considered, that in the middle of the day,
when the sun was in the zenith, the violence of the
heat was too great to stir out; so that about four
hours in the evening was all the time I could be
supposed to work in; with this exception, that
sometimes I changed my hours of hunting and
working, and went to work in the morning, and
abroad with my gun in the afternoon.
To this short time allowed for labour, I desire
may be added the exceeding laboriousness of my
work; the many hours, which for want of tools,
want of help, and want of skill, every thing that I
did took up, out of my time: for example, I was
full two-and-forty days making me a board for a
long shelf, which I wanted in my cave; whereas two
sawyers, with their tools and saw-pit, would have cut
fix of them out of the fame tree in half a day.
My cafe was this: It was to be a large tree which
was to be ctit down, because my board was to be a
broad one. The tree I was three days a cutting
down, and two more cutting off the boughs, and
reducing it to a log, or piece of timber. With
inexpressible hacking and hewing I reduced both the
sides of it into chips, till it began to be light enough
to move; then I turned it, and made one fide of it
smooth and flat, as a board, from end to end: then
turning that side downward, cut the other side till I
brought
Drought the plank to be about three inches thick,
mid smooth on both sides. Any one may judge the
labour of my hands in such a piece of work; but
labour and patience carried me through that and
many other things; I only observe this in particular*
to shew the reason why so much of my time went
away with so little work, viz. That what might be a
little to be done with help and tools, was a vast
labour, and required a prodigious time to do alone,
and by hand.
But notwithstanding this, with patience and
labour, I went through many things, and indeed
every thing that my circumstances made necessary for
me to do, as will appear by what follows.
I was now in the months of November and Dec em-
her, expecting my crop of barley and rice. The
ground I had manured or dug up for them was not
great j for, as I observed, my seed of each was not
above the quantity of half a peck; for I had lost one
whole crop by sowing in the dry season; but now
my crop promised very well, when on a sudden I
found I was in danger of losing it all again by
enemies of several sorts, which it was scarce possible
to keep from it; as first, the goats, and wild
creatures which I called hares, which, tasting the
sweetness of the blade, lay in it night and day, as
soon as it came up, and eat it so close, that it could
get no time to shoot up into stalks.
This I saw no remedy for, but by making an
inclosure about it with a hedge, which I did with a,
great deal of toil; and the more, because it required
a great deal of speed; the creatures daily spoiling
my corn. However, ?s my arable land was but
Vol. I L small,
small, suited to my crop, I got it totally well fenced
in about three weeks time, and shooting some of the
creatures in the day-time, I set my dog to guard it in
the night, tying him up to a stake at the gate, where
he would stand and bark all night long; so in a
little time the enemies forsook the place, and the
corn grew very strong and well, and began to ripen,
apace.
But as the beasts ruined me before, while my corn
was in the blade, so the. birds were as likely to ruin
me now, when it was in the ear; for going along
by the place to fee how it throve, I saw my little
crop surrounded with fowls of I know not how many
forts, which stood as it were watching till I fnould be
gone. I immediately let fly among them (for I
always had my gun with me.). I had no sooner
shot, but there arose up a little cloud of fowls,
which I had not seen at all, from among the corn
itself.
This touched me sensibly; for I foresaw, that in
a few days they would devour all my hopes: that I
should be starved, and never be able to raise a crop
at all; and what to do I could not tell: however, I
resolved not to lose my corn, if possible, though I
should watch it night and day. In the first place,
I went among it to see what damage was already done,
and found they had spoiled a good deal of it; but
that, as it was yet too green for them, the loss was
not lo great, but the remainder was like to be a good
crop, if it could be saved.
I staid by it to load my gun, and then coming
away, I could easily see the thieves sitting upon all
the trees about me, as if they only waited till I was
gone
gone away, and the event proved it to be so; for as
I walked off as if I was gone, I was no sooner out
of their sight, but they dropped down one by one
into the corn again. I was so provoked, that I
could not have patience to stay till more came on,
knowing that every grain that they eat now was, as
it might be said, a peck loaf to me in the conse-
quence; but coming up to the hedge, I fired again,
and killed three of them. This was what I wished
for; so I took them up, and served them as we serve
notorious thieves in England, viz. hanged them in
chains for a tenor to others. It is impossible to
imagine almost, that this fliould have such an
effect as it had; for the fowls would not only not
come at the corn, but in short they forsook all that
part of the island, and I could never see a bird near
the place as long as my scarecrows hung there.
This I was very glad of, you may be sure; and
about the latter end of December^ which was our
second harvest of the year, I reaped my com.
I was sadly put to it for a scythe or a sickle to cut
it down, and all I could do was to make one as well
as I could out of one of the broad swords, or cutlasses,
which I saved among the arms out of the ship. How-
ever, as my crop was but small, I had no great
difficulty to cut it down: in snort, I reaped it my
way, lor I cut nothing off but the ears, and carried
it away in a great basket which I had made, and so
rubbed it out with my hands: and at the end of
all my harvesting I found, that out of my hali-
peck of feed, I had near two bushels of rice,
and above two bushels and a half of barley, that
s'j >Tq.T >^\qv anv Mil gti
vjlinoip
vuc i jouumu uopoQAi v, xxx }nq ^joav Am pip sau
3nq  oiopq poAjoyqo j si: 'op^dj uopooAA v, Vjuppui
Aq pajonbuoo j sup cipA\ *3J Sip 03 pAoqj jo
oprdj on cipji?o oip iLin.) o} qSnofd ou pi:q j cJ]~n>|
•oyudjrq
v: 03 poopin puu 'Afpo^oodxoun da ouujo cpirj pat>i[
I su ciprqAV cujoo pooj to jnjpmiq ~i;iy oip 30S j loyii
itoao c.moq Ajoao 31 jo 0|qquoj oiom puB oiom opi-iu
sea\ pm> ^usuidS'cjiiodjip Aprep Am oq 03 spp punas
t:o.iini:u jo oreij ojom e 03 poonpoj sea\ 3-ip £j
•p-eojq jo oppiE ouo sup.
£SuTT[fiiiTj pin> \8unpaui £3uiyojp c3uijno c3upnpojxI
Æ'ourpTAo.id oip ui A.œipoou sSuup op3ij jo opri}ppuu
3-uUImjt oip *zia f uodn qoniu iqSnoq4 OAt?q ojdood aaoj
OAorpq j 3hija\ puB '{rijiopuoAi op:nj n st r( 'p^ojq
im .ioj pojf.ioAv avou j 3Eip cprej Ajtlu oq iqinui :q
*pi30iq puE ujoj ipiAv fpjAtu SiiipiAOjd jo
^I-iOAvrL:oiS sup qjqdmoooi: 03 SuppiOAY jo smoq dub
Ann^ Xlu rp Ac|dmo 03 omp ueom ou3 ut pun cuoji30j
.jxoii oip yupSe pooj joj \\v 41 OAiojoid 03 3nq cdou.o
SUp TO AllU 34jt;3 03 30U pOAJOJOJ J 'Ajddilj nU34jU03
13 o.nior)] 03 prœ 'ojcqj joj Ajpirenb pooS v, SuiAxq 30
9Jyop Am ca poppn Supq sSunp opqj^ a}i o^pq ca
A\oq 3011 Auoinj j 39 A c.]i oxpra 03 A\oq ji pun i 11 jo
pEOiq o:piu 03 A\oq ^v.oui 03m oprax ji cjou i 41 3Jt>d
put? c:;i in^op 03 Moq poopui jo 4ujoo Am jo jeoiu
Q-yxzm jo piruS 03 Avoq aiou^i joippu j joj cain5u
poxopliod s^av j o.ioq 40A piu:: puoiq qiiAV 3in Xiddnj
03 aoQ ojnopl pfuoAv 41 omp ui lEip cAu?pjoi j pue
t oiu o} 3uomo3i3.inoouo ^oaS \i sum siip c.ioaoavuj..j
•SlTip
;»e oinj^oiu on p-cq j ioj cspnS Am Aq cArj 03 51
I49
though it cost me a great many days to make it, yet
for want of iron, it not only wore out the sooner,
but made my work the harder, and made it be
performed much worse.
However, this I bore with too, and was content to
work it out with patience, and bear with the badness
of the performance. When the corn was sowed, I
had no harrow, but was forced to go over it myself,
and drag a great heavy bough of a tree over it, to
scratch the earth, as it may be called, rather than
rake or harrow it.
When it was growing or grown, I have observed
already how many things I wanted, to fence it,
secure it, mow or reap it, cure or carry it home,
thresh, part it from the chafF, and save it. Then I
wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast
and salt to make it into bread, and an oven to bake
it in; and all these things I did without, as shall be
observed; and yet the corn was an inestimable
comfort and advantage to me too; but all this, as
I said, made every thing laborious and tedious to
me, but that there was no help for; neither was my
time so much loss to me, because I had divided it;
a certain part of it was every day appointed to these
works; and as I resolved to use none of the corn
for bread till I had a greater quantity by me, I had
the next six months to apply myself wholly by labour
and invention, to furnish myself with utensils
proper for the performing all the operations necessary
for the making the corn, when I had it, fit for
my use.
But first I was to prepare more land, for I had
now feed enough to sow above aa acre of ground.
L 3 Before
Before I did this, I had a week's work at least to
make me a spade, which, when it was done, was a
very sorry one indeed, and very heavy, and required
double labour to work with it; however, I went
through that, and sowed my feeds in two large flat
pieces of ground, as near my house as I could find
them to my mind, and fenced them in with a good
hedge, the stakes of which were all cut off that wood
which I had set before, which I knew would grow,
io that in one vear's time I knew I should have a
quick or living hedge, that would want but little
repair. This work was not so little as to take me
up less than three months; because great part of
that time was in the wet season, when I could not eo
abroad.
Within-door, that is, when it rained, and I could
not go out, I found employment on the following
occasion, always observing, that all the while I was
at work, I diverted myself with talking to my
parrot, and teaching him to speak; and I quickly
learnt him to know his own name ; at last, to speak
it out pretty loud, pol; which was the. first word
I ever heard spoken in the island by any mouth but
my own. This therefore was not my work, but an
assistant to my work; for now, as I said, I had a
great employment upon my hands, as follows: viz.
I had long studied, by some means or other, to make
myself some earthen vessels, which indeed I wanted
sorely, but knew not where to come at them: how-
ever, considering the heat of the climate, I did not
doubt but, if I could find out any such clay, I
might botch up some such pot, as might, being
dried by the fun, be hard enough, and strong
enough,
enough, to bear handling, and to hold any thing
that was dry, and required to be kept so; and as
this was necessary in preparing corn, meal, &c.
which was the thing I was upon, I resolved to
make some as large as I could, and fit only to stand
like jarrs to hold what should be put into them.
I would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh
at me, to tell how many aukward ways I took to
raise this paste, what odd mis-shapen ugly things I
made, how many of them fell in, and how many
fell out, the clay not being stiff enough to bear its
own weight; how many cracked by the over-violent
heat of the fun, being set out too hastily; and how
many fell to pieces with only removing, as well
before as after they were dried; and, in a word,
how, after having laboured hard to find the clay5
to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home, and work
it, I could not make above two large earthen ugly
things, I cannot call them jarrs, in about two months
labour.
However, as the fun baked these two very dry and
hard, I lifted them very gently up, and set them
down again in two great wicker-baskets, which I
had made on purpose for them, that they might not
break; and, as between the pot and the basket there
was a little room to spare, I stuffed it full of the
rice and barley straw; and these two pots being
to stand always dry, I thought would hold my dry
corn, and perhaps the meal when the corn was
bruised.
Though I miscarried so much in my design for
large pots, yet I made several smaller things with
better success j such as little round pots, flat dishes,
L 4 pitchers,
pitchers, and pipkins, and any thing my hand
turned to; and the heat of the fun baked them
strangely hard.
But all this would not answer my end, which was
to get an earthen pot to hold what was liquid, and
bear the fire, which none of these could do. It
happened after some time, making a pretty large
fire for cooking my meat, when I went to put it out,
after I had done with it, I found a broken piece of
one of my earthen ware vessels in the sire, burnt as
hard as a stone, and red as a tile. I was agreeably
surprised to see it, and said to myself, that certainly
they might be made to burn whole, if they would
burn broken.
This set me to study how to order my sire, so as to
make it burn me some pots. I had no notion of a
kiln, such as the potters'burn in, or of glazing them
with lead, though I had some lead to do it with ; but
I placed three large pipkins, and two or three pots^
in a pile one upon another, and placed my fire-wood
all round it with a great heap of embers under
them: I plied the fire with fresh fuel round the
outside, and upon the top, till I saw the pots in the
inside red hot quite through, and observed that they
did not crack at all: when I saw them clear red, I
let them stand in that heat about five or six hours,
till I found one of them, though it did not crack,
did melt or run; for the land which was mixed
with the clay melted by the violence of the heat,
and would have run into glass, if I had gone on;
so x slacked my sire gradually, till the pots began to
abate of the red colour; and watching them all
nisrht, that I mird.it not let the fire abate too fast, in
the
the morning I had three yery good, I will not say
handsome pipkins, and two other earthen pots,
as hard burnt as could be desired; and one of
them perfectly glazed with the running of the
sand.
After this experiment I need not fay that I wanted
no fort of earthen-ware for my use; but I must needs
fay, as to the shapes of them, they were very in-
different, as any one may suppose, when I had no
way of making them, but as the children make dirt-
pies, or as a woman would make pies that never
learnt to raise paste.
No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever
equal to mine, when I found ! had made an earthen
pot that would bear the fire; and I had hardly
patience to stay till they were cold, before I set one
upon the fire again, with some water in it, to boil
me some meat, which I did admirably well; and
with a piece of a kid I made some very good
broth, though I wanted oatmeal, and several other
ingredients requisite to make it so good as I would
have had it.
My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to
stamp or beat some corn in; for as to the mill, there
was no thought of arriving to that perfection of art
with one pair of hands. To supply this want, I'was
at a great loss ; for of all trades in the world I was
as perfectly unqualified for a stone-cutter, as for any
whatever; neither had I any tools to go about it
with. , I spent many a day to find out a great stone
big enough to cut hollow, and make fit for a mortar,
and could find none at all, except what was in the
solid rock, and which I had no way to dig or cut out;
nor
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
nor indeed were the rocks in the island of hardness
sufficient, but were all of a sandy crumbling stone9
which would neither bear the weight of an heavy
pestle, nor would break the corn without filling it
with sand; so, after a great deal of time lost in
searching for a stone, I gave it over, and resolved to
look out a great block of hard wood, which I found
indeed much easier; and getting one as big as I had
strength to stir, I rounded it, and formed it on the
outside with my axe and hatchet; and then with the
help of fire and infinite labour-, made an hollow
place in it, as the Indians in Brasil make their
canoes. After this, I made a great heavy pestle or
beater, of the wood called the iron-wood, and this I
prepared and laid by against I had my next crop of
corn, when I proposed to myself to grind, or rather
pound, my corn or meal to make my bread.
My next difficulty was to make a sieve or fierce, to
dress my meal, and part it from the bran and the husk?
without which I did not fee it possible I could have
any bread. This was a most difficult thing, so much
as but to think on; for to be sure I had nothing like
the necessary things to make it with; I mean fine
thin canvass, or stuff, to fierce the meal through.
And here I was at a full stop for many months; nor
did I really know what to do; linen Ihadnoneieft but
what was mere rags; I had goat's hair, but neither
knew I how to weave or spin it; and had I known
how, here were no tools to work it with; all the
remedy that I found for this, was, that at last I did
remember I had among the seamen's clothes which
were saved out of the ship, some neckcloths of callico
or muslin j and with some pieces of these I made
three
three small sieves, but proper enough for the work;
and thus I made shift for some years; how I did
afterwards, I shall shew in its place.
The baking part was thenext thing to be considered,
and how I should make bread when I came to have
corn; for, first, I had no yeast: as to that part,
there was no supplying the want, so I did not con-
cern myself much about it. But for an oven, I was
indeed in great pain. At length I found out an
experiment 'for that also, which was this; I made
some earthen vessels very broad, but not deep; that
is to fay, about two feet diameter, and not above
nine inches deep; these I burnt in the fire, as I had
done the other, and laid them by; and when I wanted
to bake, I made a great fire upon the hearth, which
I had paved with some square tiles of my own making
and burning also; but I should not call them square.
When the sire-wood was burnt pretty much into
embers, or live coals, I drew them forward upon
this hearth, so as to cover it all over; and there I let
them lie, till the hearth was very hot; then sweeping
away all the embers, I set down my loaf, or
loaves; and whelming down the earthen pot upon
them, drew the embers all round the outside of the
pot, to keep in, and add to the heat; and thus, as
well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my
barley-loaves, and became in a little time a mere
pastry-cook into the bargain; for I made myself
several cakes of the rice, and puddings; indeed I
made no pies, neither had I any thing to put into
them, supposing I had, except the tlefh either of
fowls or goats.
It
•odv.^p 10 sui^uidiuoj pay prq sdiupDd
piTC cJ3ipJTq TpfAUI AdAUOD O} J3q}0 JO ATA\ 3UIOJ
puij jqSiur j cAs]uaoo psjiqnqui ia> pan cpiiE[ ureui
Dip SapDf juqj Surbmj c3J3ip DJOiy ho s\jav j
l{} 'SDqjIAY }DJLDDJ ]llOippA }0U SHAY J plTC t ptXU[[I
Dip jo s»prj joq-io Dip uroij uddj pnq j ippqAY pinq jo
ppdjojd Dip uodn ssiuq Xuviu uvu sjq^noq} aui djttj
sq I^tu noi ^Siiiop djday sSaitp ojsq.} 3{iqA\ Dtp qy
•3:0 'p^Djq
ipu\ out spTAO.id Aqnj ppioAV Aipuvnb 12 ipnj mp
SDaoq in cpiq Dip p3A\oj ]' }im} jvsA Ajdad A}pirrab
9liresin ajns a\o; o} p3A|opj j Oj ivzA v in Diunj
-hod pproD j uvip djoui ipnm sjsay ddtj pire Aopreq
jo spqpiq A} joj Dip i^q} piuioj j c3joqAY sq} uod_Q
UU3A E 33110 }Iiq A\OJ O} IDVæ cTCdA 3[0qAl £ 31U J0J
}UDpfynj Dq ppioAv Aqraimb }13uay 33s o} p3A[oj3J \ qqB
f 3prsAV }u3J.y 13 duoS 3}inb uDDq pvq pi33jq AlU JOJ
*.\p3ij}i 3jii o} urVbq 0} pDAjopi ayou j }nq} ipmnojiu
- DJOUI JO cUpni!I SE 33XJ 3q} 10 piIE 'spiTJRq i(}U3A\}
yaotpe .(ojjnq Dip 10 pvq j }iup cu3nm oj Din p3ppp(
A\OU UJ03 3q} JO DJEDJDUI 3l[} JOJ' UI QU }I Av\ O} DDEld
^ p3}ui3Av j :jsSSiq sirreq Am pjniq o} dduibay Ap^Di
I \5aqu3j3in ujod jo "po:y Am psDpui mou puy
•qqAV }i qpjqi
o} }U3iimj3j-ai jo cuo }i qpjq} 03 Joog on pirq t jcj
t }no }i qnj o} Diup pvq j pp cs}3qjvq sSjiq Am ut 4j\33
3ip in dn }i prq pire cppio3 j ipAV 3iuoq p3pi..no
piP3 cuoji!3j sq in ujod Am p3d\33J j joj :sSmreux
o} Ajpui;qjnq pire ppAjvq avdu Awl pvq j csSupp
3j3ip. jo s[UAJ3}in 3q} in }irq} cp3AJ3jqo 3q 0} si }pJOj
» 3.,3q 3poqu Aux 10 jxsA pJiip Dip jo }ji3cl prom dn 3iu
^[00} sSiqq} 3j3q} \\V jl C}B p3J3pU0A\ 3q }0U paau }j
But all this while I made no allowance for the
dangers of such a condition, and how I might fall
into the hands of savages, and perhaps such as I
mieht have reason to think far worse than the lions
o
and tygers of Africa: that if I once came into their
power, I should run an hazard more than a thousand
to one of being killed, and perhaps of being eaten;
for I had heard that the people of the Caribcan coasts
were canibals, or men-eaters; and I knew by the
latitude that I could not be far off from that shore:
that, suppose they were not canibals, yet they might
kill me, as many Europeans who had fallen into their
hands had been served, even w7hen they had been ten
or twenty together; much more I that was but one,
and could make little or no defence. All these things.,
I fay, wmch I ought to have considered well of, and
I did cast up in my thoughts afterwards, yet took
none of my apprehensions at first; and my head
ran mightily upon the thoughts of getting over to
that shore.
Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat,
writh the shoulder of mutton sail, with which I failed
above a thousand miles on the coast of Africa; but
this was in vain. Then I thought I would go and
look on our ship's boat, which, as I have said, was
blown up upon the shore a great way in the storm,
when we were first cast away. She lay almost where
slie did at first, but not quite; and was turned by the
force of the waves and the winds, almost bottom
upwards, against the high ridge of a beachy rough
sand, but no water about her as before.
If J had had hands to have refitted her, and have
launched her into the water, the boat would have
done
done well enoueh, and I miuht have crone back into*
the Brasils with her easy enough; but I might have
easily foreseen, that I could no more turn her, and
set her upright upon her bottom, than I could remove
the island. However I went to the wood, and cut
leavers and rollers, and brought them to the boat,
resolving to try what I could do; suggesting to my-
self, that if 1 could but turn her down, 1 might
easily repair the damage she had received, and she
would be a very good boat, and I might go to sea in
her very easily.
I spared no pains indeed in this piece of fruitless toil,
and spent, I think, three or four weeks about it; at
last finding it impossible to heave it up with my little
strength, I fell to digging away the sand to under-
mine it; and so to make it fall down, setting pieces
of wood to thrust and guide it right m die fall.
But when I had done this, I was unable to stir it
up again, or to get under it, much less to move it
forwards towards the water; so I was forced to give
it over: and yet, though I gave over the hopes of
the boat, my desire to venture over for the main
increased, rather than decreased, as the means for it
seemed impossible.
This at length set me upon thinking whether it was
not possible to make myself a canoe or periagua, such
as the natives of those climates make, even without
tools, or, as I might fay, without hands, viz. of the
trunk of a great tree. This I not only thought
possible, but easy; and pleased myself extremely with
my thoughts of making it, and with my having"
much more convenience for it than any of the negroes
ur Indians j but not at all considering the particular
inconveniencies
inconveniencies which I lay under more than the
Indians did, viz. want of hands to move it into the
water, when it was made; a difficulty much harder
for me to surmount than all the consequences of want
of tools could be to them: for what was it to me,
that when I had chosen a vast tree in the woods, 1
might with great trouble cut it down, if after I might
be able with my tools to hew and dub the out-
side into-a proper shape of a boat, and burn or cut
out the inside to make it hollow, so to make a boat
of it, if, after all this, I must leave it just there where
I found it, and was not able to launch it into the
water?
One would have thought, I could not have had
the least reflection upon my mind of my circumstance^
while I was making this boat, but I should have
immediately thought how I ihould get it into the sea;
but my thoughts were so intent upon my voyage
over the sea in it, that I never once considered how
I should get it off the land; and it was really in its
own nature more easy for me to guide it over forty-
five miles of sea, than about forty-five fathom of
land, where it lay, to set it afloat in the water.
I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool
that ever man did, who had any of his fenses awake,
I pleased myself with the design, without determining
whether I was ever able to undertake it; not but that
the difficulty of launching my boat came often into
my head; but I put a stop to my own inquiries into
it by this foolish answer, which I gave myself; let
me first make it, FU warrant I'll find some way or
other to get it along, when.it is done*
This
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
This was a most preposterous method j but the
eagerness of my fancy prevailed, and to work I went,
and ielled a cedar-tree: I question much whether
Solomon ever had such an one for the building the
temple at Jerusalem; it was five feet ten inches dia-
meter at the lower part next the stump, and four feet
eleven inches diameter at the end of twenty-two feet,
after which it lessened for a while, and then parted
into branches: It was not without infinite labour
that I felled this tree: I was twenty days hacking
and hewing at it at the bottom ; I was fourteen more
getting the branches and limbs, and the vast spread-
ing head of it cut off, which I hacked and hewed
through with my axe and hatchet, with inexpressible
labour: after this it cost me a month to shape it5
and dub it to a proportion, and to something like the
bottom of a boat, that it might swim upright as it
ought to do. It cost me near three months more to
clear the inside, and work it out so as to make an
exact boat of it: this I did indeed without fire, by
mere mallet and chissel, and by the dint of hard
labour; till I had brought it to be a very handsome
periagua, and big enough to have carried six and
twenty men, and consequently big enough to have
carried me and all my cargo.
When I had gone through this work, I was
extremely delighted with it: the boat was really
much bigger than I ever saw a canoe or periagua^
that was made of one tree, in my life; many a weary-
stroke it had cost, you may be sure, for there
remained nothing but to get it into the water; and
had I gotten it into the water, I make no question
but I should have begun the inadest voyage, and the
most
SsRost unlikely to be performed, that ever was under-
taken*
But all my devices to get it into the water failed
me, though they cost infinite labour too; it lay
about one hundred yards from the water, and not
more; but the first inconvenience was, it was up
hill towards the creek: Well, to take away this dis-
couragement, I resolved to dig into the surface of the
earth, and so make a declivity; this I began, and it
cost me a prodigious deal of pains: but who grudge
pains, that have their deliverance in view? but
when this was worked through, and this difficulty
managed, it was still much at one; for I could no
more stir the canoe, than I could the other boat.
Then I measured the distance of ground, and
resolved to cut a dock, or canal, to bring the wrater
up to the canoe, seeing I could not bring the canoe
down to the water: Well, I began this work, and
xvhen I began to enter into it, and calculated how
deep it was to be dug, how broad, how the stuff to
be thrown out, I found, that by the number of hands
I had, being none but my own, it must have been
ten or twelve years before I should have gone through
with it; for the shore lay high, so that at the upper
end it must have been at least twenty feet deep • so
at length, though with great reluctancy, I gave this
attempt over also.
This grieved me heartily, and now I saw, though
too late, the folly of beginning a work before we
count the cost,, and before we judge rightly of our
own strength to go through with it*
In the middle of this work I finished my fourth
year in this place, and kept my anniversary with the
Vol. I, M 'seme
same devotion, and with as much comfort, as eves
before; for by a constant study, and serious applica-
tion of the word of God, and by the assistance of his
grace, I gained a different knowledge from what I had
before: I entertained different notions of things; 5
looked now upon the world as a thing remote; which
I had nothing to do with, no expectation from, and
indeed no desires about: in a word, I had nothing in--
deed to do with it,nor waseverlike to have; so I thought
it looked as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter;
viz. as a place I had lived in, but was come out of
it; and well I might fay, as father Abraham to
Dives, Between me and thee there is a great gulph
fixed.
In the first place, I was removed from all the
Wickedness of the world here: I had neither the lust
of the flesh, the ltist of the eye, or the pride of life:
I had nothing to covet, for I had all I was now capa-
ble of enjoying: I was lord of the whole manor, or?
if I pleased, I might call myself king or emperor over
the whole country which I had possession of: there
were no rivals: I had no competitor, none to dispute
sovereignty or command with me; I might have
raised ship-loadings of corn, but I had no use for it j
so I let as little grow as I thought enough for my
occasion; I had tortoises, or turtles enough; but now
and then one was as much as I could put to any use:
I had timber enough to have built a fleet of ships; I
had grapes enough to have made wine, or to have
cured into raisins, to have loaded that fleet when
they had been built.
But all I could make use of, was all that was valu-
able: I had enough to eat, and to supply my wants,
and
and what was all the rest to me? If I killed more
flesh than I could eat, the dog must eat it, or the
vermin; if I sowed more corn than I could eat, it
must be spoiled: The trees that I cut down were
lying to rot on the ground, I could make no more
use of them than for fuel; and that I had no occasion
for, but to dress my food.
In a word, the nature and experience of things
dictated to me upon just reflection, that all the good
things of this world are no farther good to us, than as
they are for our use : and that whatever we may heap
up indeed to give to others, we enjoy as much as we
can use, and no more. The most covetous griping
miser in the world would have been cured of the vice
of covetousness, if he had been in my cafe; for I
possessed infinitely more than I knew what to do with,
i had no room for desire, except it was of things
which I had not, and they were but trifles, though
indeed of great use to me. I had, as I hinted before,
a parcel of money, as well gold as silver, about thirty-
fix pounds sterling; alas! there the nasty sorry useless
stuff lay; I had no manner of business for it; and I
often thought with myself, that I would have given
an handful of it for a groce of tobacco-pipes, or for an
hand-mill to grind my corn; nay, I would have given
it all for sixpenny-worth of turnip and carrot feed out
of England, or for an handful of peas and beans, and
a bottle of ink: as it was, I had not the least advan-
tage by it, or benefit from it; but there it lay in a
drawer, and grew mouldy with the damp of the cave,
in the wet season; and if I had had the drawer full of
diamonds, it had been the fame cafe; and they had
been of no manner of value to me, because of no use.
M 2 I had
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
I had now brought my state os life to be much easier
in itself than it was at first, and much easier to my
mind, as well as to my body. I frequently fat down
to my meat with thankfulness, and admired the hand
of God's providence, which had thus spread my table
In the wilderness: I learned to look more upon the
bright fide of my condition, and less upon the dark
fide; and to consider what I enjoyed, rather than
what I wanted j and this gave me sometimes such
secret comforts, that I cannot express them j and
which I take notice of here, to put those discontented
people in mind of it, who cannot enjoy comfortably
what God hath given them, because they see and
covet something that he has not given them: all our
discontents about what we want, appeared to me to
spring from the want of thankfulness for what we have,
Another reflection was of great use to me, and
doubtless would be so to any one that should fall into
such distress as mine was; and this was, to compare
my present condition with what I at first expected it
should be; nay, with what it would certainly have
been, if the good providence of God had not won-
derfully ordered the ship to be cast up near to the
shore, where I not only could come at her, but could
bring what I got out of her to the shore for my relief
and comfort; without which I had wanted tools to
work, weapons for defence, or gunpowder and shot
for getting my food.
I spent whole hours, I may fay whole days, in,
representing to myself in the most lively colours, how
I must have acted, if I had got nothing out of the
ship j how I could not have so much as got any food*
except sifh and turtles j and that, as it was long before
I found
165
I found any of them, I must have perilhed first: that
I should have lived, if I had not perished, like a mere
savage: that if I had killed a goat or a fowl by any
contrivance, I had no way to flay or open them, or
part the flesh from the sldn and the bowels, or to cut
it up; but must gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it
with my claws, like a beast.
These reflections made me very sensible of the good-
ness of Providence to me, and very thankful for my
present condition, with all its hardships and misfor-
tunes: and this part also I cannot but recommend to
the reflection of those who are apt in their misery to
say, Is any affliction like mine? let them consider,
how much worse the cases of some people are, and
what their cafe might have been, if Prpvidence had
thought fit.
I had another reflection which assisted me also to
comfort my mind with hopes; and this was, com-
paring my present condition writh what I had
deserved, and had therefore reason to expect from
the hand of Providence; I had lived a dreadful life,
perfectly destitute of the knowledge and fear of God:
I had been well instructed by father and mother;
neither had they been wanting to me in their early
endeavours, to infuse a religious awe of God into
my mind, a fense of my duty, and of what the nature
and end of my being required of me: But, alas!
falling early into the seafaring life, wrhich of all the
lives is the most destitute of the fear of God, though
his terrors are always before them; I fay, falling
early into the seafaring life, and into seafaring com-
pany, all that little sense of religion which I had
entertained, was laughed out of me by my messmates;
M 3 by
by an hardened despising of dangers, and the views
of death, which grew habitual to me; by my long
absence from all manner of opportunities to converse
with any thing but what was like myself, or to
hear any thing of what was good, or tended to-
wards it.
So void was I of every thing that was good, pr of
the least fense of what I was, or was to be, that in
the greatest deliverance I enjoyed, such as my escape
fxomSallee, my being taken up by the Portuguese master
of the ship, my being planted so well in Brasrf, my
receiving the cargo from England, and the like, I
never once had the words, thank God so much as on
my mind, or in my mouth; nor in the greatest dis-
tress, had I so much thought as to pray to him; nor
so much as to fay, Lord, have mercy upon me! No?
not to mention the name of God, unless it was to
swear by, and blaspheme it.
I had terrible reflections upon my mind for many
months, as I have already observed, on the account
of my wicked and hardened life past; and when 1
looked about me, and considered what particular
providences had attended me, since my coming into
this place, and how God had dealt bountifully with
me; had not only punished me less than my iniquity
deserved, but had so plentifully provided for me -
this gave me great hopes that my repentance was
accepted, and that God had yet mercies in store
for me.
With these reflections I worked my mind up, not
only to resignation to the will of God in the present
disposition of my circumstances, but even to a sincere
thankfulness of my condition; and that I, who was
yet a living man5 ought not to complain, feeing I
had
I 67
had not the due punishment of my sins; that I
enjoyed so many mercies, which I had no reason to
have expected in that place, that I ought never more
to repine at my condition, but to rejoice, and to
give daily thanks, for that daily bread, which no-
thing butacloud of wonders could have brought: that
I ought to consider I had been fed even by a miracle,
even as great as that of feeding Elijah by ravens; nay,
by a long series of miracles; and that I could hardly
have named a place in the uninhabited part of the
world, where I could have been cast more to my
advantage: a place, where as I had no society, which
was my affliction on one hand, so I found no ravenous
beasts, no furious wolves or tygers, to threaten my
life; no venomous creatures, or poisonous, which
I might have fed on to my hurt, no savages to murder
gnd devour me.
In a word, as my life was a life of sorrow one
way, so it was a life of mercy another j and I wanted
nothing to make it a life of comfort, but to be able
to make my fense of God's goodness to me, and care
over me in this condition, be my daily consolation;
^nd after I n>ade a just improvement of these things^
J went away, and was no more fad,
I had now been here so long, that many things
which I brought on shore for my help, were either
quite gone, or very much wasted^ and near spent.
My ink, as I observed, had been gone for some
time, all but a very little, which I eked out with
water a little and a little, till it was so pale it scarce
Jest any appearance of black upon the paper; as long
as it lasted, I made use of it to minute down the davs
of fh§ n\Qi\t]\ qh which any remarks? thing hap,.
M 4 |>en$4
lilFE AND ADVENTURES
pened to me; and first, by casting up times past, I
remember that there was a strange concurrence of
days, in the various providences which befel me,
and which, if I had been superstitiously inclined to
observe days as fatal or fortunate, I might have had
reason to have looked upon with a great deal of
curiosity.
First, I had observed, that the same day that I
broke away from my father and my friends, and ran
away to Hull in order to go to sea, the same day
afterwards I was taken by the Sallee man of war, and
made a slave.
The fame day of the year .that I escaped out of the
wreck of that sliip in Tarmouth Roads ^ that same day
of the year afterwards I made my escape from Sallee
in the boat.
The same day os the year I was born on, viz, the
20th of Septemberthe fame day I had my life so mira-
culously saved 26 years after, when I was cast on shore
in this island; so that my wicked life, and solitary
life, both began on a clay.
The next thing to my ink's being wasted, was that
of my bread, I mean the biscuit which I brought out
of the ship: This I had husbanded to the last degree,
allowing myself but one cake of bread a day, for
above a year: and yet I was quite without bread for
a year before I got any corn of my own; and great
reason I had to be thankful that I had any at all, the
getting it being, as has been already observed, next
to miraculous.
My clothes too began to decay mightily: as to
linen, I had none a good while, except some che-
quered shirts which I found in the chests of the other
seamen,
seamen, and which I carefully preserved, because
many times I could bear no other clothes on but a
shirt; and it was a very great help to me, that I
had among all the men's clothes of the ship almost
three dozen of shirts. There were also several thick
watch-coats of the seamen, which were left behind,
but they were too hot to wear; and though it is
true, that the weather was so violent hot, that there
was no need of clothes, yet I could not go quite
naked; no, though I had been inclined to it, which
I was not; nor could I abide the thoughts of it,
though I was all alone.
One reason why I could not go quite naked, was,
I could not bear the heat of the fun so well when
quite naked, as with some clothes on; nay, the very
heat frequently blistered my skin; wdiereas, with a
shirt on, the air itself made some motion, and whist-
ling under the lhirt, was twofold cooler than without
it; no more could I ever bring myself to go out in
the heat of the sun without a cap or an hat; the heat
of the sun beatino; with such violence as it does in that
place, would give me the head-ach presently, by
darting so directly on my head, without a cap or hat
on, so that I could not bear it; whereas, if I put
on my hat, it would presently go away.
Upon these views I began to consider about putting
the few rags I had, which I called clothes, into some
order; I had worn out all the waistcoats I had, and
my business was now to try if I could not make
jackets out of the great wratch coats which I had by
me, and with such other materials as I had; so I set
to work a tailoring, or rather indeed a botching;
for I made most piteous work of it. However, I
made
made shift to make two or three waistcoats, which I
hoped would serve me a great while; as for breeches
or drawers, I made but very sorry shift indeed, till
afterwards.
I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the
creatures that I killed, I mean four-footed ones; and
1 had hung them up stretched out with sticks in the
fun; by which means some of them were so dry and
hard, that they were fit for little; but others, it
seems, were very useful. The first thing I made of
these was a great cap for my head, with the hair on
the outside to snoot off the rain; and this I performed
so well, that after this I made a suit of clothes wholly
of those skins; that is to fay, a waistcoat and breeches
open at the knees, and both loose; for they were
rather wanted to keep me cool, than to keep me
warm. I must not omit to acknowledge, that they
were wretchedly made; for if I was a bad carpenter,
1 was a worse taylor: however, they were such
as I made a very good shift with; and when I was
abroad, if it happened to rain, the hair of the waist-
coat and cap being outmost, I was kept very dry.
After this I spent a deal of time and pains to make
me an umbrella: I was indeed in great want of
one, and had a great mind to make one: I had seen
them made in the Brq/i/s, where they are very useful
in the rreat heats which are there; and I felt the
heats every jot as great here, and greater too, being
nearer the equinox ; besides, as I was obliged to be
much abroad, it was a most useful thing to me, as
weii for the rains as the heats, I took a world of
pains at it, and was a great while before I could
make any thing likely to hold; nay, after I thought
I had
ijuav mo SutoS io .inoqiq Aqpp Am pui* c.moqiq XtiedX
sup s?pipq 'A\y j < puiujo.io.pq suoijtaoicI s<.U3dA
Dtp jo ^po|) juapgjnj daiuj oj qSnoiiD :yns dn -)cb^{
sAc.wp i \p\i\A\ tpoq jo 'suijiiu Am Suuiid pur. 'oou
pun Aopxq Atu iuipuqd jo .moqiq AptTDA Am sapipq
'ui poiojcltu9 sr.A\ I luiiip ppp Dtp :DiojDq jpal
'DDiqd 'pvæ o.rnqjod Diurj Dtp ui 'djirod Duuy Dip in
uo p^Ai[ i }tiq t oui o} psu^dduq Suup Airaxpioi^-rs
Auc Suuda sat.; .xoj csiqi reip cAiy aouueo j
ppiOM Dtp ut Appoj
tnrumq -jo juduiAoIud pounn Dq} tiEtp. iD^sq ion s^*a
'suoppDd pun suoijrpior.b Aq ciDqui/\[ Aui udad qpu
4Ai3j Aiuu j 'sdoq } se 'pun 4?rqSnoip uavo Aui tppi
A{pruniu Siujidauod snip .iDqpqAY 'jpjAiu qp pjnoA\ j
'uopEpDAuco jo }ueay oin id-iSd-I o} uniioq ] UDip\ .iof
6. 3[qi:poj irctp iD}?*Dq Diq Am Dprai sup :DDUDppo.id
siq jo pjodjip Dtp uodn AqoqAY jpjAiu SuiAvo.up pun
caof) jo [jiav Dip 01 SmuSip.t Aq pDjoduiOD Apipio
Supq puiui Am fiA{qnuojiu.o3 AjqSitu pOAi| \ strqjL
man Am jDpun u Luv.o pun 'q qfop
pjriOD j cii |0 pDDU ou pnq j UDqAY pun $ jpjoo:) Dip in.
?iojsq ppioD j unip DSn:junApn .tDycDiS ippv 'iDtpnDAV
Dip jo ppnoq sup in }no qpA\ pjnoD j }ntp 'Ajpiu
-OD.jp oj unj Dtp jjo ^bq pun 'Djnoupuod n Dqq up.i
sq} jjo jj)3D :q 5cqi oj csp.u:A\dn jpq Dip <sinqj. q;iiA\
2} pDIDAOD J i 01 DUO SpCUI J CppJ I S13 ']}^[
313 cJDADA\Gpi: op }0U pjriOM qDiqAV cpHDq aUI JDAO
qjns^nq 'A'uav hiv dui ioj D[qi3]iod Dq ]Oti pjnoAV 31 cin
A\13jp piIB C00^ UA\0p ^Dj ^011 pip ^1 JT ^iq i p^Dldj O4
51 DqBtu pjnoD j "UMop ca D>pm o^ suav pimoj
J AqRDTJlip lipiU Dip f jpA\ ApiIDJDJJipUI pD.IDA\JlU2
3£ip duo Dp)3iii 1 jjt:i vz vaq 1 piuiu Aui o^ duo op^iu
I DiojDq DDiqi .10 o/Ai P^I^odj j cAeai Dip 5jq prq }
my gun, I had one labour to make me a canoe, which
at last I finished: so that by digging a canal to it, six
feet wide, and four feet deep, I brought it into the
creek, almost half a mile. As for the first, that was
so vastly big, as I made it without considering before-
hand, as I ought to do, how I should be able to
launch it; so never being able to bring it to the
water, or bring the water to it, I was obliged to let
it lie where it was, as a memorandum to teach me
to be wiser next time, Indeed the next time, though
I could not get a tree proper for it, and was in a
place where I could not get the water to it, at any
less distance than, as I have said, of near half a mile;
yet as I saw it was practicable at last, I never gave it
over; and though I wras near two years about it, yet
I never grudged my labour, in hopes of having a
boat to go off to lea at last.
However, though my little periagua was finished^
yet the size of it was not at all answerable to the de-
sign which I had in view, when I made the first; I
mean of venturing over to the Terra Firm a, where
it was above forty miles broad; accordingly, the
smallness of my boat assisted to put an end to that design,,
and now I thought no more of it: But as I had a
boat, my next design was to make a tour round the
island; for as I had been on the other side, in one
place, crossing, as I have already described it, over
the land, so the discoveries I made in that journey
made me very eager to fee the other parts of the
coast; and now I had a boat, I thought of nothing
but sailing round the island.
For this purpose, and that I might do every thing
with discretion and consideration, I fitted up a little
mast;
mast to my boat, and made a sail to it out of some
of the pieces of the ship's fails, which lay in store,
and of which I had a great store by me.
Having fitted my mast and fail, and tried the
boat, I found she would sail very well: Then I
made little lockers and boxes at each end of my
boat, to put provisions, necessaries, and ammunition,
&c. into, to be kept dry, either from rain, or the
spray of the sea; and a little long hollow place
I cut in the inside of the boat, where I could lay
my gun, making a flap to hang down over it to keep
it dry.
I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like
;i mast, to stand over my head, and keep the heat
os the sun off me, like an awning; and thus I every
now and then took a little voyage upon the lea, but
never went far out, nor far from the little creek;
but at last, being eager to view the circumference of
my little kingdom, I resolved upon my tour, and
accordingly I victualled my ship for the voyage;
putting in two dozen of my loaves (cakes I should
rather call them) of barley-bread; an earthen pot
full of parched rice, a food I eat a great deal of, a
little bottle of rum, half a goat, and powder with
shot for killing more, and two large watch-coats, of
those which, as I mentioned before, I had saved out
of the seamen's chests; these I took, one to lie upon,
and the other to cover me in the night.
o
It was the sixth of November, in the sixth year of
my reign, or my captivity, which you please, that I
set out on this voyage, and I found it much longer
than I expected; for though the island itself was not
very large, yet wheu I came to the east fide of it, I
found
LIjFE ANJb ADVENTURES
found a great ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues
into the sea, some above water, some under it;
and beyond this a shoal of sand, lying dry half a
league more; so that I was obliged to go a great way
out to sea to double that point.
When I first discovered them, I was going to give
over my enterprize, and come back again, nor
knowing how far it might oblige me to go out to
sea, and above all, doubting how I should get back
again; so I came to an anchor, for I had made me a
kind of an anchor with a piece of broken grappling
which I got out of the ship.
Having secured my boat, I took my gun, and
went on shore, climbing up an hill, which seemed to
overlook that point, where I saw the full extent of
it, and resolved to venture-.
In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood9
I perceived a strong, and indeed, a most furious
current, which ran to the east, even came close to
the point; and I took the more notice of it, because
I saw there might be some danger, that when I came
into it, I might be carried out to sea by the strength
of it, and not be able to make the island again: And
indeed, had I not gotten first upon this hill, I believe
it would have been so ; for there was the fame current
on the other side of the island, only that it set it off
at a farther distance; and I saw there was a strong
eddy under the sliore; so I had nothing to do but to
get out of the first current, and I should presently be
in an eddy.
I Jay here, however, two days; because the wind
blowing pretty frefli (E. at S. E. and that being just
contrary to the said current) made a great breach of
the
of RosmsoN ckiisoE. 175
the sea upon the point; so that it was not safe for
me to keep too close to the shore for the breach, nor
to go too far off because of the stream.
The third day in the morning, the wind having
abated over night, the sea was calm, and I ventured j
but lam a warning-piece again to all rash and ignorant
pilots y for no sooner was I come to the point, when
I was not my boat's length from the shore, but
I found myself in a great depth of water, and a
current like a sluice of a mill: It carried my boat
along with it with such violence, that all I could do
could not keep her so much as on the edge of it: but
I found it hurried me farther and farther out from the
eddv, which was on the left hand. There was no
wind stirring to help me, and all that I could do with
mv paddles signified nothing; and now I began to
give myself over for lost; for, as the current was en
both fides the island, I knew in a few leagues distance
they must join again, and then I was irrecoverably
gone; nor did 1 fee any possibility of avoiding it; so
that I had no prospect before me but of periling;
not by the sea, for that was calm enough, but of
starving for hunger. I had indeed found a tortoise
on the snore, as big almost as I could lift, and had
tossed it into the boat; and I had a great jar of fresh
water, that is to fay, one of my earthen pots; but
what was all this to being driven into the vast ocean,
where, to be sure, there was no shore, no main land
or island, for a thousand leagues at least!
And now I saw how easy is was for the providence
of God to make the most miserable condition that
mankind could be in, worse. Now I looked back
upon my desolate solitary island, as the most
pleasant
plasant place in the world, and all the happiness my
heart could wilh for, was to be there again : I stretched
out my hands to it with eager wishes j O happy
desart! said I, I shall never see thee more; O
miserable creature! said I, whither am I going!
then I reproached myself with my unthankful temper,
and how I had repined at my solitary condition; and
now what would I give to be on shore there again?
Thus we never fee the true state of our condition,
till it is illustrated to us by its contraries; nor know
how to value what we enjoy, but by the want of it:
it is scarce possible to imagine the consternation I was
now in, being driven from my beloved island (for so
it appeared to me now to be) into the wide ocean,
almost two leagues, and in the utmost despair of ever
recovering it again: however, I worked hard, till
indeed my strength was almost exhausted; and kept
my boat as much to the northward, that is, towards
the fide of the current which the eddy lay on, as
possibly I could; when about noon, as the fun passed
the meridian, I thought I felt a little breeze of wind
in my face, springing up from the S. S. E. This
cheared my heart a little, and especially when in
about half an hour more it blew a pretty small gentle
gale: by this time I was gotten at a frightful distance
from the island; and, had the least cloud or hazy
weather intervened, I had been undone another way
too; for I had no compass on board, and should
never have known how to have steered towards the
island, if I had but dnce lost sight of it; but the
weather continuing clear, I applied myself to get up
my mast again, and spread my sail, standing away
to the north, as much as possible, to get out of the
current*
just
just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat
began to stretch away, I saw even by the clearness of
the water, some alteration of the current was near;
for where the current w7as so strong, the water was
foul; but perceiving the water clear, I found the
current abate, and presently I found to the east, at
about half a mile, a breach of the sea upon some
rocks; these rocks I found caused the current to
part again; and as the main stress of it ran away
more southerly, leaving the rocks to the north-east,
so the other returned by the repulse of the rock, and
made a strong eddy, which ran back again to the
north-west with a very sharp stream.
They who know what it is to have a reprieve
brought to them upon the ladder, or to be rescued
from thieves just going to murder them, or who have
been in such like extremities, may guess what my
present surprize of joy was, and how gladly I put
my boat into the stream of this eddy; and the wind
also freshening, how gladly I spread my sail to it,
running chearfully before the wind, and with a strong
tide or eddy under foot*
This eddy carried me about a league in my way
back again directly towards the island, but about
two leagues more towards the northward than the
current lay, which carried me away at first; so that
when I came near the island, I found myself open
to the northern fliore of it, that is to fay, the other
end of the island, opposite to that which I went out
from.
When I had made something more than a league of
way by the help of this current or eddy, I found it
was spent, and saved me no farther. However I
Vol, I. N found,
ij8
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
found, that being between the two great currents,
viz. that on the south-side which had hurried me
away, and that on the north, which lay about two
leagues on the other side; I fay, .between these two,
in the west: of the island, I found the water at least
still, and running no way; and having still a breeze
of wind fair for me, I kept on steering directly for
the island, though not making such fresh way as I
did before.
About four o'clock in the evening, being then
within about a league of the island, I found the point
of the rocks which occasioned this distance stretching
out as is described before, to the southward, and?
casting off the current more southwardly, had of
course made another eddy to the north, and this I
found very strong, but directly setting the way my
course lay, which was due west, but almost full
north. However, having a fresla gale, I stretched
across this eddy, slanting north west, and in
about an hour came within about a mile of the
shore, where, it being smooth water, I soon got
to land.
When I was on sliore, I fell on my knees, and
gave God thanks for my deliverance, resolving to
lay aside all thoughts of my deliverance, by my boat;
and refresliing myself with such things as I had, I
brought my boat close to the sliore, in a little cove
that I had espied under some trees, and laid me down
to sleep, being quite spent with the labour and fatigue
of the voyage.
I was now at a great loss which way to get home
with my boat; I had ran so much hazard, and knew
too much the case to think of attempting it by the
way
I79
way I went out; and what might be at the other side
(I mean the west-side) I knew not, nor had I any
mind to run any more ventures; so I only resolved
in the morning to make my way westward along the
shore, and to see if there was no creek where I might
lay up my frigate in safety, so as to have her again
if I wanted her. In about three miles, or thereabouts,
coasting theJhore, I came to a very good inlet, or
bay, about a mile over, which narrowed till it came
to a very little rivulet, or brook, where I found a
convenient harbour for my boat, and where slie lay
as if she had been in a little dock made on purpose
for her; here I put in, and having stowed my boat
very safe, I went on shore to look about me, and see
where I was.
I soon found I had but a little passed by the place
where I had been before when I travelled on foot to
that shore \ so taking nothing out of my boat but my
gun and my umbrella, for it was exceeding hot, I
began my march: the way was comfortable enough
after such a voyage as I had been upon, and I reached
my old bower in the evening, where I found every
thing standing as I left it; for I always kept it in
good order, being, as I said before, my country-
house.
I got over the fence, and laid me down in the
shade to rest my limbs, for I was very weary, and
fell asleep: but judge you, if you can, that read my
story, what a surprize I must be in, when I was
awaked out of my sleep by a voice calling me by my
name several times, Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe,
poor Robin Crusoe! Where are you, Robin Crusoe?
Where are you? Where have you been?
N 2 I was
I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued witli
rowing, or paddling, as it is called, the first part of
the day, and u alking the latter part, that I did not
awake thoroughly; and dozing between sleeping and
waking, thought I dreamed that somebody spoke to
me; but as the voice continued to repeat Robin
Crusoe, Robin Crusoe; at last I began to awake
more perfectly, and was at first dreadfully frighted,
and started up in the utmost consternation: but no
sooner were my eyes open, but I saw my pol fitting
on the top of the hedge, and immediately knew that
this was he that spoke to me; for just in such
bemoaning lane'iia^e I had used to talk to him, and
teach him; and he had learned it so perfectly, that
he would sit upon my singer, and lay his bill close
to my face, and cry, Poor Robin Crusoe, Where
are vou? Where have vou been? How came you
here? and such things as I had taught him.
However, even though I knew it was the parrot,
and that indeed it could be nobody else, it wras a good
while before I could compose myself. First, I was
amazed how the creature got thither, and then how
he should just keep about the place, and no where
else: but as I was well satisfied it could be nobody
but honest pol, I got it over; and holding out my
hand, and calling him by his name, pol, the sociable
creature came to me, and sat upon my thumb, as
he used to do, and continued talking to me, Poor
Robin Crusoe, and, how did I come here? and,,
where had I been? just as if he had been overjoyed
to lee me again; and so I carried him home along
with me.
I had
I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some
time, and had enough to do for many days to sit still,
and reflect uDon the danger I had been in: I would
have been very glad to have had my boat again on
my side of the island, but I knew not how it was
practicable to get it about: as to the east-side of the
island, which I had gone round, I knew well enough
there was no venturing that way; my very heart
would slrrink, and my very blood run chill, but to
think of it: and to the other side of the island, I did
not know how it might be there; but supposing the
current ran with the same force against the shore at
the east, as it passed by it on the other, I might run
the fame risque of being driven down the stream, and
carried by the island, as I had been before of being
carried away from it; so with these thoughts I con-
tented myself to be without any boat, though it had
been the product of so many months labour to make
it, and of so many more to get into the sea.
In this government of my temper I remained near
a year, lived a very sedate retired life, as you may
well suppose; and my thoughts being very much
composed, as to my condition, and fully comforted
in resigning myself to the dispositions of Providence,
I thought I lived really very happily in all things,
except that of society,
I improved myself, in this time, in all the mechanic
exercises which my necessities put me upon applying
myself too; and I believe could, upon occasion, have
made a very good carpenter, especially considering
faow few tools I had.
Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection
In my earthen ware, and contrived well enough to
N 3 make
make them with a wheel, which I found infinitely
easier and better j because I made things round and
lhapeable, which before were filthy things indeed to
look. on. But I think I never was more vain of my
own performance, or more joyful for any thing I
found out, than for my being able to make a tobacco-,
pipe; and though it was a very ugly clumsy thing
when- it was done, and only burnt red like other
earthen-ware, yet as it was hard and firm, and would
draw the smoke, I was exceedingly comforted with
it; for I had been always used to smoke, and there
were pipes in the ship, but I forgot them at first, not
knowing there was tobacco in the island; and after,
wards, when I searched the ship again, I could not
come at any pipes at all.
In my wicker-ware I also improved much, and
made abundance of necessary baskets, as well as my
invention shewed me, though not very handsome,
yet convenient for my laying things up in, or fetching-
things home in. For example, if I lulled a goat
abroad, I could hang it up in a tree, flay it, and
dress it, and cut it in pieces, and bring it home in a
baiket; and the like by a turtle, I could cut it up,
take out the eggs, and a piece or two of the flesh,
which was enough for me, and bring them home in
a basket, and leave the rest behind me: also l^rge
deep baskets were my receivers for my corn, which \
always rubbed out as soon as it was dry, and cured;
and kept it in great baskets instead of a granary.
I began now to perceive my powder abated con-
siderably; and this was a want which it was
impossible for me to supply, and I began seriously tp
consider what I must do when I should have no more
powder j
powder; that is to fay, how I should do to kill any
goats. I had, as I observed, in the third year of
my being here, kept a young kid, and bred her tame;
I was in hopes of getting an he kid, but I eould not
by any means bring it to pass, till my kid grew an
old goat; and I could never find in my heart to kill
her, till she died at last of mere age.
But being now in the eleventh year of my residence*
and, as I have said, my ammunition growing low, I
set myself to study some art to trap and snare thegoats,
to fee whether I could not catch some of them alive j
and particularly I wanted a she-goat great with young.
To this purpose I made snares to hamper them;
and believe they were more than once taken in them •
but my tackle was not good, for I had no wire, and
always found them broken, and my bait devoured.
At length I resolved to try a pit-fall; so I dug
several large pits in the earth, in places where I had
observed the goats used to feed, and over these pits
I placed hurdles of my own making too, with a great
weight upon them; and several times I put ears of
barley, and dry rice, without setting the trap; and
I could easily perceive, that the goats had gone in,
and eaten up the corn, that I could fee the mark of
their feet: at length, I set three traps in one night*
and going the next morning, I found them all
standing, and yet the bait eaten and gone: this was
very discouraging; however, I altered my trap;
£nd, not to trouble you with particulars, going one
morning to fee my traps, I found in one of them a
large old he-goat; and, in one of the other, three
jkids, a male and two females.
As to the old one, I knew not what to do with
him; he was so fierce I durst not go into the pit to
N 4 him
i§4
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
him; that is to fay, to go about to bring him away
alive, which was what I wanted; I could have killed
him, but that was not my business, nor would it
answer my end; so I e'en let him out, and he ran
away as if he had been frightened out of his wits;
but I did not then know what I afterwards learned,
that hunger would tame a lion: if I had let him stay
there three or four days without food, and then have
carried him some water to drink, and then a little
corn, he would have been as tame as one of the
kids; for they are mighty sagacious tractable crea-
tures, where they are well used.
However, for the present I let him go, knowing
no better at that time; then I went to three kids;
and, taking them one by one, I tied them with
{trines together and with some difficulty brought
O O' JO
them all home.
It v/as a good while before they would feed, but
throwing them some sweet corn*, it tempted them,
and they began to be tame: and now I found, that
if I expected to supply myself with goats-flesh, when-
I had no powder or snot left, breeding some up tame
was my only way, when perhaps I might have them
about my house like a flock of sheep.
But then it presently occurred to me, that I must
keep the tame from the wild, or else they would
always run wild when they grew up; and the only
way for this v/as to have some inclosed piece • of
giound, well fenced either with hedge or pale, to
keep them up so effectually, that those within might
not break out, or those without break in.
This v/as a great undertaking for one pair of hands;
yet as I saw there was an absolute necessity of doing
it, my first piece of work was to find out a proper
piece
piece of ground; viz. where there was likely to be
herbage for them to eat, water for them to drink,
and cover to keep them from the fun.
Thole who understand such inclosures, will think
I had very little contrivance, when I pitched upon a
place very proper for all these, being a plain open
piece of meadow-land or savanna (as our people call
it in the western colonies) which had two or three
little drills of frefli water in it, and at one end was
very woody; I fay they will smile at my forecast,
when I (hall tell them I began my inclosing of this
piece of ground in such a manner, that my hedge or
pale must have been at least two miles about; nor
was the madness of it so great as to the compass; for
if it was ten miles about, I was like to have time
enough to do it in; but 1 did not consider, that my
goats would be as wild in so much compass, as if
they had had the whole island; and I should have so
much room to chace them in, that I should never
catch them.
My hedge was began and carried on, I believe*
about fifty yards, when this thought occurred to me;
so I presently stopped short, and for the first begin-
ning I resolved to inclose a piece of about 1 50 yards
in length, and 100 yards in breadth, which as it
would maintain as many as I should have in anv rea-
solvable time, so, as my flock increased, I could add
more ground to my inclosure.
This was acting with some prudence, and I went
to work with courage; I was about three months
hedging in the first piece; rnd, till I had done it, I
tethered the three kids in the best part of it, and used
them to feed • as near me as possible, to make them
familiar $ and very often I would go and carry them
some
x36
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
some ears of barley, or an handful of rice, and feed
them out of my hand ; so that after my inclosure was
finished, and I let them loose, they would follow me
up and down, bleating after me for an handful of com.
This answered my end, and in about a year and a
half I had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and ail;
and in two years more I had three and forty, besides
several that I took and killed for my food; and after
that I inclosed five several pieces of ground to feed
them in, with little pens to drive them into, to take
them as I wanted them; and gates out of one piece
of ground into another.
But this was not all; for now I not only had goat's
flesh to feed on when I pleased, but milk too, a thing
which indeed in my beginning I did not so much as
think of, and which, when it came into my thoughts,
was really an agreeable surprize; for now I set up
my dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk
in a day. And as nature, who gives supplies of food
to every creature, dictates even naturally how to
make use of it; so I, that never milked a cow, much
less a goat, or saw butter or cheese made, very
readily and handily, though after a great many essays
and miscarriages, made me both butter and cheese i\t
last, and never wanted it afterwards.
How mercifully can put great Creator treat his
creatures, even in those conditions in which they
seemed to be overwhelmed in destruction! How can
he sweeten the bitterest providences, and give us
cause to praise him for dungeons and prisons! What
a table was here spread from me in a wilderness,
where I saw nothing at first but to perish for hunger!
It would have made a stoic smile, to have seen me
and my little family sit down to dinner: there was
my
my majesty, the prince and lord of the whole island;
I had the lives of all my subjects at absolute com-
mand; I could hang, draw, give life and liberty, and
take it away, and no rebels among all my subjects.
Then to fee how like a king I dined too, all alone,
attended by my servants! Pol, as if he had been my
favourite, as the only person permitted to talk to me;
my dog, which was now grown very old and crazy,
and found no species to multiply his kind upon, fat
always at my right-hand; and two cats, one on one
fide the table, and one on the other, expecting now
and then a bit from my hand, as a mark of special
favour.
Bui these were not the two cats which I brought
on shore at first; for they were both of them dead,
and had been interred near my habitation by my own
hands ; but one of them having multipled by I know
not what kind of creature, these were two which I
preserved tame, whereas the rest ran wild into the
woods, and became indeed troublesome to me at
last; for they would often come into my house, and
plunder me too, till at last I was obliged to shoot
them, and did kill a great many; at length they left
me with this attendance, and in this plentiful man-
ner I lived; neither could I be said to want any
thing but society, and of that, in some time after
this, I was like to have too much.
I was something impatient, as I had observed, to
have the use of my boat, though very loth to run
any more hazard; and therefore sometimes I fat
contriving ways to get her about the island, and at
other times I fat myself down contented enough
without her. But I had a strange uneasiness in my
paind to go down ^o the point of the island, where,
as
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
sis I have said in my last ramble, I went up the hill
to see how the shore lay, and how the current set,
that I might see what I had to do: this inclination
increased upon me every day, and at length I resolved
to travel thither by land, and following the edge of
the shore, I did so: but had any one in England been
to meet such a man as I was, it must either have
frighted them, or raised a great deal of laughter;
and as I frequently stood still to look at myself, I
could not but smile at the notion of my travelling
through Tofkjhire with such an equipage, and in
such a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch of my
figure, as follows:
i had a great high shapeless cap, made of goat's
{kin, with a flap hanging down behind, as well to
keep the fun from me, as to shoot the rain off from
running into my neck; nothing being so hurtful in
these climates, as the rain upon the flefli under the
clothes.
1 had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming
down to about the middle of my thighs ; and a pair of
open-kneed breeches of the lame: the breeches ere
made of a skin of an old he-goat, whose hair hung <
down such a length on either fide, that, like panta-
loons, it reached to the middle of my legs. Stockings
and shoes I had none; but I had made me a pair of
something-, I scarce knew what to call them, like
buskins, to flap over my legs, and lace on either side
like spatterdashes; but of a most barbarous shape, as
indeed were all the rest of my clothes.
I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I
drew together with two thongs of the fame, instead
of buckles'; and in a kind of a frog on either fide; of
this
189
this, instead of a sword and dagger, hung a little saw
and a hatchet; one 011 one side, one on the other: I
had another belt not so broad, and fastened in the
same manner, which hung over my shoulder; and
at the end of it, under my left arm, hung tw7o
pouches, both made of goat's-fidn too; in one of
which hung my powder, in the other my shot: at
my back I carried my basket, on my shoulder my
gun, and over my head a great clumsy ugly goat's,
skin umbrella-, but which, after all, was the most
necessary thing I had about me, next to my gun: as
for my face, the colour of it was really not so Mulatto
like, as one might expect from a man not at all
careful of it, and living within nine or ten degrees of
the equinox. My beard I had once suffered to grow
till it was about a quarter of a yard long; but as I
had both scissars and razors sufficient, I had cut it
pretty short, except what grew on my upper lip,
which I had trimed into a large pair of Mahometan
whiskers, such as I had seen worn by some Turks,
whom I saw at Sallec: for the Moors did not wear
such, though the Turks did: of these mustachios, or
whilkers, I will not fay they were long enough to
hang my hat upon them; but they were of length
and sliape monstrous enough, and such as in England
would have passed for frightful.
But all this is by the bye ; for as to my figure, I had
so few to observe me, that it was of no manner of
consequence; so I say no more to that part: in this
kind of figure I went my new journey, and was out
five or six days. I travelled first along the sea-lhore,
directly to the place where I first brought my boat to
an anchor, to get up upon the rocks 5 and, having
no
no boat now to take care of, I went over the land
a nearer way, to the same height that I was upon
before; when looking forward to the point of the
rock which lay out, and which I was to double with
my boat, as I said above, I was surprized to see the'
sea all smooth and quiet; no ripling, no motion,
no current, any more there than in other places.
I was at a strange loss to understand this, and re-
solved to spend some time in the observing of it, to
see if nothing from the sets of the tide had occasioned
it: but I was presently convinced how it was ; viz*
that the tide of ebb setting from the west, and join-
ing with the current of waters from some great river
on the fliore, must be the occasion of this current,
and that according as the wind blew more forcible
from the west, or from the north, this current came
near, or went farther from the shore; for, waiting
thereabouts till evening, I went up to the rock again,
and then the tide of ebb being made, I plainly saw
the current again as before, only that it ran farther
off, being near half a league from the fliore; whereas,
in my cafe, it set close upon the fliore, and hurried
me in my canoe along with it, which at another time
it would not have done.
This observation convinced me, that I had nothing
to do but to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the
tide, and I might very easily bring my boat about
the island again: but when I began to think of put-
ting it in practice, I had such a terror upon my spirits
at the remembrance of the danger I had been in,
that I could not think of it again with any patience;
but on the contrary, I took up another resolution,
which
which was more safe, though more laborious; and
this was, that I would build, or rather make me
another periagua, or canoe; and so have one for one
side of the island, and one for the other.
You are to understand, that now I had, as I may-
call it, two plantations in the island; one my little
fortification or tent, with the wall about it under the
rock, with the cave behind me, which by this time
I had inlarged into several apartments or caves, one
within another. One of these, which was the driest:
and largest, and had a door out beyond my wall or
fortification, that is to fay, beyond where my wall
joined to the rock, was all filled up with large ear-
then pots, of which I have given an account, and
with fourteen or fifteen great baskets, which would
hold five or fix bushels each, where I laid up my
stores of provision, especially my corn, some in the
ear cut off short from the straw, and the other rubbed
out with my hands.
As for my wall, made as before, with long stakes
or piles, those piles.grew all like trees, and were by
this time grown so big, and spread so very much,
that there wras not the least appearance, to any one's
view, of any habitation behind them.
Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther
within the land, and upon lower ground, lay my
two pieces of corn'ground; which I kept duly cul-
tivated and sowed, and which duly yielded me their
harvest in its season : and whenever I had occasion for
more corn, I had more land adjoining as fit as
that.
Besides this, I had my country-seat, and I had now
a tolerable plantation there also j for first, I had my
little
little bower, as I called it, which I kept in repair 5
that is to fay, I kept the hedge which circled it in
constantly fitted up to its usual height, the ladder
standing always in the made; I kept the trees, which
at first were no more than my stakes, but were now
grown very firm and tall; I kept them always so
cut, that they might spread and grow thick and wild9
and make the more agreeable sliade, which they did
effectually to my mind. In the middle of this I had
my tent always standing, being a piece of a fail
spread over poles set up for that purpose, and which
never wanted any repair or renewing; and under
this I had made me a squab or couch, with the
skins of the creatures I had killed, and with other
soft things, and a blanket laid on them, such as
belonged to our sea-bedding, which I had saved, and
a great watch-coat to cover me; and here, whenever
I had occasion to be absent from my chief seat, I took
up my country habitation.
Adjoining to this I had my inclosures for my
cattle, that is to fay, my goats: And as I had taken
an inconceivable deal of pains to fence and inclose
this ground, I was so uneasy to see it kept entire, lest
the goats should break through, that I never left off,
till with infinite labour I had stuck the outside of the
hedge so full of small stakes, and so near to one
another, that it was rather a pale than an hedge, and
there was scarce room to put an hand through
between them, which afterwards, when those stakes
grew, as they ail did in the next rainy season, made
the inclosure strong, like a wall, indeed stronger than
any wall.
This
This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that
I spared no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared
necessary for my comfortable support; for I con-
sidered the keeping up a breed of tame creatures thus
at my hand, would be a living magazine of flesh,
milk, butter and cheese, for me, as long as I lived
in the place, if it were to be forty years; and that
keeping them in my reach, depended entirely upon
my perfecting my inclosures to such a degree, that I
might be sure of keeping them together; which by
this method indeed I so effectually secured, that when
these little stakes began to grow, I had planted them
so very thick, I was forced to pull some of them up
again.
In this place also I had my grapes growing, which
I principally depended on for my winter store of
raisins, and which I never failed to preserve very
carefully, a$ the best and most agreeable dainty of my
whole diet; and indeed they were not agreeable only,
but physical, wholsome, nourishing and refresliing
to the last degree.
As this was also about half way between my other
habitation and the place where I had laid up my boat,
I generally staid and lay here in my wTay thither; for
I used frequently to visit my boat, and I kept all
things about or belonging to her in very good order;
sometimes I went out in her to divert myself5 but
no more hazardous voyages would I go, nor scarce
ever above a stone's cast or two from the shore,
I was so apprehensive of being hurried out of my
knowledge again by the currents, or winds, or any
other accident: But now I come to a new scene of
my life.
Vol. I. O It
It happened one day about noon, going towards
my boat, I was exceedingly surprized with the print
of a man's naked foot on the shore, which was very-
plain to be seen in the sand: I stood like one thun-
der-struck, or as if I had seen an apparition; I
listened, I looked round me, I could hear nothing,
nor see any thing; I went up to a rising ground to
look farther: I went up the shore, and down the
shore, but it was all one, I could fee no other
impression but that one: I went to it again to fee if
there were any more, and to observe if it might not
be my fancy; but there was no room for that, for
<her<;^ was exactly the very print of a foot, toes, heel,
and every part of a foot; how it came thither I knew
not, nor could in the- least imagine. But after
innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a man per-
fectly confused, and out of myself, I came home to
my fortification, not feeling, as we fay, the ground
I went on, but terrified to the last degree, looking
behind me at every two or three steps, mistaking
every busti and tree, and fancying every stump at a
distance to be a man; nor is it possible to describe
how many various shapes an affrighted imagination:
represented things to me in; how many wild ideas
were formed every moment in my fancy, and what
strange unaccountable whimsies came intoiny thoughts
by the way*
When I came to my castle, for so I think I called it
ever after this, I fled into it like one pursued;.
whether I went over by the ladder, as first contrived,,,
or went in at the hole in the rock, which I called a
door, I cannot lemember; for never frighted hare
fled
fled to cover, or fox to earth, with more terror of
mind than I to this retreat*
I had no sleep that night; the farther I was from
the occasion of my fright, the greater my appre-
hensions were; which is something contrary to the
nature of such things, and especially to the usual
practice of all creatures in fear: But I was so em-
barrassed with my own frightful ideas of the thing,
that I formed nothing but dismal imaginations to
myself, even though I wras now a great way off it.
Sometimes I fancied it must be the devil; and reason
joined in with me upon this supposition: For how
ihould any other thing in human sliape come into the
place? Where wras the vessel that brought them?
What marks were there of any other footsteps? And
how was it possible a man Ihould come there? But
then to think that Satan Ihould take human sliape
upon him in such a place where there could be no
manner of occasion for it, but to leave the print of
his foot behind him, and that even for no purpose
too (for he could not be sure I should see it,) this was
an amazement the other way: I considered that the
devil might have found out abundance of other wavs
to have terrified me, than this of the single print of
a foot: That as I lived quite on the other side of the
island, he would never have been so simple to leave a
mark in a place where it was ten thousand to one
whether I should ever see it or not, and in the sand
too, which the first surge of the sea upon an high
wind would have defaced entirely: All this seemed
inconsistent with the thing itself, and with all
notions we usually entertain of the subtlety of the
devil.
O 2 Abundance
Abundance of such things as these assisted to
argue me out of all apprehensions of its being the
devil: And I presently concluded that it must be
some more dangerous creature; viz. That it must
be some of the savages of the main land over-against
me, who had wandered out to sea in their canoes,
and, either driven by the currents, or by contrary
winds, had made the island; and had been on shore,
but were gone away again to sea, being as loth,
perhaps, to have staid in this desolate island, as I
would have been to have had them.
While these reflections wrere rolling upon my mind,
I was very thankful in my thought, that I was so
happy as not to be thereabouts at that time, or that
they did not fee my boat, by which they would have
concluded, that some inhabitants had been in the
place, and perhaps have searched farther for me;
Then terrible thoughts racked my imaginations
about their having found my boat, and that there
were people here; and that if so, I should certainly
have them come again in greater numbers, and
devour me; that if it should happen so that they
should not find me, yet they would find my inclo-
sure, destroy all my corn, carry away all my flock
of tame goats, and I should perislr at last for mere
want.
Thus my fear banished all my religious hope; all
that former confidence in God, which was founded
upon such wonderful experience as I had had of his
goodness, now vanished; as if he that had fed me by
miracle hitherto, could not preserve by his power
the provision which he had made for me by his
goodness. I reproached myself writh my uneasiness
that
that I would not sow any more corn one year, than
would just serve me till the next season, as if no
accident could intervene to prevent my enjoying the
'crop that was upon the ground: And this I thought
so just a reproof, that I resolved for the future to
have two or three years corn before-hand, so that
whatever might come, I might not perish for want
of bread.
How strange a chequer-work of Providence is the
life of man! And by what secret differing springs are
the affections hurried about, as differing circumstances
present! To day we love what to-morrow we hate;
to day we seek what to-morrow we fliun; to day we
desire what to-morrow we fear; nay, even tremble
at the apprehensions of. This was exemplified in me
at this time in the most lively manner imaginable;
for I, whose only affliction was, that I seemed
banished from human society, that I was alone, cir-
cumscribed by the boundless ocean, cut off from
mankind, and condemned to what I call a silent life;
that I was as one whom heaven thought not worthy
to be numbered among the living, or to appear among
the rest of his creatures; that to have seen one of my
own species, would have seemed to me a raising
me from death to life, and the greatest blessing that
heaven itself, next to the supreme blessing of salvation,
could bestow; I sav, that I should now tremble at
the very apprehensions of seeing a man, and was
ready to sink into the ground, at but the shadow, or
silent appearance of a man's having set his foot on the
island.
Such is the uneven state of human life; and it
afforded me a great many curious speculations <fter-
O 3 wardsj
wards, when I had a little recovered my first surprize;
I considered that this was the station of life the
infinitely wife and good providence of God had de-
termined for me; that as I could not foresee what
the ends of divine wisdom might be in all this, so I
was not to dispute his sovereignty, who, as I was his
creature, had an undoubted right by creation to
govern and dispose of me absolutely as he thought
fit; and who5 as I was a creature who had offended
him, had likewise a judicial right to condemn me to
what punishment he thought fit; and that it was my
part to submit to bear his indignation, because I had
sinned against him.
I then reflected, that God, who was not only
righteous, but omnipotent, as he had thought sit thus
to punish and afflict me, so he was able to deliver me;
that if he did not think sit to do it, it was my un-
questioned duty to resign myself absolutely and en-
tirely to his will: And, on the other hand, it was
my duty also to hope in him, pray to him, and
quietly to attend the dictates and directions of his.
daily providence.
These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay,
I may fay, weeks and months; and one particular
effect of my cogitations on this occasion I cannot
omit; viz. one morning early, lying in my bed, and
silled with thoughts about my danger from the ap-
pearance of savages, I found it discomposed me very
much; upon which those words of the scripture came
into my thoughts, Call upon me in the day of trouble ^
and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me.
Upon this, rising chearfully out of my bed, my
heart was not only comforted, but I was guided and
encouraged
encouraged to pray earnestly to God for deliverance:
When I had done praying, I took up my bible, and
opening it to read, the first words that presented to
me, were, Wait on the Lord, and be of good cheer, and
he jlz all strengthen thy heart: Wait, I say, on the Lord.
It is impossible to express the comfort this gave me;
and in return, I thankfully laid down the book, and
was no more fad, at least, not on that occasion.
In the middle of these cogitations, apprehension?,
and reflections, it came into my thoughts one day,
that all this might be a mere chimera of my own, and
that this foot might be the print of my own foot, when
I*came on shore from my boat: This cheared me up
a little too, and I began to persuade myself it was all
a delusion; that it was nothing else but my own
foot; and why might not I come that way from the
boat, as well as I was going that way to the boat?
Again, I considered also, that I could by no means
tell for certain where I had trod, and where I had
not; and that if at last this was only the print of my
own foot, I had played the part of those fools, who
strive to make stories of spectres and apparitions, and
then are themselves frighted at them more than any
body else.
Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad
again; for I had not stirred out of my castle for three
days and nights, so that I began to starve for pro-
vision; for I had little or nothing within doors, but
some barley-cakes and water. Then I knew that my
goats wanted to be milked too, which usually was my
evening diversion; and the poor creatures were in
great pain and inconvenience for want of it; and
O 4 indeed
flOO
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
indeed it almost spoiled some of them, and almost
dried up their milk.
Heartening myself therefore with the belief, that
this was nothing but the print of one of my own feet
(and so I might be truly said to start at my own
shadow,) I began to go abroad again, and went to
my country-house to milk my flock; but to see with
what fear I went forward, how often I looked behind
me, how I was ready, every now-and-then, to lay
down my basket, and run for my life; it would have
made any one have thought I wras haunted with an
evil conscience, or that I had been lately most terri-
bly frighted; and so indeed I had.
However, as I went down thus two or three days,
and having seen nothing, I began to be a little bolder,
and to think there was really nothing in it but my
own imagination; but I could not persuade myself
fully of this, till I should go down to the shore again,
and see this print of a foot, and measure it by my
own, and see if there was any similitude or fitness,
that I might be assured it was my own foot: But
when I came to the place first, it appeared evidently
to me, that when I laid up my boat, I could not
possibly be onshore anywhere thereabouts: Secondly,
•when I came to measure the mark with my own foot,
I found my foot not so large by a great deal: Both
these things silled my head with new imaginations,
and gave me the vapours again to the highest degree;
so that I shook with cold, like one in an ague, and I
went home again, filled with the belief, that some
man or men had been on shore there; dr, in short,
that the island was inhabited, and I might be sur-
prized
10^ 'HOSn^ID KOSMiaO'S so
I 6OUOp pt!IJ J JI ipUJM f 39Ur.l9Aq9p piir 33U3pp Attf
joj ^lopq ?uop prq j se c99U9piAo.id siq uodn Sin
-rpi pur. c$p.nqp Am in ctoq o\ SiuLio Aq 'puiiu Am
OjOdlUOD O} 9lip 3qn AAOU }OU pip \ JLO.J' lUIlj
U9:>yyioj prq ctoq irq) naq cunq uodn S9up
~JII:lkI 3tP mP -Muo ion p^upqdmoo oq.w 'jmig 9qq
4H[Snoip j cp?-qooj j Wvirq 03 podoq j rcip 'ajipind
01 pqjn j uopruSipi 9ip uioij 9{quOi] sup in p\px
3rqi 3011 prq j 'sup qr unp opoAA seay ipupA cmq
f Uioqr snopuir 9jr 9a\. q3iqA\ ]iA9 9ip urqi upnut
i(q .I9}r9i3 cApp:ur jo ipp.mq sip puy 9aa pur f S9/.9
oqj 0} }U9-irddr u^ijav 'qopi x^Surp unp SinAj
-11.193 9 .tout S9iup puiqnoip U9} si asSur.p .yo ar?j snqx,
•9Aoqr sr csinodrA jo \\n$ srA\pr9q Am pur 49iu uodn
t[p.IJ- 9-19AY ptlTUI All! Uil.I-.l9AO Of pri{ U3TUAV suoyiuvq
-9.tddr 9q^ 9qqAA cuirSr 9iuoq omoo srAv y i9qr 'uop.
-rqSoD spqSiu jpy 3qi 10 svpfqry 9ip 9.ioav qpqj^
•Sui <Kpqui sue y/13d 3 up \r.o
puy 0} .i9pao ut eJ3ipuq qo-oj 0.) poplvao.id 9q pin*
^uoprnqrq Am jo ssSpjoA Av.v. 39} 3011 uiSpui Xsip
r-q^ ciU3; pur i3A\oq aiu qq«oiu3p 03 U3ip t puiqu 3ip
3U9nb9.q 03 p^idmo-id 9q 03 qpj pur £3J3ip inrxS r
upny puy }ou rqSuui A3up ^rqi £sppy-u.io3 oau Am dn
SuiSSip jo Suiip 3}diuy 9ip 0.7 U3ip \ A;ooq sqq 3ip
10 c9iurj sq} jo updjoid ui pur[ii sq} Hi3nb9.iT U9ip
pur ciu3q) puy ion rqSnu AiU9U9 9ip ^rq] cspooAV 9ip
o;ut pjtav 3p]r3 zmv.i Am qr uim pur 6S9.injopui Ian
UAVop Avojqi 01 4srA\ ipjAiu 03 p9jodoid 1 Suup 3j.iy
9lLL 'PIP-1 zpvj 10Jr s-t?if° uojr3.T qoiqAv sursui
3joip jo 3jn 3qi jo ui9qi ssAudsp 31 \ -irsjipiAv p3U9^od
U3q'v\ c3qr^ U9ui suopnjoj3.i snopasipLi reuA\ q
•]oa A\3uq 1 cAqm33j Am j a;
sqr^ 03 3jino9 ^Bq/A pur i 9,irA\r sea\ i 9ioj3q pszud
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
had, at least, been more chearfully supported under
this new surprize, and perhaps carried through it
with more resolution.
This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking all
night; but in the morning I fell asleep, and having
by the amusement of my mind been, as it were, tried,
and my spirits exhausted, I slept very soundly, and
awaked much better composed than I had ever been
before: And now I began to think sedately; and,
upon the utmost debate with myself, I concluded,
that this island, which was so exceeding pleasant,
fruitful, and no farther from the main land than as I
had seen, was not so entirely abandoned as I might
imagine: That although there were no stated in-
habitants who lived on the spot; yet that there might
sometimes come boats ofl: from the stiore, who either
with design, or perhaps never but when they were
driven by cross winds, might come to this place.
That I had lived here 15 years now, and had not
met with the least siiadow or figure of any people be-
fore; and that if at any time they should be driven
here, it was probable they went away again as soon
as ever they could, seeing they had never thought fit
to fix thereupon any occasion, to this time.
That the most I could suggest any danger from,
was, from any such casual accidental landing of
straggling people from the main, who, as it was
likely, if they were driven hither, were here against
their wills; so they made no stay here, but went off
again with all possible speed, seldom staying one night
onfliore, lest they should not have the help of the
tides and day-light back again; and that therefore I
had
had nothing to do but to consider of some safe retreat,
In case I should see any savages land upon the spot.
Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug
my cave so large, as to bring a door through again,
v^hich door, as I said, came out beyond where my
fortification joined to the rock. Upon maturely
considering this, therefore, I resolved to draw me
a second fortification, in the manner of a semi-
circle, at a distance from my wall, just where I had
planted a double row of trees about twelve years be-
fore, of which I made mention: these trees having
been planted so thick before, there wanted but a
few piles to be driven between them, that they
should be thicker and stronger, and my wall would
be soon finished.
So that I had now a double wall, and my outer
wall was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables,
and every thing I could think of to make it strong;
having in it seven little holes, about as big as I might
put my arm out at. In the inside of this I thickened
my wall to about ten feet thick, continually bring-
ing earth out of my cave, and laying it at the foot of
the wall, and walking upon it; and through the
seven holes I contrived to plant the m usque ts, of
which I took notice that I got seven on fliore out of
the ship; these, s say, I planted like my cannon,
and fitted them into frames that held them like a car-
riage, that ib I could sire all the seven guns in two
minutes time; this wall I was many a weary month
in finishing, and yet never thought myself late till it
was done.
When this was done, I stuck all the ground with-
out ray wall, for a great way every way, as full with
stakes
ADVENTURES
stakes or sticks of the osier-like wood, which I found
so apt to grow, as they could well (land; insomuch
that I believe I might set in near twenty thousand of
them, leaving a pretty large space between them
and my wall, that I might have room to see an
enemy, and they might have no shelter from the
young trees, if they attempted to approach my
outer wail.
Thus in two years time I had a thick grove; and
in five or six years time I had a wood before my
dwelling, grown so monstrous thick and strong,
that it was indeed perfectly impassable; and no man
of what kind soever would ever imagine that there
was any thing beyond it, much less an habitation:
as for the way I proposed myself to go in and out (for
I left no avenue) it was by setting two ladders; one
to a part of the rock which was low, and then broke
in, and left room to place another ladder upon that;
so when the two ladders were taken down, no man
living could come down to me without mifchiesing
himself; and if they had come down, they were still
on the outside of my outer walk
Thus I took all the measures human prudence
could suggest for my own preservation; and it will
be seen at length, that they were not altogether with-
out just reason; though I foresaw nothing at that
time more than my mere sear suggested.
While this was doing, I was not altogether care-
less of my other affairs; for I had a great concern
upon me for my little herd of goats; they were not
only a present supply to me upon every occasion, and
began to be sufficient for me, without the expence of
powder and shot, but also abated the fatigue of my
hunting
hunting after the wild ones; and I was loth to lose
the advantage of them, and to have them all to nurse
up over again.
To this purpose, after long consideration, I could
think but of two ways to preserve them; one was
to find another convenient place to dig a cave under
ground, and to drive them into it every night; and
the other was to inclose two or three little bits of
land, remote from one another, and as much con-
cealed as I could, where I might keep about half
a dozen young goats in each place; so that if any
disaster happened to the flock in general, 1 might be
able to raise them again with little trouble and time:
and this, though it wrould require a great deal of
time and labour, I thought was the most rational
design.
Accordingly I spent some time, to find out the
most retired parts of the island; and I pitched upon
one, which was as private indeed as my heart could
wish; for it was a little damp piece of ground in the
middle of the hollow and thick woods, where, as is
observed, I almost lost myself once before, endea-
vouring to tome back that way from the eastern part
of the island: here I found a clear piece of land
near three acres, so surrounded with w7oods, that it
was almost an inclosure by nature; at least it did not
want near so much labour to make it so, as the other
pieces of ground I had worked so hard at.
I immediately went to work with this piece of
ground, and in less than a month's time I had so
fenced it round, that my flock or herd, call it which
you please, which were not so wild now as at first
they might be supposed to be, were well enough
secured
secured in it. So withbut any farther delay, I re-
moved ten flie goats and two he goats to this piece;
and when there, I continued to perfect the fence9
till I had made it as secure as the other, which, how-
ever, I did at more leisure, and it took me up more
time by a great deal.
All this labour I was at the expence of, purely
from my apprehensions on the account of the print
of a man's foot which I had seen; for as yet, I never
saw any human creature come near the island, and I
had now lived two years under these uneasinesses,
which indeed made my life much less comfortable
than it was before; as may well be imagined, by any
who know what it is to live in the constant snare of
the fear of man; and this I must observe with grief
too, that the discomposure of my mind had too great
impressions also upon the religious part of my
thoughts; for the dread and terror of falling into
the hands of savages and cannibals lay so upon my
spirits, that I seldom found myself in a due temper
for application to my Maker; at least, not with the
sedate calmness and resignation of soul which I was
wont to do. I rather prayed to God as under great
affliction and pressure of mind, surrounded writh
danger, and in expectation every night of being
murdered and devoured before the morning; and I
must testify from my experience, that a temper of
peace, thankfulness, love and affection, is much
more, the proper frame for prayer than that of terror
and discomposure; and that under the dread of mis-
chief impending, a man is no more fit for a comfort-
ing performance of the duty of praying to God, than
he is for repentance on a sick bed 5 for these dis-
composures
composures affect: the mind as the others do the body;
and the discomposure of the mind must necessarily
be as great a disability as that of the body, and much
greater; praying to God being properly an act of
the mind, not of the body-
But to go on; after I had thus secured one part
of my little living stock, I went about the whole •
island, searching for another private place, to make
such another deposit; when wandering more to the
west point of the island than I had ever done yet, and
looking out to sea, I thought I saw a boat upon
the sea at a great distance; I .had found a
perspective glass or two in one of the seamen's
chests, which I saved out of our ship; but I had it
not about me, and this was so remote, that I could
not tell what to make of it, though I looked at it till
my eyes were not able to look any longer; whether
it was a boat, or not, I do not know; but as I de-
scended from the hill, I could see no more of it, so
I gave it over; only I resolved to go no more with-
out a perspective glass in my pocket.
When I was come down the hill, to the end of
the island, where indeed I had never been before, I
was presently convinced, that the seeing the print of
a man's foot, was not such a strange thing in the
island as I imagined; and, but that it was a special
Providence that I was cast upon the side of the island
where the savages never came, I should easily have
known, that nothing was more frequent than for
the canoes from the main, when they happened to
be a little too far out at sea, to shoot over to that side
of the island for harbour; likewise, as they often met,
and fought in their canoes, the victors, having taken
any prisoners, would bring them over to this shore,
where,
where, according to their dreadful customs, being all
cannibals, they would kill and eat them: of which
hereafter*
When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I
said above, being the S, W. point of the island, I
was perfectly confounded and amazed; nor is it
possible for me to express the horror of my mind, at
feeing the snore spread with skulls, hands, feet, and
other bones of human bodies; and particularly I ob-
served a place where there had been a fire made, and
a circle dug in the earth, like a cock-pit, where it is
supposed the savage wretches had fat down to their
inhuman feastings upon the bodies of their fellow-
creatures.
I was so astonished with the sirfit of these things,
that I entertained no notions of any danger to myself
from it, for a long while; all my apprehensions
were buried in the thoughts of such a pitch of inhu-
man, hellish brutality, and the horror of the degene-
racy of human nature; which, though I had heard
of often, yet I never had so near a view of before j
in short, I turned away my face from the horrid spec-
tacle; my stomach grew sick, and I was just at the
point of fainting, when nature discharged the disorder
from my stomach, and, having vomited with an un-
common violence, I was a little relieved, but could
not bear to stay in the place a moment; sol got me
up the hill again with all the speed I could, and
walked on towards my own habitation.
When I came a little out of that part of the islands
I stood still awhile as amazed; and then recovering
myself, I looked up with the utmost affection of my
soul, and, with a flood of tears in my eyes, gave
God
God thanks., that had cast my first lot in a part of the
world where 1 was distinguished from such dreadful
creatures as these; and that though I had esteemed
my present condition very miserable, had yet given
me so many comforts in it, that I had still more to
give thanks for than to complain of; and this above
all, that I had, even in this miserable condition,
been comforted with the knowledge of himself, and
the hope of his blessing, which was a felicity more
than sufficiently equivalent to all the misery which I
had suffered, or could suffer.
In this frame of thankfulness I went home to my
castle, andbegan to be much easier now, as to the safety
of my circumstances, than ever I was before; for I
observed, that these wretches never came to this
island in search of what they could get; perhaps not
seeking, not wanting, or not expecting, any thing
here; and having often, no doubt, been up in the
covered woody part of it, without finding any thing
to their purpose: I knew, I had been here now almost
eighteen years, and never saw the least footsteps of a
human creature there before; and might be here
eighteen more as entirely concealed as I was now7, if
I did not discover myself to them, which I had no
manner of occasion to do, it being my only business
to keep myself entirely concealed where I was, unless
I found a better fort of creatures than canibals to
make myself known to.
Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage
wretches that I have been speaking of, and of the
wretched inhuman custom of their devouring and
eating one another up, that I continued pensive and
sad, and kept close within my own circle for almost
Vol. L P two
two years after this: when I fay my own cifcfey I
mean by it my three plantations, viz. my castle, my
country-feat, which I called my bower, and my in-
closure in the woods; nor did I look after this for
any other use than as an inclosure for my goats; for
the aversion which nature gave me to these hellish
wretches was such, ;that I was as fearful of seeing
them as of seeing the devil himself; nor did I so
much as go to look after my boat in all this time, but
began rather to think of making me another; for I
could not think of ever .making any more attempts
to bring, the other boat round the island to me, lest I
should meet with some of those creatures at sea, in
which, if I had happened to have fallen into their
hands, I knew what would have been my lot.
Time, however, and the satisfaction I had, that I
was in no danger of being discovered by these people,
began to wear off my uneasiness, about them; and I
began to live just in the fame composed manner as
before; only with this difference, that I used more
caution,, and kept my eyes more about me than I
did before, lest I sliould happen to be seen by any of
them; and particularly, I was more cautious of fir-
ing my gun, lest any of them on the island should
happen to hear it; and it was therefore a very good
'providence to me, that I had furnished myself with a
tame breed of goats, that I had no need to hunt any
more about the woods, or stioot at them; and if I
did catch any more of them after this, it was by traps
and snares, as I had done before; so that for two
years after this, I believe I never fired my gun once off,
though I never went out without it; and, which was
more, as I had saved three pistols out of the .ship, I always
'carried
211
ferried, them out with me, or at least two of them,
sticking them in my goat-skin belt: I likewise fur-
bished up one of the great cutlasses that I had out of
the ship, and made me a belt to put it in also; so that
I was now a most formidable fellow to look at when
I went abroad, if you add to the former description
of myself, the particular of two pistols, and a great
broad-swords hanging at my side in a belt, but with-
out a scabbard.
Things going on thuSj as I have said, fof" some
time, I seemed, excepting these cautions, to be re-
duced to my former calm sedate way of living; all
these things tended to shew me more and more how
far my condition was from being miserable, com-
pared to some others; nay, to many other particu-
lars of life, which it might have pleased God to have
made my lot. It put me upon reflecting, hi>w little
repining there would be among mankind, at any
condition of life, if people would rather compare
their condition with those that are worse, in order to
be thankful* than be always comparing them with
those which are better, to assist their murmurings
and complainings.
As in my present condition there were not really
many things which I wanted, so indeed I thought
that the frights I had been in about these savage
wretches, and the concern I had been in for mv own
preservation, had taken off the edge of my invention
for my own conveniences, and I had dropt a good
design, which' I had once bent my thoughts upon;
and that was/to try if I could not make some
of my barley into malt, and then try to brew myself
some beer: this was really a whimsical thought, and
'P 2 Ire-
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
I reproved myself often for the simplicity os it; for I
presently saw there would be the want of several
things necessary to the making my beer, that it would
be impossible for me to supply; as, first, cassis to pre-
serve it in, which was a thing that, as I have ob-
served already, I could never compass; no, though
I spent not many days, but weeks, nay months, in.
attempting it, but to no purpose. In the next place,
I had no hops to make it keep, no yeast to make it
work, no copper or kettle to make it boil; and yet,
had not all these things intervened, I mean the frights
and terrors I was in about the savages, I had under-
taken it, and perhaps brought it to pass too -7
for I seldom gave any thing over without ac-
complishing it, when I once had it in my head
enough to begin it.
But my invention now ran quite another way; for
night and day I could think of nothing, but how I
might destroy some of these monsters in their cruel
bloody entertainment, and, if possible, save the vic-
tim they should bring hither to destroy. It would
take up a larger volume than this whole work is in-
tended to be, to set down all the contrivances I
hatched, or rather blooded upon in my thoughts*
for the destroying these creatures, or at least frighten*
ing them, so as to prevent their coming hither any-
more; but all was abortive; nothing could be pos-
sible to take effect, unless I was to be there to do it
myself; and what could one man do among them,
when perhaps there might be twenty or thirty of
them together, with their darts, or their bows and
arrows, with which they could shoot as true to a
mark as I could with my gun?
Sometimes
Sometimes I contrived to dig an hole under the
place wherethey made their fire, and put in five or six
pounds of gunpowder, which,when they kindled their
fire, would consequently take fire, and blow up all
that was near it; but, as in the first: place I should
be very loth to waste so much powder upon them,
my store being now within the quantity of a barrel,
so neither could I be sure of its going off at any cer-
tain time, when it might surprize them; and, at
best, that it would do little more than just blow the
fire about their ears, and fright them, but not suffi-
cient to make them forsake the place; so I laid it
aside, and then proposed, that I would place myself
in ambush, in some convenient place, with my three
guns all double-loaded, and in the middle of their
bloody ceremony let fly at them, when I should be sure
to kill or wound perhaps two or three at every shoot;
and then falling in upon them with my three pistols,
and my sword, I made no doubt but that, if there
were twenty, I should kill them all: this fancy pleased
my thoughts for some weeks, and I was so full of it
that I often dreamt of it; and sometimes, that I was
just going to let fly at them in my steep.
I went so far with it in my indignation, that I em-
.ployedmyself several clays to find out proper places to
put myself in ambuscade, as I said, to watch for them;
and I went frequently to the place itself, which was
now grown more familiar to me; and especially
while my mind was thus filled with thoughts of re-
venge, and of a bloody putting twenty or thirty of
them to the sword, as I may call it; but the horror
I had at the place, and at the signals of the barba-
P 3 rous
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
rous wretches devouring one another, abated my
malice.
Weil, at length I found a place in the side of the
hill, where I was satisfied I might securely wait till I
saw any of the boats coming, and might then, even
before they would be ready to come on shore, convey
myself unseen into thickets of trees, in one of which
there was an hollow large enough to conceal me en-
tirely; and where I might fit, and observe all their
bloody doings, and take my full aim at their heads,
when they were so close together, as that it would
be next to impossible that I should miss my (hoot, or
that I could fail wounding three or four of them at
the first shoot.
In this place then I resolved to fix my design; and
accordingly I prepared two muskets and my ordi-
nary fowling-piece. The two muskets I loaded with a
brace of flugs each, and four or five smaller bullets,
about the size of pistol-bullets, and the fowling-piece
I loaded with near an handful of swan-snot, of the
largest size; I also loaded my pistols with about four
bullets each: and in this posture, well provided with
ammunition for a second and third charge, I prepared
myself for my expedition.
After I had thus laid the scheme for my design, and
in my imagination put it in practice, I continually
made my tour every morning up to the top of the hill,
which was from my castle, as I called it, about three
miles or more, to fee if I could observe any boats
upon the sea, coming near the island, or standing
over towards it; but I began to tire of this hard
duty, after I had for two or three months constantly
kept my watch; but came always back without any
discovery,
-discovery, there having not in all that time been the
least appearance, not only on or near the shore, but
not on the whole ocean, so far as my eyes or glasses
could reach every way.
As long as I kept up my daily tour to the hill to
look out, so long also I kept up the vigour of my de-
sign, and my spirits seemed to be all the while in a
suitable frame for so outrageous an execution, as
the killing twenty or thirty naked savages for an
offence, which I had not at all entered into a discus-
sion of in my thoughts, any further than my passions
were at first fired by the horror I conceived at the
unnatural custom of the people of that country, who,
it seems, had been suffered by Providence, in his
wife disposition of the world, to have no other guide
than that of their own abominable and vitiated pas-
sions; and consequently were left, and perhaps had
been for some ages, to act such horrid things, and
receive such dreadful customs, as nothing but nature,
entirely abandoned of Heaven, and actuated by some
hellish degeneracy, could have run them into; but
now, when, as I have said, I beean to be wearv of
the fruitless excursion which I had made so long, and
so far, every morning in vain; so my opinion of the
action itself began to alter, and I began, with cooler
and calmer thoughts, to consider what it was 1 was
going to engage in; what authority or call I had
to pretend to be judge and executioner upon these
men as criminals, whom Heaven had thought sit for
so many ages to suffer, unpunished, to go on, and
to be, as it were, the executioners of his judgments
upon one another; also, how far these people were
offenders against me, and what right I had to "en-
gage in the quarrel of that blood, which they shed
promiscuously one upon another. I debated this very
often with myself thus: How do I know what God
himself judges in this particular cafe? It is certain
these people do not commit this as a crime; it is not
against their own consciences reproving, or their
light reproaching them. They do not know it to be
an offence, and then commit it in defiance of divine
justice, as we do in almost all the fins we commit.
They think it no more a crime to kill a captive taken
in war, than we do to kill an ox; nor to eat human
flesh, than we do to eat mutton.
When I had considered this a little, it followed
necessarily, that I was certainly in the wrong in it;
that these people were not murderers in the fense that
I had before condemned them in my thoughts, any-
more than those Christians were murderers, who
often put to death the prisoners taken in battle, or
more frequently, upon many occasions, put whole
troops of men to the sword, without giving quarter,
though they threw down their arms and submitted.
In the next place, it occurred to me, that aibeit
the usage they gave one another was thus brutish and
inhuman, yet it was really nothing to me: these peo-
ple had done me no injury: that if they attempted
me, or I saw it necessary for my immediate preserva-
tion to fall upon them, something might be said for
It; but that I was yet out of their power, and they
had really no knowledge of me, and consequently no
design upon me; and therefore it could not be just
for me to fall upon them: that this w ould justify the
conduct of the Spaniards, in all their barbarities
practised in America, where they destroyed millions
of
of these people, who, however they were Idolaters
and barbarians, and had several bloody and barba-
rous rites in these customs, such as sacrificing human
bodies to their idols, were yet, as to the Spaniards,
very innocent people; and that the rooting them out
of the country is spoken of with the utmost abhor-
rence and detestation, even by the Spaniards them-
selves, at this time, and by all other Christian nations
of Europe, as a mere butchery, a bloody and unnatu-
ral piece of cruelty, unjustifiable either to God or
man; and such, as for which the very name of a
Spaniard is reckoned to be frightful and terrible to
all people of humanity, or of Christian compassion.:
as if the kingdom of Spain were particularly eminent
for the product of a race of men, who were without
principles of tenderness, or the common bowels of
pity to the miserable, which is reckoned to be a mark
of a generous temper in the mind.
These considerations really put me to a pause, and
to a kind of a full stop; and I began by little and
little to be off of my design, and to conclude I had
taken a wrong measure in my resolutions to attack the
savages; that it was not my business to meddle with
them, unless they first attacked me, and this it was
my business, if possible, to prevent; but that, if I
were discovered and attacked, then I knew my duty.
On the other hand, I argued with myself, that
this really was the way not to deliver myself, but en-
tirely to ruin and destroy myself; for unless I was
sure to kill every one that not only should be on shore
at that time, but that should ever come on shore
afterwards, if but one of them escaped to tell their
£Puntry-peopIe what had happened, they would
come
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
come over again by thousands to revenge the death
of their fellows ; and I should only bring upon myself
a certain destruction, which at present I had no man-
ner of occasion for.
Upon the whole, I concluded, that neither in
principles nor in policy, I ought one way or other to
concern myself in this affair: that my business was,
by all possible means to conceal myself from them,
and not to leave the least signal to them to guess by,
that there were any living creatures upon the island,
I mean of human shape.
Religion joined in with this prudential, and I was
convinced now many ways that I was perfectly out
of my duty, when I was laying all my bloody schemes
for the destruction of innocent creatures, I mean in-
nocent as to me; as to the crimes they were guilty of
towards one another, I had nothing to do with them;
they were national punishments to make a just retri-
bution for national offences; and to bring public
judgments upon those who offend in a public manner,
by such ways as best please God.
This appeared so clear to me now, that nothing
was a greater satisfaction to me, than that I had not
been suffered to do a thing which I now saw so much
reason to believe would have been no less a sin than
that of wilful murder, if I had committed it; and I
gave most humble thanks on my knees to God, that
had thus delivered me from blood-guiltiness; be-
seeching him to grant me the protection of his Provi-
dence, that I might not fall into the hands of barba-
rians; or that I might not lay my hands upon them,
unless I had a more clear call from Heaven to clo it,
in defence of jny own life,
In
In this disposition I continued for near a year after
this: and so far was I from desiring an occasion for
falling upon these wretches, that in all that time I
never once went up the hill to fee whether there were
any of them in fight, or to know whether any of
them had been on lhore there, or not; that I might
not be tempted to renew any of my contrivances
against them, or be piovoked, by any advantage
which might present itself, to fall upon them; only
this I did, I went and removed my boat, which I
had on the other side of the island, and carried it
down to the east end of the whole island, where I ran
it into a little cove which I found under some high
rocks, and where I knew, by reason of the currents,
the savages durst not, at least would not, come with
their boats upon any account whatsoever.
With my boat I carried away every thing that I
had left there belonging to her, though not necessary
for the bare going thither; viz. a mast and sail, which
I had made for her, and a thing like an anchor, but
indeed, which could not be called either anchor or
grappling; however, it was the best I could make of
its kind. All these I removed, that there might not
be the least shadow of any discovery, or any ap-
pearance of any boat, or of any habitation upon the
island.
Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more retired
than ever, and seldom went from my cell, other tlran
upon my constant employment, viz. to milk my Ihe-
goats, and manage my little flock in the wood, which,
as it was quite on the other part of the island, was
quite out of danger: for certain it is, that these savage
people, who sometimes haunted this island, never
came
came with any thoughts of finding any thing here,
and consequently never wandered off from the coast j
and I doubt not but they might have been several
times on shore, after my apprehensions of them had
made me cautious, as well as before; and indeed I
looked back with some horror upon the thoughts of
what my condition would have been, if I had chopped
upon them, and been discovered before that, when
naked and unarmed, except with one gun, and that-
loaded often only with small shot. I walked every
where, peeping and peering about the island, to fee
what I could get: what a surprize should I have been
in, if, when I discovered the print of a man's foot^
1 had instead of that seen fifteen or twenty savages,
and found them pursuing me, and, by the swiftness
of their running, no possibility ot my escaping
them!
The thoughts of this sometimes sank my very foul
within me, and distressed my mind so much,. that I
could not soon recover it; to think what I should
have done, and how I not only should not have been
able to resist them, but even should not have had
presence of mind enough to do what I might have
done; much less what now, after so much considera-
tion and preparation, I might be able to do. Indeed,
after serious thinking of these things, I would be very
melancholy, and sometimes it would last a great
while; but I resolved it at last all into thankfulness
to that Providence which had delivered me from so
many unseen dangers, and had kept me from those
mischiefs, which I could no way have been the agent
in delivering myself from; because 1 had not the least
notion.
12 X
notion of any such thing depending, or the least sup-
position of its being possible.
This renewed a contemplation, which often had
come to my thoughts in former time, when first I be-
gan to fee the merciful dispositions of Heaven, in the
dangers we run through in this life; how wonder-
fully we are delivered when we know nothing of it:
how, when we are in a quandary (as we call it), a doubt
or hesitation, whether to go this way, or that way,
a secret hint shall direct us this way, when we in-
tended to go another way; nay, when fense, our
own inclination, and perhaps business, has called to
go the other way, yet a strange impression upon the
mind, from we know not what springs, and by we
know not what power, snail over-rule us to go this
way; and it snail afterwards appear, that had we gone
that way which we would have gone, and even to our
imagination ought to have gone, we should have been
ruined and lost; upon these, and many like reflec-
tions, I afterwards made it a certain rule with me?
that whenever I found those secret hints, or pressings
of my mind, to doing or not doing any thing that-
presented, cr to going this way or that way, I never
failed to obey the secret dictate; though I knew no
other reason for it, than that such a pressure, or such
an hint, hung upon my mind: I could give many
examples of the success of this conduct in the course
of my life; but more especially in the latter part of
my inhabiting this unhappy island; besides many
occasions which it is very likely I might have taken
notice of, if I had seen with the same eyes then that
I saw with now: But rtis never too late to be wife;
and I cannot but advise all considering men, whose
lives
422.
ADVENTURES
LIFE
lives are attended with such extraordinary incidents
as mine, or even though not so extraordinary, not to
slight such secret intimations of Providence, let them
come from what invisible intelligence they will; that
I snail not discuss, and perhaps cannot account for;
but certainly they are a proof of the converse of
ipirits, and the secret communication between those
embodied, and those unembodied; and such a proof
as can never be withstood: of which I shall have oc-
casion to give some very remarkable instances, in
the remainder of my solitary residence in this dismal
place.
I believe the reader of this will not think it strange^
if I confess that these anxieties, these constant dan-
gers I lived in, and the concern that was now upon
me, put an end to all invention, and to all the con-
trivances that I had laid for my future accommoda-
tions and conveniences. I had the care of my safety
more now upon my hands than that of my food. I
cared not to drive a nail, or chop a- stick of wood-
now, for fear the noise I should make sliould be
heard; much less would I fire a gun, for the fame'
reason; and, above all, I was very uneasy at making
any sire, lest the smoke, which is visible at a great
distance in the day, should betray me; and for this-
reason I removed that part of my business, which
required sire, such as burning of pots and pipes, &c.
into my new apartment in the wood; where, after I
had been some time, 1 found, to my unspeakable con-
solation, a mere natural cave in the earth, which went
in a vast way, and where, I dare say, no savage, had
he been at the mouth of it, would be so hardy as to
yenture in, nor indeed would any man else, but one.
who5
who, like me, wanted nothing so much as a safe
retreat.
The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a
great rock, where, by mere accident (I would fay, if
I did not fee an abundant reason to ascribe all such
tilings now to Providence), I was cutting down some
thick branches of trees to make charcoal; and before
I go on, I must observe the reason of my making this
charcoal, which was thus:
I was afraid of making a smoke about my habita-
tion, as I said before; and yet I could not live there
without baking my bread, cooking my meat, &c. so I
contrived to burn some wood here, as I had seen done
in England under turf, till it became chark, or dry
coal; and then putting the fire out, I preserved the
coal to carry home, and perform the other services,
which fire was wanting for at home, without danger
or smoke.
But this by the bye: while I was cutting down some
wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick
branch of low brushwood, or underwood, there was a
kind of hollow place: I was curious to look into it, and
getting with difficulty into the mouth of it, I found
it was pretty large, that is to fay, sufficient forme to
stand upright in it, and perhaps another with me;
but I must confess to you, I made more haste out than
I did in; when looking further into the place, which
was perfectly dark, I saw two broad shining eyes of
some creature, whether devil or man I knew not,
which twinkled like two stars, the dim light from
the cave's mouth shining directly in, and making
the reflection.
However,
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
However, after some pause, I recovered myself,
and began to call myself a thousand fools, and tell
myself, that he that was afraid to fee the devil, was
not fit to live twenty years in an island all alone, and
that I durst to believe there was nothing in this cave
that was more frightful than myself: upon this,
plucking up my courage, I took up a large firebrand,
and in I rushed again, with the stick flaming in my
hand: I had not gone three steps in, but I was al-
most as much frightened as I was before; for I
heard a very loud sigh, like that of a man in some
pain and it was followed by a broken noise, as if of
words half-expressed, and then a deep sigh again;
I stepped back, and was indeed struck with such a
surprize, that it put me into a cold sweat; and if I
had had an hat on my head, I will not answer for it
that my hair might not have listed it off. But still
plucking up my spirits as well as I could, and en-
couraging myself a little, with considering that the
power and presence of God was every-where, aud
was able to protect me; upon this I stepped forward
again, and by the light of the firebrand, holding it
up a little over my head, I saw lying on the ground
a most monstrous frightful old he-goat, just making
his will, as we fay, gasping for Use, and dying in-
deed of a mere old age.
I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out,
and he essayed to get up, but was not able to raise
himself; and I thought with myself, he might even
lie there; for if he had frightened me so, he would
certainly fright any of the savages, if any of them
should be so hardy as to come in there, while he had
any life in him,
I was
225
I was now recovered from my surprise, and began
to look round me, when I found the cave was but
very small; that is to fay, it might be about twelve
feet over, but in no manner of shape, either round or
square, no hands having ever been employjed in
making it but those of mere nature: I observed also,
that there was a place at the farther side of it that went
in farther, but so low, that it required me to creep
upon my hands and knees to get into it, and whither
it went, I knew not; so having no candle, I gave it
over for some time, but resolved to come again the
next day, provided with candles and a tinder-box,
which I had made of the lock of one of the musquets,
with some wildsire in the pan.
Accordingly, the next day, I came provided with
fix large candles of my own making, for I made very
good candles now of goats tallow7; and going into
this low place, I was obliged to creep upon all fours,
as I have said, almost ten yards; which, by the way?
I thought was a venture bold enough, considering
that I knew not how far it might go, or what was
beyond it. When I was got through the streight,
I found the roof rose higher up, I believe near twenty
feet; but never was such a glorious sight seen in the
island, I dare say, as it was, to look round the sides
and roof of this vault or cave. The walls reflected
an- hundred thousand lights to me from my two
candles; what it was in the rock, whether diamonds,
or any other precious stones, or gold, which I rather
supposed it to be, I knew not.
The place I was in was a most delightful cavity,
or grotto, of its kind, as could be expected, though
perfectly dark j the floor was dry and level, and had
Vol, I. a sort
a sort of small loose gravel upon it; so that there was
no nauseous creature to be seen; neither was there
any damp or wet on the sides of the roof: the only
difficulty in it was the entrance, which, however, as
it was a place of security, and such a retreat as I
wanted, I thought that was a convenience; so that I
was really rejoiced at the discovery, and resolved,
without any delay, to bring some of those things
which I was most anxious about to this place; par-
ticularly, I resolved to bring hither my magazine of
powder, and all my spare arms, viz. two fowling,
pieces (for I had three in all) and three musquets (for
of them I had eight in all); so I kept at my castle
only five, which stood ready mounted, like pieces
of cannon, on my outmost fence, and were ready
also to take out upon any expedition.
Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition, I
was obliged to open the barrel of powder which I
took up out of the sea, and which had been wet; and
I found, that the water had penetrated about three or
four inches into the powder on every fide, which,
caking and growing hard, had preserved the inside
like a kernel in a shell; so that I had near sixty
pounds of very good powder in the centre of the
cask; and this was an agreeable discovery to me at
that time; so I carried all away thither, never keeping-
above two or three pounds of powder with me in my
castle, for fear of a surprise of any kind; I also carried
thither all the lead I had left for bullets.
I fancied myself now like one of the antient giantsy
which were said to live in caves and holes in the rocks,,
where none could come at them; for I persuaded my-
self while I was here, if five hundred savages were to
hunt
"hunt me, they could never find me out; or if they
did, they would not venture to attack me here.
The old goat, which I found expiring, died in the
mouth of the cave the next day after I made this
discovery; and I found it much easier to dig a great
hole there, and throw him in, and cover him with
earth, than to drag him out: so I interred him
there, to prevent offence to ray nose.
I was now in my twenty-third year of residence in
this island, and was so naturalized to the place, and
to the manner of living, that could I have but enjoyed
the certainty that no savages would come to the
place to disturb me, I could have been content to
have capitulated for spending the rest of my time
there, even to the last moment, till I had laid me
down and died, like the old goat, in the cave: I had
also arrived to some little diversions and amusements,
which made the time pass more pleasantly with me a
great deal than it did before; as, first, I had taught
my Poll, as I noted before, to speak; and he did it so
familiarly, and talked so articulately and plain, thai
it was very pleasant to me'; and he lived with me no
less than six-and-twenty years: how long he might
live afterwards I knew not; though I know they
have a notion in the Brajtls^ that they live an hun-
dred years; perhaps some of my polls may be alivQ
there still, calling after Poor Robin Crusoe to this
day; I wish no Englishman the ill luck to come there
and hear them; but if he did, he would certainly
believe it was the devil. My dog was a very pleasant
and loving companion to me for no less than sixteen
years of my time, and then died of mere old age;
as for my cats, they multiplied, as I have observed,
QjZ tO
to that degree, that I was obliged to Ihoot several
of them at first, to keep them from devouring me*
and all I had; but at length, when the two old ones
I brought with me were gone, and after some time
continually driving them from me, and letting them
have no provision with me, they all ran wild into
the woods, except two or three favourites, which I
kept tame, and whose young, when they had any, I
always drowned, and these were part of my family:
besides these, I always kept two or three household
kids about me, which I taught to feed out of my
hand; and I had also more parrots which talked
pretty well, and would all call Robin Crusoe, but none
like my first; nor, indeed, did I take the pains with
any of them that I had done with him: I had also
several tame sea-fowls, whose names I know not,
which I caught upon the shore, and cut their wings;
and the little stakes, which I had planted before my
castle wall, being now grown up to a good thick
grove,, these fowls all lived among these low trees,
and bred there, which was very agreeable to me; so
that, as I said above, I began to be very well con-
tented with the life I led, if it might but have been
secured from the dread of savages.
But it was otherwise directed; and it might not be
amiss for all people who sliall meet with my story to
make this just observation from it, viz. How fre-
quently, in the course of our lives, the evil, which
in itself we seek most to shun, and which, when we
are fallen into, is the most dreadful to us, is often-
times the very means or door of our deliverance, by
which alone we can be raised again from the afflic-
tion we are fallen into: I could give many examples
of
22 9
of this in the course of my unaccountable life; but
in nothing was it more particularly remarkable, than
in the circumstances of my last years of solitary re-
sidence in this island.
It was now the month of December, as I said above,
in my twenty-third year; and this being the southern
solstice, for winter I cannot call it, was the particular
time of my harvest, and required my being pretty
much abroad in the fields; when going out pretty
early in" the morning, even before it was thorough
day-light, I was surprised with seeing a light ot some
fire upon the shore, at a distance from me of about
two miles, towards the end of the island, where I had
observed some savages had been, as before; but not
on the other side; but, to my great affliction, it was
on my side of the island,
I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and
stopped Ihort within my grove, not daring to go out,
lest I might be surprised; and yet I had no more peace
within, from the apprehensions I had, that if these
savages, in rambling over the island, should find my
corn standing, or cut, or any of my works and im-
provements, they would immediately conclude that
there were people in the place, and would then never
give over till they found me out: in this extremity
I went back directly to my castle, pulled up the lad-
der after me, having made all things without look as
wild and natural as I could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a
posture of defence; I loaded all my cannon, as I
called them, that is to fay, my musquets, which were
mounted upon my new fortification, and all my pistols,
and resolved to defend myself to the last gasp $ not
forgetting
forgetting seriously to recommend myself to the divine
protection, and earnestly to pray to God to deliver
me out of the hands of the barbarians) and in this
posture I continued about two hours, but began to be
mighty impatient for intelligence abroad, for I had
no spies to fend out.
After sitting a while longer, and musing what I
stiould do in this cafe, 1 was not able to bear sitting
in ignorance longer; so setting up my ladder to the
side of the hill, where there was a Hat place, as I
observed before, and then pulling the ladder up after
me, I set it up again, and mounted to the top of the
hill; and pulling out my perspective glass, which I
had taken on purpose, I laid me down flat on my
belly on the ground, and began to look for the
place: I presently found there were no less than
nine naked savages sitting round a small fire they had
made; not to warm them, for they had no need of
that, the weather being extreme hot; but, as I sup-,
posed, to dress some of their barbarous diet of human
flesh which they had brought with them, whether
alive or dead I could not know.
They had two canoes with them, which they had
haled up upon the shore; and as it was then tide of
ebb, they seemed to me to wait the return of the
flood to go away again. It is not easy to imagine
what confusion this sight put me into, especially'seeing
them come on my side the island, and so near me
too; but when I observed their coming must be al-,
ways with the current of the ebb, I began afterwards
to be more sedate in my mind, being satisfied that I
might go abroad with safety all the time of tide of
flood, if they were not on shore before j and having
made
made this observation, I went abroad about my har-
vest work with the more composure.
As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the tide
made to the westward, I saw them all take boat, and
row (or paddle, as we call it) all away: I should have
observed, that for an hour and more before they went
off, they went to dancing, and I could easily discern
their postures and gestures by my glasses: I could
only perceive, by my nicest observation, that they
were stark naked, and had not the least covering
upon them; but whether they were men or women?
that I could not distinguish.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two
guns upon my shoulders, and two pistols at my girdle,
and my great sword by my fide, without a scabbard
and with all the speed I was able to make, I went
away to the hill, where I had discovered the first ap-
pearance of all. As soon as I got thither, which was
not less than two hours (for I could not go apace, be-
ing so loaded with arms as I was), I perceived there had
been three canoes more of savages on that place; and
looking out further, I saw they were all at sea to-
gether, making over for the main.
This was a dreadful sight to me, especially, when
going down to the fliore, I could see the marks of
horror which the dismal work they had been about
had left behind it, viz. the blood, the bones, and
part of the flesh of human bodies, eaten and devoured
by those wretches with merriment and sport/ I
was so filled with indignation at the sight, that I be^
gan now to premeditate the destruction of the next
that I saw there, let them be who or how many soever.
<U it
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
It seemed evident to me, that the visits which they
thus made to this island were not very frequent;
for it was above fifteen months before any more of
them came on shore there again; that is to fay, I
never saw them, or any footsteps cr signals of them,
in all that time j for as to the rainy seasons, then they
are sure not to come abroad, at least not so far; yet
all this while I lived uncomfortably, by reason of the
constant apprehensions I was in of their coming upon
me by surprise; from whence I observe, that the
expectation of evil is more bitter than the suffering,
especially if there is no room to snake oif that expec-
tation or those apprehensions.
During all this time, I was in the murdering hu-
mour; and took up most of my hours, which sliould
have been better employed, in contriving how to
circumvent and fall upon them the very next time I
should see them; especially if they should be di-
vided, as they were the last time, into two parties;
nor did I consider at all, that if I killed one party,
suppose ten or a dozen, I was still the next day, or
week, or month, to kill another, and so another,
even ad tnsinihim^ till I should be at length no less
a murderer than they were in being men-eaters, and
perhaps much more so.
I spent my days now in great perplexity and
anxiety of mind, expecting that I should one day or
other fall into the hands of those merciless creatures;
if I did at any time venture abroad, it was not with-
out lo6king round me with the greatest care and
caution imaginable; and now I found, to my great
comfort, how happy it was that I had provided a tame
flock
*33
flock or herd of goats; for I durst not, upon any
account, fire my gun, especially near that side of the
stand where they usually came, lest I should alarm
the savages j and if they had fled from me now, I was
sure to have them come back again, with perhaps two
or three hundred canoes with them in a few days, and
then I knew what to expect.
However, I wore out a year and three months
more before I ever saw any more of the savages, and
then I found them again, as I shall soon observe. It
is true, they might have been there once ~or twice,
but either they made no stay, or, at least, I did not
hear them; but in the month oi May, as near as \
could calculate, and in my four and twentieth year,
I had a very strange encounter with them, of which
in its place.
The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen
or sixteen months interval, was very great; I slept
unquiet, dreamed always frightful dreams, and often
started out of my sleep in the night; in the day great
troubles overwhelmed my mind; in the night I
dreamed often of killing the savages^ and the reasons
why I might justify the doing of it: but to wave all
this for a while, it was in the middle of May, on the
sixteenth day, I think, as well as my poor wooden
calendar would reckon, for I marked all upon the
post still; I fay, it was on the sixteenth of May, that
it blew a great storm of wind all day, with a great
deal of lightning and thunder, and a very foul night
was after it: I know not what was the particular
occasion of it; but as I was reading in the bible, and
taken up with serious thoughts about my present con-
dition,
Lite AND ADVENTURES
dition, I was surprised with the noise of a gun, as i
thought, fired at sea.
This was, to be sure, a surprise of a quite different
nature from any I had met with before; for the no.
tions this put into my thoughts were quite of another
kind: I started up in the greatest haste imaginable;
and in a trice clapped up my ladder to the middle
place of the rock, and pulled it after me, and mount-
ing it the second time, got to the top of the hill; that;
very moment a flash of fire bade me listen for a second
gun, which accordingly in about half a moment I
heard, and by the sound knew that it was from that
part of the sea where I was driven out with the cur-,
* rent in my boat,
I immediately considered that this must be some
ship in distress, and that they had some comrade, or
some other ship in company, and sired these guns for
signals of distress, and to obtain help: I had this
presence of mind at that minute as to think, that
though I could not help them, it may be they might
help me; so I brought together all the dry wood I
could get at hand, and making a good handsome
pile, I set it on fire upon the hill; the wood was
dry, and blazed freely, and though the wind blew
very hard, yet it burnt fairly out, so that I was cer-
tain, if there was any such thing as a ship, they must
need fee it, and no doubt they did; for as soon as
ever my fire blazed up, I heard another gun, and
after that several others, all from the fame quarter*
I plied my fire all night long, till day broke j and
when it was broad clay, and the air cleared up, I saw
something at a great distance at sea., full east of the
island.
Island, whether a sail, or an hull, I could not distin-
guish, no not with my glasses, the distance was so
great, and the weather still something hazy also; at
least it was so out at sea.
I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon per-
ceived that it did not move; so I presently concluded
that it was a ship at anchor; and being eager, you
may be sure, to be satisfied, I took my gun in my
hand, and ran towards the south-east side of the
island, to the rocks, where I had been formerly carried
away with the current; and getting up there, the
weather by this time being perfectly clear, I could
plainly fee, to my great sorrow, the wreck of a strip
cast away in the night upon those concealed rocks
which I found when I was out in my boat; and which
jrocks, as they checked the violence of the stream,
and made a kind of counter-stream, or eddy, were
the occasion of my recovering then from the most
desperate hopeless condition that ever I had been in
jail my life.
Thus, what is one man's safety is another man's
.destruction; for it seems these men, whoever they
were being out of their knowledge, and the rocks
being wholly under water, had been driven upon
them in the night, the wind blowing hard at E. and
E. N. E. Had they seen the island, as I must neces-
sarily suppose they did not, they must, as I thought,
have endeavoured to have saved themselves on shore
by the help of their boat; but the firing of their
guns for help, especially when they saw, as I ima-
gined, my sire, filled me with many thoughts: first,
I imagined,, that, upon seeing my light, they might
have put themselves into their boat, and have en-
deavoured
deavoured to make the shore; but that the sea going
very high, they might have been cast away; other
times I imagined, that they might have lost their
boat before, as might be the cafe many .ways; as.
particularly, by the breaking of the sea upon their
ship, which many times obliges men to stave, or take
in pieces their boat; and sometimes to throw it over-
board with their own hands: other times I imagined,
they had some other ship or ships in company, who,
upon the signals of distress they had made, had taken
them up, and carried them off: other whiles I fan-
cied they were all gone off to sea in their boat, and
being hurried away by the current that I had been
formerly in, were carried out into the great ocean,
where there was nothing but misery and perishing;
and that perhaps they might by this time think of
starving, and of being in a condition to eat one
another*
As all these were but conjectures at best, so, hi
the condition I was in, I could do no more than look
upon the misery of the poor men, and pity them;
which had still this good effect on my side, that it
gave me more and more cause to give thanks to God,
who had so happily and comfortably provided for me
in my desolate condition; and that of two ships com-
panies, who were now castaway upon this part of the
world, not one life should be spared but mine.. I
learnt here again to observe, that it is very rare that
the providence of God casts us into any condition of
life so low, or any misery so great, but we may see
something or other to be thankful for, and may sec
orhers in worse circumstances than our own.
Such
Such certainly was the cafe of these men, of
whom I could not so much as fee room to suppose any
of them were saved; nothing could make it rational,
so much as to wish or expect that they did not all
perish there, except the possibility only of their being
taken up by another ship in company: and this was
but mere possibility indeed; for I saw not the least
signal or appearance of any such thing.
I cannot explain, by any possible energy of words?
what a strange longing, or hankering of desire, I felt
in my soul upon this sight; breaking out sometimes
thus: O that there had been but one or two, nay,
but one foul saved out of the ship, to have escaped
to me, that I might but have had one companion,
one fellow-creature to have spoken to me, and to
have conversed with! In all the time of my solitary-
life, I never felt so earnest, so strong a desire after
the society of my fellow-creatures, or so deep a re-
gret at the want of it-
There are some secret moving springs in the affec-
tions, which, when they are set a going by some
object in view, orbeit some object though not in view,
yet rendered present to the mind by the power of
imagination, that motion carries out the foul by its
impetuosity to such violent eager embracings of the
object, that the absence of it is insupportable.
Such were these earnest wishings, That but one
man had been saved! O that it had been but one! I
believe I repeated the words, O that it had been but
one! a thousand times; and my desires were so moved
by it, that when I spoke the words, my hands would
clinch together, and my fingers press the palms of my
hands, that if I had had any soft thing in my hand,
it
It would have crushed it involuntarily; and my teeth
in my head would strike together, and set against one
another so strong, that for some time I could not part
them again.
Let the naturalists explain these things, and the
reason and manner of them: all I can say of them,
is, to describe the fact, which was ever surprising to
me when I found it, though I knew not from what
it stiould proceed; it was doubtless the effect of ar-
dent wishes, and of strong ideas formed in my mind,
realizing the comfort which the conversation of one
o
of my fellow-christians would have been to me.
But it was not to be; either their fate, or mine,
or both, forbad it; for till the last year of my being
on this island, I never knew whether any were saved
out of that strip, or no; and had only the aflliction
seme days after to see the corpse of a drowned boy
come on shore, at the end of the island which was
next the shipwreck: he had on no clothes but a
seaman's waistcoat, a pair of open-kneed linen
drawers, and a blue linen stiirt; but nothing to direct
me so much as to guess what nation he was of: he
had nothing in his pocket but two pieces of eight,
and a tobacco-pipe; the last was to me of ten times
more value than the first.
It was now calm, and I had a great mind to ven-
ture out in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I
might find something on board that mi edit be useful
to me; but that did not altogether press me io much,
as the possibility that there might be yet some living
creature on board, whose life I might not only save,
but might, by saving that life, comfort my own to
the last degree: and this thought clung so to my
heart,
iieart, that I could not be quiet night nor day, but I
must venture out in my boat on board this wreck;
and committing the rest to God's providence, I
thought the impression was so strong upon my mind,
that it could not be resisted, that it must come from
some invisible direction, and that I should be want-
ing to myself if I did not go.
Under the powei of this impression, I hastened
back to my castle, prepared every thing for my
voyage, took a quantity of bread, a great pot for
fresh water, a compass to steer by, a bottle of rum
(for I had still a great deal of that left), a basket full
of raisins: and thus loading myself with every thing
necessary, I went down to my boat, got the water
out of her, and got her afloat, loaded all my cargo
in her, and then went home again for more: my
second cargo was a great bag full of rice, the um-
brella to set up over my head for shade, another
large pot full of fresh water, and about two dozen of
my small loaves, or barley-cakes, more than before,
with a bottle of goats milk, and a cheese; all which,
with great labour and sweat, I brought to my boat;
and praying to God to direct my voyage, I put out,
and rowing or paddling the canoe along the shore, I
came at last to the utmost point of the island, on that
side, viz. N. E, And now I was to launch out
into the ocean, and either to venture, or not to ven-
ture; I looked on the rapid currents which ran con-
stantly on both sides of the island, at a distance, and
which were very terrible to me, from the remem-
brance of the hazards had been in before, and my
heart began to sail me; for I foresaw, that if I wras
driven into either of those currents, I should be car-
ried
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
lied a vast way out to sea, and perhaps out of my
reach, or sight of the island again; and that then, as
my boat was but small, if any little gale of wind
should rise, I should be inevitably lost.
These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I began
to give over my enterprise, and having haled my boat
into a little creek on the shore, I stepped out, and sat
me down upon a little spot of rising ground, very
pensive and anxious, between fear and desire, about
my voyage; when, as I was musing, I could perceive
that the tide was turned, and the flood came on,
upon which my going was for so many hours imprac-
ticable: upon this it presently occurred to me, that
I should go up to the highest piece of ground I could
find, and observe, if I could, how the sets of the tide
or currents lay, when the flood came in, that I might
judge whether, if I was driven one way out, I might
not expect to be driven another way home, with the
fame rapidness of the currents: this thought was no
sooner in my head, but I cast my eye upon a little
hill which sufficiently overlooked the sea both ways,
and from whence I had a clear view of the currents,
or sets of the tide, and which way I was to guide
myself in my return: here I found, that as the cur-
rent of the ebb set out close by the south point of the
island, so the current of the flood set in close by the
slrore of the north-side; and that I had nothing to do
but to keep to the north of the island in my return,
and I should do well enough.
Encouraged with this observation, I resolved the
next morning to set out with the first of the tide; and
reposing myself for that night in the canoe> under
the great watch-coat I mentioned, I launched out;
I made
I made first a little out to sea full north, till I began
to feel the benefit of the current, which set eastward,
and which carried me at a great rate, and yet did not
so hurry me as the southern side current had done
before, and so as to take from me all government of
the boat; but having a strong steerage with my pad-
dle, I went, I fay, at a great rate, directly for the
wreck, and in less than two hours I came up to it.
It was a dismal sight to look at: the snip, which
by its building was Spanish, stuck fast, jambed in
between two rocks; all the stern and quarter of her
was beaten to pieces with the sea; and as her fore-
castle, which stuck in the rocks, had run on with
great violence, her main-mast and fore-mast were
brought by the board, that is to fay, broken fliort
off, but her boltfprit was found, and the head and
bow appeared firm: when I came close to her, a
dog appeared upon her, which, seeing me coming,
yelped and cried, and as soon as I called him, jumped
into the sea to come to me; and I took him into the
boat, but found him almost dead for hunger and
thirst: I gave him a cake of my bread, and he ate
like a ravenous wolf that had been starving a fort-
night in the snow: I then gave the poor creature
some fresh water, with which, if I would have let
him, he would have burst himself.
After this I went on board; the first sight I met
with was two men drowned in the cook-room, or
forecastle of the ship, with their arms fast about one
another, I concluded, as is indeed probable, that
when the {hip struck, it being in a storm, the sea
broke so high, and so continually over her, that the
men were not able to bear it, and were strangled with
Vol. I. R thg
the constant rustling in of the water, as much as if
they had been under water: besides the dog, there
was nothing left in the ship that had life, nor any
goods that I could fee, but what were spoiled by the
water: there were some cafe of liquor, whether
tvine or brandy I knew not, which lay lower in the
hold, and which, the water being ebbed out, I could
see; but they were too big to meddle with: I saw
several chests, which I believed belonged to some of
the seamen, and I got two of them into the boat with-
out examining what was in them.
Had the stern of the ship been fixed," and the fore
part broken off, I am persuaded I might have made
a good voyage j for by what I found in these two
chests, I had room to suppose the sttip had a great
deal of wealth on board; and if I may guess by the
course slie steered, soe must have been bound from
the Buenos Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata, in the
south part of America, beyond the Brasils, to the
Havanna, in the gulph of Mexico, and so perhaps
to Spain: slie had, no doubt, a great treasure in her,
fcut of no use at that time to any body; and what
became of the rest of her people I then knew not.
I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of
liquor, of about twenty gallons, which I got into my
boat with much difficulty: there were several mus-
quets in a cabin, and a great powder-horn, with
about four pounds of powder in it; as for the mus-
quets, I had no occasion for them, so I left them,
but took the powder-horn: I took a fire-sliovel and
tongs, which I wanted extremely; as also two little
brass kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate, and a
grid-iron j and with this cargo, and the dog, I came
away,
kway, the tide beginning to make home again; and
the fame evening, about an hour within night, I
reached the island again, weary and fatigued to the
last degree.
I reposed that night in the boat, and in the morn-
ing I resolved io harbour what I had gotten in my
new cave, not to carry it home to my castle: aster
refreshing myself, I got all my cargo on shore, and
began to examine the particulars: the cask of liquor
I found to be a kind of rum, but not such as we had
at the Brasils; and, in a word, not at all good; but
when I came to open the chests, I found several
things which I wanted: for example, I found in one
a fine cafe of bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and
filled with cordial waters^ fine, and very good; the
bottles held about three pints each, and were tipped
with silver; I found two pots of Very good fuccades,
or sweetmeats, so fastened also on the top, that the
salt water had not hurt them; and two more of the
same, which the water had spoiled: I found some
very good fliirts, which were very welcome to me,
and about a dozen and an half of white linen hand-
kerchiefs, and coloured neckcloths; the former were
also very welcome, being exceeding refreshing to
wipe my face in an hot day; besides this, when I
came to the till in the chests, I found there three great
bags of pieces of eight, which held about eleven
hundred pieces in all; and in one of them, wrapt
up in a paper, six doubloons of gold, and some small
bars or wedges of gold; I suppose they might all
weigh near a pound*
The other chest I found had some clothes in it, but
of little value ; but by the circumstances, it must have
R % belonged
belonged to the gunner's mate, as there was no pow-
der in it, but about two pounds of glazed pow-
der in the three flasks, kept, I suppose, for charg-
ing their fowling-pieces on occasion : upon the whole,-
I got very little by this voyage that was of much use
to me; for as to the money, I had no manner of
occasion for it; it was to me as the dirt under my
feet; and I would have given it all for three or four
pair of English shoes and stockings, which were things
I greatly wanted, but had not had on my feet now
for many years; I had, indeed, got two pair of
shoes now, which I took off the feet of the two
drowned men whom I saw in the wreck; and I
I found two pair more in one of the chests, which
were very welcome to me; but they were not like our
Engliso shoes, either for ease or service, being rather
what we call pumps than shoes: I found in the sea-
man's chest about fifty pieces of eight in royals, but
no gold; I suppose this belonged to a poorer man
than the other, which seemed to belong to some
ofneer.
Well, however, I lugged the money home to my
cave, and laid it up, as I had done that before,
which I brought from our own ship; but it was great
pity, as I said, that the other part of the ship had not
come to my share, for I am satisfied I might have
loaded my canoe several times over with money,
which, if I had ever escaped to England^ would have
lain here safe enough till I might have come again
and fetched it.
Having now brought all my things on shore, and
secured them, I went back to my boat, and rowed or
paddled her along the shore to her old harbour, where
I laid
245
I laid her up, and made the best of my way to my old
habitation, where I found every thing safe and quiet;
so I began to repose myself, live after my old fashion,
and take care of my family affairs; and for a while I
lived easy enough; only that I was more vigilant
than I used to be, looked out oftener, and did not go
abroad so much; and if at anytime I did stir with
any freedom, it was always to the east part of the
•island, where -I was pretty well satisfied the savages
never came, and where I could go without so many
precautions, and such a load of arms and ammuni-
tion as I always carried with me, if I went the other
way.
I lived in this condition near tw7o years more; but
.my unlucky head, that was always to let me know it
was born to make my body miserable, was all these
two years filled with projects and designs, how, if it
were possible, I might get away from this island; for
sometimes I was for making another voyage to the
wreck, though my reason told me, that there was
nothing left there worth the hazard of my voyage:
sometimes for a ramble one way, sometimes another;
and I believe verily, if I had had the boat that I went
from Sal/ce-in, I should have ventured to sea, bound
any where, I knew not whither,
I have been, in all my circumstances, a memento
to those who are touched with that general plague of
mankind, whence, for aught I know, one half of
their miseries flow; I mean, that of not being satis-
fied with the station wherein God and nature hath
placed them; for, not to look back upon my primi-
tive condition, and the excellent advice of my father,
•the opposition to which was, as I may call it, my
R 3 original
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
original sin, my subsequent mistakes of the fame kind
have been the means of my coming into this mise-
rable condition for had that Providence, which fa
happily had seated me at the Brasih as a planter,
blessed me with confined desires, and could I have
been contented to have gone on gradually, I might
have been by this time, I mean in the time of my
being on this island, one of the most considerable
planters in the Brasils; nay, I am persuaded, that
by the improvements I had made in that little time I
lived there, and the increase I stiould probably have
made is I had stayed, I might have been worth an
hundred thousand moidores; and what business had
I to leave a fettled fortune, well-stocked plantation,
improving and increasing, to turn supercargo to
Guinea^ to fetch Negroes, when patience and time
would have so increased our stock at home, that we
could have boueht them at our own doors, from
those whose business it was to fetch them? And
though it had cost us something more, yet the differ-
ence of that price was by no means worth saving at
so great a hazard.
But as this is ordinarily the fate of young heads, so
reflection upon the folly of it is as ordinarily the
exercise of more years, or of the dear-bought expe-
rience of time; and so it was with me now; and yet,
so deep had the mistake taken root in my temper,
that I could not satisfy myself in my station, but was
continually poring upon the means and possibility of
rny escape from this place; and that I may, with the
greater pleasure to the reader, bring on the remain-
ing part, of my story, it may not be improper to give
spme account of my first conceptions on the subject oi
this
247
this foolish scheme for my escape; and how, and
upon what foundation, I acted,
I am now to be supposed to be retired into my
castle, after my late voyage to the wreck, my frigate
laid up, and secured under water as usual, and my
condition restored to what it was before: I had
more wealth, indeed, than I had before, but was not
at all the richer; for I had no more use for it than
the Indians of Pent had before the Spaniards came
thither.
It was one of the nights, in the rainy season in
March, the four-and-twentieth year of my first setting
foot in this island of solitariness, I was lying in my
bed or hammock, awake, and very well in health,
had no pain, no distemper, no uneasiness of body,
no, nor any uneasiness of mind more than ordinary,
but could by no means close my eyes, that is, so as
to sleep; no, not a wink all night long, otherwise
than as follows:
It is as impossible, as needless, to set down the inniu
merable crowd of thoughts that whirled through that
great thoroughfare of the brain, the memory, in this,
flight's time: I ran over the whole history of my life
in miniature, or by abridgment, as I may call it, to
my coming to this island; and also of that part of
my life since I came to this island; in my reflec-
tions upon the state of my cafe, since I came on
snore on this island; I was comparing the happy
posture of my affairs, in the first years of my habita-
tion here, to that course of'anxiety, fear and care,
which I had lived in ever since I had seen the print of
a foot in the sand; not that I did not believe the sava-
ges had frequented the island even all the while, and
might have been several hundreds of them at times
R 4 on
on the shore there; but as I had never known it, and
was incapable of any apprehensions about it, my
satisfaction was perfect, though my clanger was the
fame; and I was as happy in not knowing my dan-
ger, as if I had never really been exposed to it; this,
furnished my thoughts with many very profitable
reflections, and particularly this one: How infinitely
good that Providence is, which has settled in its
government of mankind such narrow bounds to his
fight and knowledge of things; and though he walks
in the midst of so many thousand dangers, the sight
of which, if discovered to him, would distract his
mind, and sink his spirits, he is kept serene and
calm, by having the events of things hid from his
eyes, and knowing nothing of the dangers which sur-
round him.
After these thoughts had for some time entertained
me, I came to reflect seriously upon the real danger
I had been in for so many years in this very island;
and how I had walked about in the greatest security,
and with all possible tranquillity, even perhaps when
nothing but a brow on a hill, a great tree, or the
casual approach of night, had been between me and
the worst kind of destruction, viz. that of falling
into the hands of canibals and savages, who woufei
have seized on me with the same view as I did on a
goat or a turtle, and have thought it no more a crime
to kill and devour me, than I did of a pigeon or a
curlieu; I should unjustly slander myself, if I Ihould
say I was not sincerely thankful to my great Preserver,
to whose singular protection I acknowledged, with
great humility, that all these unknown deliveran-
ces were due, and without which I ihould inevitably
have fallen into their merciless hands.
When
249
When these thoughts were over, my head was for
some time taken up in considering the nature of these
wretched creatures, I mean, the savages; and how
it came to pass in the world, that the wife Governor
of all things should give up any of his creatures to
such inhumanity, nay, to something so much below
even brutality itself, as to devour its own kind: but
as this ended in some (at that time fruitless) specula-
tions, it occurred to me to inquire what part of the
. world these wretches lived in; how far off the coast
was from whence they came; what they ventured so
far from home for; what kind of boats they had;
and why I might not order myself, and my business
so, that I might be as able to go over thither, as they
were to come to me.
I never so much as troubled myself to consider,
what I should do with myself when I came thither;
what should become of me if I fell into the hands of
the savages; or how I should escape from them, if
they attempted me; no, nor so much as how it was
possible for me to reach the coast, and not be attacked
by some or other of them, without any possibility of
delivering myself; and if I should not fall into their
hands, what I should do for provision, or whither j
should bend my course; none of these thoughts, I
fay, so much as came in my way; but my mind was
wholly bent upon the notion of my passing over in
my boat to the main land: I looked back upon my
present condition as the most miserable that could
possibly be; that I was not able to throw myself into
any thing but death that could be called worse; that
if I reached the shore of the main, I might, perhaps,
meet with relief j or I might coast along, as I did on
the
the shore of Africa^ till I came to some inhabited
country, and where I might find some relief j and
after all, perhaps, I might fall in with some Christian
ftip that might take me in ; and if the worst came
to the worst, I could but die, which would put an end
to all these miseries at once. Pray, note, all this
was the fruit of a disturbed mind, an impatient tem-
per, made, as it were, desperate by the long con-
tinuance of my troubles, and the disappointments I
had met in the wreck I had been on board of, and
where I had been so near the obtaining of what I so
earnestly longed for, viz. somebody to speak to, and
to learn some knowledge from of the place where I
was, and of the probable means of my deliverance;
I fay, I was agitated wholly by these thoughts. All
my calm of mind in my resignation to Providence,
and waiting the issue of the dispositions of Heaven,
seemed to be suspended; and I had, as it were, no.
power to turn my thoughts to any thing but the pro-
l*ect of a voyage to the main; which came upon me
with such force, and such an impetuosity of desire^
that it was not to be resisted,
When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours
or more, with such violence, that it set my very blood
into a ferment, and my pulse beat as high as if I had
been in a fever, merely with the extraordinary fer-
vour of my mind about it; nature, as if I had been
fatigued and exhausted with the very thought of its
threw me into a found sleep: one would have thought
I should have dreamed of it; but I did not, nor of
any thing relating to it; but I dreamed, that as I was
going out in the morning, as usual, from my castle5
I saw upon the sliore two canoes,- and eleven savages
coming
coming4 to lai)d, and that they brought with them
another savage, whom they were going to kill, in or-
der to eat him; when on a sudden, the savage that %
they were going to kill jumped away, and ran for his
life; then I thought in my sleep, that he came running
into my little thick grove, before my fortification, to
hide himself; and that I seeing him alone, and not
perceiving that the others sought him that way,
shewed myself to him, and smiling upon him, encou-
raged him: that he kneeled down to me, seeming to
pray me to assist him; upon which I shewed my lad-
der, made him go up it, and carried him into my
cave, and he became my servant; and that as soon as
I had got this man, I said to myself, Now I may
certainly venture to the main land; for this fellow will
serve me as a pilot, and will tell me what to do, and
whither to go for provisions, and whither not to go
for fear of being devoured; what places to venture
into, and what to escape. I waked with this
thought, and was under such inexpressible impressions
of joy at the prospect of my escape in my dream, that
the disappointments which I felt upon coming to my-
self, and finding it was no more than a dream, were .
equally extravagant the other way, and threw me into
very great dejection of spirit.
Upon this, however, I made this conclusion, that
my only way to go about an attempt for an escape,
was, if possible, to get a savage in my possession; and,
if possible, it should be one of their prisoners whom
they had condemned to be eaten, and should bring
hither to kill; but these thoughts still were attended
with this difficulty, that it was impossible to effect
fhis, without attacking a whole caravan of them, and
killing
killing them all; and this was not only a very
desperate attempt, and might miscarry; but, on the
other hand, I had greatly scrupled the lawfulness of
it to me, and my heart trembled at the thoughts of
shedding so much blood, though it was for my de-
liverance: I need not repeat the arguments which
occurred to me against this, they being the fame
mentioned before: but though I had other reasons to
offer now, viz. that those men were enemies to my
life, and would devour me, if they could; that it was
self-preservation, in the highest degree, to deliver my-
self from this death of a life, and was acting in my own
defence, as much as if they were actually assaulting
me, and the like; I fa^, though these things argued
for it, yet the thoughts of shedding human blood
for my deliverance were very terrible to me, and such
as I could by no means reconcile myself to a great
while.
However, at last, aster many secret disputes with
myself, and after great perplexities about it (for all
these arguments, one way and another, struggled in
my head a long time), the eager prevailing desire of
deliverance at length mastered all the rest, and I re-
solved, if possible, to get one of these savages into my
hands, cost what it would: the next thing then was
to contrive how to do it; and this indeed was very
difficult to resolve on: but as I could pitch upon no
probable means for it, so I resolved to put myself
upon the watch to see them when they came on shore,
and leave the rest to the event, taking such measures
as the opportunity should present, let it be what it
would.
With
With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself
upon the scout as often as possible, and indeed so
often, till I was heartily tired of it $ for it was above
a year and an half that I waited, and for a great part of
that time went out to the west end, and to the south-
west corner of the island, almost every day, to see the
canoes, but none appeared: this was very discourag-
Ing> and began to trouble me much; though I can't
say that it did in this cafe, as it had done some time
before that, viz. wear off the edge of my desire to the
thing; but the longer it seemed to be delayed, the
more eager I was for it: in a word, I was not at first
more careful to shun the sight of these savages, and
avoid being seen by them, than I was now eager to
be upon them.
Besides, I fancied myself able to manage one, nay,
two or three savages, if I had them, so as to make
them entirely slaves to me, to do whatever I should
direct them, and to prevent their being able, at any
time, to do me any hurt: it was a great while that
I pleased myself with this affair, but nothing still
presented; all my fancies and schemes came to
nothing, for no savages came near me for a great
while.
About a year and an half after I had entertained
these notions, and, by long musing, had, as it were
resolved them all into nothing, for want of an occasion
to put them in execution, I was surprised one morn-
ing early, with seeing no less than five canoes all on
shore together, on my side the island, and the people
who belonged to them all landed, and out of my
sight: the number of them broke all my measures;
for seeing so many, aud knowing that they always
came.
came four, or six, or sometimes more, in a boat, I
could not tell what to think of it, or how to take my
measures to attack twenty or thirty men single-
handed; so I lay still in my castle, perplexed and
discomforted; however, I put myself into all the
same postures for an attack that I had formerly pro-
vided, and Was just ready for action, if any thing
had presented: having waited a good while, listening
to hear if they made any noise; at length being very
impatient, I set my guns at the foot of my ladder, and
clambered up to the top of the hill by my two stages,
as usual; standing so, however, that my head did not
appear above the hill, so that they could not perceive
me by any means: here I observed, by the help of
my perspective glass, that they were no less thirty in
number; that they had a fire kindled, and that they
had had meat dressed; how they cooked it, that T
knew not, or what it was; but they were all dancing
in I know not how many barbarous gestures and
figures, their own way, round the fire.
When I was thus looking on them, I perceived by
my perspective two miserable wretches dragged from
the boats, where, it seems, they were laid by, and
were now brought out for the slaughter: I perceived
one of them immediately fall, being knocked down,
I suppose, with a club or wooden sword, for that was
their way; and two or three others were at work im-
mediately, cutting him open for their cookery, while
the other victim was left standing by himself, till they
should be ready for him: in that very moment this
poor wretch, seeing himself a little at liberty, nature
inspired him with hopes of life, and he started away
from them, and ran with incredible swiftness along
the
the sands, directly towards me, I mean, towards that
part of the coast where my habitation was.
I was dreadfully frighted (that I must acknow-
ledge) when I perceived him to run my way.; and
especially when, as I thought, I saw him pursued by
the whole body; and now I expected that part of
my dream was coming to pass, and that he would
certainly take shelter in my grove; but I could not
depend, by any means, upon my dream for the rest
of it, viz. that the other savages would not pursue
him thither, and find him there. However, I kept
my station, and my spirits began to recover, when I
found that there were not above three men that fol-
lowed him; and still more was I encouraged^ when
I found that he outstript them exceedingly in running,
and gained ground of them, so that if he could but
hold it for half an hour, I saw easily he would fairly
get away from them all.
There was between them and my castle the creek,
which I mentioned often at the first part of my story,
when I landed my cargoes out of the ship; and this I
knew, he must necessarily swim over, or the poor
wretch would be taken there: but when the savage
escaping came thither, he made nothing of it, though
the tide was then up; but plunging in, swam through
in about thirty strokes, or thereabouts, landed, and
ran on with exceeding strength and swiftness; when
the three pursuers came to the creek, I found that two
of them could swim, but the third could not, and
that he, standing on the other fide, looked at the
other, but went no farther; and soon after went
softly back again, which, as it happened, wras very
well for him in the main,
I observed,
I observed, that the two who swam were yet mote
than twice as long swimming over the creek than the
fellow was that fled from them: it came now very
warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly^
that now was my time to get a servant, and perhaps
a companion, or assistant, and that I was called
plainly by Providence to save this poor creature's life:
I immediately got down the ladders with all possible
expedition, fetched my two guns, for they were
both at the foot of the ladder, as I observed above;
and getting up again with the same haste to the top of
the hill, I crossed towards the sea; and having a
very short cut, and all down-hill, clapped myself in
the way between the pursuers and the pursued, hal-
looing aloud to him that fled, who, looking back,
was at first perhaps as much frighted at me as at
them; but I beckoned with my hand to him to come
back; and in the mean time, I slov.ly advanced to-
wards the two that followed; then rushing at once
upon the foremost, I knocked him down with the
stock of my piece; I was loth to fire, because I would
not have the rest hear, though at that distance it
would not have been easily heard; and being out of
sight of the smoke too, they would not have easily
known what to make of it. Having knocked this
fellow down, the other who pursued him stopped, as
if he had been frightened, and I advanced apace
towards him; but as I came nearer, I perceived pre-
sently he had a bow and arrow, and was sitting it to
ihoot at me; Ib I was then necessitated to shoot at
him first; which I did, and killed him at the first
shot. The poor savage who fled, but had stopped,
though he saw both hi§ enemies fallen, and killed
(as
(as he thought) yet was so frighted with the fire and
noise of my piece, that he stood stock-still, and
neither came forward, nor went backward, though
he seemed rather inclined to fly still, than to come
on. I hallooed again to him, and made signs to
come forward, which he easily understood, and came
a little way, then stopped again, and then a little
farther, and stopped again j and I could then perceive
that he stood trembling, as if he had been taken pri-
soner, and had just been to be killed, as his two
enemies were. I beckoned him again to come to me,
and gave him all the signs of encouragement that I
could think of; and he came nearer ana nearer,
kneeling clown every ten or twelve steps, in token of
acknowledgment for saving his life. I smiled at him,
and looked pleasantly, and beckoned to him to come
still nearer. At length he came close to me, and
then he kneeled down again, kissed the ground, and
laid his head upon the ground, and taking me by the
foot, set my foot upon his head: This, it seems, was
in token of swearing to be my slave for ever. I took
him up, and made much of him, and encouraged him
all I could. But there was more work to do yet;
for I perceived the savage, whom I knocked down,
was not killed, but stunned with the blow, and began
to come to himself: so I pointed to him, and stiewed
him the savage, that he was not dead j upon this he
spoke some words to me; and though I could not
understand them, yet I thought they were pleasant to
hear, for they were the first sound of a man's voice
that I had heard, my own excepted, for above five-
and-twenty years: but there was no time for such
reflections now: the savage, who was knocked down,
Vol, L S recovered
recovered himself so far as to sit up upon the ground j
and I perceived that my savage began to be afraid %
but when I saw that, I presented my other piece at the
man, as if I would shoot him; upon this my savage,
lor so I call him now, made a motion to me to lend
him my sword, which hung naked in a belt by my
side; so I did: he no sooner had it, but he runs to
his enemy, and at one blow cut off his head so cle-
verly, no executioner in Germany could have done
it sooner or better; which I thought it very strange
for one, who, I had reason to believe, never saw a
sword in his life before, except their own wooden
swords; however it seems, as I learned afterwards^
they make their wooden swords so sharp, so heavy,
and the wood is so hard, that they will cut off heads
even with them, nay, and arms, and that at one blow
too. When he had done this, he comes laughing
to me in sign of triumph, and brought me the sword
again, and, with abundance of gestures, which I did
not understand, laid it down, with the head of the
savage that he had killed, just before me.
But that which astonished him most was, to know
how I had killed the other Indian so far off; so point-
ing to him, he made signs to me to let him go to him:
so I bade him go, as well as I could; when he came
to him, he stood like one amazed, looking at him;
turned him first on one fide, then on t'other; looked
at the wound the bullet had made, which it seems
was just in his breast, where it had made an hole,
and no great quantity of blood had followed; but he
had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead; then he
took up his bow and arrows, and came back; so I
turned to go away, and beckoned him to follow
me?
2$9
me, making signs to him that more might come
after them.
Upon this he signed to me, that he should bury
them with sand, that they might not be seen by the
• rest, if they followed; and so I made signs again to
him to do so ;, he fell to work, and in an instant he
had scraped an hole in the sand with his hands, big
enough to bury the first in, and then dragged him
into it, and covered him, and did so also by the
other; I believe he had buried them both in a quar-
ter of an hour; then calling him away, I carried
him not to my castle, but quite away to my cave, on
the farther part of the island; so I did not let my
dream come to pass in that part; viz. that he came
into my grove for shelter.
Here I gave him bread, and a bunch of raisins to
eat, and a draught of water, which I found he was
indeed in great distress for, by his running; and
having refreshed him, I made signs for him to go lie
down and sleep, pointing to a place where I had laid
a great parcel of rice-straw, and a blanket upon it,
which I used to sleep upon myself sometimes; so the
poor creature lay down, and went to sleep.
He was a comely handsome fellow, perfectly well
made, with straight long limbs, not too large, tall,
and well-shaped, and, as I reckon, about twenty-six
years of age. He had a very good countenance, not
a fierce and surly aspect, but seemed to have some-
thing very manly in his face, and yet he had all the
sweetness and softness of an European in his coun-
tenance too, especially when he smiled: his hair was
long and black, not curled like wool j his forehead
very high and large, and a great vivacity and
S 2 sparkling
sparkling stiarpness in his eyes. The colour of hh
skin was not quite black, but very tawny, and yet
not of an ugly yellow nauseous tawny, as the Bra-
sdians and Virginians, and other natives of America
are, but of a bright kind of a dun olive colour, that
had in it something very agreeable, though not very
easy to describe. His face was round and plump,
his nose small, not flat like the negroes, a very good
mouth, thin lips, and his teeth sine, well-set, and
white as ivory: aster he had slumbered, rather than
ilept, about half an hour, he waked again, and comes
out of the cave to me, for I had been milking my
goats, which I had in the inclosure just by: when
he espied me, he came running to me, laying himself
down again upon the ground, with all the possible
signs of an humble thankful disposition, making many
antic gestures to shew it. At last he lays his head
fiat upon the ground, close to my foot, and sets' my
other foot upon his head, as he had done before; and
after this, made all the,signs to me of subjection,
servitude, and submission imaginable, to let me know
how much he would serve me as long as he lived:
I understood him in many things, and let him know
I was very well pleased with him; in a little time I
began to speak to him, and teach him to speak to
me; and first, I made him know his name should be
Friday, which was the day I saved his life; and I
called him so for the memory of the time; I likewise
taught him to say master, and then let him know that
was'tobemy name; I likewise taught him to say
Yes and No, and to know the meaning of them; I
gave him some milk in an earthen pot, and let him
see me drink it before him,' and sop my bread in it;
and
and I gave him a cake of bread to do the like, which
he quickly complied with, and made signs that it
was very good for him.
I kept there with him all that night > but as soon as
it was day, I beckoned him to come with me, and
let him know I would give him some clothes ; at which
he seemed very glad, for he was stark-naked. As
we went by the place where he had buried the two
men, he pointed exactly to the spot, and shewed me
the marks that he had made to find them again, mak-
ing signs to me that we should dig them up again,
and eat them; at this I appeared very angry, expressed
my abhorrence of it, made as if I would vomit at the
thoughts of it, and beckoned with my hand to him
to come away, which he did immediately, with great
submission: I then led him up to the top of the hill,
to see if his enemies were gone, and pulling out my
glass, I looked, and saw plainly the place where they
had been, but no appearance of them, or of their
canoes; so that it was plain that they were gone, and
had left their two comrades behind them, without any
search after them.
But I was not content with this discovery; hut
having now more courage, and consequently more
curiosity, I took my man Friday with me, giving him
the sword in his hand, with the bow and arrows at
his back, which I found he could use very dexte-
rously, making him carry one gun for me, and I two
for myself, and away we marched to the place where
these creatures had been; for I had a mind now to
get some fuller intelligence of them: when I came to
the place, my very blood ran chill in my veins, and
my heart funk within me at the horror of the spectacle:
... . S 3 indeed
Indeed it was a dreadful fight, at least it was so to me,
though Friday made nothing of it: the place was
covered with human bones, the ground dyed with
the blood, great pieces of flesh left here and there,
half-eaten, mangled, and scorched; and, in short,
all the tokens of the triumphant feast they had been
making there, after a victory over their enemies: I
saw three skulls, five hands, and the bones of three
or four legs and feet, and abundance of other parts
of the bodies; and Friday ^ by his signs, made me
understand that they brought over four prisoners to
feast upon; that three of them were eaten up, and
that he, pointing to himself, was the fourth; that
there had been a great battle between them and their
next king, whose subjects, it seems, he had been one
of; and that they had taken a great number of pri-
soners, all which were carried to several places by
those that had taken them in the flight, in order to
feast upon them, as was done here by these wretches
upon those they brought hither.
I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh,
and whatever remained, and lay them together on
an heap, and make a great fire up6n it, and burn
them all to ashes: I found Friday had still an hanker-
ing stomach after some of the flesh, and wras still a
canibal in his nature; but I discovered so much ab-
horrence at the very thoughts of it, and at the least
appearance of it, that he durst not discover it; for I
had, by some means, let him know, that I would
kill him if he offered it,
When we had done this, we came back to our
castle, and there I fell to work for my man Friday %
and first of all, I gave him a pair of linen drawers,
which
which I had out of the poor gunner's chest I men-
tioned, and which I found in the wreck; and
which, with a little alteration, fitted him very
well; then I made him a jerkin of goat's skin as
well as my skill would allow, and I was now grown
a tolerable good taylor ; and I gave him a cap, which
I had made of an hare skin, very convenient, and
fashionable enough: and thus he was dressed, for
the present, tolerably well, and mighty well was he
pleased to see himself almost as well clothed as his mas-
ter: it is true, he went awkwardly in these things at
first; wearing the drawers was very awkward to him,
and the sleeves of the waistcoat galled his shoulders
and the inside of his arms; but a little easing them,
where he complained they hurt him, and using him-
self to them, at length he took to them very well.
The next day after I came home to my hutch with
him, I began to consider where I should lodge him;
and that I might do well for him, and yet be perfectly
easy myself, I made a little tent for him in the vacant
place between my two fortifications, in the inside of
the last, and in the outside of the first: and as there
was a door or entrance there into my cave, I made a
formal framed door-case, and a door to it of boards,
and set it up in the passage, a little within the entrance;
and causing the door to open on the inside, I barred
it up in the night, taking in my ladders too; so that
Friday could no way come at me in the inside of my
innermost wall, without making so much noise in
getting over, that it must needs awaken me; for my
first wall had now a complete roof over it of long
poles, covering all my tent, and leaning up to the
Jade of the hill, which was again laid cross with small
S 4 sticks
sticks instead of laths, and then thatched over a great
thickness with the rice-straw, which was strong like
reeds; and at the hole or place which was left to go
in or out by the ladder, I had placed a kind of trap-
door, which if it had been attempted on the out-
side, would not have opened at all, but would have
fallen down, and made a great noise; and as to wea-
pons, I took them all in to my side every night.
But I seeded none of all this precaution ; for never
man had a more faithful, loving, sincere servant than.
Friday was to me; without passions, sullenness, or
designs; perfectly obliging and engaging; his very
affections were tied to me, like those of a child to a
father; and i dare fay, he would have sacrificed his
life for the saving mine, upon any occasion whatso-
ever: the man) testimonies he gave me of this put
it out of doubt; and soon convinced me, that I
needed to use no precautions as to my safety on his
account.
This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and
that with wonder, that, however it had pleased God
in his providence, and in the government of the
works of his hands, to take from so great a part of
the world of his creatures the best uses to which
their faculties, and the powers of their fouls, are
adapted; yet that he has bestowed upon them the
fame powers, the fame, reason, the same affections,
the fame sentiments of kindness and obligation, the
fame passions and resentments of wrongs, the fame
fense of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, and all the
capacities of doing good, and receiving good, that
he has given to us j and that when he pleases to offer
them occasions of exerting these, they are as ready,
nay,
nay, more ready to apply them to the right uses for
which they were bestowed, than we are. And this
made me very melancholy sometimes, in reflecting,
as the several occasions presented, how mean an use
we make of all these, even though we have these
powers enlightened by the great lamp of instruction,
the spirit of God, and by the knowledge of his word,
added to our understanding; and why it has pleased
God to hide the like saving knowledge from so many
millions of fouls, who, if I might judge by this poor
savage, would make a much better use of it than we
did.
From hence I sometimes was led too far to invade
the sovereignty of Providence; and, as it were,
arraign the justice of so arbitrary a disposition of
things, that should hide that light from some, and
reveal it to others, and yet expect a like duty from
both: but I shut it up, and checked my thoughts
with this conclusion: First, that we do not know by
what light and law these -should be condemned; but
that as God was necessarily, and by the nature of
his being, infinitely holy and just, so it could not be,
but that if these creatures were all sentenced to ab-
sence from himself, it was on account of sinning
against that light, which, as the Scripture fays, was
a law to themselves, and by such rules as their con-
sciences would acknowledge to be just, though the
foundation was not discovered to us: and, secondly,
that still, as we are all clay in the hand of the potter,
no vessel could fay to him, Why hast thou formed
me thus?
But to return to my new companion: I was greatly
delighted with him, and made it my businss to teach
him
ADVENTURES
LIFE AND
him every thing that was proper to make him useful*
handy, and helpful; but especially to make him
speak, and understand me when I spake: and he
was the aptest scholar that ever was; and particu-
larly was so merry, so constantly diligent, and so
pleased when he could but understand me, or make
me understand him, that it was very pleasant to me
to talk to him; and now my life began to be so easy,
that I began to say to myself, that could I but have
been safe from more savages, I cared not if I was
never to remove from the place while I lived.
After I had been two or three days returned to my
castle, I thought that, in order to bring Friday off
from his horrid way of feeding, and from the relish
of a canibaFs stomach, I ought to let him taste other
fiesliso I took him out with me one morning to the
woods: I went, indeed, intending to kill a kid out
of my own flock, and bring it home and *drese it:
but as I was going, I saw a she-goat lying down in
the shade, and two young kids sitting by her: I
catched hold of Friday, Hold, said I, stand still; and
made signs to him not to stir; immediately I pre-
sented my piece, fliot and killed one of the kids. The
poor creature, who had, at a distance indeed, seen me
kill the savage his enemy, .but did not know, or
could imagine how it was done, was sensibly sur-
prised, trembled and snook, and looked so amazed,
that I thought he would have sunk down: he did not
see the kid I had shot at, or perceive I had killed it
but ripped up his waistcoat to feel if he was not
wounded; and, as I found, presently thought I was
resolved to kill him; for he came and kneeled down
to me, and, embracing my knees, said a great many
things
things I did not understand; but I could easily fee
that his meaning was to pray me not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him, that I would
do him no harm; and taking him up by the hand,
laughed at him, and pointing to the kid which I had
killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which he
did; and while he was wondering and looking to fee
how the creature was killed, I loaded my gun again,
and by and bye I saw a great fowl, like an hawk, sit
upon a tree within shot; so, to let Friday understand
a little what I would do, I called him to me again,
pointing at the fowl, which was indeed a parrot,
though I thought it had been an hawk; I fay, point-
ing to the parrot, and to my gun, and to the ground
under the parrot, to let him fee I would make him
fall, I made him understand that I would shoot and
kill that bird; accordingly I sired, and bid him look,
and immediately he saw the parrot fall: he stood
like one frighted again, notwithstanding all that
1 had said to him; and I found he was the more
amazed, because he did not see me put any thing
into the gun; but thought there must be some won-
derful fund of death and destruction in that thing,
able to kill man, beast, bird, or any thing near or
far off; for the astonishment this created in him
was such, as could not wear off for a long time; and
I believe, if I would have let him, he would have
worshipped me and my gun: as for the guii itself, he
would not so much as touch it for several days after;
but would speak to it, and talk to it, as if it had an-
swered him, when he was by himself; which, as I
afterwards learned of him, was to desire it not to
kill him.
Well:
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
Well: after his astonishment was a little over at
this, I pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I had
sliot, which he did, but staid some time; for the
parrot, not being quite dead, had fluttered a good
way off from the place where she fell; however he
found her, took her up, and brought her to me;
and, as I had perceived his ignorance about the gun
before, I took this advantage to charge the gun again,
and not let him fee me do it, that I might be ready
for any other mark that might present; but nothing-
more offered at that time; so I brought home the
kid; and the same evening I took the skin off, and
cut it out as well as I could, and having a pot for
that purpose, I boiled or stewed some of the flesh,
and made some very good broth; after I had be-
gun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who
seemed very glad of it, and liked it very well; but
that which was strangest to him, was, to fee me eat
salt with it. He made a sign to me that the salt
was not good to eat; and putting a little into his own
mouth, he seemed to nauseate it, and would spit and
sputter at it, washing his mouth with fresh water
after it; on the other hand, I took some meat in my
mouth without salt, and I pretended to spit and sput-
ter for want of salt, as fast as he had done at the salt;
but it would not do, he would never care for salt
with meat, or in his broth; at least, not a great
while, and then but a very little,
Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth,
I was resolved to feast him the next day with roasting
a piece of the kid: this I did by hanging it before
the fire in a string, as I had seen many people do in
England, setting two poles up, one on each side the
fire.
fire, and one cross on the top, and tying the string
to the cross stick, letting the meat turn continually:
this Friday admired very much j but when he came to
taste the flesli, he took so many ways to tell me how
well he liked it, that I could not but understand
him; and at last he told me he would never eat man's
flesh any more, which I was very glad to hear.
The next day I set him to work to beating some
corn out, and sifting it in the manner I used to do, as
I observed before; and he soon understood how to do
it as well as I5 especially after he had seen what the
meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread of;
for after that I let him fee me make my bread, and
bake it too; and in a little time Friday was able to
do all the work for me, as well as I could do it
myself.
I began now to consider, that having two mouths
to feed instead of one, I must provide more ground
for my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn,
than I used to do; so I marked out a larger piece of
land, and began the fence in the same manner as be-
fore, in which Friday not only worked very willingly,
and very hard, but did it very cheerfully; and I told
him what it was for5 that it was for corn to make
more bread, because he was now with me, and that I
might have enough for him and myself too: he ap-
peared very sensible of that part, and let me know,
that he thought I had much more labour upon me on
his account, than I had for myself, and that he
would work the harder for me, if I would tell him
what to do.
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in
this place: Friday began to talk pretty well, and
. understand
understand the names of almost every thing I had
occasion to call for, and* of every place I had to send
him to, and talk a great deal to me; so that, in
short, I began now to have some use for my tongue
again, which indeed I had very little occasion for be-
fore; that is to fay, about speech: besides the plea-
sure of talking to him, I had a singular satisfaction in
the fellow himself; his simple unfeigned honesty ap-
peared to me more and more every day, and I began
really to love the creature; and on his side, I believe
he loved me more than it is was possible for him ever
to love any thing before.
I had-a mind once to try if he had any hankering
inclination to his own country again; and having
learned him English so well, that he could answer me
almost any questions, I asked him, whether the na-
tion that he belonged to never conquered in battle?
At which he smiled, and said, Yes, yes, we always
fight the better; that is, he meant, always get the
better in sight; and so we began the following dis-
course. You always fight the better! said I: How
come you to be taken prisoner then, Friday?
Friday. My nation beat much for all that.
Master. How beat; if your nation beat them,
how came you to be taken?
Friday. They more than my nation in the place
where me was; they take one, two, three, and me:
My nation over-beat them in the yonder place, where
me no was; there my nation take one, two great
thousand.
Master. But why did not your side recover you
from the hands of your enemies then?
• * Friday*
271
Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and
make go in the canoe; my nation have no canoe
that time.
Master. Well, Friday, and what does your nation
do with the men they take? Do they carry them
away, and eat them as these did?
Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too, eat all up.
Master. Where do they carry them?
Friday. Go to other place where they think.
Master. Do they come hither?
Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other
else place.
Master. Have you been here with them?
Friday. Yes, I been here [points to the N. W.
side of the island, which, it seems, was their side].
By this I understood, that my man Friday had
formerly been among the savages, who used to come
on shore on the farther part of the island, on the said
man-eating occasions that he was now brought for;
and some time after, when I took the courage to carry
him to that side, being the fame I formerly men-
tioned, he presently knew the place, and told me, he
was there once when they eat up twenty men, two
women, and one child: he could not tell twenty in
Englijh, but he numbered them by laying so many
stones in a row, and pointing to me to tell them over.
I have told this pafl&ge, because it introduces
what follows; that after I had had this discourse
with him, I asked him, How far it was from our
island to the sliore, and whether the canoes were not
often lost? He told me there was no danger, no
canoes ever lost j but that after a little way out to
sea3
sea, there was a current, and a wind always one way
in the morning, the other in the afternoon.
This I understand to be no more than the sets of
the tide, as going out, or coming in; but I after-
wards understood it was occasioned by the great
draught and reflux of the mighty river Oroonoquc;
in the mouth of which river, as I thought afterwards,
our island lay; and that this land, which I perceived
to the Wt and N. W. was the great island Trinidad,
on the north point of the mouth of the river: I asked
Friday a thousand questions about the country, the
inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and what nations
were near; he told me all he knew with the greatest
openness imaginable; Talked him the names of the
several nations of his sort of people, but could get no
other name than Caribs; from whence I easily under-
stood, that these were the Caribees, which our maps
place on that part of America which reaches from the
mouth of the ri Ver Oroonoquc to Guinea, and onwards
to St. Martha: he told me, that up a great way be-
yond the moon, that was, beyond the setting of the
moon, which must be W. from their country, there
dwelt white bearded men, like me, and pointed to
my great whiikers, which I mentioned before; and
that they had killed much mans, that was his word;
by which I understood he meant the Spaniards, whose
cruelties in America had been spread over the whole
countries, and were remembered by all the nations
from father to son.
I enquired if he could tell me how 1 might come
from this island, and get among those white men;
he told me, Yes, yes, I might go in two canoe \ I
could
273
Could not understand what he meant by two canoe;
till at last, with great difficulty, I found he meant,
that it must be in a large great boat as big as two
canoes.
This part of Friday's discourse began to relish with
me very well; and from this time I entertained some
hopes, that one time or other I might find an opportu-
nity to make my escape from this place, and that this
poor savage might be a means to help me to do it.
During the long time that Friday had now been
with me, and that he began to speak to me, and un-
derstand me, I was not wanting to lay a foundation
of religious knowledge in his mind; particularly, I
asked him one time, Who made him ? The poor crea-
ture did not understand me at all, but thought I had
asked who w.as his father: but I took it by another
handle, and asked him, Who made-the sea, the ground
he walked on, and the hills and woods? He told
me, it was one old Benamuckee that lived beyond all:
he could describe nothing of this great person, but
that he was very old; much older, he laid, than the
sea or the land, than the moon or the stars. I asked
him then, if this old person had made all things, why
did not all things worship him? He looked very grave,
and with a perfect look of innocence said, all things
said O! to him: I asked him, if the people who die
in his country, went away any-where ? He said, Yes,
they all went to Benamuckee. Then Talked him, whe-
ther those they eatup went thither too ? he said, Yes.
From these things I began to instruct him in the
knowledge of the true God. I told him, that the ,
great Maker of all things lived there, pointing up to-
wards heaven: that he governs the world by the fame
Vol. J, T power
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
power and providence by which he made it; that he
was omnipotent, could do every thing for us, give
every thing to us, take every thing from us; and
thus, by degrees, I opened his eyes. He listened
with great attention, and received with pleasure the
notion of Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us, and
of the manner of making our prayers to God, and
his being able to hear us, even into heaven: he told
me one day, that if our God could hear us up be-
yond the fun, he must needs be a greater God than
their Benamackee, who lived but a little v/ay off, and
yet could not hear, till they went up to the great
mountains, where he dwelt, to speak to him. I
asked him, If ever he went thither to speak to him?
He said. No, they never went that were young men;
none went thither but the old men \ whom he called
their Oowookakee, that is, as I made him explain it
to me, their religious, or clergy j and that they went
to fay O ! (so he called saying prayers) and then came
back, and told them what Benamuchee said: by this
I observed, that there is priestcraft even amongst the
most blinded ignorant Pagans in the world; and the
policy of making a secret religion, in order to pre-
serve the veneration of the people to the clergy, is not
only to be found in the Roman, but perhaps among
all religions in the world, even among the most bru-
tish and barbarous savages.
\ I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man
Friday; and told him, that the pretence of their old
men going up to the mountains to fay 01 to their god
Bcnahiiickee, was a cheat; and their bringing word
from thence what he said, was much more so j that
if they met with any answer, or spoke with any one
there,
there, it must be with an evil spirit: and then I en-
tered into a lono; discourse with him about the deviL
the original of him, his rebellion against God, his
enmity to man, the reason of it, his setting himself
up in the dark parts of the world to be worshipped
instead of God, and as God, and the many strata-
gems he made use of, to delude mankind to their
ruin; how he had a secret access to our passions, and
to our affections, to adapt his snares so to our inclina-
tions, as to cause us even to be our own tempters, and
to run upon our own destruction by our own choice.
I found it was not ib easy to imprint right notions
in his mind about the devil, as it was about the being
of a God: nature assisted all my arguments to evi-
dence to him even the necessity of a great first cause?
and over-ruling governing power, a secret directing
Providence, and of the equity and justice of paying
homage to him that made us, and the like: but there
appeared nothing of all this in the notion of an evil
spirit, of his original, his being, his nature, and
above all, of his inclination to do evil, and to draw
us in to do so too: and the poor creature puzzled me
once in such a manner, by a question merely natural
and innocent, that I scarce knew what to say to him.
I had been talking a great deal to him of the power of
God, his omnipotence, his dreadful aversion to sin,
his being a consuming fire to the workers of iniquity;
how, as he had made us all, he could destroy us,
and all the world, in a moment; and he listened
with great seriousness to me all the while.
After this, I had been telling him how the, devil
was God's enemy in the hearts of men, and used all
his malice and skill to defeat the good designs of Pro-
T 2 vidence.
vidence, and to ruin the kingdom of Christ in the
world, and the like: Well, says Friday, but you
fay God is so strong, so great, is he not much
strong, much might, as the devil? Yes, yes, said
I, Friday, God is stronger than the devil, God is
above the devil, and therefore we pray to God to
tread him under our feet, and enable us to relist his
temptations, and quench his fiery darts. But, fays
he again, if God much strong, much might, as the
devil, why God not kill the devil, so make him no
more wicked?
I was strangely surprised at his question; and after
all, though I was now an old man, yet I was but a
young doctor, and ill enough qualified for a casuist,
or a solver of difficulties: and, at first, I could not
tell what to fay; sol pretended not to hear him, and
asked him what he said? but he was too earnest for
an answer to forget his question; so that he repeated
it in the very fame broken words, as above. By this
time I had recovered myself a little, and I said, God
will at last punish him severely; he is reserved for the
judgment, and is to be cast into the bottomless pit,
to dwell with everlasting sire: this did not satisfy
Friday; but he returns uponme, repeating my words,
Reserve at last ! me no understand: but why not kill
the devil now, not kill great ago? You may as well
alk me, said I, why God does not kill you and me,
when we do wicked things here that offend him: we
are preserved to repent and be pardoned. He muses
a while at this; Well, well, fays he, mighty affec-
tionately, that well; so you, I, devil, all wicked, all
preserve, repent, God pardon all. Here I was run
down zgain by him to the last degree, and it was a
testimony
testimony to me, how the mere notions of nature,
though they will guide reasonable creatures to the
knowledge of a God, and of a worship or homage
due to the supreme being of God, as the consequence
of our nature; yet nothing but divine revelation can
form the knowledge of Jesus Christ, arid of a re-
demption purchased for us; of a Mediator; of a new
covenant; and of an Intercessor at the footstool of
God^s throne; I fay, nothing but a revelation from
Heaven can form these in the soul; and that there-
fore the Gospel of our Lord and Saviour Jesus
Christ, I mean the word of God, and the Spirit of
God, promised for the guide and sanctister of his
people, are the absolutely necessary instructors of the
fouls of men in the saving knowledge of God, and the
means of salvation.
I therefore diverted the present discourse between
me and my man, rising up hastily, as upon some
sudden occasion of going out; then sending him for
something a great way off, I seriously prayed to God,
that he would enable me to instruct savingly this poor
savage, assisting, by his Spirit, the heart of the poor
ignorant creature to receive the light of the knowledge
of God in Christ, reconciling him to himself, and
would guide me to speak so to him from the word of
God, as his conscience might be convinced, his eyes
opened, and his foul saved: when he came again to
me, I entered into a long discourse with him upon
the subject of the redemption of man by the Saviour
of the world, and of the doctrine of the gospel
preached from Heaven, viz. of the repentance towards
CJod, and faith in our blessed Lord Jesus; I then
T 3 explained
explained to him, as well as I could, why our blessed-
Redeemer took not on him the nature of angels, but
the feed of Abraham^ and how, for that reason, the
fallen angels had no share in the redemption; that he
came only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, and
the like.
I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge,
in all the methods I took for this poor creature's in-
struction; and must acknowledge, what I believe all
that act upon the fame principle will find, that in lay-
ing things open to him, I really informed and in-
structed myself in many things that either I did not
know, or had not fully considered before; but which
occurred naturally to my mind, upon my searching
into them for the information of this poor savage;
and I had more affection in my enquiry after things
upon this occasion, than ever I felt before 5 so that
whether this poor wild wretch was the better for me
or no, I had great reason to be thankful that ever he
came to me; my grief sat lighter upon me, my ha-
bitation grew comfortable to me beyond measure;
and when I reflected, that in this solitary life, which I
had been confined to, I had not only been moved my-
self to look up to Heaven, and to seek to the. hand
that brought me thither, but was now to be made an
instrument, under Providence, to save the life, and
for aught I know the soul of a poor savage, and
bring him to the true knowledge of religion, and of
the Christian doctrine, that he might know Christ
Jesus, to know whom is life eternal; I fay, when I
reflected upon all these things, a secret joy ran through
every part of my soul, and I frequently rejoiced
that
that ever I was brought to this place, which I had
often thought the most dreadful of all afflictions that
could possibly have befallen me.
In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder
of my time, and the conversation which employed the
hours between Friday and me was such, as made the
three years which we lived there together perfectly
and completely happy, if any such thing as complete
happiness can be found in a sublunary state: the sa-
vage was now a good Christian, a much better than
I; though I have reason to hope, and bless God for
it, that we were equally penitent, and comforted re-
stored penitents: we had here the Word of God to
read, and no farther off from his Spirit to instruct than
if we had been in England.
I always applied myself to reading the Scripture, and
to let him know, as well as I could, the meaning of
what I read; and he again, by his serious enquiries
and questions, made me, as I said before, a much
better scholar in the Scripture knowledge, than I should
ever have been by my own private reading: another
thing I cannot refrain from observing here also from
experience, in this retired part of my life; viz. how
infinite and inexpressible a blessing it is, that the
knowledge of God, and of the doctrine of salvation
by Christ Jesus, is so plainly laid down in the
Word of God, so easy to be received and understood,
that as the bare reading the Scripture made me capable
of understanding enough of my duty to carry me di-
rectly on to the great work of sincere repentance for
my sins, and laying hold of a Saviour for life and
salvation, to a stated reformation in practice-, and
obedience to all God's commands, and this without
T 4 any
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
any teacher or instructor (I mean, human) so the
plain instruction sufficiently served to the enlightening
this savage creature, and bringing him to be such
a Christian, as I have known few equal to him in
my life.
As to the disputes, wranglings, strife, and conten-.
txon, which has happened in the world about religion,
whether niceties in doctrines, or schemes of church
government, they were all perfectly useless to us, as?
for aught I can yet fee, they have been to all the rest
in the world: we had the sure guide to heaven, viz.
the Word of God; and we had, blessed be God!
comfortable views of the Spirit of God, teaching and
instructing us by his Word, leading us into all truth,
and making us both willing and obedient'to the in-
struction of his word; and. I cannot fee the least use
that the greatest knowledge of the disputed points in
religion, which have made such confusions in the
world, would have been to us, if we could have ob-
tained it: but I must go on with the historical part
of things, and take every part in its order.
After Friday and I became more intimately ac-
quainted, and that he could understand almost ail I
said to him, and speak fluently, though in broken
English, to me, I acquainted him with my own story,
or at least so much of it as related to my coming into
the place, how I had lived there, and how long: I
let him into the mystery (for such it was to him) of
gunpowder and bullets, and taught him how to shoot:
I gave him a knife, which he was wonderfully de-
lighted with; and I made him a belt with a frog
hanging to it, such as in England we, wear hangers in*
and in the frog, instead of an hanger, I gave him
an
28l
an hatchet, which was not only as good a weapon
in some cases, but much more useful upon many
occasions.
I described to him the countries of Europe, and
particularly England, which I came from; how we
lived, how we worshipped God, how we behaved to
one another, and how we traded in sliips to all the
parts of the world: I gave him an account of the
wreck which i had been on board of, and shewed
him, as near as I could, the place where Are lay; but
she was all beaten in pieces long before, and quite
drone.
o
I lhewred him the ruins of our boat, which we loft
when we escaped, and which I could not stir with my
whole strength then, but was now fallen almost all to
pieces: upon feeing this boat, Friday stood musing a
great while, and said nothing; I asked him w7hat it
was he studied upon? At last, fays he, Me fee such
boat like come to place at my nation.
I did not understand him a good while; but at last,
when I had examined further into it, I understood by
him, that a boat, such as that had been, came on
shore upon the country where he lived; that is, as
he explained it, was driven thither by stress of wea-
ther: I presently imagined, that some European lhip
must have been cast away upon their coast, and the
boat might get loose, and drive ashore; but was so
dull, that I never once thought of men making
escape from a wreck thither, much less whence they
might come; so I only enquired after a description of
the boat.
Friday described the boat to me well enough; but
brought me better to understand him, when he added,
with
with some warmth, We save the white mans from
drown: then I presently asked him, if there were any-
white mans, as he called them, in the boat? Yes, he
said, the boat full of white mans: I asked him, how
many? he told upon his fingers seventeen: I asked
him then, what became of them? he told me, They
live, they dwell at my nation.
This put new thoughts into my head again; for I
presently imagined, that these might be the men be-
longing to the ship that was cast av/ay in sight of my
island, as I now call it; and who, after the fliip was
struck on the rock, and they saw her inevitably
lost, had saved themselves in their boat, and
were landed upon that wild shore among the sa-
vages.
Upon this I enquired of him more critically, what
was become of them? He assured me they lived still
there, that they had been there about four years, that
the savages let them alone, and gave them victuals to
live. I aiked him, how it came to pass they did not
kill them, and eat them? he said, No, they make
brother with them: that is, as I understood him, a
truce: and then he added, They eat no mans but
when make the war fight: that is to fay, they never
eat any men, but such as come to fight with them*
and are taken in battle.
It was after this, some considerable time, that being
on the top of the hill, at the east side of the island,
from whence, as I have said, I had in a clear day
discovered the main or continent of America; Friday,
the weather being very serene, looks very earnestly
towaids the main land, and in a kind of surprize falls
a jumping and dancing, and calls ouc to me, for I was
at
at some distance from him: I asked him what was the
matter? O joy! fays he, O glad! there fee my
country, there my nation!
I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure ap-
peared in his face, and his eyes sparkled, and his
countenance discovered a strange eagerness, as if he
had a mind to be in his own country again; and this
observation of mine put a great many thoughts into
me; which made me at first not so easy about my
new man Friday as I was before j and I made no
doubt, but that if Friday could get back to his own
nation again, he would not only forget all his reli-
gion, but ail his obligations to me j and would be
forward enough to give his countrymen an account
of me, and come back, perhaps, with an hundred or
two of them, and make a feast upon me, at which he
might be as merry as he used to be with those of his
enemies, when they were taken in war.
But I wronged the poor honest creature very much,
for which I was very sorry afterwards: however, as
my jealousy increased, and held me some weeks, I was
a little more circumspect, and not so familiar and
kind to him as before; in which I was certainly in
the wrong too, the honest grateful creature having
110 thought about it, but what consisted of the best
principles, both as a religious Christian, and as a
grateful friend, as appeared afterwards to my full
satisfaction.
Whilst my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure
I was every day pumping him, to fee if he would dis-
cover any of the new thoughts which I suspected
were in him; but I found every thing he said was so
honest, and so innocent, that I could find nothing to
nourish
£84
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
nourish my suspicion; and, in spite of all my un«
easiness, he made me at last entirely his own again;
nor did he in the least perceive that I was uneasy >
and therefore I could not suspect him of deceit.
One day, walking up the same hill, but the wea-
ther being hazy at sea, so that we could not see the
continent, I called to him, and said, Friday, do not
you wish yourself in your own country, your own
nation? Yes, he said, I be much O glad to be at my
own nation. What would you do there? said I:
would you turn wrilcl again, eat men's flesh again, and
be a savage as you were before? He looked full of
concern, and snaking his head, said, No, no, Friday
tell them to live good, tell them to pray God, tell
them .to eat corn-bread, cattle-flesh, milk, no eat man
again. Why then, said 1 to him, they will kill you.
He looked grave at that, and then said, No, they no
kill me, they willing love learn: he meant by this,
they would be willing to learn. He added, they
learned much of the bearded mans that came in the
boat. Then I asked him, if he would go back to them?
He smiled at that, and told me he could not swim so
far. I told him I would make a canoe for him. He
told me he would go, if I would go with him. I go!
said I, why they will eat me if I come there. No, no,
says he, me make them no eat you, me make they
much love you: he meant he would tell them how I
had killed his enemies and laved his life, and so he
would make them love me. Then he told me, as well
as he could, how kind they were to seventeen white
men, or bearded men, as he called them, who came
on shore in distress.
From
From this time, I confess, I had a mind to ven-
ture over, and fee if I could possibly join with these
bearded men, who, I made no doubt, were Spaniards
or Portuguese: not doubting but, if I could, we might
find some method to escape from thence, being upon
the continent, and a good company together, better
than I could from an island forty miles off the shore,
and alone without help. So, after some days, I took
Friday to work again, by way of discourse; and
told him, I would give him a boat to go back to
his own nation; and accordingly I carried him to
my frigate, which lay on the other side of the island;
and having cleared it of water (for I always kept it
funk in the water), I brought it out, sliewed it him,
and we both went into it.
I found he was a most dexterous fellow at managing
it, would make it go almost as swift and fast again as I
could; so when he was in, I laid to him, Well, now
Friday 1 shall we go to your nation? He looked very
dull at my saying so, which, it seems, was because he
thought the boat too small to go so far. I told him
then I had a bigger; so the next day I went to the
place where the first boat lay which I had made, but
which I could not get into the water; he said that
was big enough; but then, as I had taken no care
of it, and it had lain two or three and twenty years
there, the fun had split and dry ed it, that it was
in a manner rotten. Friday told me, such a boat
would do very well, and would carry c much
c enough vittle, drink, bread/ that was his way of
talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon
my design of going over with with him to the con-
tinent
life ANt> Adventures
tinent, that I told him we would go and make one
as big as that, and he should go home in it. He
answered not one word, but looked very grave and
sad. I alked him, what was the matter with him?
He asked me again thus, Why you angry mad with
Friday? what me done? I alked him, what he meant?
I told him I was not angry with him at all: no angry J
no angry! fays he, repeating the words several times,
"Why fend Friday home away to my nation? Why,
said I, Friday, did you not fay you wished you were
there? Yes, yes, fays he, wish be both there; no
wish Friday there, no mailer there. In a word, he
would not think of going there without me. I go
there, Fridays said I, what should I do there? He
turned very quick upon me at this; You do great
deal much good, fays he, you teach wild mans be
good, sober, tame mans; you tell them know God,
pray God, and live new life. Alas, Friday, said I,
thou khowest not what thou fayest; I am but an ig-
norant man myself. Yes, yes, fays he, you teechee
me good, you teechee them good. No, no, Friday,
said I, you shall go without me; leave me here to
live by myself, as I did before. He looked confused
again at that word, and running to one of the hat-
chets which he used to wear, he takes it up hastily,
and gives,it me. What must I do with this? said I
to him: you take kill Friday, says he. What must I
kill you for? said I again. lie returns very quick,
What you fend Friday away for? Take kill Fridayi
no fend Friday away. This he spoke so earnestly,
that I saw tears stand in his eyes. In a word, I so
plainly discovered the utmost affection in him to me,
and a firm resolution in him, that I told him then,
and
md often after, that I would never send him away
from me, if he was willing to stay with me.
Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse a
settled affection.to me, and that nothing should part
him from me, so I found all the foundation of his
desire to go to his own country was laid in his ar*
dent affection to the people, and his hopes of my do-
ing them good; a thing, which as I had no notion
of myself, so I had not the least thought, or intention,
or desire of undertaking it but still I found a strong
inclination to my attempting an escape, as above,
founded on the supposition gathered from the former
discourse; viz. that there were seventeen bearded
men there; and therefore, without any delay, I went
to work with Friday, to find out a great tree proper
to fell, and make a large periagua or canoe, to under-
take the voyage: there were trees enough in the
island to have built a little fleet, not of periaguas and
canoes only, but even of good large vessels: but the
main thing I looked at, was to get one so near the
water, that we might launch it when it was made,
to avoid the mistake I committed at first.
At last Friday pitched upon a tree; for I found he
knew much better than I what kind of wood was
fittest for it j- nor can I tell to this day what wood to
call the tree we cut down, except that it was very
like the tree we call fustick, or between that and the
Nicaragua wood, for it was much of the fame colour
and smell: Friday was for burning the hollow or ca-
vity of this tree out, to make it into a boat: but I
ftewed him how rather to cut it out with tools, which
after I shewed him how to use, he did very handily,
and in about a month's hard labour we finished it,
and
and made it very handsome, especially when, with out
axes, which I shewed him how to handle, we cut
and hewed the outside into the true siiape of a boat $
after this, however, it cost us near a fortnight's time
to get her along, as it were inch by inch, upon great
rollers into the water : but when she was in, she would
have carried twenty men with great ease.
When she was in the water, and though she was so
big, it amazed me to see with what dexterity and
how swift my man Friday could manage her, turn
her, and paddle her along; so I asked him if he
would, and if we might venture over in her ? Yes,
he said, he venture over in her very well, though
great blow wind: however, I had a farther design
that he knew nothing of, and that was to make a
mast and fail, and to fit her with an anchor and ca-
ble: as to a mast, that was easy enough to get; so I
pitched upon a strait young cedar-tree, which I found
near the place, and which there was a great plenty of
in the island; and I set Friday to work to cut it down,
and gave him directions how to sliape and order it:
but as to the fail, that was my particular care ; I knew
I had old fails, or rather pieces of old fails enough;
but as I had them now twenty-fix years by me, and
had not been very careful to preserve them, not
imagining that I sliould ever have this kind of use for
them, I did not doubt but they were all rotten; and
indeed most of them were so; however, I found two
pieces which appeared pretty good, and with these I
went to work, and with a great deal of pains, and
awkward tedious stitching (you may be sure) for
want of needles/ I at length made a three-cornered
ugly thing, like what we call in England a flioulder-
of-
289
bf-rnutton sail, to go with a boom at bottom, and a
little short sprit at the top, such as usually our ships
longboats fail with, and such as I best knew how to
manage; because it was such an one as I used in the
boat in which I made my escape from Barbary, as re-
lated in the first part of my story.
I was near two months performing this last work;
viz. rigging and fitting my mast and fails; for I
finished them very complete, making a small stay,
and a sail or foresail to it, to assist, if we should turn
to windward; and, which was more than all, I fixed
a rudder to the stern of her, to steer with; and
though I was but a bungling shipwright, yet as I
knew the usefulness, and even necessity of such a thing,
I applied myself with so much pains to do it, that at
last I brought it to pass, tho', considering the many
dull contrivances I had for it that failed, I think it
cost me almost as much labour as making the boat.
After all this was done, I had my man Friday to
teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my
boat; for tho' he knew very well how to paddle the
canoe, he knew nothing what belonged to a fail and
a rudder, and was the more amazed when he saw me
work the boat to-and-again in the sea by the rudder,
and how the sail gybed, and filled this way or that
way, as the course we sailed changed; I say, when
he saw this, he stood like one astonished and amazed:
however, with a little use, I made all these things fa-
miliar to him, and he became an expert sailor, except
that as to the compass I could make him understand
very little of that: on the other hand,as there was very
little cloudy weather, and seldom or never any fogs
in those parts, there was the less occasion for a com-
Vol. I. U pass,
pass? feeing the stars were always to be seen by nights
and the snore by day, except in the rainy seasons;
and then nobody cared to stir abroad, either by land
or sea.
I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year
of my captivity in this place; though the three last;
years that I had this creature with me, ought rather
to be left out of the account, my habitation being
quite of another kind than in all the rest of my time,
I kept the anniversary of my landing here with the
same thankfulness to God for his mercies as at first;
and if I had such cause of acknowledgment at first, I
had much more so now, having such additional tes-
timonies of the care of Providence over me, and the
great hopes I had of being effectually and speedily-
delivered; for I had an invincible impression upon,
my thoughts, that my deliverance was at hand, and
that I should not be another year in this place: how-
ever, I went on with my husbandry, digging, plant-
ing, and fencing, as usiial; I gachered and cured
my grapes, and did every necessary thing, as before,
The rainy season was in the mean time upon me,
when I kept more within doors than at other times;
so I had stowed our new vessel as secure as we could?
bringing her up into the creek, where, as I said in
the beginning, J landed my rafts from the ship; and
haling her up to the snore, at high-water mark, I
made my man Friday dig a little dock, just big
enough for her to float in; and then, when the tide
was out, we made a strong dam cross the end of it,
to keep the water out; and so she lay dry, as to the
tide, from the sea; and to keep the rain off, we laid
a great many boughs of trees so thick, that flic was
as
Sas well thatched as an house; and thus we waited for
the months of November and December, in which I
designed to make my adventure.
When the settled season beran to come in, as the
thought of my design returned with the fair weather.
I was preparing daily for the voyage; and the first
thing I did was to lay up a certain quantity of provi-
sion, being the store for the voyage; and intended, in
a week or a fortnight's time, to open the dock, and
launch out our boat: I was busy one morning upon
something os this kind, when I called to Friday, and
bid him co to the seadhore, and see if he could find
a turtle or tortoise, a thing which we generally got
once a week, for the sake of the eres, as well as the
flesh. Friday had not been long gone, when he came
running back, and flew over my outward wall, or
fence, like one that felt not the ground, or the steps
he set his feet on; and before I had time to speak to
him, he cried out to me, O master! O master! O
sorrow! O bad! What's the matter, Friday, said I?
O yonder there, says he, one, two, three, canoe!
one, two, three! By this way of speaking I con-
cluded there were six; but on enquiry I found there
were but three. Well Friday, said I, do not be
frighted; so I heartened him up as well as I could.
However, I saw the poor fellow most terribly scared -
for nothing ran in his head but that they were come
to look for him, and would cut him in pieces, and
eat him; the poor fellow trembled so, that I scarce
knew what to do with him: I comforted him as well
as I could, and told him I was in as much danger as
he, and that they would eat me as well as him : But,
said I; Friday, we must resolve to sight them: Can
U 2 you
you fight, Friday? Me shoot, says he, but therd
come many great number. No matter for that, said
I again, our guns will fright them that we do not kill .
So I asked him, whether, if I resolved to defend him,
he would defend me, and stand by me, and do just
as I bade him? He said, Me die, when you bid die,
master; so I went and fetched a good dram of rum,
and gave him; for I had been so good an husband of
my rum, that I had a great deal left: when he had
drank it, I made him take the two fowling-pieces
which we always carried, and load them with large
swan shot as big as small pistol-bullets; then I took
four musquets, and loaded them with twq slugs, and
five small bullets each; and my two pistols I loaded
with a brace of bullets each: I hung my great sword,
-as usual, naked by my side, and gave Friday his
hatchet.
When I had thus prepared myself, I took my per-
spective-glass, and went up to the side of the hill, to
fee what I could discover; and I found quickly, by
my glass, that there were one-and-twenty savages,
three prisoners, and three canoes; and that their
whole business seemed to be the triumphant banquet
upon these three human bodies; a barbarous feast
indeed, but nothing more than as I had observed was
usual with them.
I observed also, that they were landed, not where
they had done when Friday made his escape, but
nearer to my creek, where the shore was low, and
where a thick wood came close almost down to the sea:
this, with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand
these wretches came about, so filled me with indig-
nation, that I eume down again to Friday, and told
him,
-93
Turn, I was resolved to go down to them, and kill
them all; and asked him if he would stand by me. He
was now gotten over his fright, and his spirits being
a little raised with the dram I had given him, he was
very cheerful; and told me, as before, he would
die when I bid die,
In this fit of fury, I took first and divided the
arms which I had charged, as before, between us:
I gave Friday one pistol to stick in his girdle, and
three guns upon his shoulder; and I took one pistol,
and the other three, myself; and in this posture we
marched out; I took a small bottle of rum in my
pocket, and gave Friday a large bag with more pow-
der and bullet; and as to-orders, I charged him to
keep close behind me, and not to stir, snoot, or do
any thing till I bid him; and in the mean time, not
to speak a word: in this posture I fetched a compass
to my right hand of near a mile, as well to get over
the creek as to get into the wood; so that I might
come within idiot of them before I could be discovered,
which I had seen by my glass it was easy to do.
While I was making this march, my former
thoughts returning, I began to abate my resolution -
I do not mean, that I entertained any fear of their
number; for as they were naked, unarmed wretches,
?tis certain I was superior to them; nay, though I had
been alone: but it occurred to my thoughts, what
call, what occasion, much less what necessity, I was
in to go and dip my hands in blood, to attack people
who had neither done or intended me any wrong, who,
as to me, were innocent, and whose barbarous cus-
toms were their own disaster, being in them a token
indeed of God's having left them, with the other
U 3 nations
nations of that part of the world, to such stupidity
and to such inhuman courses; but did not call me to
take upon me to be a judge of their actions, much
less an executioner of his justice; that whenever he
thought fit, he would take the cause into his own
hands, and by national vengeance punish them for
national crimes; but that in the mean time, it va"
none of my business: that it was true., Friday might
justify it, because he was a declared enemy, and in a
state of war with those very particular people, and it.
was lawful for him to attack them; but I could not
fay the fame with respect to me. These things were
so warmly pressed upon my thoughts all the way as I
went, that I resolved I would only go place myself
near them, that I might observe their barbarous feasts
and that I would act then as God should direct; but
that unless something offered that wTas more a call to
me than yet I knew of, I would not meddle with
them.
With this resolution I entered the wood, and with
all possible wariness and silence [Friday following
close at my heels) I marched till I came to the skirt
of the wood, on the side which was next to them;
only that one corner of the wood lay between me
and them: here I called softly to Friday, and shew-
ing him a great tree, which was just at the corner of
the wood, I bade him go to the tree, and bring me
word if he could fee there plainly what they wrere
doing: he did so, and came immediately back to me,
and told me they might be plainly viewed there ; that
they were all about the fire, eating the flesh of one of
their prisoners; and that another lay bound upon
the sand, a little from them, whom he said they would
kill
S6z *303n^o Nosxiaca jo
Stnp f si
~piq 'ssSnAg sq; ;n tuin Am ^oo; j ;snbjnm isq;o cup
ipiAv pun ^ siq i(q s^q sq; pip fopuj pun 4punoaiT
sq; uocln SDSTd-SuqAvoj sq; pun sisnbjniu sip to sug
UAAOp ;SJ J Og •StlUpOU Ul [pj f Op SLU 3?} roA Si:
°p ci f™j c%/^ Croiix TinoAv ?q 'pro
*(vpuj *s9q; piq I sn op cj prer 'Appuj 'avojsj / /%/
0:1 P9lull-t I *^9J siq spmiq sq; spun 01 iiAiop
psdooy sisai Asq; pun f s.iy jpq; ot cqiuq Xq qinq
sdnq.tsd 6unq Suiiq pun 'unpjnq^ jood sin .isip;nq
o; oa\; xsipo sq; ;usj ijjrts pnq pun 'jsq^So; ps[ppiu|
sjop p,n pnnoi!d sip uodn ;nj ssip;s.iAi pppnsip sq;
JO U9939UIU XOJ * 3JO{ Ol ;U3UI0Ul 13 ;OU AVOU pcq J
•spmA A;qSp ;uoqn 10 ssuerqp sip
;n cmsq; .to avsia ppij n 3iu SAnS ipiqA\ *puno.iS SlIUTI
sp;q n o; sums j usq; pun cssj; isq;o sq; o; s tires j
}ip aea\ sui jqn ppq tpitjAV cssqmq stuoj ptuqsq ;oS j
e?ssnd A;u?au ;noqn ypnq SinoS pun i ssiSsp :jsq£iq
sq; o; psSnius pssptu st3av j qSnoq; 'uoiijxd aui ppq
-q;iA\ j oj i uisq; 10 ;oqj ;p>q uiu;ia\ sq ppiouj j tisq.i
imp pun 4p9J9A09jTpun ;n suios ;qSitu j AViy ] c;ncqu
Xea\ 9p4Tj 13 SuioS i(q 'tpiqAV 'StfAV J SJSqM. 99iqd
sq; untp tusq; o; is.msu sp.mA Ayq ;noqn c;i puoA
-90 ;sqSIip SpiTJ n piU3 c33.i; JStpOlin SnAV S.ISIJ
•UO S9q;op
pnq pun cuv3<fojn^ un siuv sq ;nqj pun i ssqjni sqif
sSuiip jo csSng qiu\ psp ^ssj siq pun spunq srq i\v^
"nsj sq; jo qsnsq sqi uoda Xiq oqAV cumu sirjav ^
£sjn[S Am Aq cApnn]d A\nj j cssi; sqi oj SutoS 'pm?
;unui pspmsq-s^iqAv sq; Suroinu Aisa stp ;n jojioq.
q^iAV psijy snA\ j a;noq sq; ut A.qunos ipq; o; suuo
ot[A\ cjo sm pjo; pnq sq uiouav usm psp.insq sq; jo-
suo ;nq cuopnu jpq; jo suo ;ou snAi ;t <sm pjo; sj-j
9sui uiq;iA\ jnoj Lisa sq; ps^y qjiqAv pun c;xsu [|p[
ding him do the like. Then asking him if he wa^
ready, he said, Yes. Then sire at them, said I j and
the same.moment I fired also.
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on
the side that he shot, he killed two of them, and
wounded three more; and on my side, I lulled one,
and wounded two. They were, you may be sure, in
a dreadful consternation; and all of them, who were
not hurt, jumped up upon their feet immediately,
but did not know which way to run, or which way
to look; for they knew not from whence their de-
struction came. Friday kept his eyes close upon me,
that as I had bid him, he might observe what I did ; so
as soon as the first (hot was made, I threw down the
piece, and took up the fowling-piece, and Friday did
the like; he fees me cock, and present; he did the
same again. Are you ready, Friday? said I. Yes,
fays he. Let fly then, said I, in the name of God;
and with that I fired again among the amazed wretches,
and so did Friday; and as our pieces were now loaden
with what I called fwan-fhot, or small pistol bullets,
we found only two drop \ but so many were wounded,
that they ran about yelling and screaming like mad
creatures, all bloody, and miserably wounded most
of them; whereof three more fell quickly after,
though not quite dead.
Now, Fridaysaid I, laying down the discharged
pieces, and taking up the musquet, which was yet
loaden, follow me, said I; which he did, with a
deal of courage; upon which I rushed out of the
wood, and shewed myself, and Friday close at my foot:
as soon as I perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud
as I could, and bade Friday do so too j and running-
as
as fast: as I could, which by the way was not very fast,
being loaded with arms as I wras, I made directly to-
wards the poor victim, who was, as I said, lying
upon the beach, or shore, between the place where
they sat and the sea; the two butchers, who were
just going* to work with him, had left him, at the
surprise of our first fire, and fled in a terrible fright
to the sea-side, and had jumped into a canoe, and
three more of the rest made the same way: I turned
to Friday 1 and bade him step forwards, and fire at
them; he understood me immediately, and running
2tbout forty yards to be near them, he shot at them,
and I thought he had killed them all; for I saw
them all fall on an heap into the boat; though I saw
two of them up again quickly: however, he killed
two of them, and wounded the third, so that he lay
down in the bottom of the boat, as if he had been
dead.
While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out
my knife, and cut the flags that bound the poor
victim; and loosing his hands and feet I lifted him
up, and asked him in the Portuguese tongue, what
he was? He answered in Latin, Chrijlianus; but
was so weak and faint, that he could scarce stand, or
speak; I took my bottle out of my pocket, and gave
it him, making signs that he should drink, which he
did; and I gave him a piece of bread, which he eat \
then I aflved him, what countryman he was? and he
said, Espagnole; and, being a little recovered, let
me know, by all the signs he could possibly make,
how much he was in my debt for his deliverance:
Seignior, said I, with as much Spanish as I could
make up, we will talk afterwards, but we must fight
ftow: if you have any strength left, take this pistol
and
and swords and lay about you: he took them very
thankfully, and no sooner had he the arms in his
hands, but as if they had put new vigour into him,
he flew upon his murderers like a fury, and had cut
two of them in pieces in an instant; for the truth is,
as the whole was a surprise to them, so the poor crea-
tures were so much frighted with the noise of our
pieces, that they fell down for mere amazement and
fear, and had no more power to attempt their own.
escape, than their fleih had to resist our {hot; and
that was the cafe of those five that Friday -shot in the
boat; for as three of them fell with the hurt they re^
ceived, so the other two fell with the fright.
I kept my piece in my hand still, without firing,
being willing to keep my charge ready, because I had
given the Spaniard my pistol and sword; so I called
to Friday, and bade him run up to the tree from,
whence we first fired, and fetch the arms which lay
there, that had been discharged, which he did with
great swiftness; and then giving him my musquet, I
sat down myself to load all the rest again, and bade
them come to me when they wanted: while I was
loading these pieces, there happened a fierce engage-
ment between the Spaniard and one of the savages,
who made at him with one of their great wooden
swords, the fame weapon that was to have killed him
before, if I had not prevented it: the SpaniardJ, who
was as bold and as brave as could be imagined, tho*
weak, had fought this Indian a good while, and had
cut him two great wounds on his head; but the
savage, being a stout lusty fellow, closing in with
him, had thrown him down (being faint), and was
wringing my sword cut of his hand, when the Spa-
niard, though undermost, wisely quitting his sword*,
drew
drew the pistol from his girdle, shot the savage
through the body, and killed him upon the spot, be-
fore I, who was running to help, could come near
him.
Friday, being now left at his liberty, pursued the
flying wretches with no weapon in his hand but his
hatchet; and with that he dispatched those three,
who, as I laid before, were wounded at first, and
fallen, and all the rest he could come up with; and
the Spaniard coming to me for a gun, I gave him one
of the fowling pieces, with which he pursued twTo of
the savages, and wounded them both; but as he was
not able to run, they both got from him into the
wood, v. here Friday pursued them, and killed one of
them; but the other was too nimble for him; and
though he vi as wounded, yet he plunged into the sea,
and swam with all his might off to those who were
left in the canoe, v/hich three in the canoe, with one
wounded, who we know not whether he died or nd,
were all that escaped our hands of one-and-twenty.
The account of the rest is as follows:
3 Killed at our (hot from the tree.
2 Killed at the next fliot.
2 Killed by Friday in the boat.
2 Killed by ditto, of those at first wounded,
i Killed by ditto, in the wood.
3 Killed by the Spaniard.
4 Killed, being found dropt here and there of their
"wounds, or killed by Friday inhischace of them.
4 Escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if
not dead,
2i in all.
Those
Those that were in the canoe, worked hard t&
get out of gun-fliot; and though Friday made two
or three shot at them, I did not find that he hit any
of them: Friday would fain have had me take one.
of their canoes, and pursue them; and indeed I was
very anxious about their escape, lest carrying the
news home to their people, they should come back,
perhaps, with two or three hundred of their canoes,
and devour us by mere multitudes; so I consented
to pursue them by sea; and running to one of their
canoes, I jumped in, and bade Friday follow me;
but when I was in the canoe, I was surprised to find
another poor creature lie there alive, bound hand and
foot, as the Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and
almost dead with fear, not knowing what the mat-
ter was; for he had not been able to look up over
the fide of the boat, he was tied so hard, neck and
heels, and had been tied ib long, that he had really
little life in him.
I immedately cut the twisted flags, or rushes*
which they had bound him with, and would have
helped him up; but he could not stand, or speak,
but groaned most piteously, believing, it seems
still, that he was only unbound in order to be
killed.
When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to
him, and tell him of his deliverance; and pulling
out my bottle, made him give the poor wretch a
dram, which, with the news of his being delivered,
revived him, and he fat up in the boat; but when
Friday came to hear him speak, and looked in his
face, it would have moved any one to tears, to have
seen how Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged
him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about? danced,
sung,
sung, then cried again, wrung his hands, beat his
own face and head, and then fung and jumped about
again like a distracted creature. It was a good
while before I could make him speak to me, or tell
me what was the matter; but when he came a little to
himself, he told me that it was his father.
It was not easy for me to express how it moved me?
to fee what extasy and filial affection had worked in
this poor savage, at the sight of his father, and of his
being delivered from death; nor indeed can I describe
half the extravagances of his affection after this; for
he went into the boat and out of the boat a great
many times: when he went in to him, he would fit
down by him, open his breast, and hold his father's
head close to his bosom, half an hour together, to
nourish it: then he took his arms and ankles, which
were numbed and stiff with the binding, and chafed
and rubbed them with his hands j and, I perceiving
what the cafe was, gave him some rum out of my
bottle to rub them with, which did them a great d^al
of good.
This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe
with the other savages, who were now gotten almost
out of sight j and it was happy for us that we did
not; for it blew so hard within two hours after, and
before they could be gotten a quarter of their way,
and continued blowing so hard all night, and that from
the north-west, which was against them, that I could
not suppose their boat could live, or that they ever
reached to their own coast.
But to return to Friday; he was so busy about his
father, that I could not find in my heart to take him
off for some time: but after I thought he could leave
him a little, I called him to me, and he came jumping
and
and laughing, and pleased to the highest extreme*
Then I asked him, if he had given his father any
bread? He {hook his head, and sine], None: ugly-
dog eat all up self. So I gave him a cake of bread
out of a little pouch I carried on purpose; I also gave
him a dram for himself, but he would not taste it, but
carried it to his father: I had in my pocket also two
or three bunches of my raisins, so I gave him a hand-
ful of them for his father. He had no sooner given
his father these raisins, but I saw him come out of the
boat, and run away as if he had been bewitched. He
ran at such a rate, (for he was the swiftest fellow
of his feet that ever I saw) I say, he ran at
such a rate, that he was out of fight, as it were,
in a instant; and though I called and hallooed too
after him, it was all one; away he went, and in a
quarter of an hour I saw him come back again, though
not so fast as he went; and as he came nearer, I
found his pace was flacker, because he had something*
in his hand.
When he came up to me, I found he had been
quite home for an earthen jug, or pot, to bring his
father some fresh water; and that he had got two
more cakes or loaves of bread. The bread he gave
me, but the water he carried to his father: however,
as I was very thirsty too, I took a little sup of it:
this water revived his father more than all the rum or
spirits I had given him; for he was just fainting with
thirst.
When his father had drank, I called him, to know
if there was any water left? he said, Yes; and I bade
him give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as much
want of it as his father; and I sent one of the cakes,
that Friday brought, to the Spaniard too, who was
indeed
indeed very weak, and was reposing himself upon a
green place, under the shade of a tree, and whose
limbs were also very stiff, and very much swelled
with the rude bandage he had been tied with: when I
saw that upon Friday's coming to him with the water,
. he sat up and drank, and took the bread, and began,
to eat, I went to him, and gave him an handful of
raisins; he looked up in my face with all the tokens
of gratitude and thankfulness that could appear in any
countenance; but was so weak, notwithstanding he
had so exerted himself in the fight, that he could not
stand upon his feet; he tried to do it two or three
times, but was really not able, his ankles were so
swelled and so painful to him; so I bade him sit still,
and caused Friday to rub his ankles, and bathe them
with rum, as he had done his father's.
I observed the poor affectionate creature every two
minute^ or perhaps less, all the while he was here,
turned his head about, to fee if his father was in the
fame place and posture as he left him sitting; and at
last he found he was not to be seen; at which he
started up, and, without speaking a word, flew with
that swiftness to him, that one could scarce perceive
his feet to touch the ground as he went: but when hq
came, he only found he had laid himself down to ease
his limbs: so Friday came back to me presently, and
I then spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help him up,
if he could, and lead him to the boat, and then he
should carry him to our dwelling, where I would take
care of him; but Fridaya lusty young fellow, took
the Spaniard quite up upon his back, and carried him
away to the boat, and set him down softly upon the
side or gunnel of the canoe, with his feet in the in-
side
side of it, and then lifted them quite in, and set hirrf
close to his father, and presently stepping out again-j
launched the boat off, and paddled it along the shore
faster than I could walk, though the wind blew pretty
hard too; so he brought them both safe into our
creek; and leaving them in the boat, runs away , to
fetch the other canoe. As he passed me, I spoke to
him, and alked him, whither he went? He told me j
Go fetch more boat; so away he went, like the
wind; for sure never man or horse ran like him, and
he had the other canoe in the creek almost as soon
as I got to it by land; so he wafted me over, and then
went to help our new guests out of the boat,
which he did; but they 'Were neither of them
able to walk; so that poor Friday knew not what
to do.
To remedy this, I went to work in my thought 
and calling to Friday to bid them sit down on the
bank while he came to me, I soon made a kind of
hand-barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I carried
them up both together upon it between us; but when
we got them to the outside of our wall or fortification,
we were at a worse loss than before; for it was im-
possible to get them over; and I was resolved not to
break it down: so I set to work again; and Friday
and I, in about two hours time, made a very hand-
some tent, covered with old sails, and above that
with boughs of trees, being in the space without our
outward fence, and between that and the grove of
young wood which i had'planted: and here we made
two beds of such things as I had; vis. of good rice-
straw, with blankets laid upon it to lie on3 and another
to cover them on each bed.
My
My island was now peopled, and I thought myself
very rich in subjects; and it was a merry reflection
which I frequently made, how like a king I looked:
first of all the whole country was my own mere pro-
perty; so that I had an undoubted right of dominion:
2dly? My people were perfectly subjected: 1 was ab-
solute lord and lawgiver; they all owed their lives to
me, and were ready to lay down their lives, if there
had been occasion for it, for me: it was remarkable
too, I had but three subjects, and they were of three
different religions. -My man Friday was a protestant,
his father a pagan and a canibal; and the Spaniard
was a papist: however, I allowed liberty of con-
science throughout my dominions: but this by the
As soon as I had secured my twro weak rescued pri-
soners, and given them shelter, and a place to rest
them upon, I began to think of making some pro-
vision for them; and the first thing I did, I ordered
Friday to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a
goat, out of my particular flock, to be killed: then I
cut off the hind quarter, and, chopping it into small
pieces, I set Friday to work to boiling and stewing,
and made them a very good dish, I assure you, of fleih
and broth; having put some barley and rice also into
the broth, and as I cooked it without doors (for I
made no lire within my inner wall) so I carried it all
into the new tent; and having set a table there for
them, I sat down and eat my dinner also with them;
and, as well as I could, cheered them and en-
couraged them, Friday being my interpreter, espe-
cially to his father, and indeed to the Spaniard too;
Vol.. I. X for
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
for the Spaniard spoke the language of the savages
pretty well.
After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered
Friday to take one of the canoes, and go and fetch
our musquets and other sire-arms, which, for want of
time, we had left upon the place of battle; and the
next day I ordered him to go and bury the dead
bodies of the savages, which lay open to the fun, and
would presently be offensive; and I also ordered him
10 bury the horrid remains of their barbarous feast:,
which I knew were pretty much, and which I could
not think of doing myself; nay, I could not bear to
see them, if I went that way: all which he punctually
performed, and defaced the very appearance of the
savages being there; so that when I went again, I
could scarce know where it was, otherwise than by
the corner of the wood pointing to the place.
I then began to enter into a little conversation with
my two new subjects; and first I set Friday to enquire
of his father, what he thought of the escape of the
savages in that canoe? and whether he might expect
a return of them with a power too great for us to re-
list? His first opinion was, that the savages in the
boat never could live out the storm which blew that
night they went off, but must of necessity be drowned
or driven south to those ether shores, where they were
as sure to be devoured, as they were to be drowned if
they were. cast, away; but as to what they would do -
if they came safe on shore, he said, he knew not; but
it was Ills opinion, that they were so dreadfully frighted
with the manner of being attacked, the noise, and
the sire, that he believed they would tell their people
they
they were all killed by thunder and lightning, and
not by the hand of man; and that the two which ap-
peared (viz. Friday and I) were two heavenly spirits
or furies come down to- destroy them, and not men
with weapons. This, he laid, he knew, because he
heard them all cry out so in their language to one
another; for it was impossible ior them to conceive
that a man should dart sire, and speak thunder, and
kill at a distance, without lifting up the hand, as
was done now* And this old savage was in the
right, for, as I understood since by other hands, the
savages of that part never attempted to go over to the
island afterwards. They were so terrified with the
accounts given by these four men (for it seems they
did escape the sea), that they believed, whoever went
to that inchanted island, would be destroyed with
sire from the gods.
This, however, I knew not, and therefore was
under continual apprehensions for a good while, and
kept always upon my guard, 1 and all my army;
for as there were now four of us, I would have ven-
tured upon an hundred of them fairly in the open
field at anv time.
In a little time, however, no more canoes ap-
pearing, the fear of their coming wore off, and I
began to take my former thoughts of a voyage to
the main into consideration, beimr likewise as-
sured by Friday's father, that I might depend upon
good usage from their nation on his account, if I
would go.
But my thoughts were a little suspended, when I
had a serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when
i understood, that there were sixteen more of his
X 2 countrymen
countrymen and Portuguese^ who having been cast
away, and made their escape to that side, lived there
at peace indeed with the savages, but were very fore
put to it for necessaries, and indeed for life: I asked
him all the particulars of their voyage; and found
they were a Spanish ship, bound from the -Rio de la
Plata to the Havanna, beine directed to leave
their loading there, which was chiefly hides and sil-
ver, and to bring back what European goods they
could meet with there; that they had five Portuguese
ieamen on board, whom they took out of another
wreck; that five of their own men were drowned
when first the ship was lost; and that these escaped
through infinite dangers and hazards, and arrived
almost starved on the Canibal coasts where they ex-
pected to have been devoured every moment.
He told me, they had some arms with them, but
they were perfectly useless, for that they had neither
powder or ball, the washing of the sea having
spoiled all their powder, but a little which they
used at their first landing to provide themselves some
food.
I asked him what he thought w ould become of them
there; and if they had formed no design of making
any escape? He said, they had many consultations
about it; but that having neither vessel, nor tools to
build one, or provisions of any kind, their counsels
always ended in tears and despair.
I a&ed him, how he thought they would receive a
proposal from me, which might tend towards an
escape; and whether, if they were all here, it might
not be done? I told him with freedom, I feared
mostly their treachery and ill usage of me, if I put
my
3°9
my life in their hands; for that gratitude was no in-
herent virtue in the nature of man; nor did men
always square their dealings by the obligations they
had received, so much as they did by the advantages
they expected: I told him, it would be very hard,
that I fliould be the instrument of their deliverance,
and that they should afterwards make me their pri-
soner in New Spain, where an Englijhman was certain
to be made a sacrifice, what necessity, or what ac-
cident soever, brought him thither; and that I had
rather be delivered up to the savages, and be devoured
alive, than fall into the merciless claws of the priests,
and be carried into the inquisition. I added, that
otherwise I was persuaded, if they were all here, we
might, with so many hands, build a bark large
enough to carry us all away either to the Brasds south-
ward, or to the islands or Spanijh coast northward:
but that if in requital they should, when I had put
weapons into their hands, carry me by force among
their own people, I might be ill used for my kind-
ness to them, and make my cafe worse than it was
before.
He answered, with a great deal of candour and in-
genuity, that their condition was so miserable, and
they were so sensible of it, that he believed they would
abhor the thought of using any man unkindly that
should contribute to their deliverance; and that, if
I pleased, he would go to them with the old man,
and discourse with them about it, and return again,
and bring me their answer: that he would make con-
ditions with them upon their solemn oath, that they
would be absolutely under my leading, as their com-
mander and captain; and that ihey flvould swear
X 3 upon
upon the holy sacraments and gospels to be true to
me, and go to such christian country as I should
agree to, and no other; and to be directed wholly
and absolutely by my orders, till they were landed
iasely in such country as I intended; and that he would
bring a contract from them under their hands for that
purpose.
Then he told me, he would first swear to me him-
self, that he would never stir from me as long as he
lived, till I gave him order; and that he would take
my side to the last drop of blood, if there should
happen the lease breach of faith among his country-
men.
He told me, they were all of them very civil honest
men, and they were under the greatest distress imard-
J J . o O
liable,having neither weapons orclothes, nor any food.,
but at the mercy and discretion of the savages; out
of all hopes of ever returning to their own country;
and that he was sure, if I would undertake their re-
lief, they would live and die by me.
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to re^
lieve them, if possible, and to send the old savage and
this Spaniard over to them to treat: but when he had-
rotten all things in readiness to go, the Spaniard him-
self started an objection, which had so much prudence
in it on one hand, and so much sincerity on the other
hand, that I could not but be very well satisfied in
it; and, by his advice, put off the deliverance of
his comrades for at least half a year. The cafe was
thus;
Re had been with us now about a month; during
which time I had let him see in what manner I had
provided, with the assistance of Providence, for my
support j
support; and he saw evidently what stock of corn and
rice I had lain up; which, as it was more than suf-
ficient for myself, so it was not sufficient, at least
without good husbandry, for my family, now it was
increased to number four: but much less would it be
sufficient, if his countrymen, who were, as he said,
fourteen still alive, should come over; and least of all
would it be sufficient to victual our vessel, if we should
build one, for a voyage to any of the christian co-
lonies of America. So he told me, he thought it
would be more adviseable, to let him and the other
two dig and cultivate some more land, as much as I
could spare seed to sow; and that we should wait
another harvest, that we might have a supply of corn
for his countrymen when they should come; for want
might be a temptation to them to disagree, or not to
think themselves delivered, otherwise than out of one
difficulty into another: you know, says he, the chil-
dren of Israel, though they rejoiced at first at their
being delivered out of Egypt, yet rebelled even against
God himself, that delivered them, when they came
to want bread in the wilderness.
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so
good, that I could not but be very well pleased with
his proposal, as well as I was satisfied with his fidelity:
so we fell to digging, all four of us, as well as the
wooden tools we were furnished with permitted; and
in about a month's time, by the end of which it wTas
feed-time, we had gotten as much land cured and
trimmed up as we sowed twenty-two bushels of barley
on5 and sixteen jars of rice, which wTas, in short, all
the feed we had to spare; nor indeed did we leave
ourselves barley sufficient for our own food for the
X 4 six
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
six months that we had to expect: our crop, that is
to fay, reckoning from the lime we set our seed aside
for lowing; for it is not to be supposed it is six months
in the ground in that country.
Having now society enough, and our number being
sufficient to put us out of fear of the savages, if they
had come, unless their number had been very great,
we went freely all over the island, where-ever we
found occasion; and as here we had our escape or
deliverance upon our thoughts, it was impossible, at
least for me, to have the means of it out of mine; to
this purpose, 1 marked out several trees, which I
thought fit for our work, and I set Friday and his
father to cutting them down; and then I caused the
Spaniards to whom I imparted my thoughts on that
affair, to oversee and direct: their work: I shewed
them with what indefatigable pains I had hewed a
large tree into single planks, and I caused them to do
the like, till they had made about a dozen large
planks of good oak, near two feet broad, thirty-five
feet long, and from two inches to four inches thick:
what prodigious labour it took up, any one may
imagine.
o
At the fame time I contrived to increase my little
flock of tame goats as much as I could; and to this
purpose I'made Friday and the Spaniard to go out one
day, and myself, with Friday, the next day, for we
took our turns: and by this means we got about
twenty young kids to breed up with the reft; for
whenever we shot the dam, we saved the kids, and
added them to our flock: but above all, the season
for curing the grapes coming on, I cauled such a
prodigious quantity to be hung up in the fun, that I
believe.
CF R03IN301T CRUSOE, 3T3
believe, had we been at Aiicani^ v/here the raisins of
the fan are cured, we should have filled sixty or
eighty barrels; and these, with our bread, was a great
par. of our food, and very good living too, I asiure
you; for it is an exceeding nourisiiing food.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order;
it was not the most plentiful increase I had seen in the
island, but, however, it was enough to answer our
end; for from twenty-two bushels of barley, we
brought in and threshed out above two hundred and
o
twenty bushels, and the like in proportion of the rice,
which-was store enough for our food to the next
harvest, though all the sixteen Spaniards had been
on shore with me; or, if we had been ready for a
voyage, it would very plentifully have victualled
our ship, to have carried us to any part of the world,
that is to fay, of America. When we had thus housed
and recured our magazine of corn, we fell to work to
make more wicker-work; viz. great baskets, in which
we kept it; and the Spaniard was very handy and
dexterous at this part, and often blamed me, that I
did not make some things for defence of this kind of
work; but I saw no need of it: and now having a
full supply of food for all the guests expected, I gave
the Spaniard leave to go over to the main, to fee what
he could do with those he left behind him there: I
o-ave him a strict charge in writing not to brine: anv
O O O O J
man with him, who would not first swear, in the pre-
sence of himself and of the old savage, that he would
no way injure, sight with, or attack the person he
should find in the island, who was so kind to fend for
them in order to their deliverance; but that they
would stand by and defend him against all such at-
tempts •
tempts; and wherever they went, would be en-
tirely under, and subjected to his command; and that
this should be put in writing, and signed with their
hands; how we were to have this done, when I knew
they had neither pen. or ink, that indeed was a ques-
tion which we never asked.
Under thele instructions, the Spaniard, and the
old savage (the father of Friday) went away in one of
the canoes, which they might be laid to come in; or
rather were brought in, when they came as prisoners
to be devoured by the savages.
I gave each of them a musquet with a firelock on
it, and about eieht charees of powder and balk
charging them to be very good husbands of both,
and not to use either of them but upon urgent oc-
casions.
This was a cheerful work, beine the first measures
used by me in view of my deliverance for now 27
years and some days; I gave them provisions of
bread, and of dried grapes, sufficient for themselves
for many clays, and sufficient for their countrymen
for about eight days time; and wishing them a good
voyage, I let them go, agreeing with them about a
signal they should hang out at their return, by which
I should know them again, when they came back, ac
a distance, before they came on shore.
They went away with a fair gale on the day that
the moon was at the full; by my account in the
month of October; but as for the exact reckoning of
days, after I had once lost it, I could never recover
it again; nor had I kept even the number of years
so punctually, as to be sure that I was right,
though, as it proved when I afterwards examined
my
my account, I found I had kept a true reckoning of
years.
It was no less than eight days' I waited for them,
when a strange and unforeseen accident intervened,
of which the like has not, perhaps, been heard of in
history. I was fast asleep in my hutch one morning,
when my man Friday came 'running in to me, and
called aloud, "Master, master, they are come, they
are come."
I jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I went
out as soon as I could get my clothes on, through my
little grove, which (by the way) was by this time
grown to be a very thick wood; I fay, regardless of
danger, I went without my arms, which was not my
custom to do; but I was surprised, when turning my
eyes to the sea, I presently saw a boat at about a
league and an half's distance, standing in for the
Ihore, with a shoulder of mutton sail, as they call it,,
and the wind blowing pretty fair to bring them in:
also I observed presently, that they did not come from
that side which the shore lay on, but from the
southermost end of the island: upon this I called
Friday in, and bid him lie close, for these were
not the people we looked for, and that we
did not know yet whether they were friends or
enemies.
In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspec-
tive-glass, to fee what I could make of them; and
having taken the ladder out, I climbed up to the top
of the hill, as I used to do when i was apprehensive
of any thing, and to take my view the plainer without
being discovered.
I had
I had scarce set my foot on the hill, when my eye
plainly discovered a ship lying at an anchor, at about
two leagues and a half's distance from me, S. S, E.
but not above a league and an half from the shore.
By my observation it appeared plainly to be an
Englijh ship, and the boat appeared to be an Englijh
long-boat*
I cannot express the confusion I was in, though the
joy of feeing a ship, and one whom I had reason to
believe was manned by my own countrymen, and
consequently friends, was such as I cannot describe;
but yet I had some secret doubts hung about me, I
cannot tel! from whence they came, bidding me keep
upon my guard. In the first place, it occurred to
me to consider what business an Englijli snip could
have in that part of the world; since it was not the
way to or from any part of the world where the En-
glijh had any traffick; and I knew there had been no
storms to drive them in there, as in distress; and
that if they were Englijh really, it was most proba-
ble that they were here upon no good design; and
that I had better continue as i was, than fall into the
hands of thieves and murderers.
Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of
danger, which sometimes are given him when he
may think there is no possibility of its being real.
That such hints and notices are given us, I believe
few that have made any observations of things can
deny; that they are certain discoveries of an invisible
world, and a converse of spirits, we cannot doubt;
and if the tendency of them seems to be to warn us of
danger, why should we not suppose they are from
some.
some friendly agent (whether supreme, or inferor and
subordinate, is not the question), and that they are
given for our good?
The present question abundantly confirms me in the
justice of this reasoning ; for had I not been made cau-
tious by this secret admonition, come from whence it
will, I had been undone inevitably, and in a far
worse condition than before, ?s you will fee presently.
I had not kept myself long in this posture, but I
saw the boat draw near the shore, as if they looked
for a creek to thrust in at for the convenience of
landing; however, as they did not come quite far
enough, they did not fee the little inlet where I for-
merly landed my rafts, but run their boat on shore
upon the beach, at about half a mile from me, which
was very happy for me; for otherwise they would
have landed just, as I may fay, at my door, and
would have soon beaten me out of my castle, and,
perhaps, have plundered me of all I had.
When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied they
were Englishmen^ at least most of them; one or two I
thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so: there
were in all eleven men, whereof three of them I
found were unarmed, and (as I thought) bound; and
when the first four or five of them were jumped on
shore, they took those three out of the boat as prison-
ers: one of the three I could perceive using the most
passionate gestures of intreaty, affliction, and despair,
even to a kind of extravagance; the other twro, I
could perceive, lifted up their hands sometimes, and
appeared concerned indeed, but not to such a degree
us the first,
I was
I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew
not what the meaning of it should be; Friday called
out to me in Englijld, as well as he could, O master!
you fee EngUfo mans eat prisoners as well as savage
mans. Why, said I, Friday, do you think they are
going to eat them then? Yes, fays Friday, they will
eat them. No, no, said I, Friday; I am afraid they
will murder them indeed; but you may be sure they
will not eat them.
All this while I had no thought of what the matter
really was, but stood trembling with the horror of
the sight, expecting every moment when the three
prisoners should be killed; nay, once I law' one of
the villains lift up his arm with a great cutlace (as
the seamen call it) or sword, to strike one of the poor
men; aud I expected to see him fail every moment,
at which all the blood in my body seemed to run chill
in my veins.
I wished heartily now for our Spaniard, and. the
savage that was gone with him; or that I had any
way to have come undiscovered within shot of them,
that I might have rescued the three men; for I saw
no sire-arms they had among them; but it fell out to
my mind another way.
After I had observed the outrageous usage of the
three men by the insolent seamen, I observed the
fellows ran scattering about the land, as if they
wanted to fee the country: I observed also, that the
three other men had liberty to go where they pleased;
but they sat down all three upon the ground very
pensive, and looked like men in despair.
This put me in mind of the first time when I came
on shore, and began to look about me 5 how I gave
myself
myself over for lost, how wildly I looked round me,
what dreadful apprehensions I had, and how I lodged
in the tree ail night for fear of being devoured by
wild beasts.
As I knew nothing that night of the supply I was
to receive by the providential driving of the ship
nearer the land, by the storms and tides, by which
I have since been so long nourished and supported;
so these three poor desolate men knew nothing how
certain of deliverance and supply they were, how
near it was to them, and how effectually and really
they were in a condition of safety, at the same time
they thought themselves lost, and their cafe despe-
rate.
So little do we see before us in the world, and fa
much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon the
great Maker of the world, that he does not leave his
creatures so absolutely destitute, but that in the worst:
circumstances they have always something to be
thankful for, and sometimes are nearer their deliver-
ance than they imagine; nay, are even brought to
their deliverance by the means by which they seem to
be brought to their destruction.
It was just at the top of high-water when these
people came on shore, and while partly they stood
parlying with the prisoners they brought, and partly
while they rambled about to fee what kind of place
they were in, they had carelessly staid till the tide
was spent, and the water was ebbed considerably
away, leaving their boat aground.
They had left two men in the boat, who, as I
found afterwards, having drank a little too much
brandy, fell asleep} however, one of them waking
sooner
sooner than the other, and finding the boat too' fast
aground for him to stir it, hallooed for the rest who
were straggling about, upon which they all soon
came to the boat; but it was past all their strength
to launch her, the boat being very heavy, and the
snore on that side being a soft ousy sand, almost like a
quicksand.
In this condition, like true seamen, who are, per-
haps, the least of all mankind given to forethought,
they gave it over, and away they strolled about the
country again; and I heard one of them fay aloud to
another (calling them off from the boat), Why, let
her alone, Jack, can't ye? she'll float next tide: by
which I was fully confirmed in the main enquiry, of
what countrymen they were.
All this while I kept myself close, not once daring
to stir out of my castle, any farther than to my place
of observation, near the top of the hill; and very
glad I was, to think how well it was fortified: I
knew it was no less than ten hours before the boat
could be on float again, and by that time it would be
dark, and I might be more at liberty to fee their mo-
tions, and to hear their discourses it they had any.
In the mean time I fitted myself up for a battle, as
before, though with more caution, knowing I had to
do with another kind of enemy than I had at first: I
ordered Friday also, whom I had made an excellent
marksman with his gun, to load himself with arms:
I took myself two fowling-pieces, and I gave him
three mufquets: my figure, indeed, was very fierce;
I had my formidable goat skin coat on, uith the
great cap I mentioned, a naked sword, two pistols
in my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder.
It
It was my design, as I said above, not to have
made any attempt till it was dark; but about two
o'clock, being the heat of the day, I found that in
short they were all gone straggling into the woods,
and, as I thought, were all laid down to sleep: the
three poor distressed men, too anxious for their con-
dition to get any sleep, were however sec down under
the shelter of a great tree, at about a quarter of a
mile from me, and as I thought, out of sight of any
of the rest.
Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them,
and learn something of their condition : immediately
I marched in the figure above, my man Friday at a
good distance behind me, as formidable for his arms
as I, but not making quite Ib staring a spectre-like
figure as I did.
I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and
then, before any of them saw me, I called aloud to
them in Spanijl^ What are ye^ Gentlemen?
They started up at the noise, but were ten times
more confounded when they saw me, and the un-
couth figure that I made: they made no answer at
all, but I thought I perceived them just going to fly
from me, when I spoke to them in Eng/i/h: Gen-
tlemen, said I, do not be surprised at me; perhaps
rou may have a friend near you, when you did not
expect it : lie must be sent directlyfrom Heaven then,
said one of them very gravely to me, pulling off his
hat at the some time, for our condition is past the
help of man. All help is from Heaven, Sir, said I:
but can you put a stranger in the way how to help
you ? For you seem to me to be in some great distress:
I saw you when you landed; and when you seemed
Vol. L' Y to
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
to make application to the brutes that came with
you, I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill you.
The poor man, with tears running down his face,
and trembling, looking like one astonished, re-
turned, Am I talking to God or man? Is it a real
man, or an angel? Be in no fear about that, Sir,
said I: if God had sent an angel to relieve you, he
would have come better clothed, and armed after
another manner than you see me in; pray lay aside
your fears; I am a man, an Englisldinan, and disposed
to assist you; you see I have one servant only; we
have arms and ammunition; tell us freely, can we
serve you ?—What is your cafe?
Our cafe, said he, Sir, is too long to tell you,
while our murderers are so near \ but in short, Sir,
I was commander of that ship ; my men having mu-
tinied against me, they have been hardly prevailed
on not to murder me, and at last have set me on shore
in this desolate place, with these two men with me,
one my mate, the other a passenger, where we ex-
pected to perish, believing the place to be unin-
habited, and know not yet what to think of it.
Where are those brutes, your enemies? said I; Do
you know where they are gone? There they are, Sir,
said he, pointing to a thicket of trees; my heart
trembles for fear they have seen us, and heard you
speak; if they have, they will certainly murder
us all.
Havetheyany fire-arms? said I: he answered, They
had only two pieces, and one which they left in the
boat. Well then, said I, leave the rest to me; I see
they are all asleep; it is an easy thing to kill them all;
but (hall we rather take them prisoners? He told me
there
there were two desperate villains among them, that it
was scarce safe to shew any mercy to; but if they
were secured, he believed all the rest would return
to their duty: I asked him, Which they were? He
told me, he could not at that distance describe them;
but he would obey my orders in any thing I wrould
direct. Well, said I, let us retreat out of their view
or hearing, lest they awake, and we will resolve far-
ther; so they willingly went back with me, till the
woods covered us from them.
Look you, Sir, said I, if I venture upoixyour de-
liverance, are you willing to make two conditions
with me? He anticipated my proposals, by telling me,
that both he and the ship, if recovered, should be
wholly directed and commanded by me in every
thing; and if the ship was not recovered, he would
live and die with me in what part of the world soever
I would send him; and the two other men said the
same.
Well, said I, my conditions are but two: 1. That
while you stay on this island with me, you will not
pretend to any authority here; and if I put arms into
your hands, you will upon all occasions give them up
to me, and do no prejudice to me or mine, upon this
island, and in the mean time to be governed by my
orders.
2. That if the sliip is or may be recovered, you
will carry me and my man to England\ passage free.
He gave me all the assurance that the invention
and faith of a man could devise, that he would com-
ply with these most reasonable demands, and besides,
would owe his life to me, and acknowledge it upon
all occasions as long as he lived.
Y 2 Well
Well then,- said I, here are three musquets for you,
with powder and ball; tell me next what you think is
proper to be done: he shewed all the testimony of
his gratitude that he was able; but offered to be
wholly guided by me: I told him, I thought it was
hard venturing any thing, but the best method I
could think of, was to fire upon them at once, as
they lay ; and if any were not killed" at the first volley,
and offered to submit, we might save them, and so
put it wholly upon God's providence to direct the
lhot.
He said, very modestly, that he was lath to kilt
them, if he could help it; but that those two were
incorrigible villains, and had been the authors of all
the mutiny in the strip; and if they escaped, we
should be undone still; for they would go on boards
and bring the whole strip's company, and destroy us
all. Well then, said I, necessity legitimates my ad-
vice; for it is the only way to lave our lives. How-
ever, seeing him still cautious of shedding blood, i
told him, they ssiould go themselves, and manage as
they found convenient.
In the middle of this discourse we heard some os
them awake, and soon after we saw two of them on
their feet: I aiked him, if either of them were the
men who he had stud were the heads of the mutiny?
He laid, No. Well then, said I, you may let them
escape, and Providence seems to have wakened them
on purpose to save themselves: Now. said I, if the
rest escape you, it is your fault.
Animated with this, he took the musquet I had
given him in his hand, and pistol in his belt, and
his two comrades with him, with each man a piece
in
in his hand: the two men, who were with him, go-
ing first, made some noise, at which one of the sea-
men, who was awake, turned about, and seeing
them coming, cried out to the rest; but it was too
late then; for the moment he cried out, they fired*
I mean the two men, the captain wisely reserving his
own piece: they had so well aimed their shot at the
men they knew, that one of them was killed on the
spot, and the other very much wounded; but not
being dead, he started up on his feet, and called
eagerly for help to the other; but the captain, step-
ping to him, told him it was too late to cry for help;
he should call upon God to forgive his villany; and
-with that word knocked him down with the stock of
his musquet, so that he never spoke more: there
were three more in the company, and one of them
was also slightly wounded: by this time I was come;
and when they saw their danger, and that it was in
vain to resist, they begged for mercy. The captain
told them, he would spare their lives, if they would
give him any assurance of their abhorrence of the trea-
chery they had been guilty of, and would swear to
be faithful to him in recovering the ship, and after-
wards in carrying her back to yamaica^ from whence
they came. They gave him all the protestations of
their sincerity that could be desired, and he was will-
ing to believe them, and spare their lives, which I
was not against; only I obliged him to keep them
bound hand and foot while they were upon the
island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday with the
captain's mate to the boat, with orders to secure
her, and bring away the oars and fail, which they
Y 3 did;
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
did; and by and bye, three straggling men, that
were (happily for them) parted from the rest, came
back upon hearing the guns fired; and seeing their
captain, who before was their prisoner, now their
conqueror, they submitted to be bound also, and so
our victory was complete.
It now remained, that the captain and I should
enquire into one another's circumstances: I began
first, and told him my whole history, which he heard
with an attention even to amazement, and particu-
larly at the wonderful manner of my being furnished
with provisions and ammunition; and indeed, as my
story is a whole collection of wonders, it affected
him deeply; but when he reflected from thence upon
himself, and how I seemed to have been preserved
there on purpose to save his life, the tears ran down
his face, and he could not speak a word more.
Aftef this communication was at an end, I carried
him and his two men into my apartments, leading
them in just where I came out, viz. at the top of the
house ;, where I refreshed them with such provisions
as I had, and shewed them all the contrivances I had
made during my long, long inhabiting that place.
All I shewed them, all I said to them, was perfectly
amazing; but, above all, the captain admired my
fortification; and how perfectly I had concealed my
retreat with a grove of the trees, which, having now
been planted near twenty years, and the trees grow-
ing much faster than in England? was become a little
wood, and so thick, that it was unpassable in any
part of it, but at that one side where I had reserved
my little winding passage into it: this I told him was
my castle, and my residence; but that I had a seat
in
3*7
in the country, as most princes have, whither I
could re^at upon occasion, and I would shew him
that so another time; but at present our business
was cO consider how to recover the ship. He agreed
wnih me as to that; but told me, he was perfectly at
i loss what measure to take; for that there were still
six-and-twenty hands on board, who having entered
into a cursed conspiracy, by which they had all for-
feited their lives- to the law, would be hardened in
it now by desperation ; and would carry it on, know-
ing that if they were reduced, they should be brought
to the gallows as soon as they came to England, or to
any of the Englijh colonies; and that therefore there
would be no attacking them with so small a number
as we were.
I mused for some time upon what he had said, and
found it was a very rational conclusion, and that
therefore something was to be resolved on very
speedily, as well to draw the men on board into some
snare for their surprise, as to prevent their landing
upon us, and destroying us: upon this it presently
occurred to me, that in a little while, the ship's crew,
wondering what was become of their comrades, and
of the boat, would certainly come on shore in their
other boat to see for them; and that then perhaps
they might come armed, and be too strong for us:
this, he allowed, was rational.
Upon this I told him, the first thing we had to do,
was to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, so
that they might not carry her oft'; and, taking every
thing out of her, leave her so far useless as not to be
sit to swim; accordingly we went on board, took the
arms which were left on board out of her, and what-
Y 4 ever
ever else we found there, which was a bottlers brandy,
and another of rum, a few biscuit cakes, an horn of
powder, and a great lump of sugar in a piece d Gan.
vas; the sugar was five or six pounds; all whichwas
very welcome to me, especially the brandy and suger,
of which I had had none left for many years.
When we had carried all these things on shore (the
oars, mast, fail, and rudder of the boat, were carried
before, as above) we knocked a great hole in her
bottom, that if they had come strong enough to master
us, yet they could not carry off the boat.
Indeed it was not much in my thoughts, that we
could be capable to recover the ship; but my view
was, that if they went away without the boat, I did
not much question to make her sit again to carry us
away to the Leeward Islands, and call upon our
friends the Spaniards in my way, for I had them still
in my thoughts.
While we were thus preparing our designs, and
had first, by main strength, heaved the boat up upon
the beach, so high that the tide would not float her
off at high-water mark; and, besides, had broken
an hole in her bottom, too big to be quickly stopped,
and were fat down musing what we should do; we
heard the ship fire a gun, and saw her make a waft
with her ancient, as a signal for the boat to come 011
board \ but no boat stirred; and they fired several
times, making other signals for the boat.
At last, when all their signals and firings proved
fruitless, and they found the boat did not stir, we
saw them (by the help of our glasses) hoist another
boat out, and row towards the shore; and we found,
as
as they approached, that there were no less than ten
men in her, and that they had fire arms with them.
As the {hip lay almost two leagues from the shore,
we had a full view of them as they came, and a plain
fight of the men, even of their faces; because the
tide having set them a little to the east of the other
boat, they rowed up under shore, to come to the
same place where the other had landed, and where
the boat lay.
By this means, I fay, we had a full view of them,
and the captain knew the persons and characters of all
the men in the boat; of whom he said that there
were three very honest fellows, who, he was sure,
were led into this conspiracy by the rest, being over-
powered and frighted.,
But that for the boatswain, who, it seems, was
the chief officer among them, and-all the rest, they
were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew; and
were, no doubt, made desperate in their new enter-
prize; and terribly apprehensive he was, that they
would be too powerful for us.
I smiled at him, and told him, that men in our cir-
cumstances were past the operations of fear: that
seeing almost every condition that could be was better
than that we were supposed to be in, we ought to ex-
pect that the consequence, whether death or life,
would be sure to be a deliverance; I asked him, what
he thought of the circumstances of my life, and
whether a deliverance were not worth venturing for?
And where, Sir, said I, is your belief of my being pre-
served here on purpose to save your life, which ele-
vated you a little while ago? For my part, said I,
there seems to be but one thing amiss in all the pro-
spect:
spect of it. What's that? fays he. Why, said I?
'tis that, as you fay, there are three or four honest:
fellows among them, which should be spared;
had they been all of the wicked part of the crew,
I {hould have thought God's providence had singled
them out to deliver them into your hands; for, de-
pend upon it, every man of them that comes afliore,
are our own, and shall die or live, as they behave
to us.
As I spoke this with a raised voice, and cheerful
countenance, I found it greatly encouraged him; so
we set vigorously to our business: we had, upon the
first appearance of the boat's coming from the ship,
considered of separating our prisoners, and had in-
deed secured them effectually.
Two of them, of whom the captain was less as-
sured than ordinary, I sent with Friday, and one of
the three (delivered men) to my cave, where they
were remote enough, and out of danger of being
heard or discovered, or of finding their way out of
the woods, if they could have delivered themselves:
here they left them bound, but gave them provisions,
and promised them, if they continued there quietly, to
give them their liberty in a day or two; but that if
they attempted their escape, they should be put to
death without mercy. They promised faithfully to
bear their confinement with patience, and were very
thankful that they had such good usage as to have
provisions, and a light left them; for Friday gave
them candles (such as we made ourselves) for their
comfort; and they did not know but that he stood
centinel over them at the entrance.
The
The other prisoners had better usage; two of them
were kept pinioned indeed, because the captain was
not free to trust them; but the other two were taken
into my service upon their captain's recommendation,
and upon their solemnly engaging to live and die
with us; so, with them and the three honest men,
we were seven men well armed; and I made no
doubt we should be able to deal well enough with the
ten that were a coming, considering that the captain
had said, there were three or four honest men among
them also.
As soon as they got to the place where their other
boat lay, they ran their boat into the beach, and
came all on shore, hauling the boat up after them,
which I was glad to fee; for I was afraid they would
rather have left the boat at an anchor, some distance
from the shore, with some hands in her to guard her;
and so we should not be able to seize the boat.
Being on shore, the first thing they did, they ran
all to the other boat; and it was easy to fee they were
under a great surprise to find her stripped, as above,
of all that was in her, and a great hole in her bot-
tom.
After they had mused awhile upon this, they set
up two or three great shouts, hallooing with all their
might, to try if they could make their companions
hear; but all was to no purpose; then they came
all close in a ring, and fired a volley of their small
arms, which indeed we heard, and the echoes made
the woods ring; but it was all one; those in the
cave, we were sure, could not hear; and those in
our keeping, though they heard it well enough, yet
durst give no answer to them.
They
They were so astonished at the surprise of this, thaty
as they told us afterwards, they resolved to go all on
board again to their ship, and let them know there,
that the men were all murdered, and the long-boat
staved; accordingly, they immediately launched the
boat again, and got all of them on board.
The captain was terribly amazed, and even con-
founded at this, believing they would go on board
the ship again, and set sail, giving their comrades up
for lost, and so he should still lose the ship, which
he was in hopes we should have recovered -> but he
was quickly as much frighted the other way.
They had not been long put off* with the boat, but
we perceived them all coming on shore again; but
with this new measure in their conduct, which, it
seems, they consulted together upon; viz. to leave
three men in the boat, and the rest to go on shore,
and go up into the country to look for their fellows.
This was a great disappointment to us; for now
we were at a loss what to do; for our seizing those
seven men on shore would be no advantage to us if we
let the boat escape, because they would then row
away to the ship; and then the rest of them would
be sure to weigh, and set sail, and so our recovering
the /hip would be lost.
However, we had no remedy but to wait and see
what the issue of things might present: the seven men
came on shore, and the three who remained in the
boat put her off to a good distance from the shore,
and came to an anchor to wait for them; so that
it was impossible for us to come at them in the
boat.
Those
Those that came on shore kept close together,
marching- towards the top of the little hill, under
which my habitation lay; and we could fee them
plainly, though they could not perceive us: we
could have been very glad they would have come
nearer to us, so that we might have fired at them;
or that they would have gone farther off, that we
might have come abroad.
But when they were come to the brow of the hill,
where they could fee a great way in the valley and
woods, which lay towards the north-east part, and
where the island lay lowest, they shouted and hallooed
till they were weary; and not caring, it seems, to
venture far from the shore, nor far from one ano-
ther, they fat down together under a tree, to con-
sider of it: had they thought sit to have gone to sleep
there, as the other party of them had done, they had
done the job for us; but they were too full of ap*
prehensions of danger, to venture to go to sleep,
though they could not tell what the danger was they
had to fear neither.
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon
this consultation of theirs; viz. that perhaps they
would all fire a volley again, to endeavour to make
their fellows hear, and that we should all sally upon
them, just at the juncture when their pieces were all
discharged, and they would certainly yield, and we
should have them without bloodshed. I liked the
proposal, provided it was done while we were near
enough to come up to them, before they could load
their pieces again.
But
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
But this event did not happen, and we lay still a
long time, very irresolute what course to take; at
length I told them, there would be nothing to be
done in my opinion till night; and then, if they did
not return to the boat, perhaps we might find a way
to get between them and the shore, and so might use
some stratagem with them in the boat, to get them
on shore.
We waited a great while, though very impatient
for their removing, and were very uneasy: when,
after long consultations, we saw them start all up,
and march down toward the sea: it seems, they had
such dreadful apprehensions upon them of the dan-
ger of the place, that they resolved to go on board
the ship again, give their companions over for lost,
and so go on with their intended voyage with the
ship.
As soon as I perceived them go towards the shore^
I imagined it to be as it really was; that they had
given over their search, and were for going back
again; and the captain, as soon as I told him my
thoughts, was ready to sink at the apprehensions of
it; but I presently thought of a stratagem to fetch
them back again, and which answered my end to
a tittle.
I ordered Friday, and the captain's mate, to go
over the little creek westward, towards the place
where the savages came on shore when Friday was
rescued j and as soon as they came to a little rising
ground, at about half a mile's distance, I bade them
halloo as loud as they could, and wait till they found
the seamen heard them; that as soon as ever they
heard
"heard the seamen answer them, they should return It
again, and then, keeping out of sight, take a round,
always answering when the others hallooed, to draw
them as far into the island, and among the woods, as
possible, and then wheel about again to me, by such
ways as I directed.
They were just going into the boat, when Friday
and the mate hallooed, and they presently heard them*
and answering, run along the shore westward, to-
wards the voice they heard, when they were pre-
sently stopped by the creek, where the water being
up, they could not get over, and called for the
boat to come up, and set them over, as indeed I
expected.
When they had set themselves over, I observed
that the boat being gone up a good way into the
creek, and as it were in an harbour within the land,
they took one of the three men out of her to go along
with them, and left only two in the boat, having
fastened her to the stump of a little tree on the
shore.
This was what I wished for, and immediately
leaving Friday and the captain's mate to their business,
I took the rest with me, and, crossing the creek out
of their sight, we surprised the two men before they
were aware, one of them lying on shore, and the
other being in the boat the fellow on shore was be-
tween sleeping and waking, and going to start up, the
captain, who was foremost, ran in upon him, and
knocked him down, and then called out to him in the
boat to vield, or he was a dead man.
There
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
There needed very few arguments to persuade H
single man to yield, when he saw Jive men upon him,
and his comrade knocked down: besides, this was
it seems, one of the three who were not so hearty in
the mutiny as the rest of the crew, and therefore was
easily persuaded not only to yield, but afterwards to
join very sincerely with us.
In the mean time, Friday and the captain's mate so
well managed their business with the rest, that they
drew them, by hallooing and answering, from one
hill to another, and from one wood to another, tili
they not only heartily tired them, but left them where
they were very sure they could not reach back to the
boat before it was dark; and indeed they were
heartily tired themselves also by the time they came
back to us.
We had nothing now to do but to watch for them
in the dark, and to fall upon them, so as to make
sure work with them.
It was several hours after Friday came back to me
before they came back to their boat; and we could
hear the foremost of them, long before they came
quite up, calling to those behind to come along; and
could also hear them answer, and complain how lame
and tired they were, and not being able to come any
faster, which was very welcome news to us.
At length they came up to the boat; but it is im-
possible to express their confusion, when they found
the boat fast a-ground in the creek. The tide ebbed
out, and their two men gone; we could hear them
call to one another in a most lamentable manner?
telling one another they were gotten into an enchanted
island; that either there were inhabitants in it, and
they
they should all be murdered; or else there were
devils or spirits in it, and they should be all carried
away and devoured.
They hallooed again, and called their two comrades
by their names a great many times, but no answer t
aster some time, we could see them, by the little light
there was, run about wringing their hands, like men
in despair.; and that sometimes they would go and
sit down in the boat to rest themselves, then come
ashore, and walk about again, and so the same thing
over again.
My men would fain have had me given them leave
to fall upon them at once in the dark; but I was
willing to take them at some advantage, so to spare
them, and kill as few of them as I could; and
especially I was unwilling to hazard the killing any
of our men, knowing the other men were very w7ell
« armed: I resolved to wait to see if they did not se-
parate; and therefore, to make sure of them, I drew
my ambuscade nearer; and ordered Friday and the
captain to creep upon their hands and feet as close to
the ground as they could, that they might not be
discovered, and get as near them as they could pos-
sibly, before they offered to fire.
They had not been long in that posture, till
the boatswain, who was the principal ringleader of
the mutiny, and had now shewn himself the most
dejected and dispirited of all the rest, came walking
towards them with two more of the crew; the captain
was so eager, at having the principal rogue so much
in his power, that he could hardly have patience to
let him come so near as to be sure of him; for they
only heard his tongue before: but when they came
Vol. L Z nearer,
nearer, the captain and Friday, starting up on their*
feet, let fly at them.
The boatswain was killed upon the snot; the next
man was shot in the body, and fell just by him, though
he did not die till an hour or two after j and the third
run for it.
At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced
with my whole army, which was now eight men;
viz. myself generalissimo; Friday my lieutenant-
general; the captain and his two men, and the
three prisoners of war, whom he had trusted with arms.
We came upon them indeed in the dark, so that
they could not fee our number; and I made the man
they had left in the boat, who was now one of us, to
call them by name, to try if I could bring them to a
parley, and so might perhaps reduce them to terms;
which fell out just as we desired: for indeed it was
easy to think, as their condition then was, they would
be very willing to capitulate; so he calls out, as loud
as he could, to one of them, Tom Smithy Tom Smith.
Tom Smith answered immediately, Who's that! Ro-
binson! For it seems he knew his voice. The other
answered, Ay, ay; for God's sake, Tom Smith, throw
down your arms, and yield, or you are all dead men
this moment.
Who must we yield to? Where are they? fays
Smith again. Here they are, soys he; here is our
captain and fifty men with him, have been hunting
you this two hours; the boatswain is killed; Will
Frye is wounded, and I am a prisoner j and if you
do not yield, you are all lost.
Will they give us quarter then? fays Tom Smith,,
and w-j v :11 yield, I'll go and ask, if you promise to
yield,
yield, says Robinson. So he asked the captain, and
the captain himself then calls out; You, Smiths you
know my voice, if you lay down your arms imme-
diately, and submit, you shall have your lives, all but
Will Atkins.
Upon this Will Atkins cried out, For God's fake,
captain, give me quarter: what have I done? they
have been all as bad as I: (which by the way was not
true, either; for it teems this Will A i kins was the
first man that laid hold of the captain when they first
mutined, and used him barbarously, in tying his
hands, and giving him injurious language :) how-
ever, the captain told him he must lay down his
arms at discretion, and trust to the governor's mer-
cy, by which he meant me $ for they all called me
governor.
In a word, they all laid down their arms, and
begged their lives; and I sent the man that had
parlied with them, and two more, who bound them
all; and then my great army of fifty men, which?
particularly with those three, were all but eight?
came up and seized upon them a!!, and upon their
boat, only that I kept myself and one more out of
sight, for reasons of state.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and to think
of seizing the ship; and as for the captain, now he
had leisure to parley with them, he expostulated with
them upon the villainy of their practices with him*
and at length, upon the farther wickedness of their
design; and how certainly it must bring them to
misery and distress in the end, and perhaps to the
gallows.
They
They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard
for their lives: as for that, he told them they were
none of his prisoners, but the commander's of the
island; that they thought they had set him on shore
in a barren uninhabited island; but it had pleased
God so to direct them, that the island was inhabited,,
and that the governor was an Englijlmian; that he
might hang them all there, if he pleased; but as he had
given them ail quarter, he supposed he would send
them to England, to be dealt with there as justice
required, except Atkins, whom he was commanded
by the governor to advise to prepare for death; for
that he would be hanged in the morning.
Though this was all a fiction of his own, yet it
had its desired effect: Atkins fell upon his knees to
beg the captain to intercede with the governor for his
life; and all the rest begged of him for God's fake*
that they might not be sent to England.
It now occurred to me, that the time of our deliver-
ance was come, and that it would be a most easy
thing to bring these fellows in to be hearty in getting
possession of the ship; so I retired in the dark from
them, that they might not fee what kind of a gover-
nor they had, and called the captain to me; when I
called, as at a o*ood distance, one of the men was
ordered to speak again, and say to the captain, Cap-
tain, the commander calls for you; and presently the
captain replied, Tell his excellency I am just a com-
ing. This more perfectly amused them; and they
all believed, that the commander was just by with
his fifty men.
Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him my
project for seizing the ship, which he liked won-
derfully
derfully well, and resolved to put it in execution the
next morning.
But, in order to execute it with more art, and to
be secure of success, I told him we must divide the
prisoners, and that he should go and take Atkins,
two more of the worst of them, and send them
pinioned to the cave where the others lay: this was
committed to Friday, and the two men who came on
shore with the captain.
They conveyed them to the cave, as to a prison;
and it was indeed a dismal place, especially to men in
their condition*
The others I ordered to my bower, as I called it,
of which I have given a full description; and as it
was fenced in, and they pinioned, the place was
secure enough, considering they were upon their be-
haviour.
To these in the morning I sent the captain, who
was to enter into a parley with them; in a word, to
try them, and tell me, whether he thought they
might be trusted or no, to go on board, and surprise
the snip: he talked to them of the injury done him,
of the condition they were brought to; and that
though the governor had given them quarter for their
lives, as to the present action, yet that if they were
sent to England^ they would all be hanged in chains,
to be sure; but'that if they would join in such an
attempt, as to recover the (hip, he would have the
governor's engagement for their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a proposal
would be accepted by men in their condition; they
fell down on their knees to the captain, and pro.
Z 3 xnised
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
mised with the deepest imprecations, that they would
be faithful to him to the last drop, and that they
should owe their lives to him, and would go with him
all over the world; that they would own him for a
father to them as long as they lived.
Well, fays the captain, I must go and tell the go-
vernor what you fay, and fee what I can do to biing
him to consent to it: so he brought me an account
of the temper he found them in; and that he verily
believed they would be faithful.
However, that we might be very secure, I told him
he should go back again, and choose out five of them,
and tell them, that they should see that they did not
want men; but he would take out those five to be his
assistants, and that the governor would keep the other
two, and the three that were sent prisoners to the
castle, (my cave) as hostages, for the fidelity of those
five; and that if they proved unfaithful in the exe-
cution, the five hostages should be hanged in chains
alive upon the shore.
This looked severe, and convinced them that the
governor was in earnest; however, they had no way
left them but to accept it; and it was now the business
of the prisoners, as much as of the captain, to per-
suade the other five to do their duty.
Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedi-
tion: i. The captain, his mate, and passenger. 2.
Then the. two prisoners of the first gang, to whom,
having their characters from the captain, I had given
their liberty, and trusted them with arms. 3. The
other two whom I kept till now in my bower
pinioned; but, upon the captain's motion, had now
released.
released. 4. These five released at last; so that they
were twelve in all, besides five we kept prisoners in
the cave for hostages.
I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with
these hands on board the ihip: fur, as for me, and
my. man. Friday, I did not think it was proper for us to
stir, having seven men left behind; and it was em-
ployment enough for us to keep them asunder, and
supply them w7ith victuals.
As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them
fast; but Friday went twice a day to them, to supply
them with necessaries; and I made the other two
carry provisions to a certain distance, where Friday
was to take it.
When I shewed myself to the two hostages, it was
with the captain, who told them, I was the person
the governor had ordered to look after them, and
that it was the governor's pleasure that they should
not stir any where but by my direction; that if they
did, they should be fetched into the castle, and he
laid in irons; ib that as we never suffered them to see
me as governor, so I now appeared as another person,
and spoke of the governor, the garrison, the castle,
and the like, upon all occasions.
The captain now had no difficulty before him, but
to furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one, and
man them: he made his passenger captain of one,
with iour other men j and himself, and his mate,
and five more, went in the other: and they con-
trived their business very well; for they came up to
the snip about midnight: as soon as they came within
call of the snip,, he made Robinson hail them, and
Z 4 tell
tell them he had brought off the men and the boat, but
that it was a long time before they had found them,
and the like j holding them in a chat, till they came
to the ship's side; when the captain and the mate,
entering first: with their arms, immediately knocked
down the second mate and carpenter with the but end
of their musquets, being very faithfully seconded by
their men; they secured all the rest that were upon
the main and quarter-decks, and began to fasten the
hatches to keep them down who were below, when
the other boat, and their men, entering at the fore-
chains, secured the forecastle of the flfip, and the
shuttle which went down into the cook-room, making
three men they found there prisoners.
When this was done, and all safe upon the deck,
the captain ordered the mate with three men to break
into the round house, where the new rebel captain
lay, and, having taken the alarm, was gotten up, and.
with two men and a boy had gotten fire arms in their
hands; and when the mate with a crow split open the
door, the new captain and his men fired boldly among
them, and wounded the mate with a musquet balk
which broke his arm, and wounded two more of the
men, but killed nobody.
The mate, calling for help, rushed, however, into
the round-house, wounded as he was, and with his
pistol shot the new captain through the head, the
bullets entering at his mouth, and came out again
behind one of his ears; so that he never spoke a
word; upon which the rest yielded, and the ship
was taken effectually, without any more lives being
lost.
As
As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain
ordered seven guns to be sired, which was the signal
agreed upon with me, to give me notice of his suc-
cess; which you may be sure I was very glad to hear,
having fat watching upon the snore for it, till near
two of the clock in the morning.
Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me
down; and it having been a day of great fatigue to
me, I slept very found, till I was something surprised
with the noise of a gun; and presently starting up, I
heard a man call me by the name of Governor, go-
vernor; and presently I knew the captain's voice,
when climbing up to the top of the hill, there he
stood, and pointing to the ship, he embraced me in
his arms: My dear • friend and deliverer, fays he,
there's your (hip, for she is all your's, and so are we,
and all that belong to her. I cast my eyes to the
ihio, and there she rode within a little more than
half 3. mile of the shore; for they had weighed her
anchor as soon as they were masters of her: and the
weather being fair, had brought her to an anchor just
against the mouth of a little creek; and the tide beinp-
up, the captain had brought the pinnace in near the
place where I first landed my rafts, and so landed just
at my door.
I was, at first, ready to sink down with the far-
prise: for I saw my deliverance indeed visibly put
into mv hands, all things easy, and a lar^e fhio
J O j  O i.
just ready to carry me away whither I pleased to
go: at first, for some time, I was not able to answer
one word; but as he had taken me in his arms,
I held fast by him, or I should have fallen to the
ground.
He
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulled
a bottle out of his pocket, and gave me a dram of
cordial, which he had brought on purpose for me:
after I drank it, I sat down upon the ground, and
though it brought me to myself, yet it was a good
while before I could speak a word to him.
All this while the poor man was in as great an ec-
stasy as I, only not under any surprise, as I was;
and he said a thousand kind tender things to me, to
compose and bring me to myself; but such was the
flood of joy in my breast, that it put all my spirits
into confusion; at last it broke into tears, and in a
little while after I recovered my speech.
Then I took my turn, and embraced him as my
deliverer -7 and we rejoiced together: I told him, I
looked upon him as a man sent from Heaven to de-
liver me, and that the whole transaction seemed to
be a chain of wonders; that such things as* these
were the testimonies we had of a secret hand of Pro,
vidence governing the world, and an evidence, that
the eyes of an infinite power could search into the
remotest corner of the world, and send help to the
miserable whenever he pleased.
I forgot not to lift up my heart In thankfulness to
Heaven; and what heart could forbear to bless him,
who had not only in a miraculous manner provided
for one in such a wilderness, and in such a desolate
condition, but from whom every deliverance must
always be acknowledged to proceed!
When we had talked a while, the captain told me,
he had brought me some little refreshments, such as
the ship afforded, and such as the wretches, who had
been so long his masters, had not plundered him of:
upon
upon this he called aloud to the boat, and bids his
men bring the things asliore that were for the gover-
nor; and indeed it was a present, as if I had been
one, not that I was to be carried along with them,
but as if I had been to dwell upon the island still,
and they were to go without me.
First, he had brought me a cafe of bottles full of
excellent cordial waters, fix large bottles of Ma-
deira wine; the bottles held two quarts a piece; two
pounds of excellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces
of the snip's beef, and fix pieces of pork, with a bag
of peas, and about an hundred weight of biscuit.
He brought me also a box of sugar, a box of flour,
a. bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime-juice,
and abundance of other things: but besides these,
and what was a thousand times more useful to me,
he brought me six clean new shirts, six very good
neckcloths, t wo pair of gloves, one pair of {hoes, an
hat, and one pair of stockings, and a very good suit
of clothes of his own, which had been worn but very
little: in a word, he clothed me from head to foot.
It was a very kind and agreeable present, as any
one may imagine, to one in my circumstances; but
never was any thing in the world of that kind so un-
pleasant, auk ward, and uneasy, as it was to me to
wear such clothes at their first putting on.
After these ceremonies passed, and after all his good
things were brought into my little apartment, we be-
gan to consult what was to be done with the prisoners
we had; for it was worth considering whether we
might venture to take them away with us or no, es-
pecially two of them, whom we knew to be incorrigi-
ble and refractory to the last degree; and the captain
said,
said, he knew they were such rogues, that there was
no obliging them; and if he did carry them away,
it must be in irons, as malefactors, to be delivered
over to justice at the first Englijh colony he could
come at; and I found that the captain himself was
very anxious'about it.
Upon this, I told him, that if he desired it, I durst
undertake to bring the two men he spoke of, to make
it their own request that he should leave them upon
the island: I should be very glad of that, says the
captain, with all my heart.
Well, said I, I will send for them, and talk with
them for you: so I caused Friday and the two hos-
tages, for they were now discharged, their com-
rades having performed their promise; I say, I caused
them to go to the cave, and bring up the live men,
pinioned as they were, to the bower, and keep them
there till I came.
Aster some time, I came thither dressed in my new
habit, and now I was called governor again. Being
all met, and the captain with me, I caused the men
to be brought before me, and I told them, I had had
a full account of their villainous behaviour to the
captain, and how they had run away with the ship,
and were preparing to commit farther robberies; but
that Providence had ensnared them in their own ways,
and that they were fallen into the pit which they had
digged for others.
I let them know, that by my direction the ship had
been seized, that Ihe lay now in the road, and they
might see by and by, that their new captain had re-
ceived the reward of his villainy; for that they might
fee him hanging at the yard-arm.
That
349
That as to them, I wanted to know what they had
to fay, why I should not execute them as pirates ta-
ken in the fact, as by my commission they could not
doubt I had authority to do.
One of them answered in the name of the rest,
that they had nothing to say but this, That when
they were taken, the captain promised them their
lives, and they humbly implored my mercy: but I
told them I knew not what mercy to shew them;
for, as for myself, I had resolved to quit the island
with all my men, and had taken passage with the
captain to go for England: and as for the captain, he
could not carry them to England, other than as pri-
soners in irons to be tried for mutiny, and running
away with the ship; the consequence of which, they
must needs know, would be the gallowrs; so that I
could not tell which was best for them, unless they
had a mind to take their fate in the island; if they de-
fired that, I did not care, as I had liberty to leave
it; I had some inclination to give them their lives,
if they thought they could shift on slrore. They seem-
ed very thankful for it; said they would much rather
venture to stay there, than to be carried to England
to be hanged; so I left it on that issue.
However, the captain seemed to make somedifficul-
ty of it, as if he durst not leave them there: upon this
I seemed to be a little angry with the captain, and
told him, that they were my prisoners, not his; and
that feeing I had offered them so much favour, I
would be as good as my word; and that if he did
not think fit to consent to it, I would set them at
liberty as I found them; and if he did not like that,
he might take them again, if he could catch them.
Upon
Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I ac-
cordingly set them at liberty, and bade them retire
into the woods, to the place whence they came, and
I would leave them some fire arms, some ammunition,
and some directions how they should live very well,
if they thought fit.
Upon this, I prepared to go on board the ship;
but told the captain, that I would stay that night to
prepare my things; and desired him to go on board
in the mean time, and keep all right in the ship, and
fend the boat on shore the next day for me; order-
ing him in the mean time, to cause the new captain,
who was killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that
these men might see him*
When the captain was gone, I sent for the men
up to me to my apartment, and entered seriously
into discourse with them of their circumstances: I
told them, I thought they had made a right choice;
that if the captain carried them away, they would cer-
tainly be hanged: I shewed them their captain hang-
ing at the yard-arm of the snip, and told them they
had nothing less to expect.
When they had all declared their willingness to
stay, I then told them, I would let them into the
story of my living there, and put them into the way
of making it easy to them: accordingly I gave them
the whole history of the place, and of my coming to
it; shewed them my fortifications, the way I made
my bread, planted my corn, cured my grapes; and,
in a word, all that was necessary to make them easy.
I told them the story of the sixteen Spaniards that
were to be expected; for whom I left a letter, and
made
made them promise to treat them in common with
themselves.
I left them my fire-arms; viz. five musqu&ts,
three fowling-pieces, 2nd three sword:;; I had about
a barrel of powder left; for after the first year or two
I used but little, and wasted none: I gave them a
description of the way I managed the goats, and di-
rections to milk and fatten them, to make both but-
ter and cheese.
In a word, I gave them every part of my own story;
and I told them, I would prevail with the captain to
leave them two barrels of gunpowder more, and
some garden-seed, which I told them I would have
been very glad of; also I gave them the bag of peas
which the captain had brought me to eat, and bade
them be fare to sow and increase them.
Having done all this, I left them the next day,
and went on board the ship: v/e prepared immediate-
ly to fail, but did not weigh that night: the next
morning early, two of the five men came swimming
to the ship's side, and making a most lamentable com-
plaint of the other three, begged to be taken into
the ship, for God's fake, for they should be murder-
ed; and begged the captain to take them on beard
though he hanged them immediately.
Upon this the captain pretended to have no power
without me; but after some difficulty, and after their
solemn promises of amendment, they were taken on
board, and were some time after soundly whipped
and pickled; after which they proved very honest and
quiet fellows.
Some time after this, I went with the boat on
shore, the tide being up, with the things promised to
the
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
the men, to which the captain, at my intercession*
caused their,chests and clothes to be added, which
they took, and were very thankful for: I also en-
couraged them, by telling them, that if it iay in my
way to fend a vessel to take them in, I would not
forget them.
o
When I took leave of this island, I carried on
board for reliques the great goat's skin cap I had
made, my umbrella, and one of my parrots; also I
forgot not to take the money I formerly mentioned,
which had lain by me so long useless that it was
grown rusty, or tarnished, and could hardly pass for
silver, till it had been a little rubbed and handled;
and also the money I found in the wreck of the Spa-
nish ship.
And thus I left the island the nineteenth of Decem-
ber, as I found by the fliip's account, in the year
1686, after I had been upon it eight and twenty
years, two months, and nineteen days; being deli-
vered from the second captivity the fame day of the
month that I first made my escape in the Barco-longo^
from among the Moors of Sallce.
In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in
England the eleventh of June, in the year 1687,
having been thirty and five years absent.
When I came to England., I was a perfect stranger
to all the world, as if I had never been known there;
my benefactor, and faithful steward, whom I had
left in trust with my money, was alive, but had had
great misfortunes in the world, was become a. widow
the second time, and very low in the world: I made
her easy as to what (he owed me, assuring her, I
would give her no trouble; but on the contrary, in
gratitude to her former care and faithfulness to me*
I relieved
I relieved her as my little stock would afford, which
at that time would indeed allow me to do but little
for her: but I assured her, I would never forget her
former kindness to me; nor did I forget her, when
I had sufficient to help her; as shall be observed in
its place.
I went down afterwards into Torkjhire; but my
father was dead, and my mother, and all the family
extinct; except that 1 found two sisters, and two
of the children of one of my brothers: and as I
had been long ago given over for dead, there had
been no provision made for me, so that, in a word*
I found nothing to relieve or assist me; and that
little money I had, would not do so much for me as
to settling in the world.
I met with one piece of gratitude indeed, which
I did not expect; and this was, that the master of
the ship, whom I had so happily delivered, and by
the same means saved the ship and cargo, having
given a very handsome account to the owners, of the
manner how I had saved the lives of the men, and
the ship, they invited me to meet them, and some
other merchants concerned, and all together made
me a very handsome compliment upon that subject,
and a present of almost two hundred pounds ster-
ling.
But after making several reflections upon the cir-
cumstances of my life, and how little way this would
go towards fettling me in the world, I resolved to go
to Lisbon, and see if I might not come by some in-
formation of the state of my plantation in the Bra-
Ills, and what was become of my partner, who, I
Vol. L A a had
had reason to suppose, had some years now given
me over for dead.
With this view I took snipping for Lisbon^ where
I arrived in April following •> my man Friday ac-
companying me very honestly in all these ramblings,
and proving a most faithful servant upon all occa-
sions,
When I came to Lisa on ^ I found out, by enquiry,
and to my particular satisfaction, my old friend, the
captain of the ship, who first took me up at sea, off"
the shore of Africa: he was now grown old, and
had left off the sea, having put his son, who was far
from a young man, into his ship; and who still used
the Bralil trade. The old man did not know me,
and, indeed, I hardly knew him; but I soon brought
myself to his remembrance, when I told him who I
was.
After some passionate expressions of our old ac-
quaintance, I enquired, you may be sure, afeer my
plantation, and my partner: the old man told me3
he had not been in the Brasils for about nine years;
but that he could assure me, that when he came
away, my partner was living; but the trustees, whom
I had joined with him, to take cognizance of my
part, were both dead; that, however, he believed
that I would have a very good account of the im-
provement of the plantation; for that, upon the
general belief of my being cast away and drowned,
my trustees had given in the account of the produce
of my part of the plantation, to the procurator
Fiscal; who had appropriated it, in cafe I never
came to claim it, one third to the King, and two-
thirds to the monastery of St. Augaslinc^ to be ex-
pended
of robinson ckvsoz* 355
pended for the benefit of the poor, and for the con-
version of the Indians to the Catholic faith; but that
if I appeared, or any one for me, to claim the in-
heritance, it would be restored; only that the im-
provement, or annual production, being distributed
to charitable uses, could not be restored; but he
assured me, that the steward of the king's revenue
(from lands) and the proveclore, or steward of the
monastery, had taken great care all along, that the
incumbent, that is to fay, my partner, gave every
year a faithful account of the produce, of which
they received duly my moiety*
I asked him, if he knew to what height of im-
provement he had brought the plantation: and whe-
ther he thought it might fye worth looking after; or
whether, on my going thither, I sliould meet with
no obstruction to my possessing my just right in the
moiety.
He told me, he could not tell exactly to what de-
gree the plantation was improved; but this he knew,
that my partner was growing exceeding rich upon
the enjoying but one half of it; and that, to the
best of his remembrance, he had heard, that the king's
third of my part, which was, it seems, granted away
to some other monastry, or religious house, amounted
to above two hundred moidores a year; that, as to
my being restored to a quiet possession of it, there
was no question to be made of that, my partner be-
ing alive to witness my title, and my name being also
inrolled in the register of the country. Also he told
me, that the survivors of my two trustees were very
fair, honest people, and very wealthy, and he be-
lieved I would not only have their assistance for put-
A a 2 ting
ting me in possession, but would find a very conside-
rable sum of money in their hands for my account,
being the produce of the farm, while their fathers
held the trust, and before it was given up, as above,
which, as he remembered, was about twelve years.
I (hewed myself a little concerned and uneasy at
this account, and enquired of the old captain, how
it came to pass, that the trustees should thus dispose
of my effects, when he knew that I had made my
will, and had made him, the Portuguese captain 5
my universal heir, &c.
He told me, that was true; but that, as there was
no proof of my being dead, he could not act as exe-*
cutor, until some certain account should come of my
death; and that, besides he was not willing to inter-
meddle with a thing so remote: that it was true, he
had registered my will, and put in his claim; and
could he have given any account of my being dead
or alive, he would have acted by procuration, and
taken possession of the Ingenio (so they called the
sugar-house) and had given his son, who was now
at the Brasils, order to do it*
But, (fays the old man) I have one piece of news
to tell you, which perhaps may not be so acceptable
to you as the rest; and that is, that believing you
were lost, and all the world believing so also, your
partner and trustees did offer to account to me in
your name, for six or eight of the first years of pro-
fit, which I received; but there being at that time,
fays he, great disbursements for increasing the works,
building an ingenio^ and buying slaves, it did not
amount to near so much as afterwards it produced:
however, fays the old man, I shall give you a true
account
account of what I have received in all, and how I
have disposed of it.
After a few days farther conference with this an-
tient friend, he brought me an account of the six
first years income of my plantation, signed by my
partner, and the merchant's trustees, being always
delivered in goods; viz. tobacco in roll, and sugar
in chests, besides rum, molasses, &c. which is the
consequence of a sugar-work; and I found by this
account, that every year the income considerably
increased: but, as above, the disbursement being
large, the sum at first was small: however, the old
man let me see, that he was debtor to me 470 moi-
dores of gold, besides 60 chests of sugar, and 15
double rolls of tobacco, which were lost in his strip,
he having been shipwrecked coming home to Lijbon*
about eleven years after my leaving the place.
The good man then began to complain of his
misfortunes, and how he had been obliged to make
use of my money to recover his losses, and buy him
a fliare in a new ship; however, my old friend, fays
he, you fliall not want a supply in your necessity j
and as soon as my son returns, you fliall be fully
satisfied.
Upon this he pulls out an old pouch, and gives
me two hundred Portugal moidores in gold; and
giving me the writings of his title to the ship which
his son was gone to the Brasds in, of which he was
a quarter part owner, and his son another, he puts
them both in my hands for security of the rest.
1 was too much moved with the honesty and kind-
ness of the poor man, to be able to bear this; and
remembering what he had done for me, how he had
A a 3 taken
taken me up at sea, and how generously he had used
me on all occasions, and particularly how sincere a
friend he was now to me, I could hardly refrain
weeping at what he said to me: Therefore, first I
asked him if his circumstances admitted him to spare
so much money at that time, and if it would not
straiten him? He told me he could not say but it
might straiten him a little; but, however, it was my
money, and I might want it more than he.
Every thing the good man said was full of affec-
tion, and I could hardly refrain from tears while he
spoke. In snort, 1 took one hundred of the moi-
dores, and called for a pen and ink to give him a
receipt for them; then I returned him the rest,, and
told him, if ever I had possession of the plantation,
I would return the other to him also, as indeed I
afterwards did; and that, as to the bill of sole of his
pare in his son's snip, I would not take it by any
means; but that if I wanted the money, I found he
was honest enough to pay me; and if I did not,
but cams to receive what he gave me reason to ex-
pect, I would never have a penny more from him.
When this was passed, the old man began to ask
me if he should put me in a method to make my
claim to my plantation, I told him, I thought to
ro over to it myself. He slid, I might do so if I
pleased; but that if I did not, there were ways
enough to secure my right, and immediately to ap-
propriate the profits to my use; and as there were
snips in the river of Lisbon, just ready to go away
to Brasil, he made me enter my name in a public
register, with his affidavit, affirming upon oath that
I was alive, and that I was the fame person who
took
took up the land fcr the planting the said plantation
at first.
This being regularly attested by a notary, and a
procuration affixed, he directed me to fend it with a
letter of his writing, to a merchant of his acquaint-
ance at the place; and then proposed my staying
with him till an account came of the return.
Never any thing was more honourable than the
proceedings upon this procuration; for in less than
fey en months I received a large packet jxom the sur-
vivors of my trustees, the merchants, on whose ac-
count I went to sea, in which were the following par-
ticular letters and papers inclosed.
First, There was the account current of the pro-
duce of my farm, or plantation, from the year when
their fathers had balanced with my old Portugal cap-
tain, being for six years; the balance appeared to
be 1174 moidores in my favour.
Secondly, There was the account of four years
more while they kept the effects in their hands, be-
fore the government claimed the administration, as
being the effects of a person not to be found, which
they call Civil Death; and the balance of this, the
value of the plantation increasing, amounted to crui-
sadoes, which made 3241 moidores.
Thirdly, There was the prior of the Aiigiislines
account, who had received th6 profits for above four-
teen years; but not being able to account for what
was disposed to the hospital, very honestly declared
he had 872 moidores not distributed, which he ac-
knowledged to my account. As to the lung's-part,
that refunded nothing.
A a 4
There
There was also a letter of my partner's, congra-
tulating me very affectionately upon my being alive j
giving me an account how the estate was improved,
and what it produced a year, with a particular of
the number of squares, or acres, that it contained;
how planted, how many staves there were upon it;
and, making two and twenty crosses for blessings,
told me he had said so many Ave Maria's to thank
the Blessed Virgin that I was alive; inviting me very
passionately to come over and take possession of my
own, and in the mean time to give him orders to
whom he should deliver my effects, if I did not come
myself; concluding with an hearty tender of his
friendship, and that of his family; and sent me, as
a present, seven fine leopards stuns, which he had, it
seems, received from Africa by some other stiip which
he had sent thither, and who, it seems, had made a
better voyage than I. He sent me also five chests of
excellent sweetmeats, and an hundred pieces of gold
uncoined, not quite so large as moidores.
By the fame fleet my merchant-trustees shipped
me 1200 chests of sugar, 800 rolls of tobacco, and
the rest of the whole account in gold.
I might well fay now, indeed, that the latter end
of Job was better than the beginning: It is impost!-*
ble to express the fluttering^ of my very heart, when
I looked over these letters, and especially when I
found all my wealth about me; for as the Brasd
sliips come all in fleets, the fame strips which brought
my letters brought my goods; and the effects were
safe in the Tagns before the letter came to my hand:
in a word, I turned pale, and grew sick j and had
not
not the old man ran and fetched me a cordial, I be-
lieve the sudden surprise of joy had overset nature,
and I had died upon the spot.
Nay, after that, I continued very ill, and was so
some hours, till a physician being sent for, and some-
thing of the real cause of my illness being known,
he ordered me to be let blood, after which I had re-
lief, and grew well; but I verily believe, if it had
not been eased by the vent given in that manner to
the spirits, I fliould have died.
I was now master all on a sudden, of above 50,000!.
sterling in money, and had an estate, as I might
well call it, in the Brqsils, of above a thousand
pounds a year, as sure as an estate of lands in E?ig-
land; and, in a word, I was in a condition which
I scarce knew how to understand, or how to compose
myself for the enjoyment of.
The first thing I did was to recompense my ori-
ginal benefactor, my good old captain, who had
been first charitable to me in my distress, kind to me
in the beginning, and honest to me at the end: I
shewed him all that was sent me; I told him that,
next to the providence of heaven, which disposes
all things, it was owing to him; and that it now lay
on me to reward him, which I would do an hundred
fold: So I first returned to him the hundred moi-
dores I had received of him; then I sent for a notary,
and caused him to draw up a general release or dis-
charge for the 470 moidores, which he had acknow-
ledged he owed me, in the fullest and firmest manner
possible; after which I caused a procuration to be
drawn, empowering him to be my receiver of the
annual profits of my plantation, and appointing my
partner
partner to account to him, and make the returns by
the usual fleets to him in my name; and a clause in
the end, being a grant of 100 moidores a year to
him during his life, out of the effects; and so moi-
dores a year to his son after him, for his life: And
thus I requited my old man.
I was now to consider which way to steer my
course next, and what to do with the estate that
Providence had thus put into my hands; and, in-
deed, I had more care upon my head now than I
had in my silent state of life in the island, where I
wanted nothing but what i had, and had nothing
but what I wanted; whereas I had now a great
charge upon me, and my business was how to secure
it: I had never a cave to hide my money in, or a place
where it might lie without lock or key, till it grew
mouldy and tarnished before any body would med-
dle with it: On the contrary, I knew not where to put
it, or whom to trust with it; my old patron, the cap-
tain, indeed, was honest, and that was the only re-
fuse I had*
In the next place, my interest in the Brqsils seemed
to summon me thither; but now I could not teli
how to think of going thither till I had fettled my
affairs, and left my effects in some safe hands behind
me. At first I thought of my old friend the widow,
who, I knew, was honest, and would be just to me;
but then she was in years, and but poor, and, for
aught I knew, might be in debt; so that, in a word,
I had no way but to go back to England myself, and
take my effects with me.
I was some months, however, before I resolved
upon this j and therefore as I had rewarded the old
captain
captain fully, and to satisfaction, who had been my
former benefactor, so I began to think of my poor
widow, whose husband had been my first benefactor,
and she, while it was in her power, my faithful stew-
ard and instructor: So the first thing I did, I got a
merchant in Lisbon to write to his correspondent in
London^ not only to pay a bill, but to go find her
out, and carry her in money an hundred pounds from
me, and to talk with her, and comfort her in her
poverty, by telling her she should, if I lived, have a
farther supply: At the same time I sent my two
sisters in the country, each of them an hundred
pounds, they being, though not in want, yet not in
very good circumstances; one having been married,
and left a widow; and the other having an husband
not so kind to her as he should be.
But among all my relations or acquaintances, I
could not yet pitch upon one to whom I durst com-
mit the gross of my stock, that I might go away to
the Brasih, imd leave things safe behind me; and
this greatly perplexed me.
I had once a mind to have gone to the Brajlls,
and have settled myself there, for I was, as it were,
naturalized to the place; but I had some little scru-
ple in my mind about religion, which insensibly
drew me back, of which I shall lay more presently.
However, it was not religion that kept me from go-
ing thither for the present; and as I had made no
scruple of being openly of the religion of the coun-
try, all the while I was among them, so neither did
I vet; only that now and then having of late thought
more of it than formerly, when I began to think
of
of living and dying among them, I began to regret
my having professed myself a Papist, and thought it
might not be the best religion to die in.
But, as I have said, this was not the main thing
that kept me from going to the Brafi/s, but that really
I did not know with whom to leave my effects behind
me; so I resolved at last to go to England with
them, where, if I arrived, I concluded I should make
some acquaintance, or find some relations, that would
be faithful to me \ and accordingly I prepared to go
lor England with all my wealth.
In order to prepare things for my going home, I
first, (the Brafd fleet being just going away) resolved
to give answers suitable to the just and faithful ac-
count of things I had from thence; and first to the
prior of St. Augujtine^ I wrote a letter full of thanks
for his just dealings, and the offer of the 872 moi-
dores, which was undisposed of, which I desired might
be given; 500 to the monastry; and 372 to the poor,
as the prior should direct, desiring the good Padre's
prayers for me, and the like.
I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees,
with all the acknowledgment that so much justice
and honesty called for; as for sending them any
present, they were far above having any occasion
of it.
Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging his
industry in the improving the plantation, and his in-
tegrity in increasing the stock of the works, giving
him instructions for his future government of my
part according to the powers I had left with my old
patron, to whom I desired him to fend whatever be-
came
came due to me, till he should hear from me more
particularly: assuring him, that it was my intention,
not only to come to him, but to fettle myself there
for the remainder of my life. To this I added a very
handsome present of some Italian silks for his wife
and two daughters, for such the captain's son in-
formed me he had; with two pieces of sine Englijh
broad-cloath, the best I could get in Lisa on, five
pieces of black bays, and some Flanders lace of a good
value.
Having thus settled my affairs, fold my cargo, and
turned all my effects into good bills of exchange,
my next difficulty was, which way to go to England:
I had been accustomed enough to the sea, and yet 1
had a strange aversion to go to England by sea at
that time; and though I could give no reason for is,
yet the difficulty increased upon me so much, that
though I had once shipped my baggage in order to
go, yet I altered my mind, and that not once, but
two or three times.
It is true, I had been very unfortunate by sea, and
this might be one of the reasons: But let no man
slight the strong impulses of his own thoughts in
cafes of such moment. Two of the ships which 1
had singled out to go in, I mean more particularly
singled out than any other, that is to layr, so as in one
of them to put my things on board, and in the other
to have agreed with the captain; I fay, two of these
(hips miscarried, viz. one was taken by the Alge-
rineS) and the other was cast away on the Start, near
Torba^ and all the people drowned except three;
so
so that in either of those vessels I had been made mi-
serable, and in which most, it was hard to fay.
: kt&n,^ Having being thus harrassed in my thoughts, my
old^ pilot, to whom I communicated every things
pressed me earnestly not . to go to sea; but either to
go by land to the Groyne, and cross over the Bay of
Biscay to Rochelle, from whence it was but an ^afy
and safe journey by land to Paris, and so to Calais and
Dover; or to go up to Madrid, and so all the way
by land through France.
In a word, I was so prepossessed against my going
by sea at all, except from Calais to Dover, that I re-
solved to travel all the way by land; which, as I was
not in haste, and did not-value the charge, was by
much the pleafanter way; and to make it more so,
my old captain brought an. English gentleman, the
son of a merchant in Lisbon, who was willing to
travel with me; after which, we picked up two who
were English, and merchants also, and two young
Portuguese gentlemen, the, last going to Paris only;
so .that we were in all six of us, and five servants, •
the two merchants, and the two Portuguese, con-
tenting themselves with one servant between two, to
save the charge; and as for me I got an Engli/b
sailor to travel with me as a servant, besides my man
Friday, who was too much a stranger to be capable
of supplying the place of a servant upon the road*
In this manner I set out for Lisbon: and our com-
1 Pany being all very well mounted and armed, we
made a little troop, whereof they did me the honour
to call me captain, as well because I was the oldest
man.
man,, as because I had two servants, and indeed was
the original of the whole journey.
As I have troubled you with none of my sea jour-
nals, so (hall I trouble you with none of my land
journals: But some adventures that happened to us in
this tedious and difficult journey, I must not omit.
"When we came to Madrid, we, being all of. us
strangers to Spain, were willing to stay some time to
see the court of Spain, and to see what was worth
observing; but it being the latter part of the sum-
mer, we hastened away, and set out from Madrid
about the midstle of Oflober: But when we came to
the edge of Navarre, we were alarmed at several
towns on the way, with an account that so much
snow was fallen on the French fide of the mountains,
that several travellers were obliged to come back to
Pampeluna, after having attempted, at an extreme
hazard, to pass on.'
When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it
so indeed: and to me that had been always used to
an hot climate, arid indeed to countries where we
could scarce bear any clothes on, the cold wras in-
sufferable; nor, indeed, was it more painful than it
was surprising, to come but ten days before out of
the Old Cajlile, where the weather was not only warm *
but very hot, and immediately to^feel a v/ind from
the Pyrenean mountains, so very keen, so severely
cold, as to be intolerable, and to endanger benumb-
ing and perishing of our fingers and toes, wras very
strange.
Poor Friday was really frighted when he saw the
mountains all covered with snow, and felt cold wea-
ther,
ther, which he had never seen or felt before in his
life.
To mend the matter, after we came to Fampehina^
it continued snowing with so much violence, and so
long, that the people said, winter was come before
its time; and the roads, which were difficult before,
were now quite impassable: in a word, the snow lay
in some places too thick for us to travel; and being
not hard frozen, as is the cafe in northern countries,
there was no going without being in danger of being
buried alive every step. We staid no less than twenty
days at Pampeluna; when (seeing the winter coming
on, and no likelihood of its being better, for it was
the severest winter all over Europe that had been
known in many years) I proposed that we should all
go away to Fontarabia, and there take shipping for
Bourdeaux, which was a very little voyage.
But while we were considering this, there came in
four French gentlemen, who, having been stopped
on the French side of the passes, as we were on the
Spanish, had found out a guide, who traversing the
country near the head of Langitedoc, had brought
them over the mountains by such ways, that they
were not much incommoded with the snow; and
where they met with snow in any quantity, they said
it was frozen hard enough to bear them and their
horses.
We sent for this guide, who told us, he would
undertake to carry us the fame way, with no hazard
from the snow, provided we were armed sufficiently
to protect us from wild beasts; for he said, upon
these great snows, it was frequent for some
wolves
369
Wolves to sliew themselves at the foot of the moun-
tains, being made ravenous for want of food, the
ground being covered with snow. We told him we
were well enough prepared for such creatures as they
were, if he would insure us from a kind of two- i
legged wolves, which we were told we were in most >
danger from, especially on the French side of the
mountains.
He satisfied us there was no danger of that kind
in the way that we were to go: so we readily agreed
to follow him: as did also twelve other gentlemen,
with their servants, some French ^ some Spanish, who,
as I said, had attempted to go, and were obliged to
come back again.
Accordingly we all set out from Pampeluna, with
our guide, on the fifteenth of November; and in-
deed, I was surprised, when, instead of going for-
ward, he came directly back with us, on the fame
road that we came from Madrid, above twenty
miles; when having passed two rivers, and come
into the plain country, we found ourselves in a warm
climate again, where the country was pleasant, and
no snow to be seen; but on a sudden, turning to the
left, he approached the mountains another way; and
though it is true, the hills and the precipices looked
dreadfully, yet he made so many tours, such meanders,
and led us by such winding ways, we insensibly passed
the height of the mountains, without being much
incumbered with the snow; and all on a sudden he
shewed us the pleasant fruitful provinces of Langue-
doc and Gafcoigne, all green and flourishing j though
Vol. L B b indeed
indeed they were at a great distance, and we had
some rough way to pass yet.
We were a little uneasy however, when we found
it snowed one whole day and a night, so fast, that we
could not travel; but he bid us be easy, we should
soon be past it all: we found, indeed, that we began
to descend every day, and to come more north than
before; and so, depending upon our guide, we went
on*
It was about two hours before night, when our
guide being something before us, and not just in
fight, out rushed three monstrous wolves, and after
them a bear, out of an hollow way, adjoining to a
thick wood; two of the wolves flew upon the guide,
and had he been half a mile before us, he had been
devoured indeed, before we could have helped him;
one of them fastened upon his horse, and the other at-
tacked the man with that violence, that he had not
time, or not presence of mind enough, to draw his
pistol, but hallooed and cried out to us most lustily;
my man Friday being next to me, I bid him ride up,
and fee what was the matter: As soon as Friday
came in sight of the man, he hallooed, as loud as
the other, O master! O master! But, like a bold
fellow, rode directly up to the man, and with his
pistol shot the vvolf that attacked him in the head.
It was happy for the poor man that it was my man
Friday; for he, having been used to that kind of
creature in his country, had no fear upon him, but
went close up to him, and sliot him as above; where-
as any of us would have fired at a farther distance,
and have perhaps either misted the wolf, or endan-
gered (hooting the man-
But
37*
But It was enough to have terrified a bolder man
than I, and indeed it alarmed all our company, when,
with the noise of Friday's pistol, we heard on both
sides the dismallest howlings of wolves, and the noise
redoubled by the echo of the mountains, that it was
to us as if there had been a prodigious multitude of
them; and perhaps indeed there was not such a few,
as that we had no cause of apprehensions.
However, as Friday had killed this wolf, the
other, that had fastened upon the horse, left him im-
mediately, and fled, having happily fastened upon
his head, where the bosses of the bridle had stuck in
his teeth, so that he had not done him much hurt:
the man, indeed, was most hurt; for the raging crea-
ture had bit him twice, once on the arm, and the
other time a little above his knee; and he was just
as it were tumbling down by the disorder of the
horse, when Friday came up, and shot the wolf.
It is easy to suppose, that at the noise of Friday's
pistol we all mended our pace, and rid up as fast as
the way (which was very difficult) would give us
leave, to fee what was the matter; as soon as we
came clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we
saw plainly what had been the case, and how Friday
had disengaged the poor guide; though we did not
presently discern what kind of creature it was he had
killed.
But never was a fight managed so hardily, and in
such a surprising manner, as that which followed be-
tween Friday and the bear, which gave us all (though
at first we were surprised and afraid for him) the
greatest diversion imaginable; as the bear is an
heavy, clumsy creature, and does not gallop as the
B b 2 * wolf
wolf does, which is swift and light; so he has two
particular qualities, which generally are the rule of
his actions; first, as to men, who are not his proper
prey, I fay not his proper prey, because though! can't
say what excessive hunger might do, which was now
their cafe, the ground being all covered with snow ^
yet as to men, he does not usually attempt them, un-
less they first attack him; on the contrary, if you
meet him in the woods, if you don't meddle with
him, he won't meddle with you; yet then you must
take care to be very civil to him, and give him the
road; for he is a very nice gentleman, he won't go
a step out of the way for a prince; nay, if you are
really afraid, your best way is to look another way,
and keep going on; for sometimes, if you stop, and
stand still, and look stedfastly at him, he takes it for
an affront; and if you throw or toss any thing at him,
and it hits him, though it were but a bit of flick as
big as your finger, he takes it for an affront, and sets
all other business aside to pursue his revenge; for he
will have satisfaction in point of honour, and this
is his first quality; the next is, that if he be once
affronted, he will never leave you, night or day,
till he has his revenge, but follow at a good round
rate till he overtakes you.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and
when we came up to him, he was helping him off
from his horse; for the man was both hurt and
frighted, and indeed the last more than the first;
when, on a sudden, we espied the bear come out of
the wood, and a very monstrous one it was, the
biggest by far that ever I saw; we were all a little
surprised
surprised when we saw him; but when Friday saw
him, it was easy to see joy and courage in the fellow's
countenance: O! O! O! fays Friday, three times,
pointing to him, O master! you give me te leave, me
fhakee te hand with him, me makee you good laugh.
I was surprised to see the fellow so pleased: You
fool you, said I, he will eat you up, Eatee me up!
eatee me up! says Friday', twice over again; me
eatee him up; me make you good laugh; you all
stay here, me shew you good laugh: so down he
sits, and gets his boots off in a moment, and put on
a pair of pumps (as we call the flat shoes they wear)
and which he had in his pocket, and gives my other
servant his horse, and, with his gun, away he flew,
swift like the wind.
The bear was walking softly on, and offered to
meddle with nobody, till Friday coming pretty near,
calls to him, as if the bear could understand him:
Hark ye, hark ye, lays Friday, me fpeakee wit you.
We followed at a distance; for now being come
down to the Gascoigne side or the mountains, wTe
were entered avast great forest, vhere the country
was plain, and pretty open, though many trees in it
scattered here and there.
Friday, who had, as wre fay, the heels of the bear,
came up with him quickly, and takes up a great
stone, and throws at him, and hit him just on the
head; but did him no more harm thanif hehad thrown
it against a wall; but it answered Friday's end; for
the rogue was so void of fear, that he did it purely
to make the bear follow him, and shew us some laugh,
as lie called it.
B b 3 As
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
As soon as the bear felt the stone, and saw him, he
turns about, and comes after him, taking devilish .
long strides, and shuffling along at a strange rate, so
as he would put an horse to a middling gallop; away
runs Friday, and takes his course, as if he ran to-
wards us for help; so we all resolved to fire at once
upon the bear, and deliver my man j though I was
angry at him heartily for bringing the bear back
upon us, when he was going about his own business
another way; and especially I was angry that he had
turned the bear upon us, and then run away; and I
called out, You dog, said I, is this your making us
laugh? Come away, and take your horse, that we
may (hoot the creature. He hears me, and cries out,
No slioot, no shoot, stand still, you get much laugh:
and as the nimble creature ran two feet for the beast's
one, he turned on a sudden, on one side of us, and
seeing a great oak tree, sit for his purpose, he bec-
koned us to follow, and doubling his pace, he gets
nimbly up the tree, laying his gun down upon the
ground, at about sive or six yards from the bottom
of the tree.
The bear soon came to the tree, and we followed
at a distance; the first thing he did, he stopped at the
gun, smelt to it, but let it lie, and up he scrambles
into the tree, climbing like a cat, though so mon-
strous heavy: I was amazed at the folly, as I thought
It, of my man, and could not for my life fee any
thing to laugh at yet, till seeing the bear get up thq
tree, we all rode nearer to him.
When we came to the tree, there was Friday got
out to the small of a large limb of the tree, and the
beaj;
375
bear got about half way to him; as soon as the bear
got out to that part where the limb of the tree was
weaker, Ha, fays he to us, now you fee me teachee
the bear dance; so he falls a jumping, and shaking
the bough, at which the bear began to totter, but
stood still, and began to look behind him, to fee how-
he should get back; then indeed we did laugh hearti-
ly: But Friday had not done with him by a great
deal; when he fees him stand still, he calls out to
him again, as if he had supposed the bear could speak
Englifo, What, you come no farther? Pray you come
farther. So he left jumping and shaking the
bough; and the bear, just as if he understood what
he said, did come a little farther; then he fell a jump-
ing again, and the bear stopped again.
We thought now was a good time to knock him
on the head, and called to Friday to stand still, and
we would flioot the bear; but he cried out earnest-
ly, O pray! O pray! no flioot, me shoot by and
then , he would have said, by and bye. However,
to shorten the story, Friday danced so much, and
the bear stood so ticklish, that we had laughing
enough indeed, but still could not imagine what the
fellow would do; for first we thought he depended
upon stiaking the bear off; and we found the bear
was too cunning for that too; for he would not
get out far enough to be thrown down, but clings
fast with his great broad claws and feet, so that we
could not imagine what would be the end of it, and
where the jest would be at last.
But Friday put us out of doubt quickly; for
seeing the bear cling fast to the bough? and that he
B b 4 would
would not be persuaded to come any farther; Well,
well, said Friday, you no come farther, me go, me
go; you no come to me, me come to you; and upon,
this he goes out to the smallest end of the bough,
where it would bend with his weight, and gently lets
himself down by it, sliding down the bough, till he
came near enough to jump down on his feet, and,
away he ran to his gun, takes it up, and stands
still.
Well, said I to him, Friday, what will you do
now? Why don't you shoot him? No shoot," says
Friday, no yet, me stroot now me no kill; me stay,
give you one more laugh; and indeed so he did, as
you will fee presently; for when the bear saw his
enemy gone, he comes back from the bough where
he stood, but did it mighty leisurely, looking behind
him every step, and coming backward till he got into
the body of the tree; then with the same hinder end
foremost, he came down the tree, grasping it with
his claws, and moving one foot at a time, very lei-
surely; at this juncture, and just before he could set
his hind feet upon the ground, Friday stepped close
to him, clapped the muzzle of his piece into his ear,
and shot him as dead as a stone.
Then the rogue turned about, to fee if we did not
laugh; and when he saw we were pleased by our
looks, he falls a laughing himself very loud; So we
kill bear in my country, says, Friday. So you kill
them, said I; why you have no guns: No, fays he,
no guns, but shoot great much long arrow.
This was, indeed, a good diversion to us; but we
were still in a wild place, and our guide very much
hurt.
hurt, and what to do we hardly knew; the howling
of wolves ran much in my head; and indeed ex-
cept the noise I once heard on the shore of Africa*
of which I have said something already, I never
heard any thing that filled me with so much hor-
ror.
These things, and the approach of night, called
us off, or else, as Friday would have had us, we
should certainly have taken the flan of this mon-
strous creature off, which was worth saving; but
v/e had three leagues to go, and our guide hastened
us; so we left him, and went forward on our jour-
ney.
The ground was still covered with snow, thourfi
not so deep and dangerous as on the mountains; and
the ravenous creatures, as we heard afterwards, were
come down into the forest and plain country, pressed
by hunger, to seek for lood, and had done a great
deal of mischief in the villages, where they sur-
prised the country people, killed a great many of their
sheep and horses, and some people too.
We had one dangerous place to pass, of which
our guide told us, if there were any more wolves in
the country, we should find them there; and this
was a small plain, surrounded with woods on every
fide, and a long narrow defile or lane, which we
were to pass to get through the wood, and then we
should come to the village where we were to lodge.
It was within half an hour of fun-set when we
entered the first wood; and a little after sun-set,
when we came into the plain. We met with no-
thing in the first wood, except that in a little plain
within
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
within the wood, which was not above two furlongs
over, we saw five great wolves cross the road, full
speed one after another, as if they had been in chafe
of some prey, and had it in view; they took no no-
tice of us, and were gone and out of sight in a few
moments.
Opoh this our guide, who, by the way, was a
wretched faint-hearted fellow, bade us keep in a rea-
dy posture j for he believed there were more wolves
a coming.
We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us;
but we saw no more wolves till we came through that
wood, which was near half a league, and entered
the plain; as soon as we came into the plain, we had
occasion enough to look about us. The first object
we met with was a dead horse, that is to fay, a poor
horse which the wolves had killed, and at least a do-
zen of them at work; we could not fay eating of
him, but picking of his bones rather; for they had
eaten up all the flesh before.
We did not think fit to disturb them at their feast,
neither did they take much notice of us; Friday
would have let fly at them, but I would not suffer
him by any means j for I found we were like to
have more business upon our hands than we were
aware of. We were not half gone over the plain,
but we began to hear the wolves howl in the woods3
on our left, in a frightful manner; and presently af-
ter we saw about an hundred coming on directly to-
wards us, all in a body, and most of them in a line,
as regularly as an army drawn up by experienced
officers. I scarce knew in what manner to receive
them j
them; but found to drav/ urselves in a close line,
xvas the only way; so we s< med in a moment; but,
that we might not have loo much interval, I or-
dered, that only every 01 her man should fire; and
that the others, who had . * jt sired, should stand ready
to give them a second voK jy immediately, if they con-
tinued to advance upon u, ; and that then those who
had fired at first, should not pretend to load their fu-
sils again, but stand ready, with every one a pistol,
for we were all armed with a fusil, and a pair of pis-
tols each man; so we were, by this method, able to
fire six volleys, half of us at a time; however, at
present we had no necessity; for, upon firing the first
volley, the enemy made a full stop, being terrified,
as well with the noise as with the fire; four of them,
being shot in the head, dropped; several others were
wounded, and went bleeding oft', as we could fee by
the snow: I found they stopped, but did not immedi-
ately retreat; whereupon remembering that I had
been told, that the fiercest creatures were terrified
at the voice of a man, I caused all our company to
halloo as loud as we could, and I found the notion
not altogether mistaken; for upon our shout, they
began to retire, and turn about; then I ordered a
second volley to be fired in their rear, which put
them to the gallop, and away they went to the woods.
This gave us leisure to charge our pieces again,
and that we might lose no time, we kept doing; but
we had but little more than loaded our fusils, and
put ourselves into a readiness, when we heard a ter-
rible noise in the same wood, on our left j only that
it was farther onward the fame way we were to go.
The
The night was coming on, and the night began to
be dusky, which made it the worse on our side;
but, the noise increasing, we could easily perceive
that it was the howling and yelling of those hellish
creatures; and, on a sudden, we perceived two or
three troops of wolves on cur left, one behind us,
and one on our front, so that we seemed to be sur-
rounded with them; however, as they did not fall
upon us, we kept our way forward, as fast as we
could make our horses go, which, the way being
very rough, was only a good large trot; and in
this manner we only came in view of the entrance
of the wood through which we were to pass, at
the farther side of the plain; but we were greatly
surprised, when, coming near the lane, or pass, we
saw a confused number of wolves standing just at
the entrance.
On a sudden, at another opening of the wood,
we heard the noise of a gun; and, looking that
way, out rushed an horse, with a saddle and a
bridle on him, flying like the wind, and sixteen or
seventeen wolves after him full speed: indeed the
horse had the heels of them; but as we suppose
that he could not hold it at that rate, we doubted
not but they would get up with him at last; and
no question but they did.
Here we had a'most horrible sight; for, riding
up to the entrance where the horse came out, we
found the carcase of another horse, and of two men
devoured by these ravenous creatures, and of one
the man was no doubt the fame whom we heard
fire a gun, for there lay a gun just by him fired off;
but
but as to the man, his head, and the upper part of
his body, were eaten up.
This filled us with horror, and we knew not
^hat course to take; but the creatures resolved us
soon, for they gathered about us presently, in hopes
of prey; and I verily believe there were three hun-
dred of them: It happened very much to our advan-
tage, that at the entrance into the wood, but a little
way from it, there lay some large timber trees, which
had been cut down the summer before, and I sup-
pose lay there for carriage; I drew my little troop in
among these trees, and placing ourselves in a line
behind one long tree, I advised them all to alight,
and, keeping that tree before jis, for a breast-work,
to stand in a triangle, or three fronts, inclosing our
horses in the centre,
We did so, and it was well we did; for never was
a more furious charge than the creatures made upon
us in this place j they came on us with a growling
kind of a noise, and mounted the piece of timber
(which, as I said, was our breast-work,) as if they
were only rustling upon their prey; and this fury of
theirs, it seems, was principally occasioned by their
seeing our horses behind us, which was the prey they
aimed at: I ordered our men to fire as before, everv
man; and they took their aim so sure, that indeed
they killed several of the' wolves at the first volley;
but there was a necessity to keep a continual firing,
for they came on like devils, those behind pushing on
those before.
When we had fired our second volley of fusils,
we thought they stopped a little, and I hoped they
would have gone off, but it was but a moment,
for
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
for others came forward again; so we sired our
volleys of pistols; and I believe in these sous
firings, we killed seventeen or eighteen of them,
and lamed twice as many; yet they came on again,
I was loth to spend our last Ihot too hastily; so
I called my servant, not my man Friday, for he was
better employed; for, with the greatest dexterity
imaginable, he chaiged my fusil and his own, while
we were engaged; but, as I said, I called my other
man; and giving him a horn of powder, I bade him
lay a train all along the piece of timber, and let it be
a large train; he did so, and had but time to get
awTay, when the wolves came up to it, and some were
got up upon it; when I, snapping an uncharged pistol
close to the powder, set it on fire; and those that
were upon the timber were scorched with it, and six
or seven of them fell, or rather jumped in among
us, with the force and fright of the sire; we dis-
patched these in an instant, and the rest were so
frighted with the light, which the night, for now it
was very near dark, made more terrible, that they
drew back a little.
Upon which I ordered our last pistols to be fired
off in one volley, and after that we gave a shout;
upon this the wolves turned tail, and we sallied imme-
diately upon near twenty lame ones, which we found
struggling on the ground, and fell a cutting them with
our swords, which answered our expectation; for
the crying and howling they made wrere better un-
derstood by their fellows; so that they fled and left
us.
We had, first and last, killed about three score of
them; and had it been day-light, we had killed
many
3§3
many more: The field of battle being thus cleared*
we made forward again; for we had still near a
league to go; we heard the ravenous creatures howl
and yell in the woods as we went, several times; and
sometimes we fancied we saw some of them, but the
snow dazzling our eyes, we were not certain; so in
about an hour more we came to the town, where we
were to lodge, which we found in a terrible fright,
and all in arms \ for, it seems, that, the night be-
fore, the wolves and some bears had broken into that
village, and put them in a terrible fright; and they
were obliged to keep guard night and day, but espe-
cially in the night, to preserve their cattle, and in-
deed their people*
The next morning our guide was so ill, and his
limbs so swelled with the rankling of his two
wounds, that he could go no farther; so we were
obliged to take a new guide there, and go to T/jo-
loufe^ where we found a warm climate, a fruitful,
pleasant country, and no snow, no wolves, or any
thing like them; but when we told our story at
Tholouse, they told us it was nothing but what was
ordinary in the great forest at the foot of the moun-
tains, especially when the snow lay on the ground;
but they enquired much what kind of a guide^ we
had gotten, that would venture to bring us that
way in such a severe season; and told us, it was very
much we were not all devoured; When we told
them how we placed ourselves, and the horses in the
middle, they blamed us exceedingly, and told us it
was fifty to one but we had been all destroyed; for
it was the light of the horses that made the wolves
so furious, seeing their prey 5 and that at other times
they
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
they are really afraid of a gun; but they being ex*
ceflive hungry, and raging on that account, the ea-
gerness to come at the horses had made them sense-
less of danger; and that if we had not by the con-
tinued fire, and at last by the stratagem of the train
of powder, mastered them, it had been great odds
but that we had been torn to pieces; whereas, had
we been content to have fat still on horseback, and
fired as horsemen, they would not have taken the
horses so much for their own, when men were on
their backs, as otherwise; and withal they told us,
that at last, if we had stood altogether, and left our
horses, they would have been so eager to have de-
voured them, that we might have come off safe?
especially having our fire-arms in our hands, and
being so many in number.
For my part, I was never so sensible of danger in
my life; for seeing above three hundred devils come
roaring and open-mouthed to devour us, and having
nothing to shelter us, or retreat to, I gave myself
over for lost; and as it was, I believe, I shall never
care to cross those mountains again; I think I would
much rather go a thousand leagues by sea, though
J were sure to meet with a storm once a week.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in
my passage through France; nothing but what other
travellers have given an account of, with much more
advantage than I can: I travelled from Tholoasc to
Parity and without any considerable stay, came to
Calais, and landed safe at Dover, the fourteenth of
January, after having had a severe cold seaion to
travel in.
I was
3S5
I was now come to the centre of my travels, and
had in a little time all my new discovered estate safe
about me, the bills of exchange, which I brought
with me, having been very currently paid.
My principal guide and privy counsellor, was my
good ancient widow, who, in gratitude for the money
I had sent her, thought no pains too much, or care
too great, to employ for me; and I trusted her so
entirely with every thing, that I was perfectly easy
as to the security of my effects; and indeed I was
very happy from my beginning, and now to the end,
ill the unspotted integrity of this good gentlewoman.
And now I began to think of leaving my effects
with this woman, and setting out for List on, and so
to the Brasth: but now another scruple came in the
way, and that was religion; for as I had entertained
some doubts about the Roman religion, even while I
was abroad, especially in my state of solitude; so I
knew there was no going to the Brasth for me, much
less going to settle there, unless I resolved to embrace
the Roman Catholic religion, without any reserve;
except on the other hand I resolved to be a sacrifice
to my principles, be a martyr for religion, and die
in the inquisition: so I resolved to stay at home, and,
if I could find means for it, to dispose of my planta-
tion.
To this purpose I wrote to my old friend at Listen,
who in return gave me notice, that he could easily
dispose of it there: but that if I thought fit to give
him leave to offer it in my name to the two merchants,
the survivors of my trustees who lived in the Brasih,
who must fully understand the value of it, who lived
Voju I. C c just
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
just upon the spot, and who I knew to be very rich9
so that he believed they would be fond of buying it;
he did not doubt, but I should make 4 or 5000 pieces
of eight the more of it.
Accordingly I agreed, gave him orders to offer it
to them, and he did so; and in about eight months
more, the ship being then returned, he sent me an
account, that they had accepted the offer, and had
remitted 33,000 pieces of eight to a correspondent of
theirs at Lisbon, to pay for it.
In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the
form which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my
old man, who sent me the bills of exchange for
32,800 pieces of eight for the estate; reserving the
payment of 100 moidores a year, to him, (the old
man,) during his life, and 50 moidores afterwards
to his son for his life, which I had promised them;
and which the plantation was to make good as a rent
charge. And thus I have given the first part of a
life of fortune and adventure, a life of Providence's
chequer-work, and of a variety which the world will
seldom be able to shew the like of: beginning foolish-
ly, but closing much more happily than any part of
it ever gave me leave so much as to hope for.
Any one would think, that in this state of com-
plicated good fortune, I was past running any more
hazards^ and so indeed I had been, if other circum-
stances had concurred : but I was inured to a wander-
ing life, had no family, nor many relations; nor,
however rich, had I contracted much acquaintance;
and though 1 had sold my estate in the Brasils, yet
I could not keep that country out of my head, and
had a great mind to be upon the wing again;
1 especially
especially I could not resist the strong inclination I
had to see my island, and to know if the poor
Spaniards were in being there; and how the rogues
I left there had used them.
My true friend the widow earnestly dissuaded me
from it, and so far prevailed with me, that almost
for seven years she prevented my running abroad;
during which time I took my two nephews, the chil-
dren of one of my brothers, into my care: the eldest
having something of his own, I bred up as a gentle-
man, and gave him a settlement of some addition
to his estate, after my decease-, the other I put out
to a captain of a ship; and after five years, finding
him a sensible, bold, enterprising young fellow, I
put him into a good ship, and sent him to sea: and
tins young fellow afterwards drew me in, as old as I
was, to farther adventures myself.
In the mean time, I in part settled myself here:
for, first of all I married, and that not either to my
disadvantage or dissatisfaction; and had three chil-
dren, two sons and one daughter: but my wife dying,
and my nephew coming home with good success from
a voyage to Spain, my inclination to go abroad, and
his importunity, prevailed, and engaged me to go
in his ship as a private trader to the Eajh Indies. This
was in the year 1694.
In this voyage I visited my new colony in the
island, saw my successors the Spaniards, had the
whole story of their lives, and of the villains I left
there; how at first they insulted the poor Spaniards 9
how they afterwards agreed, disagreed, united, sepa-
rated, and how at last the Spaniards were obliged to
use violence with them; how they were subjected to
C c 2 the
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
the Spaniards; how honestly the Spaniards used them;
an history, if it were entered into, as full of variety
and wonderful accidents as my own part; particu-
larly also as to their battles with the Caribbeans, who
landed several times upon the istand, aud as to the
improvement they made upon the island itself; and
how five of them made an attempt upon the mam
land, and brought away eleven men and five women,
prisoners; by which, at my coming, I found about
twenty young children on the island.
Here I stayed about twenty days; left them supplies
of all necessary things, and particularly of arms,
powder, shot, clothes, tools, and two workmen,
which I brought from England with me; viz. a
carpenter and a smith.
Besides this, I shared the land into parts with
them, reserved to myself the property of the whole,
but gave them such parts, respectively, as they agreed
on; and, having settled all things with them, and
engaged them not to leave the place, I left them
there.
From thence I touched at the Brasds, from whence
I sent a bark, which I bought there, with more peo-
ple, to the island; and in it, besides other supplies,
I sent seven women, being such as I found proper
for service, or for wives to such as would take them.
As to the ErigUftwwn^ I promised them to send them
some women from England, with a good cargo of neces-
saries, if they would apply themselves to planting;
which I afterwards could not perform: the fellows
proved very honest and diligent, after they were
mastered, and had their properties set apart for them,
I sent them also from the Brasds five cows, three of
4 them
389
them being big with calf, some sheep, and some hogs,
which, when I came again, were considerably in-
creased.
But all these things, with an account how 300
Caribbees came and invaded them, and ruined their
plantations, and how they fought with that whole
number twice, and were at first defeated and one of
them killed; but at last a storm destroying their ene-
mie's canoes, they famiflied or destroyed almost all
the rest, and renewed and recovered the possession
of their plantation, and still lived upon the island.
All these things, with some very surprising inci-
dents in some new adventures of my own, for ten
years more, I may, perhaps, give a farther account
of hereafter.
END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.
