THE ADVENTURES OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE
By
DANIEL DEFOE
Jlctoljj eMtcb afksv tlj* (Oviglnal (EMtiona
WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY KAUFFMANN
T. FISHER UNWIN
PATERNOSTER SQUARE
T
CONTENTS.
PART I.
HGI
CRUSOE'S BIRTH AND PARENTAGE ... ... ... I
DESIRES TO GO TO SEA—HIS FATHER'S COUNSEL... 8-4
RUNS AWAY TO SEA—FROM HULL TO YARMOUTH ROADS 4-IO
TRAVELS TO LONDON ... ... ... II
SETS UP AS A GUINEA TRADER ... ... ... 11-12
SHIP CAPTURED BY TURKISH ROVER ... ... 13
IN SLAVERY AT SALLEE ... ... ... ... 14
ESCAPES FROM SLAVERY ... ... ... I5-16
WITH XURY OFF THE AFRICAN COAST ... .- I7~24
PICKED UP BY A PORTUGUESE ... ... »$
TAKEN TO BRAZIL ... ... ... ... 25
BECOMES A PLANTER IN BRAZIL ... ... 20-23
SAILS FOR THE COAST OF GUINEA TO TRADE FOR NEGROES 29-30
A STORM—THE SHIP IS STRANDED ON AN ISLAND 3I~33
CRUSOE THE ONLY ONE SAVED ... ... ... 34~35
GETS UP INTO A TREE TO SLEEP FOR THE NIGHT 35
THE DAY AFTER THE STORM ... ... ... 36
GOES ON BOARD THE STRANDED SHIP ... ... 36—37
MAKES A RAFT TO BRING THINGS FROM THE WRECK ...
HE VIEWS THE COUNTRY
MAKES A SECOND RAFT TO BRING STORES ASHORE
CRUSOE BRINGS AWAY EVERYTHING MOVABLE IN TWELVE
vi CONTENTS.
DISCOVERS MONEY ON BOARD—ITS WORTHLESSNESS TO HIM
THE SITUATION HE SELECTED FOR HIS SETTLEMENT
MAKES HIS FORTRESS, AND ENCLOSES ALL HIS GOODS
vi CONTENTS.
DISCOVERS GOATS UPON THE ISLAND
HIS METHOD OF RECKONING TIMS
SERIOUSLY CONSIDERS HIS CONDITION ...
CRUSOE'S JOURNAL FROM SEPT. 30, 1659, TO SEPT. 30, 1660
EXPERIMENTS WITH BARLEY AND RICK SEED
ON A JOURNEY—HE DESCRIES LAND ...
THE RAINY SEASON—READS THE BIBLE
HIS DAILY EMPLOYMENTS
HARVESTING HIS BARLEY AND RICE
MAKES SOME EARTHEN VESSELS
THE DIFFICULTIES IN THE WAY OF BREAD-MAKING ...
MEDITATES UPON HIS PROSPECTS OF ESCAPE
REACHES THE FOURTH YEAR UPON THE ISLAND
CRUSOE MAKES HIMSELF CLOTHES FROM SKINS
HIS VOYAGE ROUND THE ISLAND
CRUSOE AND HIS PARROT
HE CATCHES SOME GOATS
THE " PRINCE AND LORD OF THE WHOLE ISLAND" ...
vi CONTENTS.
THE FOOTPRDIT ON THE SAND, AND ITS EFFECTS ...
fAC»
37-39
40
4i-4«
43
43
44
45-46
47
48
49
52-77
77-78
79-81
83-84
85
86-87
89-90
9i
93-94
95
97-98
99-103
104-105
106-108
109-110
III-IIS
113-118
PAGE
SIGNS OF CANNIBALISM ON THE ISLAND ... II9-123
DISCOVERS ANOTHER CAVE ... ... ... 124-126
HIS CONDITION THE TWENTY-THIRD YEAR OF HIS
RESIDENCE ... ... ... ... 127-128
SAVAGES ON THE ISLAND AGAIN ... ... 129-130
A SHIP WRECKED ON THE "CONCEALED ROCKS" ... 131-132
CRUSOE VISITS THE WRECK, AND BRINGS AWAY MANY
THINGS ... ... ... ... *33-I36
HIS SPECULATIONS ABOUT THE SAVAGES ... ... I37-I4O
HE RESCUES A SAVAGE, WHOM HE CALLS FRIDAY 141-145
MAKES CLOTHES FOR FRIDAY—FRIDAY'S SLEEPING
QUARTERS ... ... ... ... 146-147
CIVILIZING AND CHRISTIANIZING MAN FRIDAY ... 148-154
Friday's love and faithfulness ... ... I5S-I57
makes a boat with which to leave the island 158-159
attacks the savages ... ... ... 161-166
crusoe's new subjects—the Spaniard's story 167-171
invites the spaniards to live on the island ... i 72-175
english visitors—the mutineers ... ... 176-181
plans to recover the ship ... ... ... 182-186
the ruse successful, and deliverance possible 187:91
the governor of the island... ... ... 192-196
leaves the island, and reaches england, junk
II, 1687 ... ... ... ~. I97-198
RESOLVES TO GO TO LISBON ... ... *98
HAS HIS PROPERTY RESTORED ... ... ••• 199-203
TRAVELS TO ENGLAND LN ENGLAND... ... 804-215
SETTLES DOWN AND MARRIES—HIS FAMILY ... 2l6
CRUSOE HAS STRONG INCLINATIONS TO TRAVEL AGAIN 317
Yd
CONTENTS.
PART II.
goes on a voyage with his nephew ...
visits the island again ...
the Spaniard's history of the colony
crusoe dines with the colonists ...
marriage on the island
finally leaves the island and sails for brazil
encounter with savages—death and burial of
FRIDAY
FROM BRAZIL SAILS TO THE CAPE OF GOOD HOPE ...
ADVENTURES IN THE ISLAND OF MADAGASCAR...
THE DEATH OF TOM JEFFERY ...
REACHES BENGAL ...
BECOMES A TRADER TO CHINA ...
VOYAGE TO THE EAST INDIES AND CHINA
PORTUGUESE PILOT ENGAGED TO TAKE THEM TO NANKIN
PART WITH THEIR SHIP, AND JOURNEY TO PEKIN ...
AN EXAMPLE OF A CHINESE COUNTRY GENTLEMAN
CRUSOE'S TRAVELS IN CHINA AND TARTARY
THE ADVENTURE WITH AN IDOL OF WOOD
3l8-337
338-332
233-863
364
265
266
367
369
269-270
271
273
275
276-8
278
TRAVELS IN SIBERIA AND RUSSIA. AND ARRIVAL IN
Yd
IS PREPARING FOR A LONGER JOURNEY ...
279-80
28l-2
283-286
284, 286
287-289
2S9
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.
A BOAT CAME OFF TO US ... ... ~. FrOtlttSpteCt
A SIGNAL OF DISTRESS ... ... ... -. 25
MONEY IS NOT WEALTH TO THE SOLITARY ... ... 43
THE LADDER FINISHED „. ... ... ... 60
FRUIT ON THE ISLAND M ... ... ... 7»
AN ISLAND KILN ... ... ... ... ... 90
FULL DRESS ... ^. ... ... «m HO
AFRAID ... ... ••• ... ... •*• *^5
A SAVAGE EXECUTIONER «. ... ... ... M3
THE RESCUED SPANIARD ... ... «• ... 164
DELIVERANCE ... M m. ' ... ~ 193
THE POOR MAID M ... ~. ~* ... 227
THEY LEFT NOT THE LEAST STICK STANDING _ ... 238
HE FELL UPON THE POOR SAVAGE TO KILL HIM ... ... 246
HOW MANY THEY KILLED OR WOUNDED THEY KNEW NOT 260
TOM JEFFERY'S END ... ... ... ... — 271
THE STATS HE RODE IN M ... ... ~ 281
AN IDOL MADE OF WOOD ... ... -. ... 284
PREPARING FOR A LONGER JOURNEY ... ... 280
INTRODUCTION.
J ANIEL DEFOE, the author of " Robinson Crusoe,"
had a career which is, perhaps, one of the most
remarkable in English literary history. The times
in which he lived and worked were, indeed, such
as produced remarkable careers. He was born in 1661, in
the year after the Restoration. Milton was still alive, and
men were still comparing closely the Monarchy with the
Commonwealth. When the Plague of London occurred, which
he described so ingeniously, if not ingenuously, as an eye-
witness, he was four years old. He was sixteen when Titus
Oates evoked the Popish scare. He saw Charles II. succeeded
by James II., and took part at twenty-four in the rising of
the Duke of Monmouth, which ended in the battle of Sedge-
moor and the execution of its leader. He hailed with joy
"the Glorious Revolution." He took a personal part in
arranging the Union between England and Scotland, did his
very best to inflame the minds of the people against the
Pretender and the Jacobites, saw the Hanoverian line come
in, and died a pensioner of George II.
He was the son of a Cripplegate butcher named James
Foe, and in his early years called himself by his patronymic ;
but wishing apparently to dignify himself with Norman
lineage, he assumed the lordly prefix with as little compunction
as Robinson Crusoe showed in pretending that he was a
governor in his castle, when he wished to catch the mutineers,
whose coming enabled him to escape from his island.
James Foe was a Nonconformist, and desiring for his son
the office of Dissenting Minister, gave him an education with
the pulpit in view; but when the time came for him to take
the sacred office, Daniel refused a position which he regarded
as unsuitable to his temper. His education had not been so
academical as to satisfy the exquisite wits of the literary
Coffee House, and, throughout his life he was taunted with
being illiterate; but it had at least made him desire knowledge,
and capable both of acquiring and imparting it. When he
turned from the pulpit to the counting-house, he set up as a
trader in hosiery; his business led him to an acquaintance
with people who had seen many lands, and almost certainly
took him abroad himself; he probably visited Spain, and there
imbibed that admiration for the Spanish character which
induced him to make the Spaniards on the Island high types
of humanity; and very possibly the journey from Lisbon
through France to London is founded upon reminiscences of
his wanderings.. But one thing is certain. While his business
was going to ruin and he was preparing bankruptcy for
himself, he was acquiring languages, mastering geography,
and learning the course of the world's trade. He was never
for long together very prosperous. He would bask in the
sunshine for a while, and then we see him flying away from
his creditors, and apparently undone for ever. But in his
worst hour he never despaired, and misfortune only showed
of what infinite resources he was master.
His experiences were meanwhile fitting him for the real
business of his life. For, successful as he was as a romancer,
story-telling in the elaborate fashion of modern fiction was
taken up only when he was fifty-eight years of age. Defoe
was led to it through the paths of journalism. He was a born
journalist His early interest in politics is shown by his
complicity in the Monmouth Rebellion; his peculiarly practical
education had put facts at'his command not to the hand of
the purely literary man ; and he began early in life—how
early we do not know—to write pamphlets upon current
events. His first great success was a poem in the satiric
style of Dryden called, " The True Born Englishman," which
touched the burning question of the day. The Jacobites made
it a charge against King William that he was a Dutchman,
and asked for an English ruler. In reply, Defoe, in the
strongest language, rated all his countrymen as descendants
of a horrid crowd of rambling thieves and drones, who
ransacked kingdoms and dispeopled towns, Picts, Scots,
painted Britons, Norwegian pirates, and red-haired Danes.
" These are the heroes that despise the Dutch," he exclaimed ;
and all England bought the lampoon upon itself, and laughed
heartily over it It hit the popular taste, and, what was
more, it pleased the sovereign. William called the hosier to
his closet; and the son of a butcher became the mouthpiece
of the King.
Defoe had been an independent man until this moment
He had written for love of the cause, inspired by conviction.
And as, when he was at his best, he might have given hints
to Swift in style, so he might have sustained the lofty
patriotism of Milton himself, and have been eyes to the
cleverest statesmen of that period. But there is every evidence
that his connection with the Court became the means of
corruption ; and when he was at his worst, he might have
taught Talleyrand the method of plausible dissimulation, and
Pope the art of mystification. So long as William lived,
Defoe's services were redeemed from the suspicion of being
mercenary by his sincerity, but afterwards, having tasted the
delights of Court favour, he became the lacquey of successive
Governments, and what, in William's service, had been a
nniform, was, in the service of his successors, a livery.
He did not sell himself for hire, however, until he had
discovered the perils of independence, and the chances of
being misunderstood. When the controversy was raging
about the Act of Toleration, Occasional Conformity, and
other measures touching the rights and liberties of his brethren,
the Dissenters, he produced a pamphlet called " A Short Way
with Dissenters," in which, without stating his own opinion,
he argued as a High Tory that the best way to get rid of
the Separatists was to banish all who went to a meeting-
house, and to hang the preacher. The High Tories were in
power. Queen Anne herself was incensed at its being repre-
sented as possible that she would adopt this policy. Defoe
was charged with libel; and the court condemned him to
prison and the pillory. Until the Government put their
construction upon the pamphlet, the Dissenters, who in that
day rather despised literary artifice, looked askance upon the
author and his work. But now the mob made Defoe a hero.
When, on three days at the end of July, 1703, he appeared
in the pillory before the old Royal Exchange, the citizens
gathered round him, and the women bombarded him with
flowers, while the men drank his health. He revenged himself
by writing " A Hymn to the Pillory," which declared that his
appearance in it was a scandal. While he was still in prison,
the High Tories lost their places, and Harley and the more
moderate men of the party came into power. Harley released
Defoe upon conditions. Defoe was set at liberty upon the
understanding that he was to be henceforth the bondsman
of the Government, This was not his last discovery that
whatever may have been the taste for architecture and blue
china in those days, irony was not appreciated in the reign of
the much bepraised Queen Anne. He wrote another pamphlet
ten years later in the interest of the Protestant Succession,
asking " What if the Pretender should Come ?" and " What if
the Queen should Die ? " Another libel, and another impri-
sonment ; from which again he had to pray the Government
to release him.
Defoe's services to the Government were rendered in his
capacity of journalist He founded the Review, and he wrote
for many papers on both sides; but his crime was that he
professed to his friends to be of one opinion, to the public to
be independent, and to his leaders to be on their side; while
all the time he was secretly taking Government pay to write,
in various papers, the precise contrary of the opinions which
he was supposed to hold. He got on the staff of one paper
for the express purpose of turning his position to the advantage
of the Government, connived at the prosecution of its pro-
prietor, and generally betrayed those who paid him for his
work believing it to be honest—while all the time he was
receiving State pay to act the traitor. It is not without some
satisfaction that one notes that he was at length discovered,
and that the man whom he had " gulled," having no remedy
in law, inflicted severe chastisement upon him.
As a journalist, Defoe may be said to have been the first
descriptive reporter, the anticipator of the Society journal, and
the inventor of the leading article. And while he was thus
employed he was also engaged in constant secret service for
the Government He was as astute as he was plausible.
When the Government of France sought to bribe him, he
pocketed the money and told the Queen.
His last days should have been happy. His services to
the Government and his journalism and his novels had
brought him prosperity. He had a family, and his daughters
had married well; his son had been in trouble, but only for
such a journalistic offence as the father had committed. Yet
trouble came, we hardly know how. Defoe fled from his home;
not even his son-in-law could get to see him; and he died,
solitary and in hiding, on April 26,1731, at Ropemaker's Alley,
Moorfields.
There is little doubt that the idea of " Robinson Crusoe "
was found in the adventures of Alexander Selkirk, the Scotch
sailor who, abandoned on the island of Juan Fernandez in
November, 1704, was not relieved until February, 1709. There
is just as little doubt that, being accustomed to " dress up"
his stories for his newspapers, and being past master of the
art of mystification, the author intended his book to be
another attempt upon the credulity of the people. They were
unlikely to discover that there was not such an island at the
mouth of the Orinoco, or to measure the improbabilities of
the tale. He took extraordinary pains to give it reality.
His carefully circumstantial detail is probably sometimes
used as much as a safeguard against his own tripping as in
the way of pure artifice; but its effect in heightening the merit
of the story is incalculable. Nevertheless he was found out,
even before the appearance of the Second Part. A slip here
and there betrayed him ; and he had to justify himself to his
friends, the Dissenters, who disapproved of romances, in a very
dull book—though as much fiction as the romance itself—
explaining that the story was an allegory.
Nobody cares for the allegory; but the story has become
the chief of all boys' books, and every Englishman loves it
For no fiction perused at a later day can reproduce the
exquisite feeling of fanciful fear caused by reading of the
footprint in the sand ; or bring again such admiration as is
felt for Man Friday; or give the delight inspired by Friday's
encounter with the bear: happy memories of days when not
only were we, but all the world, was young,
S. R.B.
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of York,
of a good family, though not of that country, my
father being a foreigner, of Bremen, who settled
first at Hull: he got a good estate by merchandise,
and leaving off his trade, lived afterwards at York; from
whence he had married my mother, whose relations were
named Robinson, a very good family in that country, and
from whom I was called Robinson Kreutznaer; but, by the
usual corruption of words in England, we are now called,—
nay, we call ourselves, and write our name, Crusoe; and so
my companions always called me.
I had two elder brothers, one of whom was lieutenant-
colonel to an English regiment of foot in Flanders, formerly
commanded by the famous Colonel Lockhart, and was killed
at the battle near Dunkirk against the Spaniards. What
became of my second brother I never knew, any more than
my father and mother knew what was become of me.
Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any
trade, my head began to be filled very early with rambling
thoughts: my father, who was very ancient, had given me a
competent share of learning, as far as house-education and
a country free-school generally go, and designed me for the
law; but I would be satisfied with nothing but going to sea;
2 &OBINSON CRUSO&.
and my inclination to this led me so strongly against the will,
nay, the commands, of my father, and against all the en-
treaties and persuasions of my mother and other friends, that
there seemed to be something fatal in that propension of
nature, tending directly to the life of misery which was to
befall me.
My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and
excellent counsel against what he foresaw was my design.
He called me one morning into his chamber, where he was
confined by the gout, and expostulated very warmly with me
upon this subject: he asked me what reasons, more than a
mere wandering inclination, I had for leaving my father's
house and my native country, where I might be well intro-
duced, and had a prospect of raising my fortune by application
and industry, with a life of ease and pleasure. He told me it
was men of desperate fortunes on one hand, or of aspiring,
superior fortunes on the other, who went abroad upon adven-
tures, to rise by enterprise, and make themselves fampus in
undertakings of a nature out of the common road ; and these
things were all either too far above me, or too far below me ;
that mine was the middle state, or what might be called the
upper station of low life, which he had found, by long ex-
perience, was the best state in the world, the most suited to
human happiness, not exposed to the miseries and hardships,
the labour and sufferings of the mechanic part of mankind,
and not embarrassed with the pride, luxury, ambition, and
envy of the upper part of mankind. He told me, I might
judge of the happiness of this state by this one thing, viz.,
that this was the state of life which all other people envied ;
that kings have frequently lamented the miserable conse-
quence of being born to great things, and wished they had
been placed in the middle of the two extremes, between the
mean and the great; that the wise man gave his testimony
to this, as the standard of felicity, when he prayed to have
neither poverty nor riches.
After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the most affec-
tionate manner, not to play the young man, nor to precipitate
myself into miseries which nature, and the station of life I was
born in, seemed to have provided against; that I was under
no necessity of seeking my bread ; that he would do well for
me, and endeavour to enter me fairly into the station of life
which he had been recommending to me; and that if I was
not very easy and happy in the world, it must be my mere
CRUSOE WISHES TO GO TO SEA. 3
fate or fault that must hinder it; and that he should have
nothing to answer for, having thus discharged his duty in
warning me against measures which he knew would be to
my hurt; and to close all, he told me I had my elder brother
for an example, to whom he had used the same persuasions
to keep him from going to the Low Country wars, but could
not prevail, his young desires prompting him to run into the
army, where he was killed ; and though he said he would not
cease to pray for me, yet he would venture to say to me, that
if I did take this foolish step God would not bless me, and
I should have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected
his counsel, when there might be none to assist in my recovery.
I observed in this last part of his discourse, which was truly
prophetic, though I suppose my father did not know it to be
so himself; I say, I observed the tears run down his face very
plentifully, especially when he spoke of my brother who was
killed; and that when he spoke of my having leisure to repent,
and none to assist me, he was so moved that he broke off the
discourse, and told me his heart was so full he could say no
more to me.
I was sincerely affected with this discourse, and, indeed,
who could be otherwise ? and I resolved not to think of going
abroad any more, but to settle at home according to my
father's desire. But alas! a few days wore it all off; and, in
short, to prevent any of my father's further importunities, in
a few weeks after, I resolved to run quite away from him.
However, I did not act quite so hastily as the first heat of my
resolution prompted, but I took my mother at a time when
I thought her a little more pleasant than ordinary, and told
her that my thoughts were so entirely bent upon seeing the
world, that I should never settle to anything with resolution
enough to go through with it, and my father had better give
me his consent than force me to go without it; that I was
now eighteen years old, which was too late to go apprentice
to a trade, or clerk to an attorney ; that I was sure if I did
I should never serve out my time, but I should certainly run
away from my master before my time was out, and go to sea ;
and if she would speak to my father to let me go but one
voyage abroad, if I came home again, and did not like it,
I would go no more; and I would promise, by a double
diligence, to recover that time I had lost
This put my mother into a great passion; she told me she
knew it would be to no purpose to speak to my father upoa
any such subject; that if I would ruin myself, there was no
help for me; but I might depend I should never have their
consent to it; that for her part, she would not have so much
hand in my destruction ; and I should never have it to say
that my mother was willing when my father was not Though
my mother refused to move it to my father, yet as I have
heard afterwards, she reported all the discourse to him, and
that my father, after showing a great concern at it, said to
her, with a sigh:
" That boy might be happy if he would stay at home ; but
if he goes abroad, he will be the miserablest wretch that
ever was born : I can give no consent to it"
It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose,
though, in the meantime, I continued obstinately deaf to all
proposals of settling to business, and frequently expostulated
with my father and mother about their being so positively
determined against what they knew "my inclinations prompted
me to. But being one day at Hull, where I went casually,
and without any purpose of making an elopement at that
time; but, I say, being there, and one of my companions
being about to sail to London in his father's ship, and
prompting me to go with them with the common allure-
ment of seafaring men, viz., that it should cost me nothing
for my passage, I consulted neither father nor mother any
more, nor so much as sent them word of it; but leaving them
to hear of it as they might without asking God's blessing or
my father's, without any consideration of circumstances or
consequences, and in an ill hour God knows, on the ist of
September, 1651, I went on board a ship bound for London.
Never any young adventurer's misfortunes, I believe, began
sooner, or continued longer, than mine. The ship was no
sooner gotten out of the Humber, but the wind began to
blow and the waves to rise in a most frightful manner; and,
as I had never been at sea before, I was most inexpressibly
sick in body, and terrified in mind. I began now seriously
to reflect upon what I had done, and how justly I was
overtaken by the judgment of Heaven for my wicked leaving
my father's house, and abandoning my duty; all the good
counsels of my parents, my father's tears and my mother's
entreaties, came now fresh into my mind, and my conscience,
which was not yet come to the pitch of hardness to which it
has been since, reproached me with the breach of my duty
to God and my father.
AT SEA. S
All this while the storm increased, and the sea, which I
had never been upon before, went very high, though nothing
like what I have seen many times since ; no, nor what I saw
a few days after: but it was enough to affect me then, who
was but a young sailor, and had never known anything of the
matter. I expected every wave would have swallowed us up,
and that every time the ship fell down, as I thought, in the
trough or hollow of the sea, we should never rise more; in
this agony of mind, I made many vows and resolutions,
that if it would please God to spare my life in this one voyage,
if ever I got once my foot upon dry land again, I would go
directly home to my father, and never set it into a ship again
while I lived ; that I would take his advice, and never run
myself into such miseries as these any more. Now I saw
plainly the goodness of his observations about the middle
station of life, how easy, how comfortably he had lived all his
days, and never had been exposed to tempests at sea, or
troubles on shore; and I resolved that I would, like a true
repenting prodigal, go home to my father.
These wise and sober thoughts continued all the while
the storm lasted, and indeed some time after; but the next
day the wind was abated, and the sea calmer, and I began to
be a little inured to it* however, I was very grave for all that
day, being also a little sea-sick still; but towards night the
weather cleared up, the wind was quite over, and a charming
fine evening followed ; the sun went down perfectly clear,
and rose so the next morning ; and having little or no wind,
and a smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, the sight was, as
I thought, the most delightful that ever I saw.
I had slept well in the night, and was now no more sea-
sick, but very cheerful, looking with wonder upon the sea
that was so rough and terrible the day before, and could be so
calm and so pleasant in so little a time after.' And now,
lest my good resolutions should continue, my companion, who
had enticed me away, comes to me.
" Well, Bob," says he, clapping me upon the shoulder," how
do you do after it ? I warrant you were frighted, wer'n't you,
last night, when it blew but a capful of wind ? "
" A capful d'you call it ? " said I ; " 'twas a terrible storm."
"A storm, you fool you," replies he; "do you call that a
storm ? why, it was nothing at all ; give us but a good ship
and sea-room, and we think nothing of such a squall of wind
as that; but you're but a fresh-water sailor. Bob: come, let
us make a bowl of punch, and we'll forget all that; d'ye see
what charming weather 'tis now ?"
To make short this sad part of my story, we went the old
way of all sailors ; the punch was made, and I was made half-
drunk with it; and in that one night's wickedness I drowned
all my repentance, all my reflections upon my past conduct,
all my resolutions for the future. In a word, as the sea was
returned to its smoothness of surface and settled calmness by
the abatement of that storm, so the hurry of my thoughts
being over, my fears and apprehensions of being swallowed
up by the sea being forgotten, and the current of my former
desires returned, I entirely forgot the vows and promises that
I made in my distress. I found, indeed, some intervals of re-
flection ; and the serious thoughts did, as it were, endeavour
to return again sometimes ; but I shook them off, and roused
myself from them, and applying myself to drink and company,
soon mastered the return of those fits—for so I called them ;
and I had in five or six days got as complete a victory over
conscience as any young fellow that resolved not to be
troubled with it could desire. But I was to have another
trial for it still.
The sixth day of our being at sea we came into Yarmouth
Roads ; the wind having been contrary, and the weather calm,
we had made but little way since the storm. Here we were
obliged to come to an anchor, and here we lay, the wind con-
tinuing contrary for seven or eight days.
We had not, however, ridden here so long, but we should
have tided it up the river, but that the wind blew too fresh,
and, after we had lain four or five days, blew very hard.
However, the Roads being reckoned as good as a harbour,
the anchorage good, and our ground-tackle very strong, our
men were unconcerned and not in the least apprehensive of
danger, but spent the time in rest and mirth, after the manner
of the sea ; but the eighth day, in the morning, the wind
increased, and we had all hands at work to strike our top-
masts, and make everything snug and close, that the ship
might ride as easy as possible. By noon the sea went very
high indeed, and our ship rode forecastle in, shipped several
seas, and we thought once or twice our anchor had come
home ; upon which our master ordered out the sheet-anchor,
so that we rode with two anchors ahead, and the cables veered
out to the better end.
By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed ; and now I
A TERRIBLE STORM. J
began to see terror and amazement in the faces even of the
seamen themselves. The master, though vigilant in the
business of preserving the ship, yet as he went in and out
of his cabin by me, I could hear him softly to himself say,
several times, " Lord, be merciful to us 1 we shall be all lost;
we shall be all undone!" and the like. During these first
hurries I was stupid, lying still in my cabin, which was in the
steerage, and cannot describe my temper: I could ill resume
the first penitence which I had so apparently trampled upon,
and hardened myself against: I thought the bitterness of death
had been past; and that this would be nothing like the first
But when the master himself came by me, as I said just now,
and said we should be all lost, I was dreadfully frighted. I got
up out of my cabin, and looked out; but such a dismal sight
I never saw: the sea went mountains high, and broke upon
us every three or four minutes ; when I could look about, I
could see nothing but distress round us; two ships that rode
near us, we found, had cut their masts by the board, being
deep laden ; and our men cried out, that a ship which rode
about a mile ahead of us was foundered. Two more ships,
being driven from their anchors, were run out of the Roads
to sea, at all adventures, and that with not a mast standing.
The lightships fared the best, as not so much labouring in
the sea ; but two or three of them drove, and came close by
us, running away with only their spritsail out before the wind.
Towards evening the mate and boatswain begged the master
of our ship to let them cut away the fore-mast, which he was
very unwilling to do; but the boatswain protesting to him,
that if he did not, the ship would founder, he consented, and
when they had cut away the fore-mast, the main-mast stood
so loose, and shook the ship so much, they were obliged to
cut her away also, and make a clear deck.
Any one may judge what a condition I must be in at all
this, who was but a young sailor, and who had been in such a
fright before at but a little. But if I can express at this
distance the thoughts I had about me at that time, I was in
tenfold more horror of mind upon account of my former con-
victions, and the having returned from them to the resolutions
I had wickedly taken at first, than I was at death itself; and
these, added to the terror of the storm, put me into such a
condition, that I can by no words describe it But the worst
was not come yet; the storm continued with such fury, that
the seamen themselves acknowledged they had never known
a worse. We had a good ship, but she was deep laden, and
wallowed in the sea, that the seamen every now and then
cried out she would founder. It was my advantage in one
respect that I did not know what they meant by founder,
till I inquired. However, the storm was so violent that I saw
what is not often seen, the master, the boatswain, and some
others more sensible than the rest, at their prayers, and ex-
pecting every moment when the ship would go to the bottom.
In the middle of the night, and under all the rest of our dis-
tresses, one. of the men that had been down on purpose to see,
cried out we had sprung a leak ; another said there was four
feet of water in the hold. Then all hands were called to the
pump. At that word, my heart, as I thought, died within
me, and I fell backwards upon the side of my bed where I
sat, into the cabin. However, the men roused me and told
me that I, that was able to do nothing before, was as well able
to pump as another: at which I stirred up and went to the
pump, and worked very heartily. While this was doing, the
master seeing some light colliers, who, not able to ride out
the storm, were obliged to slip, and run away to the sea, and
would come near us, ordered to fire a gun as a signal of distress.
I, who knew nothing what that meant, thought the ship had
broke, or some dreadful thing happened. In a word, I was
so surprised that I fell down in a swoon. As this was a time
when everybody had his own life to think of, nobody minded
me, or what was become of me ; but another man stepped up
to the pump, and thrusting me aside with his foot, let me lie,
thinking I had been dead ; and it was a great while before I
came to myself.
We worked on, but the water increasing in the hold, it was
apparent that the ship would founder ; and though the storm
began to abate a little, yet as it was not possible she could
swim till we might run into a port, so the master continued
firing guns for help ; and a lightship, who had ridden it out
just ahead of us, ventured a boat out to help us. It was with
the utmost hazard the boat came near us, but it was impossi-
ble for us to get on board, or for the boat to lie near the ship's
side, till at last the men rowing very heartily, and venturing
their lives to save ours, our men cast them a rope over the
stern with a buoy to it, and then veered it out a great length
which they, after great labour and hazard, took hold of, and
we hauled them close under our stern, and got all into their
boat It was to no purpose for them or us, after we were in
MISFORTUNES AT SEA. 9
the boat, to think of reaching their own s*hip, so all agreed to
let her drive, and only to pull her in towards shore as much as
we could; and our master promised them, that if the boat
was staved upon shore, he would make it good to their
master; so partly rowing, and partly driving, our boat went
away to the northward, sloping towards the shore almost as
far as Winterton Ness.
We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of
our ship before we saw her sink, and then I understood for
the first time what was meant by a ship foundering in the sea.
I must acknowledge I had hardly eyes to look up when the
seamen told me she was sinking, for from that moment they
rather put me into the boat, than that I might be said to go in,
my heart was as it were dead within me, partly with fright, partly
with horror of mind, and the thoughts of what was yet before me.
While we were in this condition, the men yet labouring at
the oar to bring the boat near the shore, we could see (when,
our boat mounting the waves, we were able to see the shore)
a great many people running along the strand, to assist us
when we should come near, but we made but slow way to-
wards the shore, nor were we able to reach it, till, being past
the lighthouse at Winterton, the shore falls off to the west-
ward towards Cromer, and so the land broke off a little the
violence of the wind : here we got in, and, though not without
much difficulty, got all safe on shore, and walked afterwards
on foot to Yarmouth, where, as unfortunate men, we were used
with great humanity, as well by the magistrates of the town,
who assigned us good quarters, as by particular merchants and
owners of ships, and had money given us sufficient to carry
us either to London or back to Hull, as we thought fit
Had I now had the sense to have gone home, I had been
happy, and my father, an emblem of our blessed Saviour's
parable, had even killed the fatted calf for me ; for hearing
the ship I went away in was cast away in Yarmouth Roads,
it was a great while before he had any assurances that I was
not drowned.
But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy that
nothing could resist; and though I had several times loud
calls from my reason and my more composed judgment to go
home, yet I had no power to do it I know not what to call
this, nor will I urge that it is a secret overruling decree that
hurries us on to be the instruments of our own destruction,
even though it be before us, and that we rush upon it with
our eyes open. Certainly nothing but some such decreed un-
avoidable misery attending, and which it was impossible for
me to escape, could have pushed me forward against the calm
reasonings and persuasions of my most retired thoughts, and
against two such visible instructions as I had met with in my
first attempt
My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and who
was the master's son, was now less forward than I; the first
time he spoke to me after we were at Yarmouth, which was
not till two or three days, for we were separated in the town
to several quarters; I say, the first time he saw me, it
appeared his tone was altered ; and, looking very melancholy,
and shaking his head, he asked me how I did, and telling his
father who I was, and how I had come this voyage only for a
trial, in order to go farther abroad ; his father turning to me
with a very grave and concerned tone:
"Young man," says he, "you ought never to go to sea any
more; you ought to take this for a plain and visible token
that you are not to be a seafaring man."
" Why, sir," said I, " will you go to sea no more ?"
" That is another case," said he; " it is my calling, and
therefore my duty; but as you made this voyage for a trial,
you see what a taste Heaven has given you of what you are
to expect if you persist; perhaps this has all befallen us on
your account, like Jonah in the ship of Tarshish. Pray," con-
tinued he," what are you ; and on what account did you go
to sea ? "
Upon that I told him some of my story ; at the end of
which he burst out with a strange kind of passion.
" What had I done," says he, " that such an unhappy wretch
should come into my ship! I would not set my foot in the
same ship with thee again for a thousand pounds."
This indeed was, as I said, an excursion of his spirits, which
were yet agitated by the sense of his loss, and was farther than
he could have authority to go. However, he afterwards talked
very gravely to me, exhorted me to go back to my father, and
not tempt Providence to my ruin ; told me I might see a visi-
ble hand of Heaven against me:
" And, young man," said he, " depend upon it if you do not
go back, wherever you go, you will meet with nothing but
disasters and disappointments, till your father's words are ful-
filled upon you."
We parted soon after ; for I made him little answer, and I
saw him no more ; which way he went I know not Having
some money in my pocket, I travelled to London by land;
and there, as well as on the road, had many struggles with
myself, what course of life I should take, whether I should go
home or go to sea.
As to going home, shame opposed the best motions that
offered to my thoughts ; and it immediately occurred to me
how I should be laughed at among the neighbours, and
should be ashamed to see, not my father and mother only, but
even everybody else ; from whence I have since often ob-
served, how incongruous and irrational the common temper of
mankind is, especially of youth, to that reason which ought to
guide them in such cases, viz., that they are not ashamed to
sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not ashamed of the action
for which they ought justly to be esteemed fools, but are
ashamed of the returning, which only can make them be
esteemed wise men.
In this state of life, however, I remained some time, uncer-
tain what measures to take and what course of life to lead
An irresistible reluctance continued to going home; and as I
stayed awhile, the remembrance of the distress I had been in
wore off; and as that abated, the little motion I had in my
desires to a return wore off with it, till at last I quite laid
aside the thoughts of it, and looked out for a voyage.
That evil influence which carried me first away from my
father's house, that hurried me into the wild and indigested
notion of raising my fortune ; and that impressed those con-
ceits so forcibly upon me, as to make me deaf to all good
advice, and to the entreaties and even command of my
father: I say the same influence, whatever it was, presented
the most unfortunate of all enterprises to my view; and I
went on board a vessel bound to the coast of Africa ; or, as
our sailors vulgarly call it, a voyage to Guinea.
It was my great misfortune, that in all these adventures
I did not ship myself as a sailor ; whereby, though I might
indeed have worked a little harder than ordinary, yet at the
same time I had learned the duty and office of a fore-mast
man, and in time might have qualified myself for a mate or
lieutenant, if not for a master : but as it was always my fate
to choose for the worse, so I did here ; for having money in
my pocket, and good clothes upon my back, I would always
go on board in the habit of a gentleman; and so I neither
had any business in the ship, or learned to do any.
I first fell acquainted with the master of the ship, who,
taking a fancy to my conversation, which was not at all disa-
greeable at that time, hearing me say I had a mind to see
the world, told me if I would go the voyage with him I
should be at no expense; I should be his mess-mate and his
companion, and if I could carry anything with me, I should
have all the advantage of it that the trade would admit; and
perhaps I might meet with some encouragement. I embraced
the offer, and, entering into a strict friendship with this captain,
who was an honest, plain-dealing man, I went the voyage
with him, and carried a small adventure with me, which, by
the disinterested honesty of my friend the captain, I increased
very considerably; for I carried about £^o in such toys and
trifles as the captain directed me to buy. This £40 I had
mustered together by the assistance of some of my relations
whom I corresponded with, and who, I believe, got my father,
or at least my mother, to contribute so much as that to my
first adventure.
This was the only voyage which I may say was successful
in all my adventures, and which I owe to the integrity and
honesty of my friend the captain; under whom also I got a
competent knowledge of the mathematics and the rules of
navigation, learned how to keep an account of the ship's
course, take an observation, and, in short, to understand
some things that were needful to be understood by a sailor ;
for, as he took delight to instruct me, I took delight to learn ;
and, in a word, this voyage made me both a sailor and a
merchant; for I brought home five pounds nine ounces of
gold-dust for my adventure, which yielded me in London,
at my return, almost £300; and this filled me with those
aspiring thoughts which have since so completed my ruin.
I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my friend, to
my great misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I resolved
to go the same voyage again, and I embarked in the same
vessel with one who was his mate in the former voyage, and
had now got the command of the ship. This was the unhap-
piest voyage that ever man made ; for though I did not carry
quite £ 100 of my new-gained wealth, so that I had ^200
left, which I had lodged with my friend's widow, who waa
very just to me, yet I fell into terrible misfortunes ; and the
first was this—our ship making her course towards the
Canary Islands, or rather between those Islands and the
African shore, was surprised in the grey of the morning by a
CAPTURED B Y PIRA TES. 13
Turkish rover of Sal lee, who gave chase to us with all the sail
she could make. We crowded also as much canvas as our
yards would spread, or our masts carry to have got clear;
but finding the pirate gained upon us, and would certainly
come up with us in a few hours, we prepared to fight; our
ship having twelve guns, and the rogue eighteen. About
three in the afternoon he came up with us, and bringing to, by
mistake, just athwart our quarter, instead of athwart our
stern, as he intended, we brought eight of our guns to bear
on that side, and poured in a broadside upon him, which
made him sheer off again, after returning our fire, and
pouring in also his small shot from near two hundred men
which he had on board. However, we had not a man touched,
all our men keeping close. He prepared to attack us again,
and we to defend ourselves; but laying us on board the next
time upon our other quarter, he entered sixty men upon our
decks, who immediately fell to cutting and hacking the decks
and rigging. We plied them with small shot, half-pikes,
powder-chests, and such like, and cleared our deck of them
twice. However, to cut short this melancholy part of out
story, our ship being disabled, and three of our men killed,
and eight wounded, we were obliged to yield, and were all
carried prisoners into Sallee, a port belonging to the Moors.
The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first I
apprehended, nor was I carried up the country to the em-
peror's court, as the rest of our men were, but was kept by
the captain of the rover as his proper prize, and made his
slave, being young and nimble, and fit for his business. At
this surprising change of my circumstances, from a merchant
to a miserable slave, I was perfectly overwhelmed ; and now
I looked back upon my father's prophetic discourse to me,
that I should be miserable and have none to relieve me, which
I thought was now so effectually brought to pass, that I could
not be worse; that now the hand of Heaven had overtaken
me, and I was undone without redemption. But, alas 1 this
was but a taste of the misery I was to go through, as will
appear in the sequel of the story.
As my new patron, or master, had taken me home to his
house, so I was in hopes that he would take me with him
when he went to sea again, believing that it would some
time or other be his fate to be taken by a Spanish or Portu-
guese man-of-war; and that then I should be set at liberty.
But this hope of mine w?s soon taken away ; for when he
went to sea, he left me on shore to look after his little garden,
and do the common drudgery of slaves about his house ; and
when he came home again from his cruise, he ordered me to
lie in the cabin to look after the ship.
Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what method
I might take to effect it, but found no way that had the
least probability in it; nothing presented to make the sup-
position of it rational; for I had nobody to communicate it
to that would embark with me ; no fellow-slave, no English-
man, Irishman, or Scotchman, there but myself; so that for
two years, though I often pleased myself with the imagina-
tion, yet I never had the least prospect of putting it in practice.
After about two years, an odd circumstance presented itself,
which put the old thought of making some attempt for my
liberty again in my head: my patron lying at home longer
than usual, without fitting out his ship, which, as I heard, was
for want of money, he used, constantly, once or twice a week,
sometimes oftener, if the weather was fair, to take the ship's
pinnace, and go out into the road a-fishing ; and, as he always
took me and a young Maresco with him to row the boat, we
made him very merry, and I proved very dexterous in catching
fish; insomuch that sometimes he would send me with a
Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the youth, the Maresco, as
they called him, tocatch a dish of fish for him.
It happened one time, that going a-fishing in a stark calm
morning, a fog rose so thick that, though we were not half a
league from the shore, we lost sight of it; and rowing wo
knew not whither or which way, we laboured all day, and
all the next night; and when the morning came, we found
we had pulled off to sea instead of pulling in for the shore;
and that we were at least two leagues from the shore ; how-
ever, we got well in again, though with a great deal of labour
and some danger; for the wind began to blow pretty fresh
in the morning; but particularly we were all very hungry.
But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take
more care of himself for the future ; and having lying by him
the long-boat of our English ship he had taken, he resolved
he would not go a-fishing any more without a compass and
some provisions ; so he ordered the carpenter of his ship, who
also was an English slave, to build a little state-room, or cabin,
in the middle of the long-boat, like that of a barge, with a
place to stand behind it to steer, and hale home the mainsheet;
and room before for a hand or two to stand and work the
ESCAPES FROM SLA VERY. 15
sails ; she sailed with what we call a shoulder-of-mutton sail;
and the boom jibed over the top of the cabin, which lay very
snug and low, and had in it room for him to lie, with a slave
or two, and a table to eat on, with some small lockers to put
in some bottles of such liquor as he thought fit to drink ,
particularly his bread, rice, and coffee.
We went frequently out with this boat a-fishing ; and as I
was most dexterous to catch fish for him, he never went
without me. It happened that he had appointed to go out in
this boat, either for pleasure or for fish, with two or three
Moors of some distinction in that place, and for whom he had
provided extraordinarily; and had therefore sent on board the
boat over-night a larger store of provisions than ordinary;
and had ordered me to get ready three fusees with powder
and shot which were on board his ship ; for that they designed
some sport of fowling as well as fishing.
I got all things ready as he had directed, and waited the
next morning with the boat washed clean, her ensign and
pendents out, and everything to accommodate his guests ;
when by-and-by my patron came on board alone, and told me
his guests had put off going, from some business that fell out,
and ordered me, with the man and boy, as usual, to go out
with the boat and catch them some fish, for that'his friends
were to sup at his house; and commanded that as soon as I
got some fish I should bring it home to his house ; all which
I prepared to do.
This moment, my former notions of deliverance darted into
my thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a little ship
at my command ; and my master being gone, I prepared to
furnish myself, not for fishing business but for a voyage;
though I knew not, neither did I so much as consider, whither
I should steer ; for anywhere to get out of that place was my
desire.
My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak to
this Moor, to get something for our subsistence on board ; for
I told him we must not presume to eat of our patron's bread ;
he said that was true; so he brought a large basket of rusks
or biscuit of their kind, and three jars of fresh water into the
boat I knew where my patron's case of bottles stood, which
it was evident by the make were taken out of some English
prize, and I conveyed them into the boat while the Moor was
on shore, as if they had been there before for our master ; I
conveyed also a great lump of bees-wax into the boat, which
weighed about half a hundred-weight, with a parcel of twine
or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all of which were
of great use to us afterwards, especially the wax to make
candles. Another trick I tried upon him, which he innocently
came into also : his name was Ismael, whom they called Muley,
or Moely ; so I called to him—" Moely," said I, " our patron's
guns are on board the boat; can you not get a little powder
and shot, it may be we may kill some alcamies (a fowl like
our curlews) for ourselves, for I know he keeps the gunner's
stores in the ship."—" Yes," says he, " I'll bring some;" and
accordingly he brought a great leather pouch, which held a
pound and a half of powder, or rather more ; and another with
shot, that had five or six pounds, with some bullets, and put
all into the boat; at the same time, I had found some powder
of my master's in the great cabin, with which I filled one of
the large bottles in the case, which was almost empty; pouring
what was in it into another: and thus furnished with every-
thing needful, we sailed out of the port to fish. The castle,
which is at the entrance of the port, knew who we were, and
took no notice of us; and we were not above a mile out of
the port before we hauled in our sail and set us down to fish;
the wind blew from the N.N.E., which was contrary to my
desire; for had it blown southerly, I had been sure to have
made the coast of Spain, and at least reached to Cadiz ; but
my resolutions were, blow which way it would, I would be
gone from that horrid place where I was, and leave the rest
to fate.
After we had fished some time and catched nothing, for
when I had fish on my hook, I would not pull them up, that
he might not see them, I said to the Moor, " This will not do ;
our master will not be thus served ; we must stand farther off;"
he, thinking no harm, agreed, and, being in the head of the
boat, set the sails ; and, as I had the helm, I run the boat out
near a league farther, and then brought her to, as if I would
fish, when, giving the boy the helm, I stepped forward to where
the Moor was, and making as if I stooped for something
behind him, I took him by surprise with my arm under his
twist, and tossed him clear overboard into the sea. He rose
immediately, for he swam like a cork, and calling to me,
begged to be taken in, told me he would go all over the world
with me. He swam so strong after the boat, that he would
have reached me very quickly, there being but little wind ;
upon which I stepped into the cabin, and fetching one of the
THE BOY XURY. it
fowling-pieces, I presented it at him, and told him I had done
him no hurt, and if he would be quiet I would do him none :
" But," said I, " you swim well enough to reach to the shore,
and the sea is calm ; make the best of your way to shore, and
I will do you no harm ; but if you come near the boat, I'll
shoot you through the head, for I am resolved to have my
liberty :" so he turned himself about, and swam for the shore,
and I make no doubt but he reached it with ease, for he was
an excellent swimmer.
I could have been content to have taken this Moor with
me, and have drowned the boy, but there was no venturing
to trust him. When he was gone, I turned to the boy, whom
they called Xury, and said to him, " Xury, if you will be
faithful to me, I'll make you a great man ; but if you will not
stroke your face to be true to me," that is, swear by Mahomet
and his father's beard, " I must throw you into the sea too."
The boy smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently, that I
could not distrust him, and swore to be faithful to me, and go
all over the world with me.
While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming, I
stood out directly to sea with the boat, rather stretching to
windward, that they might think me gone towards the Straits'
mouth (as indeed any one that had been in their wits must
have been supposed to do): for who would have supposed we
were sailed on to the southward, to the truly Barbarian coast,
where whole nations of Negroes were sure to surround us
with their canoes, and destroy us; where we could not go on
shore but we should be devoured by savage beasts, or more
merciless savages of human kind.
But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed my
course, and steered directly south-and-by-east, bending my
course a little towards the east, that I might keep in with
the shore: and having a fair, fresh gale of wind, and a smooth,
quiet sea, I made such sail that I believe by the next day at
three o'clock in the afternoon, when I first made the land, I
could not be less than 150 miles south of Sallee : quite beyond
the Emperor of Morocco's dominions, or indeed of any other
king thereabouts, for we saw no people.
Yet such was the fright I had taken of the Moors, and the
dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into their hands, that
I would not stop, or go on shore, or come to an anchor; the
wind continuing fair till I had sailed in that manner five clays;
and then the wind shifting to the southward, I concluded
i
also, that if any of our vessels were in chase of me, they also
would now give over; so I ventured to make to the coast, and
came to an anchor in the mouth of a little river, I knew not
what, nor where; neither what latitude, what country, what
nation, nor what river. I neither saw, nor desired to see, any
people; the principal thing I wanted was fresh water. We
came into this creek in the evening, resolving to swim on shore
as soon as it was dark, and discover the country ; but as soon
as it was quite dark, we heard such dreadful noises of the
barking, roaring, and howling of wild creatures, of we knew
not what kinds, that the poor boy was ready to die with fear,
and begged of me not to go on shore till day. " Well, Xury,"
said I, " then I won't; but it may be that we may see men by
day, who will be as bad to us as those lions,"—"Then we
give them the shoot gun," says Xury, laughing, " make them
run wey." Such English Xury spoke by conversing among
us slaves. However, I was giad to see the boy so cheerful,
and I gave him a dram (out of our patron's case of bottles)
to cheer him up; after all, Xury's advice was good and I
took it; we dropped our little anchor and lay still all night;
I say still, for we slept none; for in two or three hours we saw
vast great creatures (we knew not what to call them) of many
sorts, come down to the sea-shore, and run into the water,
wallowing and washing themselves for the pleasure of cooling
themselves; and they made such hideous howlings and
yellings, that I never indeed heard the like.
Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was I too ; but
we were both more frighted when we heard one of these
mighty creatures come swimming towards our boat; we could
not see him, but we might hear him by his blowing to be a
monstrous huge and furious beast Xury said it was a lion,
and it might be so for aught I know ; but poor Xury cried to
me to weigh the anchor and row away. " No," says I, " Xury;
we can slip our cable, with the buoy to it, and go off to sea ;
they cannot follow us far." I had no sooner said so, but I
perceived the creature (whatever it was) within two oars' length,
which something surprised me; however, I immediately
stepped to the cabin-door, and taking up my gun, fired at him,
upon which he immediately turned about, and swam towards
the shore again.
But it is impossible to describe the horrid noises, and hide-
ous cries and howlings, that were raised, as well upon the edge
of the shore as higher within the country, upon the noise or
DANGERS OF THE AFRICAN COAST. 19
report of the gun ; a thing I have some reason to believe those
creatures had never heard before. This convinced me that
there was no going on shore for us in the night on that coast,
and how to venture on shore in the day was another question
too; for to have fallen into the hands of any of the savages, had
been as bad as to have fallen into the hands of the lions and
tigers; at least we were equally apprehensive of the danger of
it
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore some-
where or other for water, for we had not a pint left in the boat;
when and where to get to it was the point Xury said, if I
would let him go on shore with one of the jars, he would find
if there was any water, and bring some to me. I asked him
why he would go ? why I should not go, and he stay in the
boat ? The boy answered with so much affection, as made me
love him ever after. Says he, " If wild mans come, they eat
me, you go wey."—"Well, Xury," said I, "we will both go, and
if the wild mans come, we will kill them, they shall eat neither
of us." So I gave Xury a piece of rusk bread to eat, and a
dram out of our patron's case of bottles which I mentioned
before; and we hauled the boat in as near the shore as we
thought was proper, and waded on shore; carrying nothing
but our arms, and two jars for water.
I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing the
coming of canoes with savages down the river; but the boy
seeing a low place about a mile up the country, rambled to it;
and by-and-by I saw him come running towards me. I thought
he was pursued by some savage, or frighted with some wild
beast, and I ran forwards towards him to help him ; but when
I came nearer to him, I saw something hanging over his
shoulders, which was a creature that he had shot, like a hare,
but different in colour, and longer legs: however, we were
very glad of it, and it was very good meat; but the great joy
that poor Xury came with, was to tell me he had found good
water, and seen no wild mans.
But we found afterwards that we need not take such pains
for water, for a little higher up the creek where we were we
found the water fresh when the tide was out, which flowed
but a little way up; so we filled our jars, and feasted on the
hare we had killed, and prepared to go on our way, having
seen no footsteps of any human creature in that part of the
country.
As I had been one voyage this coast before, I knew very
well that thfe islands of the Canaries and the Cape de Verd
islands also, lay not far off from the coast But as I had no
instruments to take an observation to know what latitude we
were in, and not exactly knowing, or at least remembering,
what latitude they were in, I knew not where to look for
them, or when to stand off to sea towards them ; otherwise
I might now easily have found some of these islands. But
my hope was, that if I stood along this coast till I came to
that part where the English traded, I should find some of
their vessels upon their usual design of trade, that would relieve
and take us in.
By the best of my calculation, that place where I now was
must be that country which, lying between the Emperor of
Morocco's dominions and the Negroes, lies waste and unin-
habited ; the Negroes having abandoned it, and gone farther
south, for fear of the Moors; and the Moors not thinking it
worth inhabiting, by reason of its barrenness; and, indeed,
both forsaking it because of the prodigious numbers of tigers,
lions, leopards, and other furious creatures which harbour
there; so that the Moors use it for their hunting only, where
they go like an army, two or three thousand men at a time;
and, indeed, for near a hundred miles together upon this coast,
we saw nothing but a waste uninhabited country by day, and
heard nothing but howlings and roarings of wild beasts by
night
Once or twice in the day-time, I thought I saw the Pico of
Teneriffe, being the high top of the Mountain Teneriffe in the
Canaries; and had a great mind to venture out, in hopes of
reaching thither; but having tried twice, I was forced in again
by contrary winds, the sea also going too high for my little
vessel; so I resolved to pursue my first design, and keep along
the shore.
Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water, after we
had left this place; and once in particular, being early in the
morning, we came to an anchor under a little point of land,
which was pretty high; and the tide beginning to flow, we
lay still to go farther in. Xury, whose eyes were more about
him than it seems mine were, calls softly to me, and tells me
that we had best go farther off the shore; " for," says he,
"look, yonder lies a dreadful monster on the side of that
hillock, fast asleep." I looked where he pointed, and saw a
dreadful monster indeed, for it was a terrible great lion that
lay on the side of the shore, under the shade of a piece of
FIND A LION ASLEEP, AND KILL IT. *i
the hill that hung as it were a little over him. " Xury," says
I, "you shall go on shore and kill him." Xury looked frighted,
and said, " Me kill! he eat me at one mouth ;" one mouthful
he meant However, I said no more to the boy, but bade him
lie still, and took our biggest gun, which was almost musket
bore, and loaded it with a good charge of powder, and with
two slugs, and laid it down ; then I loaded another gun with
two bullets; and the third (for we had three pieces) I loaded
with five smaller bullets. I took the best aim I could with
the first piece to have shot him into the head, but he lay so
with his leg raised a little above his nose that the slugs hit
his leg about the knee, and broke the bone. He started up,
growling at first, but finding his leg broken, fell down again ;
and then got up upon three legs, and gave the most hideous
roar that ever I heard. I was a little surprised that I had not
hit him on the head; however, I took up the second piece
immediately, and though he began to move off, fired again,
and shot him into the head, and had the pleasure to see him
drop and make but little noise, but lay struggling for life.
Then Xury took heart, and would have me let him go on shore.
" Well, go," said I: so the boy jumped into the water, and
taking a little gun in one hand, swam to shore with the other
hand, and coming close to the creature, put the muzzle of the
piece to his ear, and shot him in the head again, which
despatched him quite.
This was game indeed to us, but this was no food ; and I
was very sorry to lose three charges of powder and shot upon
a creature that was good for nothing to us. However, Xury
said he would have some of him; so he comes on board, and
asked me to give him the hatchet " For what, Xury ? " said I.
" Me cut off his head," said he. However, Xury could not cut
off his head, but he cut off a foot, and brought it with him,
and it was a monstrous great one.
I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the skin of him
might be of some value to us ; and I resolved to take off his
skin if I could. So Xury and I went to work with him ; but
Xury was much the better workman at it for I knew very ill
how to do it Indeed, it took us both up the whole day, but
at last we got off the hide of him, and spreading it on the top of
our cabin, the sun effectually dried it in two days' time, and it
afterwards served me to lie upon.
After this stop, we made on to the southward continually
for ten or twelve davs, living very sparingly on our provisions
which began to abate very much, and going no oftener to the
shore than we were obliged to for fresh water. My design in
this was, to make the River Gambia or Senegal, that is to say,
anywhere about the Cape de Verd, where I was in hopes to
meet with some European ship ; and if I did not, I knew not
what course I had to take, but to seek for the islands, or
perish there among the Negroes. I knew that all the ships
from Europe, which sailed either to the Coast of Guinea or to
Brazil, or to the East Indies, made this Cape, or those
Islands ; and, in a word, I put the whole of my fortune upon
this single point, either that I must meet with some ship, or
must perish.
When I had pursued this resolution about ten days longer,
as I have said, I began to see that the land was inhabited;
and in two or three places, as we sailed by, we saw people
stand upon the shore to look at us; we could also perceive
they were quite black, and stark naked. I was once inclined
to have gone on shore to them; but Xury was my better
counsellor, and said to me, "No go, no go." However, I
hauled in nearer the shore, that I might talk to them, and I
found they ran along the shore by me a good way. I ob-
served they had no weapons in their hands, except one, who
had a long slender stick, which Xury said was a lance, and
that they could throw them a great way with good aim. So
I kept at a distance, but talked with them by signs as well as
I could; and particularly made signs for something to eat;
they beckoned to me to stop my boat, and they would fetch
me some meat Upon this, I lowered the top of my sail, and
lay by, and two of them ran up into the country, and in less
than half an hour came back, and brought with them two
pieces of dried flesh and some corn, such as is the produce of
their country; but we neither knew what the one nor the
other was ; however we were willing to accept it, but how to
come at it was our next dispute, for I was not for venturing
on shore to them, and they were as much afraid of us; but
they took a safe way for us all, for they brought it to the shore
and laid it down, and went and stood a great way off till we
fetched it on board, and then came close to us again.
We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to
make them amends; but an opportunity offered that very
instant to oblige them wonderfully ; for while we were lying
by the shore, came two mighty creatures, one pursuing the
other (as we took it) with great fury from the mountains
MEET WITH KINDLY NEGROES. »3
towards the sea; whether it was the male pursuing the
female, or whether they were in sport or in rage, we could not
tell, any more than we could tell whether it was usual or
strange, but I believe it was the latter; because, in the first
place, those ravenous creatures seldom appear but in the
night, and, in the second place, we found the people terribly
frighted, especially the women. The man that had the lance
or dart did not fly from them, but the rest did; however, as
the two creatures ran directly into the water, they did not
offer to fall upon any of the Negroes, but plunged themselves
into the sea, and swam about, as if they had come for their
diversion. At last one of them began to come nearer our
boat than at first I expected; but I lay ready for him, for I
had loaded my gun with all possible expedition, and bade
Xury load both the others. As soon as he came fairly within
my reach, I fired, and shot him directly in the head: immedi-
ately he sank down into the water, but rose instantly, and
plunged up and down, as if he was struggling for life, and so
indeed he was: he immediately made to the shore; but be-
tween the wound, which was his mortal hurt, and the strang-
ling of the water, he died just before he reached the shore.
It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor
creatures at the noise and fire of my gun ; some of them were
even ready to die for fear, and fell down as dead with the very
terror. But when they saw the creature dead, and sunk in the
water, and that I made signs to them to come to the shore,
they took heart and came, and began to search for the
creature. I found him by his blood staining the water: and
by the help of a rope, which I slung round him, and gave the
Negroes to haul, they dragged him on shore, and found that it
was a most curious leopard, spotted, and fine to an admirable
degree ; and the Negroes held up their hands with admiration,
to think what it was I had killed him with.
The other creature frighted with the flash of fire and the
noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up directly to the
mountains from whence they came; nor could I, at that dis-
tance, know what it was. I found quickly the Negroes were
for eating the flesh of this creature, so I was willing to have
them take it as a favour from me; which, when I made signs
to them that they might take him, they were very thankful
for. Immediately they fell to work with him ; and though
they had no knife, yet, with a sharpened piece of wood, they
took off his skin as readily, and much more readily, than we
could have done with a knife. They offered me some of the
flesh, which I declined, making as if I would give it them;
but made signs for the skin, which they gave me very freely,
and brought me a great deal more of their provisions, which,
though I did not understand, yet I accepted; then I made
signs to them for some water, and held out one of my jars to
them, turning it bottom upward, to show that it was empty,
and that I wanted to have it filled. They called immediately
to some of their friends, and there came two women, and
brought a great vessel made of earth, and burnt, as I sup-
posed, in the sun; this they set down for me, as before, and I
sent Xury on shore with my jars, and filled them all three.
I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it was,
and water ; and leaving my friendly Negroes, I made forward
for about eleven days more, without offering to go near the
shore, till I saw the land run out a great length into the sea,
at about a distance of four or five leagues before me, and the
sea being very calm I kept a large offing to make this point;
at length, doubling the point, at about two leagues from the
land, I saw plainly land on the other side to seaward : then I
concluded, as it was most certain indeed, that this was the
Cape de Verd, and those the islands called, from thence, Cape
de Verd Islands. However, they were at a great distance, and
I could not well tell what I had best to do, for if I should be
taken with a fresh of wind, I might neither reach one or other.
In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped into the
cabin and sat down, Xury having the helm ; when, on a
sudden, the boy cried out, " Master, master, a ship with a
sail!" and the foolish boy was frighted out of his wits, think-
ing it must needs be some of his master's ships sent to pursue
us, but I knew we were gotten far enough out of their reach.
I jumped out of the cabin, and immediately saw, not only the
ship, but what she was, viz., a Portuguese ship, and, as I
thought, was bound to the Coast of Guinea for Negroes. But,
when I observed the course she steered, I was soon convinced
they were bound some other way, and did not design to come
any nearer to the shore, upon which I stretched out to sea as
much as I could, resolving to speak with them if possible.
With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be
able to come in their way, but that they would be gone before
I could make any signal to them. But after I had crowded to
the utmost, and began to despair, they, it seems, saw me by
the help of their perspective glasses, and that it was some
A Signal of Distress.
PICKED UP BY A PORTUGUESE SHIP. *5
European boat, which, as they supposed, must belong to some
ship that was lost; so they shortened sail to let me come up.
I was encouraged with this, and as I had my patron's ancient
on board, I made a waft of it to them, for a signal of distress,
and fired a gun, both which they saw; for they told me they
saw the smoke, though they did not hear the gun. Upon
th«se signals they very kindly brought to, and lay by for me;
and in about three hours' time I came up with them.
They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and in Spanish,
and in French, but I understood none of them; but, at last, a
Scotch sailor, who was on board, called to me, and I answered
him, and told him I was an Englishman, that I had made my
escape out of slavery from the Moors at Sallee. Then they
bade me come on board, and very kindly took me in, and all
my goods.
It was an inexpressible joy to me, as any one would believe,
that I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a miser-
able and almost hopeless condition as I was in, and I im-
mediately offered all I had to the captain of the ship, as a
return for my deliverance; but he generously told me he would
take nothing from me, but that all I had should be delivered
safe to me when I came to the Brazils. " For," says he, " I
have saved your life on no other terms than I would be glad
to be saved myself; and it may, one time or other, be my
lot to be taken up in the same condition. Besides," said he,
" when I carry you to the Brazils, so great a way from your
own country, if I should take from you what you have, you
will be starved there, and then I only take away that life I
have given. No, no," says he, "Seignor Inglese" (Mr. English-
man), "I will carry you thither in charity, and those things will
help to buy your subsistence there, and your passage home
again."
As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was just in the
performance to a tittle ; for he ordered the seamen, that none
should touch anything that I had: then he took everything
into his own possession, and gave me back an exact inventory
of them, that I might have them, even so much as my three
earthen jars.
As to my boat, it was a very good one, and that he saw,
and told me he would buy it of me for his ship's use, and
asked me what I would have for it ? I told him he had been
so generous to me in everything, that I could not offer to
make any price of the boat, but left it entirely to him ; upon
which he told me he would give me a note of hand to pay me
80 pieces of eight for it at Brazil; and when it came there, if
any one offered to give more, he would make it up. He offered
me also 60 pieces of eight more for my boy Xury, which I
was loth to take; not that I was unwilling to let the captain
have him, but I was very loth to sell the poor boy's liberty,
who had assisted me so faithfully in procuring my own. How-
ever, when I let him know my reason, he owned it to be just,
and offered me this medium, that he would give the boy an
obligation to set him free in ten years, if he turned Christian.
Upon this, and Xury saying he was willing to go to him, I let
the captain have him.
We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and I arrived
in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints' Bay, in about
twenty-two days after. And now I was once more delivered
from the most miserable of all conditions of life ; and what to
do next with myself I was to consider.
The generous treatment the captain gave me, I can never
enough remember: he would take nothing of me for my pass-
age, gave me twenty ducats for the leopard's skin, and forty
for the lion's skin, which I had in my boat, and caused every-
thing I had in the ship to be punctually delivered to me ; and
what I was willing to sell he bought of me, such as the case of
bottles, two of my guns, and a piece of the lump of bees-wax
—for I had made candles of the rest: in a word, I made about
220 pieces of eight of all my cargo: and with this stock, I
went on shore in the Brazils.
I had not been long here, before I was recommended to
the house of a good, honest man, like himself, who had an
ingenio, as they call it (that is, a plantation and a sugar-house).
I lived with him some time, and acquainted myself, by that
means, with the manner of planting and making of sugar ;
and seeing how well the planters lived, and how they got rich
suddenly, I resolved, if I could get a licence to settle there, I
would turn planter among them, resolving, in the meantime,
to find out some way to get my money, which I had left in
London, remitted to me. To this purpose, getting a kind of
letter of naturalization, I purchased as much land that was
uncured as my money would reach, and formed a plan for my
plantation and settlement; such a one as might be suitable to
to the stock which I proposed to myself to receive from
England.
I had a neighbour, a Portuguese, of Lisbon, but born of
CRUSOE BECOMES A PLANTER. 17
English parents, whose name was Wells, and in much such
circumstances as I was. I call him my neighbour, because his
plantation "lay next to mine, and we went on very sociably
together. My stock was but low, as well as his ; and we
rather planted for food than anything else, for about two years.
However, we began to increase, and our land began to come
into order ; so that the third year we planted some tobacco,
and made each of us a large piece of ground ready for planting
canes in the year to come. But we both wanted help; and now
I found more than before, I had done wrong in parting with my
boy Xury.
But alas! for me to do wrong that never did right, was no
great wonder ; I was gotten into an employment quite remote
to my genius, directly contrary to the life I delighted in, for
which I forsook my father's house; nay, I was coming into the
very middle station, or upper degree of low life, which my
father advised me to before; and which, if I resolved to go on
with, I might as well have staid at home, and never have
fatigued myself in the world as I had done ; I had no body
to converse with but now and then this neighbour; no work
to be done but by the labour of my hands; and I used to say
I lived just like a man cast away upon some desolate island,
that had nobody there but himself.
I was, in some degree, settled in my measures for carrying
on the plantation, before my kind friend, the captain of the
ship that took me up at sea, went back ; when, telling him
what little stock I had left behind me in London, he gave me
this friendly and sincere advice. " Seignor Inglese," says he
(for so he always called me), " if you will give me letters, and
a procuration here in form to me, with orders to the person
who has your money in London, to send your effects to
Lisbon, to such persons as I shall direct, and in such goods
as are proper for this country, I will bring you the produce
of them, God willing, at my return ; but, since human affairs
are all subject to changes and disasters, I would have you
give orders but for one hundred pounds sterling, which, you
say, is half your stock, and let the hazard be run for the first;
so that, if it come safe, you may order the rest the same way;
and, if it miscarry, you may have the other half to have recourse
to for your supply."
This was so wholesome advice, and looked so friendly, that
I could not but be convinced it was the best course I could
take ; so I accordingly prepared letters to the gentlewoman
with whom I had left my money, and a procuration to the
Portuguese captain, as he desired.
I wrote the English captain's widow a full account of all my
adventures—my slavery, escape, and how I had met with the
Portuguese captain at sea, the humanity of his behaviour, and
what condition I was now in, with all other necessary directions
for my supply ; and when this honest captain came to Lisbon,
he found means, by some of the English merchants there, to
send over, not the order only, but a full account of my story
to a merchant at London, who represented it effectually to
her ; whereupon, she not only delivered the money, but, out
of her own pocket, sent the Portuguese captain a very hand-
some present for his humanity and charity to me.
The merchant in London, vesting this hundred pounds in
English goods, such as the captain had written for, sent them
directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought them all safe to me
to the Brazils; among which, without my direction (for I
was too young in my business to think of them), he had taken
care to have all sorts of tools, iron work, and utensils, necessary
for my plantation, and which were of great use to me.
When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortunes made, for
I was surprised with the joy of it; and my good steward, the
captain, had laid out the Eve pounds, which my friend had
sent him for a present for himself, to purchase and bring me
over a servant, under bond for six years' service, and would
not accept of any consideration, except a little tobacco, which
I would have him accept, being my own produce.
Neither was this all: for my goods being all English manu-
facture, such as cloths, stuffs, baize, and things particularly
valuable and desirable in the country, I found means to sell
them to a very great advantage; so that I might say, I had
more than four times the value of my first cargo, and was
now infinitely beyond my poor neighbour—I mean in the ad-
vancement of my plantation ; for the first thing I did, I bought
me a negro slave, and an European servant also—I mean
another besides that which the captain brought me from
Lisbon.
Having lived almost four years in the Brazils, and beginning
to thrive and prosper very well upon my plantation, I had
not only learned the language, but had contracted acquain-
tance and friendship among my fellow-planters, as well as
among the merchants at St Salvador, which was our port;
*nd in my discourses among them, I had frequently given
AGREES TO TRADE FOR NEGROES. ag
them an account of my two voyages to the coast of Guinea ;
the manner of trading with the Negroes there, and how easy
it was to purchase upon the coast for trifles, such as beads,
toys, knives, scissors, hatchets, bits of glass, and the like, not
only gold dust, Guinea grains, elephants' teeth, &c, but
Negroes, for the service of the Brazils, in great numbers.
They listened very attentively to my discourses on these
heads, but especially to that part which related to the buying
Negroes, which was a trade at that time, not far entered into.
It happened, being in company with some merchants and
planters of my acquaintance, and talking of those things very
earnestly, three of them came to me next morning, and told
me they had been musing very much upon what I had dis-
coursed with them of the last night, and they came to make a
secret proposal to me ; and, after enjoining me secrecy, they
told me that they had a mind to fit out a ship to go to
Guinea ; that they had all plantations as well as I, and were
straitened for nothing so much as servants ; that as it was a
trade that could not be carried on, because they could not
publicly sell the Negroes when they came home, so they
desired to make but one voyage, to bring the Negroes on shore
privately, and divide them among their own plantations ; and,
in a word, the question was, whether I would go their super-
cargo in the ship, to manage the trading part upon the coast
of Guinea; and they offered me that I should have my equal
share of the Negroes, without providing any part of the stock.
This was a fair proposal, it must be confessed, had it been
made to any one that had not had a settlement and a planta-
tion of his own to look after, which was in a fair way of coming
to be very considerable, and with a good stock upon it; but
for me, that was thus entered and established, and had nothing
to do but to go on as I had begun for three or four years
more, and to have sent for the other hundred pounds from
England, and who in that time, and with that little addition,
could scarce have failed of being worth three or four thousand
pounds sterling, and that increasing too ; for me to think of
such a voyage was the most preposterous thing that ever man
in such circumstances could be guilty of.
But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could no more
resist the offer than I could restrain my first rambling designs
when my father's good counsel was lost upon me. In a word,
I told them I would go with all my heart, if they would un-
dertake to l'iok after my plantation in my absence, and would
dispose of it to such as I should direct, if I miscarried. This
they all engaged to do, and entered into writings or covenants
to do so ; and I made a formal will disposing of my planta-
tion and effects in case of my death, making the captain of
the ship that had saved my life, as before, my universal heir,
but obliging him to dispose of my effects as I had directed in
my will, one-half of the produce being to himself, and the other
to be shipped to England.
In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my effects,
and to keep up my plantation; had I used half as much
prudence to have looked into my own interest, and have made
a judgment of what I ought to have done and not to have
done, I had certainly never gone away from so prosperous an
undertaking, and gone upon a voyage to sea, attended with
all its hazards.
But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates of my
fancy rather than my reason ; and, accordingly, the ship being
fitted out, and the cargo furnished, and all things done as by
agreement, by my partners in the voyage, I went on board in
an evil hour, the ist of September, 1659, being the same
day eight years that I went from my father and mother at
Hull.
Our ship was about 120 tons burden, carried six guns, and
fourteen men, besides the master, his boy, and myself; we
had on board no large cargo of goods, except of such toys as
were fit for our trade with the Negroes, such as beads, bits of
glass, shells, and other trifles, especially little looking-glasses,
knives, scissors, hatchets, and the like.
The same day I went on board we set sail, standing away
to the northward upon our own coast, with design to stretch
over for the African coast when we came about ten or twelve
degrees of northern latitude, which, it seems, was the manner
of their course in those days. We had very good weather,
only excessively hot, all the way upon our own coast, till we
came to the height of Cape St Augustino ; from whence,
keeping further off at sea, we lost sight of land, and steered as
if we were bound for the isle Fernando de Noronha, ho'ding
our course N.E. by N., and leaving those isles on the east In
this course we passed the line rn about twelve days' time, and
were, by our last observation, in 7 degrees 22' northern lati-
tude, when a violent tornado, or hurricane, took us quite out
of our knowledge. It blew in such a terrible manner, that for
twdve days together we could do nothing but drive; and,
THE SHIP STRIKES UPON THE SAND. 31
scudding away before it, let it carry us whither ever fate and
the fury of the winds directed.
In this distress we had, besides the terror of the storm, one
of our men die of the calenture, and one man and the boy
washed overboard. About the twelfth day, the weather
abating a little, the master made an observation as well as he
could, and found that he was in about 11° north latitude, but
that he was 220 of longitude difference west from Cape St
Augustino ; so that he found he was upon the coast of Guiana,
or the north part of Brazil, beyond the river Amazon, towards
that of the river Orinoco, commonly called the Great River;
and began to consult with me what course he should take, for
the ship was leaky, and very much disabled, and he was going
directly back to the coast of Brazil.
I was positively against that; and looking over the charts
of the sea-coasts of America with him, we concluded there was
no inhabited country for us to have recourse to, till we came
within the circle of the Caribbee Islands, and therefore resolved
to stand away for Barbadoes, which, by keeping off at sea, to
avoid the indraft of the Bay or Gulf of Mexico, we might
easily perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen days' sail;
whereas we could not possibly make our voyage to the coast
of Africa without some assistance both to our ship and to
ourselves.
With this design we changed our course, and steered away
N.W. by W., in order to reach some of our English islands,
where I hoped for relief; but our voyage was otherwise de-
termined ; for, being in the latitude of 12 deg. 18 min. a second
storm came upon us, which carried us away with the same
impetuosity westward, and drove us so out of the very way
of all human commerce, that, had all our lives been saved as
to the sea, we were rather in danger of being devoured by
savages than ever returning to our country.
In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one of
our men early in the morning cried out, " Land!" and we
had no sooner run out of the cabin to look out, in hopes of
seeing whereabouts in the world we were, than the ship
struck upon a sand, and in a moment, her motion being so
stopped, the sea broke over her in such a manner, that we
expected we should all have perished immediately; and we
were immediately driven into our close quarters, to shelter
us from the very foam and spray of the sea.
It is not easy for %ny one who has not been in the like con-
dition to describe or conceive the consternation of men in such
circumstances : we knew nothing where we were, or upon what
land it was we were driven, whether an island or the main,
whether inhabited or not inhabited ; and as the rage of the
wind was still great, though rather less than at first, we could
not so much as hope to have the ship hold many minutes
without breaking in pieces, unless the winds, by a kind of
miracle, should turn immediately about In a word, we sat
looking upon one another, and expecting death every moment,
and every man, acting accordingly, as preparing for another
world; for there was little or nothing more for us to do in
this : that which was our present comfort, and all the comfort
we had, was that, contrary to our expectation, the ship did
not break yet, and that the master said the wind began to
abate.
Now, though we thought that the wind did a little abate,
yet the ship having thus struck upon the sand, and sticking
too fast for us to expect her getting off, we were in a dreadful
condition indeed, and had nothing to do but to think of saving
our lives as well as we could. We had a boat at our stern,
just before the storm, but she was first staved by dashing
against the ship's rudder, and, in the next place, she broke
away, and either sunk, or was driven off to sea; so there was
no hope from her ; we had another boat on board, but how to
get her off into the sea was a doubtful thing; however, there
was no time to debate, for we fancied the ship would break
in pieces every minute, and some told us she was actually
broken already.
In this distress, the mate of our vessel lays hold of the boat,
and with the help of the rest of the men, they got her slung
over the ship's side; and getting all into her, let go, and com-
mitted ourselves, being eleven in number, to God's mercy and
the wild sea; for though the storm was abated considerably,
yet the sea went dreadfully high upon the shore, and might
be well called den wild zee, as the Dutch call the sea in a
storm.
And now our case was very dismal indeed ; for we all saw
plainly, that the sea went so high that the boat could not live,
and that we should be inevitably drowned. As to making
sail, we had none, nor, if we had, could we have done anything
with it; so we worked at the oar towards the land, though with
heavy hearts, like men going to execution; for we all knew
that when the boat came nearer the shore, she would be
THE BOAT IS UPSET. 33
dashed in a thousand pieces by the breach of the sea How-
ever, we committed our souls to God in the most earnest
manner; and the wind driving us towards the shore, we
hastened our destruction with our own hands, pulling as well
as we could towards land.
What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether steep
or shoal, we knew not; the only hope that could rationally
give us the least shadow of expectation was if we might find
some bay or gulf, or the mouth of some river, where by great
chance we might have run our boat in, or got under the lee
of the land, and perhaps made smooth water. But there was
nothing of this appeared ; but as we made nearer and nearer
the shore, the land looked more frightful than the sea.
After we had rowed or rather driven about a league and a
half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-like, came
rolling astern of us, and plainly bade us expect the coup de
grAce. In a word, it took us with such a fury, that it overset
the boat at once; and separating us, as well from the boat as
from one another, gave us not time to say, " O God 1" for
tve were all swallowed up in a moment
Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt,
when I sunk into the water; for though I swam very well, yet
I could not deliver myself from the waves so as to draw
breath, till that wave having driven me, or rather carried me,
a vast way on towards the shore, and having spent itself,
went back, and left me upon the land almost dry, but half
dead with the water I took in. I had so much presence of
mind, as well as breath left, that, seeing myself nearer the
main land than I expected, I got upon my feet, and endea-
voured to make on towards the land as fast as I could, before
another wave should return and take me up again. But I
soon found it was impossible to avoid it; for I saw the sea
come after me as high as a great hill, and as furious as an
enemy,, which I had no means or strength to contend with:
my business was to hold my breath, and raise myself upon the
water, if I could: and so, by swimming, to preserve my
breathing and pilot myself towards the shore, if possible : my
greatest concern now being, that the sea, as it would carry
me a great way towards the shore when it came on, might not
carry me back again with it when it gave back towards the sea
The wave that came upon me again buried me at once
twenty or thirty feet deep in its own body, and I could feel
myself carried with a mighty force and swiftness towards the
shore a very great way; but I held my breath, and assisted
myself to swim still forward with all my might I was ready
to burst with holding my breath, when, as I felt myself rising
up, so, to my immediate relief, I found my head and hands
shoot out above the surface of the water ; and though it was
not two seconds of time that I could keep myself so, yet it
relieved me greatly, gave me breath and new courage. I was
covered again with water a good while, but not so long but I
held it out; and, finding the water had spent itself and began
to return, I struck forward against the return of the waves,
and felt ground again with my feet I stood still a few
moments to recover breath and till the waters went from me,
and then took to my heels and ran, with what strength I had,
further towards the shore. But neither would this deliver
me from the fury of the sea, which came pouring in after
me again ; and twice more I was lifted up by the waves and
carried forwards as before, the shore being very flat.
The last time of these two had well-near been fatal to me ;
for the sea having hurried me along, as before, landed me, or
rather dashed me, against a piece of a rock, and that with such
force, as it left me senseless, and indeed helpless, as to my
own deliverance; for the blow taking my side and breast,
beat the breath, as it were, quite out of my body ; and had it
returned again immediately, I must have been strangled in the
water ; but I recovered a little before the return of the waves,
and seeing I should be covered again with the water, I resolved
to hold fast by a piece of the rock, and so to hold my breath,
if possible, till the wave went back. Now, as the waves were
not so high as at first , being nearer land, I held my hold till
the wave abated, and then fetched another run, which brought
me so near the shore, that the next wave, though it went over
me, yet did not so swallow me up as to carry me away; and
the next run I took, I got to the main land, where, to my
great comfort, I clambered up the cliffs of the shore, and sat
me down upon the grass, free from danger and quite out of
the reach of the water.
I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began to look
up and thank God that my life was saved, in a case wherein
there was, some minutes before, scarce any room to hope. I
believe it is impossible to express, to the life, what the
ecstasies and transports of the soul are, when it is so saved,
as I may say, out of the very grave.
" For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first"
CRUSOE ON SHORE. 35
I walked about on the shore lifting up my hands, and ray
whole being, as I may say, wrapt up in a contemplation of my
deliverance; making a thousand gestures and motions, which
I cannot describe, reflecting upon all my comrades that were
drowned, and that there should not be one soul saved but
myself; for, as for them, I never saw them afterwards, or any
sign of them, except three of their hats, one cap, and two shoes
that were not fellows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when, the breach and
froth of the sea being so big, I could hardly see it, it lay so
far off; and considered, " Lord! how was it possible I could
get on shore!"
After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable part of
my condition, I began to look round me, to see what kind of
place I was in, and what was next to be done: and I soon
found my comforts abate, and that, in a word, I had a dreadful
deliverance: for I was wet, had no clothes to shift me, nor
anything either to eat or drink to comfort me; neither did
I see any prospect before me but that of perishing with
hunger, or being devoured by wild beasts ; and that which was
particularly afflicting to me was, that I had no weapon, either
to hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance, or to defend
myself against any other creature that might desire to kill
me for theirs ; in a word, I had nothing about me but a knife,
a tobacco-pipe, and a little tobacco in a box ; this was all my
provisions ; and this threw me into terrible agonies of mind,
that for a while, I ran about like a madman. Night coming
upon me, I began, with a heavy heart, to consider what would
be my lot if there were any ravenous beasts in that country,
as at night they always come abroad for their prey.
All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that time,
was to get up into a thick bushy tree like a fir, but thorny,
which grew near me, and where I resolved to sit all night, and
consider the next day what death I should die, for as yet I
saw no prospect of life. I walked about a furlong from the
shore, to see if I could find any fresh water to drink, which
I did to my great joy; and having drank, and put a little
tobacco in my mouth to prevent hunger I went to the tree,
and getting up into it, endeavoured to place myself so that
if I should sleep I might not fall; and having cut me a short
stick, like a truncheon, for my defence, I took up my lodging,
and having been excessively fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and
slept as comfortably as, I believe, few could have done in my
condition, and found myself the most refreshed with it that I
think I ever was on such an occasion.
When I waked it was broad day, the weather clear, and the
storm abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell as before;
but that which surprised me most was, that the ship was lifted
off in the night from the sand where she lay, by the swelling
of the tide, and was driven up almost as far as the rock which
I at first mentioned, where I had been so bruised by the
dashing me against it This being within about a mile from
the shore where I was, and the ship seeming to stand up right
still, I wished myself on board, that at least I might save some
necessary things for my use.
When I came down from my apartment in the tree, I looked
about me again, and the first thing I found was the boat,
which lay as the wind and the sea had tossed her up upon the
land, about two miles on my right hand ; I walked as far as
I could upon the shore to have got to her ; but found a neck
or inlet of water between me and the boat which was about
half a mile broad ; so I came back for the present, being more
intent upon getting at the ship, where I hoped to find some-
thing for my present subsistence.
A little after noon, I found the sea very calm, and the tide
ebbed so far out that I could come within a quarter of a mile
of the ship ; and here I found a fresh renewing of my grief;
for I saw evidently, that if we had kept on board, we had been
all safe, that is to say, we had all got safe on shore, and I had
not been so miserable as to be left entirely destitute of all
comfort and company as I now was ; this forced tears to my
eyes again ; but as there was little relief in that, I resolved,
if possible, to get to the ship ; so I pulled off my clothes, for
the weather was hot to extremity, and took the water; but
when I came to the ship, my difficulty was still greater to know
how to get on board, for, as she lay aground, and high out of
the water, there was nothing within my reach to lay hold of.
I swam round her twice, and the second time I spied a small
piece of rope, which I wondered I did not see at first, hang
down by the fore-chains so low, as that with great difficulty
I got hold of it, and by the help of that rope got up into the
forecastle of the ship ; here I found that the ship was bulged,
and had a great deal of water in her hold, but that she lay
so on the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather earth, that
her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head low, almost
to the water ; by this means all her quarter was free, and all
THE k.iFT. 37
that was in that part was dry ; for you may be sure my first
work was to search, and to see what was spoiled and what was
free; and first, I found that all the ship's provisions were dry
and untouched by the water, and being very well disposed to
eat, I went to the bread-room and filled my pockets with
biscuit, and ate it as I went about other things, for I had no
time to lose. I also found some rum in the great cabin, of
which I took a large dram, and which I had, indeed, need
enough of to spirit me for what was before me. Now I wanted
nothing but a boat to furnish myself with many things which
I foresaw would be very necessary to me.
It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be
had; and this extremity roused my application. We had
several spare yards, and two or three large spars of wood, and
a spare top-mast or two in the ship : I resolved to fall to work
with these, and I flung as many of them overboard as I could
manage for their weight, tying every one with a rope, that
they might not drive away. When this was done, I went down
the ship's side, and pulling them to me, I tied four of them
together at both ends, as well as I could, in the form of a raft,
and laying two or three short pieces of plank upon them
crossways, I found I could walk upon it very well, but that it
was not able to bear any great weight, the pieces being too
light; so I went to work, and with a carpenter's saw I cut a
spare top-mast into three lengths, and added them to my raft,
with a great deal of labour and pains, but the hope of fur-
nishing myself with necessaries, encouraged me to go beyond
what I should have been able to have done upon another
occasion.
My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable
weight; my next care was what to load it with, and how to
preserve what I laid upon it from the surf of the sea: but I
was not long considering this, I first laid all the planks or
boards upon it that I could get, and having considered well
what I most wanted, I first got three of the seamen's chests,
which I had broken open and emptied, and lowered them
Jown upon my raft; the first of these I filled with provisions,
viz., bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried goat's
flesh (which we lived much upon), and a little remainder of
European corn, which had been laid by for some fowls which
we brought to sea with us, but the fowls were killed; there
had been some barley and wheat together, but, to my great
disappointment, I found afterwards that the rats had eaten
or spoiled it all; as for liquors, I found several cases of bottles
belonging to our skipper, in which were some cordial waters ;
and, in all, about five or six gallons of rack ; these I stowed
by themselves, there being no need to put them into the chest,
nor no room for them. While I was doing this, I found the
tide began to flow, though very calm ; and I had the morti-
fication to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left
on the shore, upon the sand, swim away; as for my breeches,
which were only linen and open-knee'd, I swam on board in
them and my stockings ; however this set me on rummaging
for clothes, of which I found enough, but took no more than I
wanted for present use, for I had other things which my eye
was more upon—as, first, tools to work with on shore; and it
was after long searching that I found out the carpenter's chest,
which was, indeed, a very useful prize to me, and much more
valuable than a ship-load of gold would have been at that
time. I got it down to my raft, whole as it was, without losing
time to look into it, for I knew in general what it contained.
My next care was for some ammunition and arms : there
were two very good fowling-pieces in the great cabin, and two
pistols ; these I secured first, with some powder-horns and a
small bag of shot, and two old rusty swords. I knew there
were three barrels of powder in the ship, but knew not where
our gunner had stowed them ; but with much search I found
them, two of them dry and good, the third had taken water ;
those two I got to my raft, with the arms; and now I thought
myself pretty well freighted, and began to think how I should
get to shore with them, having neither sail, oar, nor rudder ;
and the least cap-full of wind would have overset all my navi-
gation.
I had three encouragements: ist, a smooth, calm sea; 2ndly,
the tide rising and setting in to the shore; 3rdly, what little
wind there was blew me towards the land : and having found
two or three broken oars belonging to the boat—and, besides
the tools which were in the chest, I found two saws, an axe,
and a hammer, and with this cargo I put to sea. For a mile, or
thereabouts, my raft went very well, only that I found it drive
a little distant from the place where I had landed before, by
which I perceived that there was some indraft of the water,
and consequently, I hoped to find some creek or river there,
which I might make use of as a port to get to land with my
cargo.
As I imagined, so it was, there appeared before me a little
HE LANDS HIS CARGO. 39
opening of the land, and I found a strong current of the tide
set into it, so I guided my raft as well as I could, to keep in
the middle of the stream : but here I had like to have suffered
a second shipwreck, which, if I had, I think, verily, would
have broke my heart; for knowing nothing of the coast, my
raft ran aground at one end of it upon a shoal, and not being
aground at the other end, it wanted but a little that all my
targo had slipped off towards the end that was afloat, and so
fallen into the water. I did my utmost, by setting my back
against the chests, to keep them in their places, but could
not thrust off the raft with all my strength, neither durst I
stir from the posture I was in ; but holding up the chests with
all my might, stood in that manner near half an hour, in which
time the rising of the water brought me a little more upon a
level; and, a little after, the water still rising, my raft floated
again, and I thrust her off with the oar I had, into the channel,
and then driving up higher, I at length found myself in the
mouth of a little river, with land on both sides, and a strong
current of tide running up. I looked on both sides, for a
proper place to get to shore, for I was not willing to be driven
too high up the river, hoping, in time, to see some ship at sea,
and therefore resolved to place myself as near the coast as I
could.
At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the
creek, to which, with great pain and difficulty, I guided my
raft, and at last got so near, as that, reaching ground with my
oar, I could thrust her directly in; but here I had liked to
have dipped all my cargo into the sea again ; for that shore
lying pretty steep, that is to say, sloping, there was no place to
land, but where one end of my float, if it ran on shore, would
lie so high, and the other sink lower, as before, that it would
endanger my cargo again ; all that I could do, was to wait till
the tide was at the highest, keeping the raft with my oar like
an anchor, to hold the side of it fast to the shore, near a flat
piece of ground, which I expected the water would flow over;
and so it did. As soon as I found water enough, for my raft
drew about a foot of water, I thrust her on upon that flat piece
of ground, and there fastened or moored her, by sticking my
two broken oars into the ground, one on one side, near one end,
and one on the other side, near the other end ; and thus I lay
till the water ebbed away, and left my raft and all my cargo
safe on shore.
My next work was to view the country, and seek a proper
place for my habitation, and where to stow my goods to secure
them from whatever might happen. Where I was, I yet knew
not; whether on the continent or on an island ; whether inha-
bited or not inhabited; whether in danger of wild beasts or
not. There was a hill not above a mile from me, which rose
up very steep and high, and which seemed to overtop some
other hills, which lay as in a ridge from it, northward. I took
out one of the fowling-pieces, and one of the pistols, and a
horn of powder; and thus armed, I travelled for discovery up
to the top of that hill, where, after I had with great labour and
difficulty got to the top, I saw my fate, to my great affliction,
viz., that I was in an island environed every way by the sea,
no land to be seen except some rocks, which lay a great way
off; and two small islands, less than this, which lay about
three leagues to the west
I found also that the island I was in was barren, and, as I
saw good reason to believe, uninhabited except by wild beasts,
of whom, however, I saw none ; yet I saw abundance of fowls,
but knew not their kinds ; neither when I killed them could I
tell what was fit for food, and what not At my coming back,
I shot at a great bird which I saw sitting upon a tree on the
side of a great wood ; I believe it was the first gun that had
been fired there since the creation of the world. I had no
sooner fired, than from all parts of the wood there arose an
innumerable number of fowls of many sorts, making a con-
fused screaming and crying, and every one according to his
usual note, but not one of them of any kind that I knew ; as
for the creature I killed, I took it to be a kind of hawk, its
colour and beak resembling it, but it had no talons or claws
more than common ; its flesh was carrion, and fit for nothing.
Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft, and
fell to work to bring my cargo on shore, which took me up
the rest of that day; what to do with myself at night I knew
not, nor indeed where to rest, for I was afraid to lie down or
the ground, not knowing but some wild beast might devoui
me, though, as I afterwards found, there was really no need
for those fears. However, as well as I could, I barricaded
myself round with the chests and boards that I had brought
on shore, and made a kind of hut for that night's lodging; as
for food, I yet saw not which way to supply myself, except
that I had seen two or three creatures, like hares, run out of
the wood where I shot the fowl.
I now began to consider that I might yet get a great many
THE SECOND RAFT. 41
things out of the ship which would be useful to me, and par-
ticularly some of the rigging and sails, and such other things
as might come to land, and I resolved to make another voyage
on board the vessel, if possible ; and as I knew that the first
storm that blew must necessarily break her all in pieces, I
resolved to set all other things apart till I had got everything
out of the ship that I could get Then I called a council—
that is to say, in my thoughts—whether I should take back
the raft; but this appeared impracticable: so I resolved to go
as before when the tide was down, and I did so, only that I
stripped before I went from my hut, having nothing on but a
chequered shirt, a pair of linen drawers, and a pair of pumps
on my feet
I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second
raft; and, having had experience of the first, I neither made
this so unwieldly, nor loaded it so hard, but yet I brought away
several things very useful to me; as, first, in the carpenter's
stores, I found two or three bags full of nails and spikes, a
great screw-jack, a dozen or two of hatchets, and, above all,
that most useful thing called a grindstone ; all these I secured,
together with several things belonging to the gunner, particu-
larly two or three iron crows.and two barrels of musket-bullets,
seven muskets, another fowling-piece, with some small quantity
of powder more ; a large bag full of small shot, and a great roll
of sheet-lead ; but this last was so heavy, I could not hoist it
up to get it over the ship's side.
Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes I could
find, and a spare fore-top sail, hammock, and some bedding;
and with this I loaded my second raft, and brought them all
safe on shore, to my very great comfort
I was under some apprehensions during my absence from
the land, that at least my provisions might be devoured on
shore: but when I came back, I found no sign of any visitor,
only there sat a creature like a wild cat, upon one of the
chests, which, when I came towards it, ran away a little dis-
tance, and then stood still; she sat very composed and uncon-
cerned, and looked full in my face, as if she had a mind to be
acquainted with me. I presented my gun at her, but, as she
did not understand it, she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor
did she offer to stir away; upon which I tossed her a bit of
biscuit, though, by the way, I was not very free of it, for my
store was not great: however, I spared her a bit, I say, and
she went to it, smelled at it , and ate it, and looked, as if
pleased, for more; but I thanked her, and could spare no
more; so she marched off.
Having got my second cargo on shore, though I was fain to
open the barrels of powder, and bring them by parcels (for
they were too heavy, being large casks), I went to work to
make me a little tent, with the sail, and some poles which I
cut for that purpose ; and into this tent I brought everything
that I knew would spoil either with rain or sun, and I piled
all the empty chests and casks up in a circle round the tent,
to fortify it from any sudden attempt, either from man or
beast
When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent
with some boards within, and an empty chest set up on end
without; and spreading one of the beds upon the ground, lay-
ing my two pistols just at my head, and my gun at length by
me, I went to bed for the first time, and slept very quietly all
night, for I was very weary and heavy; for the night before I
had slept little, and had laboured very hard all day, as well to
fetch all those things from the ship, as to get them on shore.
I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever was
laid up, I believe, for one man: but I was not satisfied still, for
while the ship sat upright in that posture, I thought I ought
to get everything out of her that I could : so every day at low
water I went on board, and brought away something or other;
but particularly the third time I went, I brought away as
much of the rigging as I could, as also all the small ropes and
rope-twine I could get, with a piece of spare canvas, which
was to mend the sails upon occasion, and the barrel of wet
gunpowder: in a word, I brought away all the sails first and
last; only that I was fain to cut them in pieces, and bring as
much at a time as I could, for they were no more useful to be
sails, but as mere canvas only.
But that which comforted me more still was that, last of all,
after I had made five or six such voyages as these, and
thought I had nothing more to expect from the ship that was
worth my meddling with ; I say, after all this, I found a great
hogshead of bread, three large runlets of rum, or spirits, and a
box of sugar, and a barrel of fine flour: this was surprising to
me, because I had given over expecting any more provisions,
except what was spoiled by the water. I soon emptied the
hogshead of that bread, and wrapped it up, parcel by parcel,
in pieces of the sails, which I cut out; and, in a word, I got all
this safe on shore also
Money is not wealth to the solitary.
STRIPPING THE SHIP. 43
The next day I made another voyage, and now, having
plundered the ship of what was portable and fit to hand out, I
began with the cables; and cutting the great cable into pieces,
such as I could move, I got two cables and a hawser on shore,
with all the iron-work I could get; and having cut down the
sprit-sail yard, and the mizen-yard, and everything I could, to
make a large raft, I loaded it with all these heavy goods, and
came away; but my good luck began now to leave me; fot
this raft was so unwieldly, and so overladen, that, after I had
entered the little cove where I had landed the rest of my
goods, not being able to guide it so handily as I did the other,
it overset, and threw me and all my cargo into the water. As
for myself, it was no great harm, for I was near the shore;
but as to my cargo, it was a great part of it lost, especially
the iron, which I expected would have been of great use to
me: however, when tie tide was out, I got most of the pieces
of cable ashore, and some of the iron, though with infinite
labour; for I was fain to dip for it into the water, a work
which fatigued me very much. After this, I went every day
on board, and brought away what I could get.
I had been now 13 days on shore, and had been 11 times
on board the ship, in which time I had brought away all that
one pair of hands could well be supposed capable to bring;
though I believe verily, had the calm weather held, I should
have brought away the whole ship, piece by piece ; but pre-
paring the twelfth time to go on board, I found the wind be-
gan to rise: however, at low water I went on board, and
though I thought I had rummaged the cabin so effectually, as
that nothing more could be found, yet I discovered a locker
with drawers in it, in one of which I found two or three razors,
and one pair of large scissors, with some ten or dozen of good
knives and forks: in another I found about thirty-six pounds
value in money, some European coin, some Brazil, some pieces
of eight, some gold and some silver.
I smiled to myself at the sight of this money: " O drug!"
said I, aloud, " what art thou good for ? Thou art not worth
to me, no, not the taking off the ground : one of those knives
is worth all this heap: I have no manner of use for thee—
even remain where thou art, and go to the bottom, as a crea-
ture whose life is not worth saving." However, upon second
thoughts, I took it away, and wrapping all this in a piece of
canvas, I began to think of making another raft; but while I
was preparing this, I found the sky overcast, and the wind
began to rise, and in a quarter of an hour it blew a fresh gale
from the shore. It occurred to me, that it was in vain to pre-
tend to make a raft with the wind off shore; and that it was
my business to be gone before the tide of flood began, other-
wise I might not be able to reach the shore at all; accord-
ingly, I let myself down into the water, and swam across the
channel which lay between the ship and the sands, and even
that with difficulty enough, partly with the weight of the
things I had about me, and partly the roughness of the water;
for the wind rose very hastily, and before it was quite high
water it blew a storm.
But I had got home to my little tent, where I lay, with all
my wealth about me, very secure. It blew very hard all that
night, and in the morning, when I looked out, behold no more
ship was to be seen ! I was a little surprised, but recovered
myself with the satisfactory reflection, viz., that I had lost no
time, nor abated any diligence, to get everything out of her
that could be useful to me ; and that, indeed, there was little
left in her that I was able to bring away, if I had had more time.
I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of any-
thing out of her, except what might drive on shore from her
wreck; as, indeed, divers pieces of her afterwards did; but
those things were of small use to me.
My thoughts were now wholly employed about securing
myself against either savages (if any should appear), or wild
beasts, if any were in the island ; and I had many thoughts of
the method how to do this, and what kind of dwelling to
make ; whether I should make me a cave in the earth, or a
tent upon the earth; and, in short, I resolved upon both, of
the manner and description of which, it may not be improper
to give an account
I soon found the place I was in was not for my settlement,
because it was upon a low, moorish ground, near the sea, and
I believed would not be wholesome, and more particularly
because there was no fresh water near it; so I resolved to find
a more healthy and convenient spot of ground.
I consulted several things in my situation, which I found
would be proper for me : 1st, health and fresh water, I just
now mentioned ; 2ndly, shelter from the heat of the sun; 3rdly,
security from ravenous creatures, whether man or beast; 4thly,
a view to the sea, that if God sent any ship in sight, I might
not lose any advantage for my deliverance, of which I was
no twilling to banish all my expectation yet
HIS DWELLING-PLACE. 45
In search of a place proper for this, I found a little plain on
the side of a rising hill, whose front towards this little plain
was steep as a house-side, so that nothing could come down
upon me from the top; on the side of the rock there was a
hollow place, worn a little way in, like the entrance or door of
a cave ; but there was not really any cave, or way into the
rock at all.
On the flat of the green, just before this hollow place, I
resolved to pitch my tent: this plain was not above a hundred
yards broad, and about twice as long, and lay like a green
before my door and, at the end of it descended irregularly
every way down into the low grounds by the sea-side. It
was on the N.N.W. side of the hill, so that I was sheltered
from the heat every day, till it came to a W. and by S. sun,
or thereabouts, which, in those countries, is near the setting.
Before I set up my tent I drew a half-circle before the hollow
place, which took in about ten yards in its semi-diameter from
the rock, and twenty yards in its diameter, from its beginning
and ending.
In this half-circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes,driving
them into the ground till they stood very firm like piles, the
biggest end being out of the ground above five feet and a
half, and sharpened on the top ; the two rows did not stand
above six inches from one another.
Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in the ship,
and laid them in rows, one upon another, within the circle,
between these two rows of stakes, up to the top, placing other
stakes in the inside, leaning against them, about two feet and
a half high, like a spur to a post; and this fence was so strong
that neither man nor beast could get into it or over it; this
cost me a great deal of time and labour, especially to cut the
piles in the woods, bring them to the place, and drive them
into the earth.
The entrance into this place I made to be, not by a door,
but by a short ladder to go over the top; which ladder, when
I was in, I lifted over after me ; and so I was completely
fenced in and fortified, as I thought, from all the world, and
consequently slept secure in the night, which otherwise I could
not have done; though as it appeared afterwards, there was
no need of all this caution from the enemies that I apprehended
danger from.
Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite labour, I carried all
ay riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and stores, of which
5
you have the account above ; and I made a large tent, which,
to preserve me from the rains, that in one part of the year
are very violent there, I made double, one smaller tent within,
and one larger tent above it; and covered the uppermost with
a large tarpaulin, which I had saved among the sails. And
now I lay no more for a while in the bed which I had brought
on shore, but in a hammock, which was indeed a very good
one, and belonged to the mate of the ship.
Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and everything
that would spoil by the wet; and having thus enclosed all my
goods, I made up the entrance, which till now I had left open,
and so passed and repassed, as I said, by a short ladder.
When I had done this, I began to work my way into the
rock, and bringing all the earth and stones that I dug down
out through my tent, I laid them up within my fence, in the
nature of a terrace, so that it raised the ground within about
a foot and a half; and thus I made me a cave, just behind my
tent, which served me like a cellar to my house.
It cost me much labour and many days before all these
things were brought to perfection ; and, therefore, I must go
back to some other things which took up some of my thoughts.
At the same time it happened, after I had laid my scheme for
the setting up my tent, and making the cave, that a storm of
rain falling from a thick, dark cloud, a sudden flash of light-
ning happened, and after that, a great clap of thunder, as is
naturally the effect of it I was not so much surprised with
the lightning, as I was with a thought which darted into my
mind as swift as the lightning itself—" O my powder ! " My
very heart sank within me when I thought, that, at one blast,
all my powder might be destroyed; on which, not my defence
only, but the providing my food, as I thought, entirely de-
pended : I was nothing near so anxious about my own danger,
though had the powder took fire, I had never known who had
hurt me.
Such impression did this make upon me, that after the storm
was over, I laid aside all my works, my building and forti-
fying, and applied myself to make bags and boxes, to separate
the powder, and to keep it a little and a little in a parcel, in
the hope that whatever might come, it might not all take fire
at once; and to keep it so apart, that it should not be possible
to make one part fire another. I finished this work in about
a fortnight; and I think my powder, which in all was about
24.O pounds weight, was divided in not less than a hundred
GOATS ON THE ISLAND. 47
parcels : as to the barrel that had been wet, I did not appre-
hend any danger from that; so I placed it in my new cave,
which in my fancy, I called my kitchen ; and the rest I hid
up and down in holes among the rocks, so that no wet might
come to it, marking very carefully where I laid it
In the interval of time while this was doing, I went out once
at least every day with my gun, as well to divert myself, as
to see if I could kill anything fit for food ; and, as near as I
could, to acquaint myself with what the island produced. The
first time I went out, I presently discovered that there were
goats in the island, which was a great satisfaction to me; but
then it was attended with this misfortune to me, viz., that
they were so shy, so subtle, and so swift of foot, that it was
the most difficult thing in the world to come at them ; but I
was not discouraged at this, not doubting but I might now
and then shoot one, as it soon happened; for after I had
found their haunts a little, I laid wait in this manner for them :
I observed if they saw me in the valleys, though they were
upon the rocks, they would run away as in a terrible fright;
but if they were feeding in the valleys, and I was upon the
rocks, they took no notice of me ; from whence I concluded,
that by the position of their optics, their sight was so directed
downward, that they did not readily see objects that were
above them ; so afterwards, I took this method,—I always
climbed the rocks first, to get above them, and then had
frequently a fair mark. The first shot I made among these
creatures, I killed a she-goat, which had a little kid by her,
which she gave suck to, which grieved me heartily ; for when
the old one fell, the kid stood stock still by her, till I came
and took her up; and not only so, but when I carried the old
one with me, upon my shoulders, the kid followed me quite to
my enclosure; upon which, I laid down the dam, and took the
kid in my arms, and carried it over my pale, in hopes to have
bred it up tame, but it would not eat, so I was forced to kill it,
and eat it myself; these two supplied me with flesh a great
while, for I ate sparingly, and saved my provisions (my bread
especially) as much as possibly I could.
Having now fixed my habitation, I found it absolutely
necessary to provide a place to make a fire in, and fuel to burn;
and what I did for that, and also how I enlarged my cave, and
what conveniences I made, I shall give a full account of in
its place.
And now being to enter into a melancholy relation of a
scene of silent life such, perhaps, as was never heard of in the
world before, I shall take it from its beginning, and continue
it in its order. It was, by my account, the 30th of September,
when, in the manner as above said, I first set foot upon this
horrid island, when the sun, being to us in its autumnal
equinox, was almost just over my head: for I reckoned
myself, by observation, to be in the latitude 9 deg. 22 min.
north of the line.
After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came
into my thoughts that I should be losing my reckoning of time
for want of books, and pen and ink, and should even forget
the Sabbath days ; but to prevent this, I cut with my knife
upon a large post, in capital letters, and making it into a great
cross, I set up on the shore where I first landed, " I came on
shore here on the 30th of September, 1659." Upon the sides
of this square post I cut every day a notch with my knife, and
every seventh notch was as long again as the rest, and every
first day of the month, as long again as that long one; and
thus I kept my calendar, or weekly, monthly, and yearly
reckoning of time.
In the next place, we are to observe that among the many
things which I brought out of the ship, in the several voyages
which, as above mentioned, I made to it, I got several things
of less value, but not at all less useful to me, which I omitted
setting down before ; as, in particular, pens, ink, and paper;
several parcels in the captain's, mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's
keeping ; three or four compasses, some mathematical instru-
ments, dials, perspectives, charts, and books of navigation ; all
which I huddled together, whether I might want them or no:
also, I found three very good Bibles, which came to me in my
cargo from England, and which I had packed up among my
things ; some Portuguese books also ; and, among them, two
or three Popish prayer-books, and several other books, all
which I carefully secured. And I must not forget, that we had
in the ship a dog, and two cats, of wTiose eminent history I
may have occasion to say something in its place ; for I carried
both the cats with me ; and as for the dog, he jumped out of
the ship of himself, and swam on shore to me the day after I
went on shore with my first cargo, and was a trusty servant
to me many years ; I wanted nothing that he could fetch me,
nor any company that he could make up to me. I only
wanted to have him talk to me, but that would not do. As I
observed before, I found pens, ink, and paper, and I husbanded
CRUSOPS CONDITION. , 49
them to the utmost; and I shall show that while my ink
lasted, I kept things very exact, but after that was gone I
xould not, for I could not make any ink by any means that I
could devise.
And this put me in mind that I wanted many things, not-
withstanding all that I had amassed together; and of these,
ink was one, as also a spade, pickaxe, and shovel, to dig or
remove the earth ; needles, pins, and thread: as for linen, I
soon learned to want that without much difficulty.
This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily ;
and it was near a whole year before I had entirely finished my
little pale, or surrounded my habitation ; the piles or stakes,
which were as heavy as I could well lift, were a long time in
cutting and preparing in the woods, and more, by far, in
bringing home; so that I spent sometimes two days in cutting
and bringing home one of those posts, and a third day in
driving it into the ground ; for which purpose, I got a heavy
piece of wood at first, but at last bethought myself of one of
the iron crows ; which, however, though I found it, made
driving those posts or piles very laborious and tedious work.
But what need I have been concerned at the tediousness of
anything I had to do, seeing I had time enough to do it in ?
nor had I any other employment, if that had been over, at
least that I could foresee, except the ranging the island to
seek for food, which I did, more or less, every day.
I now began to consider seriously my condition, and the
circumstances I was reduced to; and I drew up the state of
my affairs in writing, not so much to leave them to any that
were to come after me, for I was likely to have but few heirs,
as to deliver my thoughts from daily poring upon them, and
afflicting my mind : and as my reason began now to master
my despondency, I began to comfort myself as well as I could,
and to set the good against the evil, that I might have some-
thing to distinguish my case from worse; and I stated very
impartially, like debtor and creditor, the comforts I enjoyed
against the miseries I suffered, thus :—
Evil. Good.
7" am cast upon a horrible, But I am alive; and not
desolate island, void of all hope drowned, as all my ship's com'
of recovery. pony were.
I am singled out and sepa- But I am singled out, fop.
SO
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
Evil.
rated, as it were, from all lite
world, to be miserable.
I am divided from mankind
— a solitary; one banisJied
from human society.
I have not clotlies to cover me.
I am witJiout any defence, or
means to resist any violence of
man or beast.
I have no soul to speak to or
relieve me.
Good.
from all the ship's creiv, to be
sparedfrom death; and He that
miraculously saved me from
death, can deliver me from this
condition.
But I am not starved, and
perishing on a barren place,
affordittgno sustenance.
But I am in a hot climate,
where, if I had clothes, I could
hardly wear tltem.
But I am cast on an island
where I see no wild beasts to
hurt me.
But God wonderfully sent
the ship in near enough to tlte
shore, that I have got out as
many necessary things as will
either supply my wants or en-
able me to supply myself, even
as long as I live.
Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony that
there was scarce any condition in the world so miserable, but
there was something negative or something positive to be
thankful for in it.
Having now brought my mind a little to relish my con-
dition, and given over looking out to sea, to see if I could spy
a ship—I say, giving over these things, I began to apply
myself to make things as easy to me as I could.
I have already described my habitation, which was a tent
under the side of a rock, surrounded with a strong pale of
post and cables ; but I might now rather call it a wall, for I
raised a kind of wall up against it of turfs, about two feet
thick on the outside ; and after some time (I think it was a
year and a half) I raised rafters from it, leaning to the rock,
and thatched or covered it with boughs of trees, and such
things as I could get, to keep out the rain ; which I found at
some times of the year very violent
I have already observed how I brought all my goods into
this pale, and into the cave which I had made behind me;
but I must observe, too, that at first this was a confused heap
HE MAKES A TABLE AND A CHAIR. 51
of goods, which, as they lay in no order, so they took up all
my place, I had no room to turn myself: so I set myself to en-
large my cave and work farther into the earth ; for it was a
loose sandy rock, which yielded easily to the labour I bestowed
on it: and so when I found I was pretty safe as to beasts oi
prey, I worked sideways, to the right hand, into the rock ; and
then, turning to the right again, worked quite out, and made
me a door to come out on the outside of my pale or fortifica-
tion. This gave me not only egress and regress, as it were
a back way to my tent and to my storehouse, but gave me
room to store my goods.
And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary
things as I found I most wanted, particularly a chair and a
table ; for without these I was not able to enjoy the few
comforts I had in the world ; I could not write or eat, or do
several things, with so much pleasure without a table. So I
went to work ; and here I must needs observe, that by making
the most rational judgment of things, every man may be, in
time, master of every mechanic art. I had never handled a
tool in my life ; and yet, in time, by labour, application, and
contrivance, I found, at last, that I wanted nothing but I
could have made it, especially if I had had tools ; however, I
made abundance of things, even without tools; and some with
no more tools than an adze and a hatchet, which perhaps were
never made that way before, and that with infinite labour; for
example, if I wanted a board, I had no other way but to cut
down a tree, set it on an edge before me, and hew it flat on
either side with my axe, till I had brought it to be thin as a
plank, and then dub it smooth with my adze. It is true, by
this method I could make but one board out of a whole tree ;
but this I had no remedy for but patience, any more than I
had for the prodigious deal of time and labour which it took
me up to make a plank or board : but my time or labour was
little worth, and so it was as well employed one way as
another.
However, I made me a table and a chair, as I observed
above, in the first place; and this I did out of the short pieces
of boards that I brought on my raft from the ship ; but when
I had wrought out some boards as above, I made large shelves,
of the breadth of a foot and a half, one over another all along
one side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron-work
on ; and, in a word, to separate everything at large into their
places, that I might come easily at them, I knocked pieces
into the wall of the rock to hang my guns and all things that
would hang up : so that, had my cave been to be seen, it looked
like a general magazine of all necessary things ; and I had
everything so ready at my hands, that it was a great pleasure
to me to see all my goods in such order, and especially to find
my stock of all necessaries so great
And now it was that I began to keep a journal of every
day's employment; for, indeed, at first, I was in too much
hurry, and not only hurry as to labour, but in too much dis-
composure of mind ; and my journal would have been full of
many dull things.
Some days after this, and after I had been on board the
ship, and got all that I could out of her, yet I could not
forbear getting up to the top of a little mountain, and looking
out to sea, in hopes of seeing a ship; then fancy at a vast
distance I spied a sail, please myself with the hopes of it, and
then after looking steadily, till I was almost blind, lose it quite,
and sit down and weep like a child, and thus increase my
misery by my folly.
But having gotten over these things in some measure, and
having settled my household stuff and habitation, made me a
table and a chair, and all as handsome about me as I could,
I began to keep my journal; of which I shall here give you
the copy (though in it will be told all these particulars over
again) as long as it lasted ; for having no more ink, I was
forced to leave it off.
THE JOURNAL.
September 30, 1659.—I> poor, miserable Robinson Crusoe,
being shipwrecked, during a dreadful storm, in the offing,
came on shore on this dismal, unfortunate island, which I
called " The Island of Despair ;" all the rest of the ship's
company being drowned, and myself almost dead.
All the rest of the day I spent in afflicting myself at the
dismal circumstances I was brought to; viz., I had neither
food, house, clothes, weapon, nor place to fly to; and, in
despair of any relief, saw nothing but death before me, either
that I should be devoured by wild beasts, murdered by savages,
or starved to death for want of food. At the approach of
night I slept in a tree, for fear of wild creatures ; but slept
soundly, though it rained all night
October 1.— In the morning I saw, to my great surprise, the
THh JOURNAL. 53
ship had floated with the high tide, and was driven on shore
again much nearer the island ; which, as it was some comfort,
on one hand—for seeing her set upright, and not broken to
pieces, I hoped, if the wind abated, I might get on board, and
get some food and necessaries out of her for my relief—so, on
the other hand, it renewed my grief at the loss of my comrades,
who, I imagined, if we had all stayed on board, might have
saved the ship, or, at least, that they would not have been all
drowned, as they were; and that, had the men been saved, we
might perhaps have built us a boat out of the ruins of the
ship to have carried us to some other part of the world. I
spent great part of this day in perplexing myself on these
things ; but, at length, seeing the ship almost dry, I went
upon the sand as near as I could, and then swam on board.
This day also it continued raining, though with no wind
at all.
From the 1st of October to the 24th.—All these days entirely
spent in many several voyages to get all I could out of the
ship, which I brought on shore every tide of flood upon rafts.
Much rain also in the days, though with some intervals of fair
weather; but it seems this was the rainy season.
Oct. 20.—I overset my raft, and all the goods I had got
upon it; but, being in shoal water, and the things being chiefly
heavy, I recovered many of them when the tide was out
Oct. 25.—It rained all night and all day, with some gusts
of wind ; during which time the ship broke in pieces, the wind
blowing a little harder than before, and was no more to be
seen, except the wreck of her, and that only at low water. I
spent this day in covering and securing the goods which I
had saved, that the rain might not spoil them.
Oct. 26.—I walked about the shore almost all day, to find
out a place to fix my habitation, greatly concerned to secure
myself from any attack in the night, either from wild beasts
or men. Towards night, I fixed upon a proper place, under a
rock, and marked out a semicircle for my encampment; which
I resolved to strengthen with a work, wall, or fortification,
made of double piles, lined within with cables, and without
with turf.
From the 26th to 30th, I worked very hard in carrying all
my goods to my new habitation, though some part of the time
it rained exceedingly hard.
The 31st, in the morning, I went out into the island with
my gun, to see for some food, and discover the country;
when I killed a she-goat, and her kid followed me home,
which I afterwards killed also, because it would not feed.
November I.—I set up my tent under a rock, and lay there
for the first night; making it as large as I could, with stakes
driven in to swing my hammock upon.
Nov. 2.—I set up all my chests and boards, and the pieces
of timber which made my rafts, and with them formed a fence
round me, a little within the place I had marked out for my
fortification.
Nov. 3.—I went out with my gun, and killed two fowls like
ducks, which were very good food. In the afternoon went to
work to make me a table.
Nov. 4.—'This morning I began to order my times of work,
of going out with my gun, time of sleep, and time of diversion ;
viz., every morning I walked out with my gun for two or three
hours, if it did not rain; then employed myself to work till
about eleven o'clock; then ate what I had to live on; and
from twelve till two I lay down to sleep, the weather being
excessively hot; and then, in the evening, to work again.
The working part of this day and of the next were wholly
employed in making my table, for I was yet but a very sorry
workman, though time and necessity made me a complete
natural mechanic soon after, as I believe they would do any
one else.
Nov. 5.—This day went abroad with my gun and my dog,
and killed a wild cat; her skin pretty soft, but her flesh good
for nothing; every creature that I killed I took off the skins
and preserved them. Coming back by the sea-shore, I saw
many sorts of sea-fowls, which I did not understand; but was
surprised, and almost frighted with two or three seals, which,
while I was gazing at them, not well knowing what they were,
got into the sea, and escaped me for that time.
Nov. 6.—After my morning walk, I went to work with my
table again, and finished it, though not to my liking ; nor was
it long before I learned to mend it
Nov. 7.—Now it began to be settled fair weather. The 7th,
8th, 9th, 10th and part of the 12th (for the nth was Sunday),
I took wholly up to make me a chair, and with much ado
brought it to a tolerable shape, but never to please me; and
even in the making I pulled it in pieces several times.
Note, I soon neglected my keeping Sundays; for, omitting
my mark for them on my post, I forgot which was which.
Nov. 13.—This day it rained, which refreshed me exceed-
CRUSOE TURNS MECHANIC. 55
ingly, and cooled the earth; but it was accompanied with
terrible thunder and lightning, which {lightened me dreadfully,
for fear of my powder. As soon as it was over, I resolved to
separate my stock of powder into as many little parcels as
possible, that it might not be in danger.
Nov. 14, 15, 16.—These three days I spent in making little
square chests, or boxes, which might hold about a pound, or
two pounds at most, of powder; and so, putting the powder
in, I stowed it in places as secure and remote from one
another as possible. On one of these three days, I killed a
large bird that was good to eat, but I knew not what to call it.
Nov. 17.—This day I began to dig behind my tent into the
rock, to make room for my further convenience. Note, Three
things I wanted exceedingly for this work ; viz., a pickaxe, a
shovel, and a wheelbarrow, or basket; so I desisted from my
work, and began to consider how to supply that want, and
make me some tools; as for the pickaxe, I made use of the
iron crows ,which were proper enough, though heavy: but the
next thing was a shovel, or spade; this was so absolutely
necessary, that, indeed, I could do nothing effectually without
it; but what kind of one to make I knew not
Nov. 18.—The next day, in searching the woods, I found a
tree of that wood, or like it, which, in the Brazils, they call
the iron-tree, for its exceeding hardness ; of this, with great
labour, and almost spoiling my axe, I cut a piece and brought
it home, too, with difficulty enough, for it was exceeding heavy.
The excessive hardness of the wood, and my having no other
way, made me a long while upon this machine, for I worked
it effectually by little and little into the form of a shovel or
spade; the handle exactly shaped like ours in England, only
that the board part having no iron shod upon it at the bottom,
it would not last me so long; however, it served well enough
for the uses which I had occasion to put it to ; but never was
a shovel, I believe, made after that fashion, or so long in
making.
I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket, or wheelbarrow.
A basket I could not make by any means, having no such
things as twigs that would bend to make wicker-ware, at
least, none yet found out; and as to a wheelbarrow, I fancied
I could make all but the wheel; but that I had no notion of,
neither did I know how to go about it; besides I had no
possible way to make the iron gudgeons for the spindle or
axis of the wheel to run in ; so I gave it over, and so, for
carrying away the earth which I dug out of the cave, I made
me a thing like a hod which the labourers carry mortar in
when they serve the bricklayers. This was not so difficult to
me as the making the shovel; and yet this and the shovel, and
the attempt which I made in vain to make a wheelbarrow, took
me up no less than four days—I mean always excepting my
morning walk with my gun which I seldom failed, and very
seldom failed, also, bringing home something fit to eat
Nov. 23.—My other work having now stood still, because of
my making these tools, when they were finished, I went on,
and working every day, as my strength and time allowed, I
spent eighteen days entirely in widening and deepening my
cave, that it might hold my goods commodiously. Note,
During all this time, I worked to make this room or cave
spacious enough to accommodate me as a warehouse, or
magazine, a kitchen, a dining-room, and a cellar; as for my
lodging I kept to the tent; except that sometimes, in the wet
season of the year, it rained so hard that I could not keep
myself dry; which caused me afterwards to cover all my place
within my pale with long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning
against the rock, and load them with flags and large leaves of
trees, like a thatch.
December 10.—I began now to think my cave or vault
finished, when on a sudden (it seems I had made it too large)
a great quantity of earth fell down from the top and one side ;
so much that, in short, it frighted me, and not without reason
too, for if I had been under it, I had never wanted a grave-
digger. I had now a great deal of work to do over again, for
I had the loose earth to carry out; and, which was of more
importance, I had the ceiling to prop up, so that I might be
sure no more would come down.
Dec. 11.—This day I went to work with it, and got two
shores or posts pitched upright to the top, with two pieces of
board across over each post; this I finished the next day;
and setting more posts up with boards, in about a week more
I had the roof secured, and the posts, standing in rows, served
me for partitions to part off the house.
Dec. 17.—From this day to the 20th I placed shelves, and
knocked up nails on the posts, to hang everything up that
could be hung up; and now I began to be in some order
within doors.
Dec. 20.—Now I carried everything into the cave, and began
to furnish my house, and set up some pieces of boards like a
MAKING A WALL. &
dresser, to order my victuals upon; but boards began to be
very scarce with me ; also, I made me another table.
Dec. 24.—Much rain all night and all day. No stirring out.
Dec. 25.—Rain all day.
Dec. 26.—No rain, and the earth much cooler than before
•nd pleasanter.
Dec. 27.—Killed a young goat, and lamed another so that I
caught it and led it home in a string; when I had it home, I
bound and splintered up its leg, which was broke. N.B.—I
took such care of it that it lived, and the leg grew well and
as strong as ever; but, by my nursing it so long, it grew tame,
and fed upon the little green at my door, and would not go
away; this was the first time that I entertained a thought of
breeding up some tame creatures, that I might have food when
my powder and shot was all spent
Dec. 28,29, 30, 31.—Great heats and no breeze, so that there
was no stirring abroad, except in the evening, for food ; this
time I spent in putting all my things in order within doors.
January I.—Very hot still; but I went abroad early and
late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of the day. This
evening, going farther into the valleys which lay towards the
centre of the island, I found there were plenty of goats, though
exceedingly shy, and hard to come at; however, I resolved
to try if I could not bring my dog to hunt them down.
Jan. 2.—Accordingly, the next day I went out with my
dog, and set him upon the goats ; but I was mistaken, for they
all faced about upon the dog, and he knew his danger too
well, for he would not come near them.
Jan. 3.—I began my fence, or wall; which, being still jealous
of my being attacked by somebody, I resolved to make very
thick and strong.
N.B.—This wall being described before, it is sufficient to
observe that I was no less time than from the 3rd of January
to the 14th of April working, finishing, and perfecting this
wall, though it was no more than about twenty-four yards in
length, being a half-circle, from one place in the rock to another
place, about eight yards from it, the door of the cave being
"n the centre behind it
All this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering me
many days, nay, sometimes weeks together ; but I thought I
should never be perfectly secure till this wall was finished ;
and it is scarce credible what inexpressible labour everything
was done with, especially the bringing piles out of the woods.
and driving them into the ground ; for I made them much
bigger than I need to have done.
When this wall was finished, and the outside double-fenced,
with a turf wall raised up close to it, I persuaded myself that
if any people were to come on shore there, they would not
perceive anything like a habitation; and it was very well I
did so, as may be observed hereafter, upon a very remarkable
occasion.
During this time I made my rounds in the woods for game
every day when the rz.in permitted me, and made frequent
discoveries in these walks of something or other to my advan-
tage ; particularly, I found a kind of wild pigeons, which build,
not as wood-pigeons in a tree, but rather as house-pigeons,
in the holes of the rocks; and taking some young ones, I
endeavoured to breed them up tame, and did so; but when
they grew older they flew away, which perhaps was at first
for want of feeding them, for I had nothing to give them;
however, I frequently found their nests, and got their young
ones, which were very good meat And now, in the managing
my household affairs, I found myself wanting in many things,
which I thought at first it was impossible for me to make; as
indeed, with some of them it was: for instance, I could never
make a cask to be hooped; I had a small runlet or two, as I
observed before; but I could never arrive at the capacity of
making one by them, though I spent many weeks about it;
I could neither put in the heads, or join the staves so true to
one another as to make them hold water; so I gave that also
over. In the next place, I was at a great loss for candles ; so
that as soon as ever it was dark, which was generally by seven
o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed. I remembered the lump
of bees-wax with which I made candles in my African adven-
ture ; but I had none of that now; the only remedy I had
was, that when I had killed a goat I saved the tallow, and
with a little dish made of clay, which I baked in the sun,
to which I added a wick of some oakum, I made me a lamp ;
and this gave me light, though not a clear steady light like a
candle. In the middle of all my labours it happened that,
rummaging my things, I found a little bag, which had been
filled with corn for the feeding of poultry, not for this voyage
but before, as I suppose, when the ship came from Lisbon.
The little remainder of corn that had been in the bag was all
devoured by the rats, and I saw nothing in it but husks and
dust; and being willing to have the bag for some other use
CRUSOE FINDS SOME CORN. 59
(I think it was to put powder in, when I divided it for fear of
the lightning, or some such use), I shook the husks of corn
out of it on one side of my fortification under the rock.
It was a little before the great rains just now mentioned
that I threw this stuff away, taking no notice, and not so
much as remembering that I had thrown anything there, when,
about a month after, or thereabouts, I saw some few stalks of
something green shooting out of the ground, which I fancied
might be some plant I had not seen ; but I was perfectly
astonished, when, after a little longer time, I saw about ten or
twelve ears come out, which were perfect green barley, of the
same kind as our English barley.
It is impossible to express the astonishment and confusion
of my thoughts on this occasion. I had hitherto acted upon
no religious foundation at all; indeed, I had very few notions,
of religion in my head, nor had entertained any sense of
anything that had befallen me, otherwise than as chance, or
as we lightly say, what pleases God, without so much as in-
quiring into the end of Providence in these things, or His
order in governing events for the world ; but after I saw barley
grow there, in a climate which I knew was not proper for corn,
and especially that I knew not how it came there, it startled
me strangely, and I began to suggest that God had miracu-
lously caused His grain to grow without any help of seed
sown, and that it was so directed purely for my sustenance
on that wild, miserable place.
And this was the more strange to me, because I saw near
It still, all along by the side of the rock, some other straggling
stalks, which proved to be stalks of rice, and which I knew,
because I had seen it grow in Africa, when I was ashore there.
I not only thought these the pure productions of Providence
for my support, but, not doubting that there was more in the
place, I went all over that part of the island where I had been
before, peering in every corner, and under every rock, to see
for more of it, but I could not find any ; at last it occurred
to my thoughts, that I shook a bag of chicken's meat out in
that place; and then the wonder began to cease ; and I must
confess, my religious thankfulness to God's providence began
to abate, too, upon the discovering that all this was nothing
but what was common ; though I ought to have been as
thankful for so strange and unforseen a providence, as if
it had been miraculous ; for it was really the work of Provi-
dence to me, that should older or appoint that ten or twelve
grains of corn should remain unspoiled, when the rats had
destroyed all the rest, as if it had been dropped from heaven;
as also, that I should throw it out in that particular place,
where, it being in the shade of a high rock, it sprang up
immediately: whereas, if I had thrown it anywhere else, at
that time, it had been burnt up and destroyed.
I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be sure
in their season, which was about the end of June ; and, laying
up every corn, I resolved to sow them all again, hoping, in
time, to have some quantity, sufficient to supply me with
bread. But it was not till the fourth year that I could allow
myself the least grain of this corn to eat, and even then but
sparingly, for I lost all that I sowed the first season, by not
observing the proper time; for I sowed it just before the dry
season, so that it never came up at all, at least not as it would
have done; of which in its place.
Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or thirty
stalks of rice, which I preserved with the same care and for
the same use, or to the same purpose—to make me bread, or
rather food; for I found ways to cook it without baking, though
I did that also after some time. But to return to my Journal.
I worked excessive hard these three or four months to get
my wall done; and the 14th of April I closed it up, contriving
to go into it, not by a door, but over the wall, by a ladder,
that there might be no sign on the outside of my habitation.
April 16.—I finished the ladder; so I went up the ladder
to the top, and then pulled it up after me, and let it down in
the inside. This was a complete enclosure to me ; for within
I had room enough, and nothing could come at me from
without, unless it could first mount my wall.
The very next day after this wall was finished, I had
almost all my labour overthrown at once, and myself killed.
The case was thus:—As I was busy in the inside, behind my
tent, just at the entrance into my cave, I was terribly frighted
with a most dreadful surprising thing indeed ; for, all on a
sudden, I found the earth come crumbling down from the roof
of my cave, and from the edge of the hill over my head, and
two of the posts I had set up in the cave cracked in a frightful
manner: I was heartily scared, but thought nothing of what
was really the cause, only thinking that the top of my cave
was fallen in, as some of it had done before: and for fear I
should be buried in it, I ran forward to my ladder, and not
thinking myself safe there neither, I got over my wall for fear
*jfr^gg_jg
^fitrSc
The Ladder finished,
6
AN EARTHQUAKE. 61
of the pieces of the hill, which I expected might roll down
upon me; I was no sooner stepped down upon the firm ground,
but I plainly saw it was a terrible earthquake, for the ground
I stood on shook three times at about eight minutes' distance,
with three such shocks as would have overturned the strongest
building that could be supposed to have stood on the earth ;
and.a great piece of the top of a rock which stood about half
a mile from me next the sea fell down, with such a terrible
noise as I never heard in all my life. I perceived also the
very sea was put into violent motion by it; and I believe the
shocks were stronger under the water than on the island.
I was so much amazed with the thing itself, having never
felt the like, nor discoursed with any one that had, that I was
like one dead or stupefied; and the motion of the earth made
my stomach sick, like one that was tossed at sea; but the
noise of the falling of the rock awaked me, and rousing me
from the stupefied condition I was in, filled me with horror;
and I thought of nothing but the hill falling upon my tent
and all my household goods, and burying all at once; and
this sunk my very soul within me a second time.
After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some
time, I began to take courage; and yet I had not heart enough
to go over my wall again, for fear of being buried alive, but
sat still upon the ground greatly cast down and disconsolate,
not knowing what to do ; all this while, I had not the least
serious religious thought; nothing but the common " Lord
have mercy upon me!" and when it was over, that went away
too.
While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow cloudy,
as if it would rain. Soon after that, the wind arose by little
and little, so that in less than half an hour it blew a most
dreadful hurricane, the sea was all on a sudden covered over
with foam and froth ; the shore was covered with the breach
of the water; the trees were torn up by the roots ; and a
terrible storm it was. This held about three hours, and then
began to abate; in two hours more it was quite calm, and
began to rain very hard.
All this while I sat upon the ground, very much terrified
and dejected ; when on a sudden it came into my thoughts,
that these winds and rain being the consequences of the
earthquake, the earthquake itself was spent and over, and I
might venture into my cave again. With this thought, my
spirits began to revive; and the rain also helping to persuade
me, I went in and sat down in my tent But the rain was so
violent, that my tent was ready to be beaten down with it;
and I was forced to go into my cave, though very much afraid
lest it should fall on my head.
This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz., to cut a hole
through my new fortification, like a sink, to let the water go
out, which would else have flooded my cave. After I had been
in my cave for some time, and found still no more shocks of
the earthquake follow, I began to be more composed. And
now, to support my spirits, which indeed wanted it very much,
I went to my little store, and took a small sup of rum; which,
however, I did then and always very sparingly, knowing I
could have no more when that was gone. It continued
raining all that night, and great part of the next day, so that
I could not stir abroad ; but my mind being more composed,
I began to think of what I had best do; concluding, that
if the island was subject to these earthquakes, there would
be no living for me in a cave, but I must consider of building
a little hut in an open place, which I might surround with a
wall, as I had done here, and so make myself secure from wild
beasts or men ; for I concluded if I stayed where I was, I
should certainly, one time or other, be buried alive.
With these thoughts, I resolved to remove my tent from the
place where it stood, which was just under the hanging preci-
pice of the hill; and which, if it should be shaken again, would
certainly fall upon my tent; and I spent the two next days,
being the 19th and 20th of April, in contriving where and how
to remove my habitation.
The fear of being swallowed up alive made me that I never
slept in quiet; and yet the apprehension of lying abroad
without any fence was almost equal to it; but still, when I
looked about, and saw how everything was put in order, how
pleasantly concealed I was, and how safe from danger, it made
me very loth to remove. In the mean time, it occurred to me
that it would require a vast deal of time for me to do this,
and that I must be contented to venture where I was, till I
had formed a camp for myself, and had secured it so as to
remove to it So with this resolution I composed myself
for a time, and resolved that I would go to work with all
speed to build me a wall with piles and cables, &c, in a circle,
as before, and set my tent up in it, when it was finished;
but that I would venture to stay where I was till it was finished,
and fit to remove. This was the 21st
THE SHIP AGAIN. 63
April 22.—The next morning I began to consider of means
to put this resolve into execution ; but I was at a great loss
about my tools. I had three large axes, and abundance of
hatchets (for we carried the hatchets for traffic with the
Indians); but with much chopping and cutting knotty hard
wood, they were all full of notches, and dull; and though I
had a grindstone, I could not turn it and grind my tools too.
This cost me as much thought as a statesman would have
bestowed upon a grand point of politics, or a judge upon
the life and death of a man. At length, I contrived a wheel
with a string, to turn it with my foot, that I might have both
my hands at liberty.
April 28, 29.—These two whole days I took up in grinding
my tools, my machine for turning my grindstone performing
very well.
April 30.—Having perceived my bread had been low a
great while, now I took a survey of it, and reduced myself to
one biscuit-cake a day, which made my heart very heavy.
May 1.—In the morning, looking towards the seaside, the
tide being low, I saw something lie on the shore bigger than
ordinary, and it looked like a cask; when I came to it, I found
a small barrel, and two or three pieces of the wreck of the
ship, which were driven oq shore by the late hurricane ; and
looking towards the wreck itself, I thought it seemed to lie
higher out of the water than it used to do. I examined the
barrel which was driven on shore, and soon found it was a
barrel of gunpowder; but it had taken water, and the powder
was caked as hard as a stone : however, I rolled it farther on
shore for the present, and went on upon the sands, as near as
I could to the wreck of the ship, to look for more.
When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely re-
moved ; the forecastle, which lay before buried in sand, was
heaved up at least six feet, and the stern, which was broke
in pieces and parted from the rest by the force of the sea,
soon after I had left rummaging her, was tossed, as it were,
up, and cast on one side, and the sand was thrown so high on
that side next her stern, that whereas there was a great place
of water before, so that I could not come within a quarter of
a mile of the wreck without swimming, I could now walk quite
up to her when the tide was out I was surprised with this at
first, but soon concluded it must be done by the earthquake;
and as by this violence the ship was more broke open than
formerly, so many things came daily on shore which the sea
had loosened, and which the winds and water rolled by de-
grees to the land.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of re-
moving my habitation, and I busied myself mightily, that day
especially, in searching whether I could make any way into
the ship; but I found nothing was to be expected of that
kind, for all the inside of the ship was choked up with sand.
However, as I had learned not to despair of anything, I
resolved to pull everything to pieces that I could of the ship,
concluding that everything I could get from her would be
of some use or other to me.
May 3.—I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a beam
through, which I thought held some of the upper part or
quarter-deck together, and when I had cut it through, I
cleared away the sand as well as I could from the side which
lay highest; but the tide coming in, I was obliged to give over
for that time.
May 4.—I went a-fishing, but caught not one fish that I
durst eat of, till I was weary of my sport; when, just going
to leave off, I caught a young dolphin. I had made me a
long line of some rope-yarn, but I had no hooks ; yet I fre-
quently caught fish enough, as much as I cared to eat; all
which I dried in the sun, and ate them dry.
May 5.—Worked on the wreck, cut another beam asunder,
and brought three great fir planks off from the decks, which
I tied together, and made to float on shore when the tide of
flood came on.
May 6.—Worked on the wreck, got several iron bolts out of
her, and other pieces of iron-work. Worked very hard, and
came home very much tired, and had thoughts of giving it
over.
May 7.—Went to the wreck again, but not with an intent
to work, but found the weight of the wreck had broke itself
down, the beams being cut; that several pieces of the ship
seemed to lie loose, and the inside of the hold lay so open
that I could see into it, but almost full of water and sand.
May 8.—Went to the wreck, and carried an iron crow to
wrench up the deck, which lay now quite clear of the water
or sand; I wrenched open two planks, and brought them on
shore also with the tide ; I left the iron crow in the wreck for
next day.
May 9.—Went to the wreck, and with the crow made way
into the body of the wreck, and felt several casks, and loosened
AT WORK ON THE WRECK. 65
them with the crow, but could not break them up ; I felt also
a roll of English lead, and could stir it; but it was too heavy
to remove.
May 10-14.—Went every day to the wreck; and got a great
many pieces of timber, and boards, or plank, and two or three
hundred-weight of iron.
May 15.—I carried two halchets, to try if I could not cut
piece off the roll of lead, by placing the edge of one hatchet,
and driving it with the other; but as it lay about a foot and a
half in the water, I could not make any blow to drive thehatchet
May 16.—It had blown hard in the night, and the wreck
appeared more broken by the force of the water; but I stayed
so long in the woods to get pigeons for food, that the tide
prevented my going to the wreck that day.
May 17.—I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shore, at
a great distance, near two miles off me, but resolved to see
what they were, and found it was a piece of the lead, but two
heavy for me to bring away.
May 24.—Every day, to this day, I worked on the wreck;
and with hard labour I loosened some things so much with
the crow, that the first blowing tide several casks floated out,
and two of the seamen's chests ; but the wind blowing from
the shore, nothing came to land that day but pieces of timber,
and a hogshead, which had some Brazil pork in it; but the
salt water and the sand had spoiled it. I continued this work
every day to the 15th of June, except the time necessary to
get food, which I always appointed, during this part of my
employment, to be when the tide was up, that I might be
ready when it was ebbed out; and by this time I had got
timber and plank and iron-work enough to have built a good
boat, if I had known how; and also I got, at several times
and in several pieces, near a hundred-weight of the sheet-lead.
June 16.—Going down to the sea-side, I found a large
tortoise, or turtle; this was the first I had seen, which, it seems,
was only my misfortune, not any defect of the place, or scarcity;
for had I happened to be on the other side of the island, I
might have had hundreds of them every day, as I found
afterwards.
June 17.—I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in her
threescore eggs; and her flesh was to me, at that time, the
most savoury and pleasant that ever I tasted in my life, having
had no flesh, but of goats and fowls, since I landed in this
horrid place.
June 18.—Rained all day, and I stayed within. I thought,
at this time, the rain felt cold, and I was something chilly ;
which I knew was not usual in that latitude.
June 19.—Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather had been
cold.
June 20.—No rest all night; violent pains in my head, and
feverish.
June 21.—Very ill; frighted almost to death with the appre-
hensions of my sad condition—to be sick, and no help.
Prayed to God for the first time since the storm off Hull,
but scarce knew what I said, or why, my thoughts being all
confused.
June 22.—A little better, but under dreadful apprehensions
of sickness.
June 23.—Very bad again, cold and shivering, and then
a violent headache.
June 24.—Much better.
June 25.—An ague very violent: the fit held me seven
hours ; cold fit, and hot, with faint sweats after it
June 26.—Better ; and having no victuals to eat, took my
gun, but found myself very weak. However, I killed a she-
goat, and with much difficulty got it home, and broiled some
of it, and ate. I would fain have stewed it, and made some
broth, but had no pot
June 27.—The ague again so violent that I lay a-bed all
day, and neither ate nor drank. I was ready to perish for
thirst; but so weak, I had not strength to stand up, or to
get myself any water to drink. Prayed to God again, but
was light-headed; and when I was not, I was so ignorant
that I knew not what to say; only I lay and cried, " Lord,
look upon me ! Lord, pity me! Lord, have mercy upon me! "
I suppose I did nothing else for two or three hours ; till, the
fit wearing off, I fell asleep, and did not wake till far in the
night When I awoke I found myself much refreshed, but
weak, and exceeding thirsty. However, as I had no water in
my habitation, I was forced to lie till morning, and went to
sleep again. In this second sleep, I had this terrible dream.
I thought that I was sitting on the ground, on the outside of
my wall,wherelsat when the storm blew after the earthquake,
and that I saw a man descend from a great black cloud, in a
bright flame of fire, and light upon the ground. He was all
over as bright as a flame, so that I could but just bear to
look towards him ; his countenance was most inexpressibly
CRUSOE'S TERRIBLE DREAM. 63
dreadful, impossible for words to describe. When he stepped
upon the ground with his feet, I thought the earth trembled,
just as it had done before in the earthquake, and all *he air
looked, to my apprehension, as if it had been filled with flashes
of fire.
He was no sooner landed upon the earth, but he moved
forward towards me, with a long spear or weapon in his hand,
to kill me; and when he came to a rising ground, at some
distance, he spoke to me—or I heard a voice so terrible that
it is impossible to express the terror of it All that I can say
I understood was this: " Seeing all these things have not
brought thee to repentance, now thou shalt die;" at which
words, I thought he lifted up the spear that was in his hand
to kill me.
No one that shall ever read this account will expect that I
should be able to describe the horrors of my soul at this
terrible vision. Nor is it any more possible to describe the
impression that remained upon my mind when I awaked, and
found it was but a dream.
I had, alas! no divine knowledge. What I had received
by the good instruction of my father was then worn out by
an uninterrupted series, for eight years, of seafaring wicked-
ness, and a constant conversation with none but such as were,
like myself, wicked and profane to the last degree. In the
relating what is already past of my story, this will be the more
easily believed, when I shall add, that through all the variety
of miseries that had to this day befallen me, I never had so
much as one thought of it being the hand of God, or that it
was a just punishment for my sin ; my rebellious behaviour
against my father—or my present sins, which were great—or
so much as a punishment for the general course of my wicked
life. I only said to myself often, that I was an unfortunate
dog, and born to be always miserable. But now, when I
began to be sick, and a leisurely view of the miseries of death
came to place itself before me; when my spirits began to sink
under the burden of a strong distemper, and nature was ex-
hausted with the violence of the fever; conscience, that had
slept so long, began to awake, and I began to reproach my-
self with my past life. " Now," said I aloud, " my dear
father's words are come to pass ; God's justice has overtaken
me, and I have none to help or hear me. I rejected the voice
of Providence, which had mercifully put me in a posture or
station of life wherein I might have been happy and easy;
but I would neither see it myself, nor learn to know the bless-
ing of it from my parents. I left them to mourn over my
folly, and now I am left to mourn under the consequences of
it I refused their help and assistance, who would have lifted
me in the world, and would have made everything easy to
me ; and now I have difficulties to struggle with too great for
even nature itself to support, and no assistance, no help, no
comfort, no advice." Then I cried out, " Lord, be my help,
for I am in great distress."
This was the first prayer, if I may call it so, that I had
made for many years.
June 28.—Having been somewhat refreshed with the sleep
I had had, and the fit being entirely off, I got up ; and though
the fright and terror of my dream was very great, yet I con-
sidered that the fit of the ague would return again the next
day, and now was my time to get something to refresh and
support myself when I should be ill; and the first thing I did,
I filled a large square case-bottle with water, and set it upon
my table, in reach of my bed ; and to take off the chill or
aguish disposition of the water, I put about a quarter of a
pint of rum into it, and mixed them together. Then I got
me a piece of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals, but
could eat very little. I walked about, but was very weak, and
withal very sad and heavy-hearted under a sense of my
miserable condition, dreading the return of my distemper the
next day; at night I made my supper of three of the turtle's
eggs, which I roasted in the ashes, and ate, as we call it, in
the shell, and this was the first bit of meat I had ever asked
God's blessing to, even as I could remember, in my whole life.
After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found myself so weak
that I could hardly .carry the gun (for I never went out with-
out that); so I went but a little way, and sat down upon-the
ground looking out upon the sea, which was just before me,
and very calm and smooth. As I sat here some such
thoughts as these occurred to me:—What is this earth and
sea, of which I have seen so much ? Whence is it produced ?
And what am I, and all the other creatures, wild and tame,
human and brutal ? Whence are we ? Sure we are all made
by some secret power, who formed the earth and sea, the air
and sky; and who is that ? Then it followed most naturally,
it is God that has made all. Well, but then, it came on
strangely, if God has made all these things, He guides and
governs them all, and all things that concern them , for the
FINDS A CURE FOR SOUL AND BODY. 69
power that could make all things must certainly have power
to guide and direct them. If so, nothing can happen in the
great circuit of His works, either without His knowledge or
appointment.
And if nothing happens without His knowledge, He knows
that I am here, and am in this dreadful condition; and if
nothing happens without His appointment, He has appointed
all this to befall me. Immediately it followed—Why has
God done this to me ? My conscience presently checked me
in that inquiry, as if I had blasphemed, and methought it
spoke to me like a voice—" Wretch ! dost thou ask what thou
hast done ? Look back upon a dreadful misspent life, and ask
thyself what thou hast not done ? Ask, why is it that thou
wert not long ago destroyed ? Why wert thou not drowned
in Yarmouth Roads ; killed in the fight when the ship was
taken by the Sallee man-of-war; devoured by the wild beasts
on the coast of Africa ; or drowned here, when all the crew
perished but thyself ? Dost thou ask, What have I done ? "
I was struck dumb with these reflections, as one astonished,
and had not a word to say—no, not to answer to myself, but
rose up pensive and sad, walked back to my retreat, and went
up over my wall, as if I had been going to bed; but my
thoughts were sadly disturbed, and I had no inclination to
sleep; so I sat down in my chair, and lighted my lamp, for
it began to be dark. Now, as the apprehension of the return
of my distemper terrified me very much, it occurred to my
thought that the Brazilians take no physic but their tobacco
for almost all distempers, and I had a piece of a roll of tobacco
in one of the chests, which was quite cured, and some also
that was green, and not quite cured.
I went, directed by Heaven no doubt; for in this chest I
found a cure both for soul and body. I opened the chest, and
found what I looked for, viz., the tobacco; and, as the few
books I had saved lay there too, I took out one of the Bibles
which I mentioned before, and which to this time I had not
found leisure or inclination to look into ; I say, I took it out,
and brought both that and the tobacco with me to the table.
What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, in my dis-
temper, or whether it was good for it or no: but I tried several
experiments with it, as if I resolved it should hit one way or
other: I first took a piece of leaf, and chewed it in my mouth,
which, indeed, at first almost stupefied my brain, the tobacco
being green and strong, and that I had not been much used
to it; then I took some and steeped it an hour or two In some
rum, and resolved to take a dose of it when I lay down ; and,
lastly, I burnt some upon a pan of coals, and held my nose
close over the smoke of it as long as I could bear it, as well
for the heat as the virtue of it, and I held almost to suffoca-
tion. In the interval of this operation, I took up the Bible,
and began to read ; but my head was too much disturbed with
the tobacco to bear reading, at least at that time; only, having
opened the book casually, the first words that occurred to me
were these, " Call on me in the day of trouble, and I will
deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me." The words were very
apt to my case, and made some impression upon my thoughts
at the time of reading them, though not so much as they did
afterwards ; for, as for being delivered, the word had no sound,
as I may say, to me; the thing was so remote, so impossible
in my apprehension of things, that I began to say, as the
children of Israel did when they were promised flesh to eat,
" Can God spread a table in the wilderness ?" so I began to
say, "Can God Himself deliver me from this place?" And
as it was not for many years that any hopes appeared, this
prevailed very often upon my thoughts; but however the
words made a very great impression upon me, and I mused
upon them very often. It grew now late, and the tobacco
had, as I said, dozed my head so much that I inclined to
sleep ; so I left my lamp burning in the cave, lest I should
want anything in the night, and went to bed; but, before I lay
down, I did what I never had done in all my life—I kneeled
down, and prayed to God to fulfil the promise to me, that if I
called upon Him in the day of trouble He would deliver me.
After my broken and imperfect prayer was over, I drank the
rum in which I had steeped the tobacco, which was so strong
and rank of the tobacco that I could scarcely get it down.
Immediately upon this I went to bed, and I found presently
it flew up into my head violently ; but I fell into a sound
sleep, and waked no more till, by the sun, it must necessarily
be near three o'clock in the afternoon the next day ; nay, to
this hour I am partly of opinion that I slept all the next day
and night, and till almost three the day after ; for otherwise,
I know not how I should lose a day out of my reckoning in
the days of the week, as it appeared some years after I had
done ; for if I had lost it by crossing and recrossing the Line,
I should have lost more than a day ; but in my account it
was lost, and I never knew which way. Be that, however,
BE PRAYS, AND READS HIS BIBLE. 71
one way or other, when I awaked I found myself exceedingly
refreshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful. When I got up
I was stronger than I was the day before, and my stomach
better, for I was hungry ; and, in short, I had no fit the next
day, but continued much altered for the better. This was the
29th.
The 30th was my well day, of course, and I went abroad
with my gun, but did not care to travel too far: I killed a
sea-fowl or two, something like a brand goose, and brought
them home, but was not very forward to eat them ; so I eat
some more of the turtle's eggs, which were very good. This
evening I renewed the medicine, which I had supposed did
me good the day before, viz., the tobacco steeped in rum ; only
I did not take so much as before, nor did I chew any of the
leaf, or hold my head over the smoke ; however, I was not so
well the next day, which was the first of July, as I hoped I
should have been ; for I had a little spice of the cold fit, but
it was not much.
July 2.—I renewed the medicine all the three ways; and
dosed myself with it as at first, and doubled the quantity
which I drank.
July 3.—I missed the fit for good and all, though I did not
recover my full strength for some weeks after. While I was
thus gathering strength my thoughts ran exceedingly upon
this scripture, " I will deliver thee ;" and the impossibility of
my deliverance lay much upon my mind, in bar of my ever
expecting it: but as I was discouraging myself with such
thoughts, it occurred to my mind that I pored so much upon
my deliverance from the main affliction, that I disregarded
the deliverance I had received, and I was as it were made to
ask myself such questions as these ; viz.: Have I not been
delivered, and wonderfully too, from sickness—from the most
distressed condition that could be, and that was so frightful
to me ? and what notice had I taken of it ? Had I done my
part ? God had delivered me, but I had not glorified Him—
that is to say, I had not owned and been thankful for that as
a deliverance; and how could 1 expect greater deliverance ?
This touched my heart very much ; and immediately I knelt
down, and gave God thanks aloud for my recovery from my
sickness.
July 4.—In the morning, I took the Bible ; and, beginning
at the New Testament, I began seriously to read it, and im-
posed upon myself to read a while every morning and every
night; not tying myself to the number of chapters, but long
as my thoughts should engage me ; it was not long after I
set seriously to this work but I found my heart more deeply
and ^sincerely affected with the wickedness of my past life ;
the impression of my dream revived ; and the words, " All
these things have not brought thee to repentance," ran seri-
ously in my thoughts. I was earnestly begging of God to
give me repentance, when it happened, providentially, the
very day that, reading the Scripture, I came to these words :
" He is exalted a Prince and a Saviour, to give repentance
and to give remission." I threw down the book; and with
my heart as well as my hands lifted up to heaven, in a kind of
ecstasy of joy, I cried out aloud, " Jesus, thou son of David !
Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour! give me repentance!"
This was the first time I could say, in the true sense of the
words, that I prayed in all my life ; for now I prayed with a
sense of my condition and a true Scripture view of hope,
founded on the encouragement of the Word of God ; and
from this time, I may say, I began to have hope that God
would hear me.
From the 4th of July to the 14th I was chiefly employed in
walking about with my gun in my hand, a little and a little
at a time, as a man that was gathering up his strength after
a fit of sickness ; for it is hardly to be imagined how low
I was, and to what weakness I was reduced. The applica-
tion which I made use of was perfectly new, and perhaps
which had never cured an ague before ; neither can 1 recom-
mend it to any one to practise, by this experiment: and
though it did carry off the fit, yet it rather contributed to
weakening me ; for I had frequent convulsions in my nerves
and limbs for some time. I learned from it also this, in
particular, that being abroad in the rainy season was the
most pernicious thing to my health that could be.
I had been now in this unhappy island above ten months;
all possibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to
be entirely taken from me; and I firmly believed that no
human shape had ever set foot upon that place. Having
now secured my habitation, as I thought, fully to my mind, I
had a great desire to make a more perfect discovery of the
island, and to see what other productions I might find, which
T yet knew nothing of.
It was on the 15th of July that I began to take a more par-
ticular survey of the island itself. I went up the creek first
%
life
Si
%^pr
M-ft'F'.t*' JC
Fruit on the Island.
CRUSOE EXPLORES THE ISLAND. 73
where, as I hinted, I brought my rafts on shore. I found,
after I came about two miles up, that the tide did not flow
any higher, and that it was no more than a little brook of
running water, very fresh and good ; but this being the dry
season, there was hardly any water in some parts of it—at
least, not enough to run in any stream, so as it could be per-
ceived. On the banks of this brook, I found many pleasant
savannahs or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with grass ;
and on the rising parts of them, next to the higher grounds,
where the water, as might be supposed, never overflowed, I
found a great deal of tobacco, green, and growing to a great
and very strong stalk. There were divers other plants, which
I had no notion of or understanding about, that might, per-
haps, have virtues of their own, which I could not find out
I searched for the cassava root, which the Indians, in all that
climate, make their bread of, but I could find none. I saw
large plants of aloes, but did not understand them. I saw
several sugar-canes, but wild, and for want of cultivation,
imperfect I contented myself with these discoveries for this
time, and came back, musing with myself what course I
might take to know the virtue and goodness of any of the
fruits or plants which I should discover, but could bring it to
no conclusion; for, in short, I had made so little observation
while I was in the Brazils, that I knew little of the plants
in the field ; at least, very little that might serve me to any
purpose now in my distress.
The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again;
and, after going something farther than I had gone the day
before, I found the brook and savannahs began to cease, and
the country become more woody than before. In this part
I found different fruits, and particularly I found melons upon
the ground in great abundance, and grapes upon the trees ;
the vines had spread, indeed, over the trees, and the clusters
of grapes were just now in their prime, very ripe and rich
This was a surprising discovery, and I was exceedingly glad
Df them ; but I was warned by my experience to eat sparingly
of them, remembering that when I was ashore in Barbary,
the eating of grapes killed several of our Englishmen, who
were slaves there, by throwing them into fevers ; but I found
an excellent use for these grapes; that was, to cure or dry
them in the sun, and keep them as dried grapes or raisins
are kept, which I thought would be, as indeed they were,
wholesome and agreeable to eat when no grapes could be had.
7
I spent all that evening there, and went not back to my
habitation, which, by the way, was the first night, as I might
say, I had lain from home. In the night I took my first con-
trivance, and got up in a tree, where I slept well; and the
next morning proceeded upon my discovery, travelling nearly
four miles, as I might judge by the length of the valley,
keeping still due north, with a ridge of hills on the south and
north side of me.
At the end of this march I came to an opening, where the
country seemed to descend to the west; and a little spring
of fresh water, which issued out of the side of the hill by
me, ran the other way, that is, due east; and the country
appeared so fresh, so green, so flourishing, everything being
in a constant verdure or flourish of spring, that it looked like
a planted garden.
I descended a little on the side of that delicious vale, sur
veying it with a secret kind of pleasure (though mixed with
my other afflicting thoughts) to think that this was all my
own ; that I was King and Lord of all this country indefeasi-
bly, and had a right of possession ; and, if I could convey it,
I might have it in inheritance as completely as any Lord of a
Manor in England. I saw here abundance of cocoa-trees,
orange, and lemon, and citron-trees ; but all wild, and very
few bearing any fruit, at least not then. However, the green
limes that I gathered were not only pleasant to eat, but
very wholesome; and I mixed their juice afterwards with
water, which made it very wholesome, and very cool and
refreshing. I found now I had business enough to gather and
carry home ; and I resolved to lay up a store as well of grapes
as limes and lemons, to furnish myself for the wet season,
which I knew was approaching. In order to do this, I
gathered a great heap of grapes in one place, a lesser heap
in another place, and a great parcel of limes and lemons in
another place ; and taking a few of each with me, I travelled
homewards ; resolving to come again, and bring a bag ot
sack, or what I could make, to carry the rest home. Accord-
ingly, having spent three days in this journey, I came home
(so I must now call my tent and my cave) ; but before I got
thither the grapes were spoiled ; the richness of the fruit and
the weight of the juice having broken them and bruised them,
they were good for little or nothing: as to the limes, they
were good, but I could bring but a few.
The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having made me
THE BOWER. 75
two small bags to bring home my harvest But I was sur-
prised, when coming to my heap of grapes, which were so rich
and fine when I gathered them, to find them all spread about,
trodden to pieces, and dragged about, some here, some there,
and abundance eaten and devoured. By this I concluded
there were some wild creatures thereabouts, which had done
this; but what they were I knew not. However, as I found
there was no laying them up on heaps, and no carrying them
away in a sack, but that one way they would be destroyed,
and the other way they would be crushed with their own
weight, I took another course; for I gathered a large quantity of
the grapes, and hung them upon the out branches of the trees,
that they might cure and dry in the sun ; and as for the limes
and lemons, I carried as many back as I could well stand under.
When I came home from this journey, I contemplated with
great pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley, and the pleasant-
ness of the situation ; the security from storms on that side,
the water, and the wood: and concluded that I had fixed
upon a place to fix my abode, which was by far the worst part
of the country. Upon the whole, I began to consider of re-
moving my habitation, and looking out for a place equally
safe as where now I was situated, if possible, in that pleasant,
fruitful part of the island.
This thought ran long in my head, and I was exceeding
fond of it for some time, the pleasantness of the place tempt-
ing me; but when I came to a nearer view of it, I considered
that I was now by the sea-side, where it was at least possible
that something might happen to my advantage, and, that the
same ill-fate that brought me hither, might bring some other
unhappy wretches to the same place; and though it was
scarce probable that any such thing should ever happen, yet to
inclose myself among the hills and woods in the centre of the
island was to anticipate njy bondage, and to render such an
affair not only improbable, but impossible; and that therefore
I ought not by any means to remove. However, I was so
rnamoured of this place, that I spent much of my time there
for the whole of the remaining part of the month of July; and
though, upon second thoughts, I resolved not to remove, yet I
built me a little kind of a bower, and surrounded it at a dis-
tance with a strong fence, being a double hedge, as high as I
could reach, well staked, and filled between with brushwood ;
ind here I lay very secure, sometimes two or three nights to-
gether ; always going over it with a ladder as before ; so that
I fancied now I had my country house and my sea-coast
house ; and this work took me up to the beginning of August
I had but newly finished my fence, and began to enjoy my
labour, but the rains came on, and made me stick close to my
first habitation ; for though I made me a tent like the other
with a piece of a sail, and spread it very well, yet I had not
the shelter of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave
behind, me to retreat into when the rains were extraordinary.
About the beginning of August, as I said, I had finished
my bower, and began to enjoy myself. The 3rd of August, i
found the grapes I had hung up perfectly dried, and indeed
excellent raisins of the sun ; so I began to take them down
from the trees, and it was very happy that I did so, for the
rains which followed would have spoiled them, and I had lost
the best part of my winter food ; for I had above two hundred
large bunches of them. No sooner had I taken them all
down, and carried most of them home to my cave, but it
began to rain ; and from hence, which was the 14th of August,
it rained, more or less, every day till the middle of October ;
and sometimes so violently, that I could not stir out of my
cave for several days.
In this season, I was much surprised with the increase of
my family; I had been concerned for the loss of one of my
cats, who ran away from me, or, as I thought, had been dead,
and I heard no more tidings of her, till, to my astonishment,
she came home about the end of August, with three kittens.
This was the more strange to me, because, though I had
killed a wild cat, as I called it, with my gun, yet I thought it
was quite a different kind from our European cats ; yet the
young cats were the same kind of house-breed as the old one ;
from these three cats, I afterwards came to be so pestered
with cats, that I was forced to kill them like vermin, or wild
beasts, and to drive them from my (house as much as possible.
From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant rain, so that
I could not stir, and was now very careful not to be much
wet. In this confinement, I began to be straitened for food
but venturing out twice, I one day killed a goat; and the last
day, which was the 26th, found a very large tortoise, which
was a treat to me, and my food was regulated thus:—I ate a
bunch of raisins for my breakfast; a piece of the goat's flesh,
or of the turtle, for my dinner, broiled (for, to my great mis-
fortune, I had no vessel to boil or stew anything), and two of
three of the turtle's 'iggs for my supper.
THE ANNIVERSARY OF HIS LANDING. 77
During this confinement in my cover by the rain, I worked
daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave, and by degrees
worked it on towards one side, till I came to the outside of
the hill, and made a door or way out, which came beyond my
fence or wall; and so I came in and out this way. But I was
not perfectly easy at lying so open; for, as I had managed
myself before, I was in a perfect enclosure; whereas now, I
thought I lay exposed; and yet I could not perceive that
there was any living thing to fear, the biggest creature that I
had yet seen upon the island being a goat
Sept. 30.—I was now come to the unhappy anniversary of
my landing. I cast up the notches on my post, and found I
had been on shore three hundred and sixty-five days. I kept
this day as a solemn fast, setting it apart for religious exer-
cise, prostrating myself on the ground with the most serious
humiliation, confessing my sins to God, acknowledging His
righteous judgments upon me, and praying to Him to have
mercy on me through Jesus Christ; and not having tasted the
least refreshment for twelve hours, even till the going down of
the sun, I then eat a biscuit-cake and a bunch of grapes, and
went to bed, finishing the day as I began it I had all this
time observed no Sabbath-day; for, as at first I had no sense
of religion upon my mind, I had, after some time, omitted to
distinguish the weeks by making a longer notch than ordinary
for the Sabbath-day, and so did not really know what any of
the days were ; but now, having cast up the days as above I
found I had been there a year ; so I divided it into weeks, and
set apart every seventh day for a Sabbath ; though I found
at the end of my account I had lost a day or two in my
reckoning. A little after this, my ink began to fail me, and
so I contented myself to use it more sparingly, and to write
down only the most remarkable events of my life.
The rainy season and the dry season began now to appear
regular to me, and I learned to divide them so as to provide
for them accordingly ; but I bought all my experience before
I had it, and this I am going to relate was one of the most
discouraging experiments that I made.
I have mentioned that I had saved the few ears of barley
and rice, which I had so surprisingly found spring up, as I
thought, of themselves, and I believe there were about thirty
stalks of rice, and about twenty of barley ; and now I thought
it a proper time to sow it, after the .rains, the sun being in its
southern position, going from me. Accordingly, I dug up a
piece of ground as well as I could with my wooden spade, and
dividing it into two parts, I sowed my grain ; but as I was
sowing, it casually occurred to my thoughts that I would not
sow it all at first, because I did not know when was the
proper time for it, so I sowed about two-thirds of the seed,
leaving about a handful of each. It was a great comfort to
me afterwards that I did so, for not one grain of what I sowed
this time came to anything : for the dry months following, the
earth having had no rain after the seed was sown, it had no
moisture to assist its growth, and never came up at all till the
wet season had come again, and then it grew as if it had been
but newly sown. Finding my fi>st seed did not grow, which I
easily imagined was by the drought, I sought for a moister
piece of ground to make another trial in, and I dug up a piece
of ground near my new bower, and sowed the rest of my seed
in February, a little before the vernal equinox; and this,
having the rainy months of March and April to water it,
sprung up very pleasantly, and yielded a very good crop; but
having part of the seed left only, and not daring to sow all
that I had, I had but a small quantity at last, my whole crop
not amounting to above half a peck of each kind. But by
this experiment I was made master of my business, and knew
exactly when the proper season was to sow, and that I might
expect two seed times, and two harvests every year.
While this corn was growing I made a little discovery,
which was of use to me afterwards. As soon as the rains
were over, and the weather began to settle, which was about
the month of November, I made a visit up the country to my
bower, where, though I had not been some months, yet I
found all things just as I left them. The double hedge that
I had made was not only firm and entire, but the stakes
which I had cut out of some trees that grew thereabouts,
were all shot out and grown with long branches, as much as a
willow-tree usually shoots the first year after lopping its head.
I could not tell what tree to call it that these stakes were cut
from. I was surprised, and yet very well pleased, to see the
young trees grow : and I pruned them, and led them up to
grow as much alike as I could. It is scarce credible how beauti-
ful a figure they grew into in three years ; so that though the
hedge made a circle of about twenty-five yards in diameter
yet the trees, for such I might now call them, soon covered
it, and it was a complete shade, sufficient to lodge under
all the dry season. This made me resolve to cut some more
THE RAINY SEASON. 79
stakes, and make me a hedge like this, in a semicircle round
my wall (I mean that of my first dwelling), which I did ; and
placing the trees or stakes in a double row, at about eight
yards distance from my first fence, they grew presently, and
were at first a fine cover to my habitation, and afterwards
served for a defence also, as I shall observe in its order.
I found now that the seasons of the year might generally
be divided, not into summer and winter, as in Europe, but
into the rainy seasons and the dry seasons, which were gener-
ally thus:
The half of February, the whole of March, and the half of
April—rainy, the sun being then on or near the equinox.
The half of April, the whole of May, June, and July, and the
half of August—dry, the sun being then to the north of the
Line. The half of August, the whole of September, and the
half of October—rainy, the sun being then come back. The
half of October, the whole of November, December, and
January, and the half of February—dry, the sun being then to
the south of the Line. The rainy season sometimes held
longer or shorter as the winds happened to blow, but this
was the general observation I made. After I had found, by
experience, the ill consequences of being abroad in the rain,
I took care to furnish myself with provisions beforehand,
that I might not be obliged to go out, and I sat within doors
as much as possible during the wet months.
In this time I found much employment, and very suitable
also to the time, for I found great occasion for many things
which I had no way to furnish myself with but by hard labour
and constant application ; particularly I tried many ways to
make myself a basket, but all the twigs I could get for the
purpose proved so brittle that they would do nothing. It
proved of excellent advantage to me now, that when I was a
boy, I used to take great delight in standing at a basket-
maker's, in the town where my father lived, to see them make
their wicker-ware; and being, as boys usually are, very
officious to help, and a great observer of the manner in which
they worked those things, and sometimes lending a hand, I
had by these means so full knowledge of the methods of it,
that I wanted nothing but the materials, when it came into
my mind that the twigs of that tree from whence I cut my
stakes that grew, might possibly be as tough as the sallows,
willows, and osiers in England, and I resolved to try.
Accordingly, the next day I went to my country house, as
I called it, and cutting some of the smaller twigs, I found them
to my purpose as much as I could desire ; whereupon I came
the next time prepared with a hatchet to cut down a quantity,
which I 60on found, for there was great plenty of them ;
these I set up to dry within my circle or hedge, and when
they were fit for use, I carried them to my cave; and here,
during the next season, I employed myself in making, as well
as I could, a great many baskets, both to carry earth or to
carry or lay up anything, as I had occasion ; and though I
did not finish them very handsomely, yet I made them suffi-
ciently serviceable for my purpose; and thus, afterwards, I
took care never to be without them ; and as my wicker-ware
decayed, I made more, especially strong deep baskets to place
my corn in, instead of sacks, when I should come to have any
quantity of it
Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a world of
time about it, I bestirred myself to see, if possible, how to
supply two wants. I had no vessels to hold anything that
was liquid, except two runlets, which were almost full of rum,
and some glass bottles, some of the common size, and others
which were case-bottles, square, for the holding of water,
spirits, &c I had not so much as a pot to boil anything,
except a great kettle, which I saved out of the ship, and which
was too big for such uses as I desired it for, viz., to make
broth, and stew a bit of meat by itself. The second thing I
fain would have had was a tobacco-pipe, but it was impossible
to me to make one ; however, I found a contrivance for that,
too, at last I employed myself in planting my second rows
of stakes or piles and in this wicker-working all the summer
or dry season, when another business took me up more time
than it could be imagined I could spare.
I mentioned before that I had a great mind to see the
whols island, and that I had travelled up the brook, and so
on to where I built my bower, and where I had an opening
quite to the sea, on the other side of the island. I now
resolved to travel quite across to the sea-shore on that side ;
so, taking my gun, a hatchet, and my dog, and a larger
quantity of powder and shot than usual, with two biscuit
cakes, and a great bunch of raisins in my pouch for my store,
I began my journey. When I had passed the vale where my
bower stood, as above, I came within view of the sea to the
west, and it being a very clear day, I fairly descried land,
whether an island or continent I could not tell; but it lay very
high, extending from the W. to the W.S.W. at a very great
distance; by my guess, it could not be less than fifteen or
twenty leagues off".
I could not tell what part of the world this might be, other-
wise than that I knew it must be part of America, and, as I
concluded by all my observations must be near the Spanish
dominions. After some thought, I considered that if this land
was the Spanish coast, I should certainly, one time or other,
see some vessel pass or repass one way or other ; but if not,
then it was the savage coast between the Spanish country
and Brazils, where are found the worst of savages ; for they
are cannibals, or men-eaters, and fail not to murder and devour
all the human bodies that fall into their hands.
With these considerations, I walked very leisurely forward.
I found that side of the island where I now was much plea-
santer than mine, the open or savannah fields sweet, adorned
with flowers and grass, and full of very fine woods. I saw
abundance of parrots, and fain I would have caught one, if
possible, to have kept it to be tame, and taught it to speak
to me. I did, after some painstaking, catch a young parrot,
for I knocked it down with a stick, and having recovered
it, I brought it home; but it was some years before I could
make him speak. However, at last, I taught him to call me
by my name very familiarly ; but the accident that followed,
though it be a trifle, will be very diverting in its place.
I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I found in
the low grounds hares (as I thought them to be) and foxes ;
but they differed greatly from all the other kinds I had met
with, nor could I satisfy myself to eat them, though I killed
several; but I had no need to be venturous; for I had no
want of food, and of that which was very good, too, especially
these three sorts, viz., goats, pigeons, and turtle, or tortoise,
which, added to my grapes, Leadenhall market could not have
furnished a table better than I, in proportion to the company:
and though my case was deplorable enough, yet I had great
cause for thankfulness that I was not driven to any extremities
for food ; but had rather plenty, even to dainties.
I never travelled in this journey above two miles outright
in a day, or thereabouts ; but I took so many turns and returns
to see what discoveries I could make, that I came weary enough
to the place where I resolved to sit down all night; and then
either reposed myself in a tree, or surrounded myself with
a row of stakes set upright in the ground, either from one
tree to another, or so as no wild creature could come at me
without waking me.
As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised to see
that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of the island;
for here, indeed, the shore was covered with innumerable
turtles, whereas on the other side I had found but three in a
year and a half. Here was also an infinite number of fowls
of many kinds, some which I had not seen before, and many
of them very good meat, but such as I knew not the names
of, except those called penguins. I could have shot as many
as I pleased, but was very sparing of my powder and shot,
and therefore had more mind to kill a she-goat, if I could,
which I could better feed on ; and though there were many
goats here, more than on my side the island, yet it was with
much more difficulty that I could come near them, the country
being flat and even, and they saw me much sooner than
when I was on the hills.
I confess this side of the country was much plasanter than
mine; but yet I had not the least inclination to remove, for
as I was fixed in my habitation it became natural to me,
and I seemed all the while I was here to be as it were upon
a journey, and from home. However, I travelled along the
shore of the sea towards the east, I suppose about twelve
miles,- and then setting up a great pole upon the shore for a
mark, I concluded I would go home again; and the next
journey I took -should be on the other side of the island east
from my dwelling, and so round till I came to my post again ;
of which in its place.
I took another way to come back than that I went, thinking
I could easily keep all the island so much in my view, that I
could not miss finding my first dwelling by viewing the
country ; but I found myself mistaken, for, being come about
two or three miles, I found myself descended into a very large
valley, but so surrounded with hills, and those hills covered
with wood, that I could not see which was my way by any
direction but that of the sun, nor even then, unless I knew
very well the position of the su»»at that time of the day.
It happened, to my further misfortune, that the weather
proved hazy for three or four days while I was in the valley;
and not being able to see the sun, I wandered about very
uncomfortably, and at last was obliged to find the sea-side,
look for my post, and come back the same way as I went: and
then, by easy journeys, I turned homeward, the weather being
HIS RETURN. 83
exceeding hot, and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and other
things, very heavy.
In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and seized
upon it; and I, running in to take hold of it, caught it, and
saved it alive from the dog. I had a great mind to bring
it home if I could, for I had often been musing whether it
might not be possible to get a kid or two, and so raise a
breed of tame goats, which might supply me when my powder
and shot should be all spent I made a collar for this little
creature, and with a string, which I made of some rope-yarn,
which I always carried about me, I led him along, though
with some difficulty, till I came to my bower, and there I
inclosed him and left him, for I was very impatient to be at
home, from whence I had been absent above a month.
I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to come
into my old hutch, and lie down in my hammock-bed; this
little wandering journey, without a settled place of abode, had
been so unpleasant to me, that my own house, as I called
it to myself, was a perfect settlement to me compared to that;
and it rendered everything about me so comfortable, that I
resolved I would never go a great way from it again, while
it should be my lot to stay on the island.
I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale myself
after my long journey : during which, most of the time was
taken up in the weighty affair of making a cage for my Poll,
who began now to be a mere domestic, and to be well
acquainted with me. Then I began to think of the poor kid
which I had penned in within my little circle, and resolved to
go and fetch it home, or give it some food ; accordingly I
went, and found it where I left it, for indeed it could not get
out, but was almost starved for want of food. I went and cut
boughs of trees, and branches of such shrubs as I could find,
and threw it over, and having fed it, I tied it as I did before,
to lead it away; but it was so tame with being hungry, that
I had no need to have tied it, for it followed me like a dog ;
and, as I continually fed it, the creature became so loving, so
gentle, and so fond, that it would*never leave me afterwards.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now come,
and I kept the 30th of September in the same solemn manner
as before, being the anniversary of my landing on the island,
having now been there two years, and no more prospect of
being delivered than the first day I came there.
It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much more
happy this life I now led was, with all its miserable circum-
stances, than the wicked life I led all the past part of my
days; my very desires altered, my affections changed their
gusts, and my delights were perfectly new, from what they
were at my first coming, or, indeed, for the two years past.
Before, as I walked about, cither on my hunting, or for
viewing the country, the anguish of my soul at my condi-
tion would break out upon me on a sudden, and my very
heart would die within me, to think of the woods, the moun-
tains, the deserts I was in, and how I was a prisoner, locked
up with the eternal bars and bolts of the ocean, in an unin-
habited wilderness, without redemption. In the midst of the
greatest composure of my mind, this would break out upon me
like a storm, and make me wring my hands and weep like a
child. Sometimes it would take me in the middle of my work,
and I would immediately sit down and sigh, and look upon
the ground for an hour or two together ; and this was still me
worse to me, for if I could burst out into tears, or vent my
self by words, it would go off, and the grief, having exhausted
itself, would abate.
But now I began to exercise myself with new thoughts: I
daily read the Word of God, and applied all the comforts of
it to my present state; and began to conclude in my mind,
that it was possible for me to be more happy in this forsaken,
solitary condition, than it was probable I should ever have
been in any other state in the world ; and with this thought
I was going to give thanks to God for bringing me to this
place. I know not what it was, but something shocked my
mind at that thought, and I durst not speak the words.
" How canst thou become such a hypocrite," said I, even
audibly, " to pretend to be thankful for a condition, which,
however thou mayest endeavour to be contented with, thou
wouldst rather pray heartily to be delivered from ?" So I
stopped there, but though I could not say I thanked God
for being there, yet I sincerely gave thanks to God for opening
my eyes, by whatever afflicting providences, to see the former
condition of my life, and to mourn for my wickedness, and
repent I never opened the Bible, or shut it, but my very soul
within me blessed God for directing my friend in England, with-
out any order of mine, to pack it up among my goods, and for
assisting me afterwards to save it out of the wreck of the ship.
Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third year ;
and though I have not given the reader the trouble of so par-
HIS DAIL Y EMPLOYMENTS. 85
ticular an account of my works this year as the first; yet in
general it may be observed that I was very seldom idle, but
having regularly divided my time according to the several
daily employments that were before me, such as, first, my
duty to God, and the reading the Scriptures, which I con-
stantly set apart some time for, thrice every day; secondly, the
going abroad with my gun for food, which generally took me
up three hours in every morning, when it did not rain ; thirdly,
the ordering, cutting, preserving, and cooking, what I had
killed or caught for my supply: these took up great part of
the day. Also, it is to be considered, that in the middle of
the day, when the sun was in the zenith, the violence of the
heat was too great to stir out; so that about four hours in the
evening was all the time I could be supposed to work in, with
this exception, that sometimes I changed my hours of hunting
and working, and went to work in the morning, and abroad
with my gun in the afternoon.
To this short time allowed for labour, I desire may be
added the exceeding laboriousness of my work; the many
hours which for want of tools, want of help, and want of skill,
everything I did took up out of my time. For example, I was
full two and forty days in making a board for a long shelf,
which I wanted in my cave ; whereas, two sawyers, with their
tools and a saw-pit, would have cut six of them out of the same
tree in half a day. My case was this : it was to be a large
tree which was to be cut down, because my board was to be
a broad one. This tree I was three days in cutting down, and
two more cutting off the boughs, and reducing it to a log, or
piece of timber. With inexpressible hacking and hewing, I
reditced both the sides of it into chips till it began to be light
enough to move ; then I turned it, and made one side of it
smooth and flat as a board from end to end ; then, turning
that side downward, cut the other side till I brought the plank
to be about three inches thick, and smooth on both sides.
Any one may judge the labour of my hands in such a piece
of work; but labour and patience carried me through that, and
many other things. I only observe this in particular, to show
the reason why so much of my time went away with so little
work, viz., that what might be a little to be done with help
and tools, was a vast labour and required a prodigious time
to do alone, and by hand. But notwithstanding this, with
patience and labour I got through everything that my circum-
stances made necessary to me to do.
I was now, in the months of November and December,
expecting my crop of barley and rice. The ground I had
manured and dug up for them was not great; for, as I
observed, my seed of each was not above the quantity of half
a peck, for I had lost one whole crop ay sowing in the dry
season; but now my crop promised very well, when on a
sudden I found I was in danger of losing it all again by
enemies of several sorts, which it was scarcely possible to keep
from it; as, first, the goats, and wild creatures which I called
hares, which, tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay in it night
and day, as soon as it came up, and eat it so close, that it
could get no time to shoot up into stalk.
This I saw no remedy for but by making an inclosure about
it with a hedge; which I did with a great deal of toil, and the
more, because it required a great deal of speed, as the creatures
daily spoiled my corn. However, as my arable land was but
small, suited to my crop, I got it totally well fenced in about
three weeks' time ; and shooting some of the creatures in the
day time, I set my dog to guard it in the night, tying him up
to a stake at the gate, where he would stand and bark all
night long ; so in a little time, the enemies forsook the place,
and the corn grew very strong and well, and began to ripen
apace.
But as the beasts ruined me before, while my corn was in
the blade, so the birds were as likely to ruin me now, when it
was in the ear; for, going along by the place to see how it
throve, I saw my little crop surrounded with fowls, of I know
not how many sorts, which stood, as it were, watching till I
should be gone. I immediately let fly among them, for I
always had my gun with me. I had no sooner shot, but there
rose up a little cloud of fowls, which I had not seen at all,
from among the corn itself.
This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that in a few days
they would devour all my hopes ; that I should never be able
to raise a crop at all; and what to do I could not tell: how-
ever, I resolved not to lose my corn, if possible, though I
should watch it night and day. In the first place, I went
among it, to see what damage was already done, and found
they had spoiled a good deal of it; but that as it was yet too
green for them, the loss was not so great but that the
remainder was likely to be a good crop, if it could be saved.
I stayed by it to load my gun, and then coming away, I
could easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees about
HARVESTING. 87
me, as if they only waited till I was gone away, and the event
proved it to be so; for as I walked off, as if I was gone, 1
was no sooner out of their sight, than they dropped down
one by one into the corn again. I was so provoked, that I
could not have patience to stay till more came on, knowing
that every grain that they eat now was, as it might be said, a
peck-loaf to me in the consequence; but coming up to the
hedge, I fired again, and killed three of them. This was what
I wished for; so I took them up, and served them as we
serve notorious thieves in England, viz., hanged them in chains
for a terror to others. It is impossible to imagine that this
should have such an effect as it had ; for the fowls would not
only not come at the corn, but forsook all that part of the
island, and I could never see a bird near the place as long as
my scarecrows hung there. This I was very glad of, you may
be sure, and about the latter end of December, which was
our second harvest of the year, I reaped my corn.
I was sadly put to it for a scythe or sickle to cut it down,
and all I could do was to make one, as well as I could, out
of one of the broadswords, or cutlasses, which I saved among
the arms out of the ship. However, as my crop was but
small, I had no great difficulty to cut it down; in short, I
reaped it my way, for I cut nothing off but the ears, and
carried it away in a great basket which I had made, and so
rubbed it out with my hands; and at the end of all my har-
vesting, I found that out of my half-peck of seed I had near
two bushels of rice, and above two bushels and a half of barley;
that is to say, by my guess, for I had no measure at that time.
However, this'was a great encouragement to me, and I
foresaw that, in time, it would please God to supply me with
bread ; and yet here I was perplexed again, for I neither knew
how to grind, or make meal of my corn, or indeed, how to
clean it and part it; nor, if made into meal, how to make
bread of it; and if how to make it, yet I knew not how to
bake it These things being added to my desire of having a
good quantity for store, and to secure a constant supply, I
resolved not to taste any of this crop, but to preserve it all
for seed against the next season, and, in the mean time, to
employ all my study and hours of working to accomplish this
great work of providing myself with corn and bread.
It might be truly said, that now I worked for my bread.
It is a little wonderful, and what I believe few people have
thought much upon; viz., the strange multitude of little
things necessary in the providing, producing, curing, dressing,
making, and finishing this one article of bread. I, that was
reduced to a mere state of nature, found this to my daily
discouragement, and was made more sensible oi it every hour,
even after I had got the first handful of seed-corn, which, as
I have said, came up unexpectedly, and indeed to a surprise.
First, I had no plough to turn up the earth—no spade or
shovel to dig it Well, this I conquered by making me a
wooden spade, as I observed before, but this did my work but
in a wooden manner; and though it cost me a great many
days to make it, yet for want of iron, it not only wore out
soon, but made my work the harder, and made it be performed
much worse. However, this I bore with, and was content to
work it out with patience, and bear with the badness of the
performance. When the corn was sowed, I had no harrow,
but was forced to go over it myself, and drag a great heavy
bough of a tree over it, to scratch the earth, as it may be
called, rather than rake or harrow it When it was growing,
and grown, I have observed already how many things I wanted
to fence it, secure it, mow or reap it, cure and carry it home,
thresh it, part it from the chaff, and save it Then I wanted
a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast and salt to make it
into bread, and an oven to bake it; but all these things I did
without; and yet the corn was an inestimable comfort and
advantage to me too ; but this made everything laborious and
tedious to me ; but that there was no help for; neither was
my time so much loss to me, because, as I had divided it, a
certain part of it was every day appointed to these works;
and as I resolved to use none of the corn for bread till I had
a greater quantity by me, I had the next six months to apply
myself wholly, by labour and invention, to furnish myself witli
utensils proper for the performing all the operations necessary
for the making the corn, when I had it, fit for my use.
But first I was to prepare more land, for I had now seed
enough to sow above an acre of ground. Before I did this, 1
had a week's work at least to make me a spade, which, when
it was done, was but a sorry one indeed, and very heavy, and
required double labour to work with it; however, I went
through that, and sowed my seed in two large flat pieces of
ground, as near my house as I could find them to my mind,
and fenced them in with a good hedge, the stakes of which
were all cut off that wood which I had set before, which I
knew it would crow ; so that, in a year's time, 1 knew I should
MAKES EARTHEN VESSELS. 89
have a quick or living hedge, that would want but little repair.
This work was not so little as to take me up less than three
months, because a great part of that time was the wet season,
when I could not go abroad. Within-doors, that is, when it
rained, and I could not go out, I found employment on the
following occasions—always observing, that all the while I
was at work, I diverted myself with talking to my parrot, and
teaching him to speak ; and I quickly taught him to know his
own name, and at last to speak it out pretty loud, " Poll,"
which was the first word I ever heard spoken in the island
by any mouth but my own. This, therefore, was not my work,
but as an assistant to my work
For now, as I said, I had a great employment upon my
hands. I had long studied, by some means or other, to make
myself some earthen vessels, which, indeed, I wanted sorely,
but knew not where to come at them ; however, considering
the heat of the climate, I did not doubt but, if I could find out
any such clay, I might botch up some such pot as might, being
dried in the sun, be hard enough and strong enough to bear
handling, and to hold anything that was dry, and required to
be kept so ; and as this was necessary in the preparing corn,
meal, &c, which was the thing I was upon, I resolved to make
some as large as I could, and fit only to stand like jars, to
hold what should be put into them.
It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me, to
tell how many awkward ways I took to raise this paste, what
odd, misshapen ugly things I made, how many of them fell in,
and how many fell out, the clay not being stiff enough to bear
its own weight; how many cracked by the over-violent heat
of the sun, being set out too hastily; and how many fell to
pieces with only removing, as well before as after they were
dried; and, in a word, how, after having laboured hard to
find the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home, and
work it, I could not make above two large earthen ugly things,
I cannot call them jars, in about two months' labour.
However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard, I
lifted them very gently up, and set them down again in two
great wicker baskets, which I had made on purpose for them,
that they might not break; and as between the pot and the
basket there was a little room to spare, I stuffed it full of the
rice and barley straw; and these two pots being to stand always
dry, I thought would hold my dry com, and perhaps the meal,
when the corn was bruised. R
Though I miscarried so much in my design for large pots,
yet I made several smaller things with better success; such
as little round pots, flat dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, and
anything my hand turned to; and the heat of the sun baked
them strangely hard. But all this would not answer my end,
which was to get an earthen pot to hold what was liquid, and
bear the fire—which none of these could do. It happened
after some time, making a pretty large fire for cooking my
meat, when I went to put it out after I had done with it, I
found a broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels in the
fire, burnt as hard as a stone, and red as a tile. I was agree-
ably surprised to see it, and said to myself, that certainly they
might be made to burn whole, if they would burn broken.
This set me to study how to order my fire, so as to make it
burn some pots. I had no notion of a kiln, such as the potters
burn in, or of glazing them with lead, though I had some lead
to do it with; but I placed three large pipkins, and two or
three pots, in a pile, one upon another, and placed my firewood
all round it with a great heap of embers under them. I plied
the fire with fresh fuel round the outside, and upon the top,
till I saw the pots in the inside red-hot quite through, and
observed that they did not crack at all: when I saw them
clear red, I let them stand in that heat about five or six hours,
till I found one of them, though it did not crack, did melt or
run; for the sand which was mixed with the clay melted by
the violence of the heat, and would have run into glass if I
had gone on ; so I slacked my fire gradually till the pots began
to abate of the red colour ; and, watching them all night, that
I might not let the fire abate too fast, in the morning I had
three very good, I will not say handsome, pipkins, and two
other earthen pots, as hard burnt as could be desired, and one
of them perfectly glazed with the running of the sand. After
this experiment, I need not say that I wanted no sort of
earthenware for my use; but as to the shapes of them, they
were very indifferent, as any one may suppose, when I had no
way of making them but as the children make dirt pies, or as
a woman would make pies that never learned to raise paste.
No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal to
mine, when I found I had made an earthen pot that would
bear the fire ; and I had hardly patience to stay till they were
cold, before I set one on the fire again, with some water in it
to boil me some meat, which it did admirably well; and with
a piece of a kid, I made some very good broth, though 1 wanted
•p*?. 'ftrvrrr
T./fjifjfysS^
An Island Kiln.
BREAD-MAKING. 91
oatmeal, and several other ingredients requisite to make it so
good as I would have had it
My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to stamp or
beat some corn in ; for as to the mill, there was no thought of
arriving at that perfection of art with one pair of hands. To
supply this want, I was at a great loss ; for, of all the trades
in the world, I was as perfectly unqualified for a stone-cutter,
as for any whatever; neither had I any tools to go about it
with. I spent many a day to find out a great stone big enough
to cut hollow, and make fit for a mortar, and could find none
at all, except what was in the solid rock, and which I had no
way to dig- or cut out; nor indeed were the rocks in the island
of hardness sufficient, but were all of a sandy crumbling stone,
which neither would bear the weight of a heavy pestle, nor
would break the corn without filling it with sand ; so, after a
great deal of time lost in searching for a stone, I gave it over,
and resolved to look out for a great block of hard wood, which
I found indeed much easier; and getting one as big as I had
strength to stir, I rounded it, and formed it on the outside
with my axe and hatchet, and then, with the help of fire and
infinite labour, made a hollow place in it, as the Indians in
Brazil make their canoes. After this, I made a great heavy
pestle, or beater, of the wood called the iron wood ; and this I
prepared and laid by, against I had my next crop of corn,
when I proposed to myself to grind, or rather pound, my corn
or meal, to make my bread.
My next difficulty was to make a sieve, or searce, to dress
my meal, and part it from the bran and the husk, without
which I did not see it possible I could have any bread. This
was a most difficult thing to think on, for to be sure I had
nothing like the necessary thing to make it with; I mean no
fine thin canvas or stuff to searce the meal through. And
here I was at a full stop for many months ; nor did I really
know what to do; linen I had none left, but what was mere
rags ; I had goat's-hair, but neither knew how to weave it or
spin it; and had I known how, here were no tools to work it
with. All the remedy that I found for this was, that at last
I did remember I had, among these men's clothes which were
saved out of the ship, some neckcloths of calico or muslin;
and with some pieces of these I made three small sieves proper
enough for the work ; and thus I made shift for some years;
how I did afterwards, I shall show in its place.
The baking part was the next thing to be considered, and
how I should make bread when I came to have corn; for,
first, I had no yeast As to that part, there was no supplying
the want, so I did not concern myself much about it But
for an oven, I was indeed in great pain. At length I found
out an experiment for that also, which was this: I made some
earthen vessels very broad, but not deep, that is to say, about
two feet diameter, and not above nine inches deep; these I
burned in the fire, as I had done the others, and laid them
by: and when I wanted to bake, I made a great fire upon
the hearth, which I had paved with some square tiles, of my
own baking and burning also; but I should not call them
square.
When the fire-wood was burnt pretty much into embers,
or live coals, I drew them forward upon this hearth, so as to
cover it all over, and there I let them lie till the hearth was
very hot; then, sweeping away all the embers I set down my
loaf or loaves, and whelming down the earthen pot upon
them, drew the embers all round the outside of the pot, to
keep in and add to the heat; and thus, as well as in the best
oven in the world, I baked my barley-loaves, and became, in
little time, a good pastry-cook into the bargain ; for I made
myself several cakes and puddings of the rice ; indeed I made
no pies, neither had I anything to put into them, supposing
I had, except the flesh either of fowls or goats.
It need not be wondered at if all these things took me up
most part of the third year of my abode here; for, it is to be
observed, that in the intervals of these things I had my new
harvest and husbandry to manage ; for I reaped my corn in
its season, and carried it home, as well as I could, and laid
it up in the ear, in my large baskets, till I had time to rub it
out, for I had no floor to thrash it on, or instrument to thrash
it with.
And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I really
wanted to build my barns bigger; I wanted a place to lay it
up in, for the increase of the corn now yielded me so much,
that I had of the barley about twenty bushels, and of the rice
as much or more ; insomuch that I now resolved to begin to
use it freely; for my bread had been quite gone a great while ;
also I resolved to see what quantity would be sufficient for me
a whole year, and to sow but once a year. Upon the whole,
I found that the forty bushels of barley and rice were much
more than I could consume in a year; so I resolved to sow
}v& the same quantity every year that I sowed the last, in
THE CANNIBALS. 93
hopes that such a quantity would fully provide me with bread.
&c
All the while these things were doing, you may be sure my
thoughts ran many times upon the prospect of land which I
had seen from the other side of the island; and I was not
without secret wishes that I was on shore there, fancying
that, seeing the main-land, and an inhabited country, I might
find some way or other to convey myself farther, and perhaps
find some means of escape.
But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers of
such a condition, and how I might fall into the hands ot
savages, and perhaps such as I might have reason to think far
worse than the lions and tigers of Africa. That if I once
came into their power, I should run a hazard more than a
thousand to one of being killed, and perhaps of being eaten ;
for I had heard that the people of the Carribbean Coasts
were Cannibals, or Man-eaters ; and I knew by the latitude
that I could not be far off from that shore. That suppose
they were not Cannibals, yet that th«y might kill me, as many
Europeans who had fallen into their hands had been served,
even when they had been ten or twenty together; much
more I that was but one, and could make little or no defence
All these things, I say, which I ought to have considered
well of, and did cast up in my thoughts afterwards, yet took
up none of my apprehensions at first; but my head ran
mightily upon the thought of getting over to the shore.
Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat with
the shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed over a thou-
sand miles on the coast of Africa; but this was in vain. Then
I thought I would go and look at our ship's boat, which, as
I have said, was blown up upon the shore a great way in the
storm, when we were first cast away. She lay almost where
she did at first, but not quite; and was turned, by the force
of the waves and the winds, almost bottom upwards against
the high ridge of a beachy, rough sand, but no water about
her as before. If I had had hands to have refitted her, and to
have launched her into the water, the boat would have done
well enough, and I might have gone back into the Brazils
with her easy enough ; but I might have easily foreseen that
I could no more turn her and set her upright upon her bottom,
than I could remove the island ; however I went to the woods,
and cut levers and rollers, and brought them to the boat,
resolving to try what I could do; suggesting to myself, that
If I could but turn her down, I might easily repair the damage
she had received, and she would be a very good boat, and I
might go to sea in her very easily. ,
I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless toil, and
spent, I think, three or four weeks about it; at last, finding it
impossible to heave it up with my little strength, I fell to
digging away the sand, to undermine it, and so to make it
fall down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and guide it right
in the fall. But when I had done this, I was unable to stir
it up again, or to get under it, much less to move it forwards
towards the water ; so I was forced to give it over; and yet,
though I gave over the hopes of the boat, my desire to venture
over for the main increased, rather than decreased, as the
means for it seemed impossible.
This at length set me upon thinking whether it was pos-
sible to make myself a canoe, or periagua, such as the natives
of those climates make, even without tools, or, as I might
say, without hands, of the trunk of a great tree. This I not
only thought possible, but easy, and pleased myself extremely
with my thoughts of making it, and with my having much
more convenience for it than any of the Negroes or Indians;
but not at all considering the particular inconveniences which
I lay under more than the Indians did, viz., want of hands to
move it, when it was made, into the water.
I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that ever
man did, who had any of his senses awake. I pleased myself
with the design, without determining whether I was ever able
to undertake it; not but that the difficulty of launching my
boat came often into my head; but I put a stop to my
inquiries into it, by this foolish answer which I gave myself:
" Let me first make it; I warrant I will find some way or
other to get it along when it is done."
This was a most preposterous method ; but the eagerness
of my fancy prevailed, and to work I went and felled a cedar
tree ; I question much whether Solomon ever had such a one
for the building of the Temple of Jerusalem ; it was five feet
ten inches diameter at the lower part next the stump, and
four feet eleven inches diameter at the end of twenty-two
feet; after which it lessened for a while, and then parted into
branches. It was not without infinite labour that I felled this
tree ; I was twenty days hacking and hewing it at the bottom ;
I was fourteen more getting the branches and limbs, and the
vast spreading head of it cut off, which I hacked and hewed
through with my axe and hatchet, with inexpressible labour;
after this it cost me a month to shape it and dub it to a pro-
protion, and to something like the bottom of a boat, that it
might swim upright as it ought to do. It cost me near three
months more to clear the inside, and work it out so as to
make an exact boat of it; this I did, indeed, without fire, bj)
mere mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard labour, till I
had brought it to be a very handsome periagua, and big
enough to have carried six and twenty men, and consequently
big enough to have carried me and all my cargo.
When I had gone through this work, I was extremely
delighted with it; the boat was really much bigger than evei
I saw a canoe or periagua that was made of one tree, in my
life ; many a weary stroke it had cost, you may be sure, and
had I gotten it into the water, I make no question but I
should have begun the maddest voyage, and the most un-
likely to be performed, that ever was undertaken.
But all my devices to get it into the water failed me ; though
they cost me infinite labour too; it lay about one hundred
yards from the water, and not more; but the first in-
convenience was, it was up hill towards the creek. Well, to
take away this discouragement, I resolved to dig into the
surface of the earth, and so make a declivity: this I began,
and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains, but who grudge
pains that have their deliverance in view ? But when this
was worked through, and this difficulty managed, it was still
much at one, for I could no more stir the canoe than I could
the other boat. Then I measured the distance of ground,
and resolved to cut a dock or canal, to bring the water up to
the canoe, seeing I could not bring the canoe down to the
water. Well, I began this work, and when I began to enter
into it, and calculate how deep it was to be dug, how broad,
how the stuff was to be thrown out, I found that, by the
number of hands I had, being none but my own, it must have
been ten or twelve years before I should have gone through
with it; for the shore lay high ; so that at the upper end it
must have been at least twenty feet deep; so at length,
though with great reluctance, I gave this attempt over also.
This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though too late,
the folly of beginning a work before we count the cost, and
before we judge rightly of our own strength to go through
with it
In the middle of this work I finished my fourth year in this
place, and kept my anniversary with the same devotion, and
with as much comfort as ever before ; for, by a constant study
and serious application to the Word of God, and by the
assistance of His grace, I gained a different knowledge from
what I had before ; I entertained different notions of things.
The nature and experience of things dictated to me upon
just reflection, that all the good things of this world are no
farther good to us than they are for our use ; and that what-
ever we may heap up indeed to give others, we enjoy just as
much as we can use, and no more. The most covetous griping
miser in the world would have been cured of the vice of
covetousness, if he had been in my case; for I possessed in
finitely more than I knew what to do with. I had no room
for desire, except it was of things which I had not, and they
were but trifles, though indeed of great use to me. I had a
parcel of money, as well gold as silver, about thirty-six pounds
sterling. Alas! there the nasty, sorry, useless stuff lay; I had
no manner of business for it; and I often thought within
myself, that I would have given a handful of it for a gross of
tobacco-pipes, or for a hand-mill to grind my corn; nay, I
would have given it all for sixpenny-worth of turnip and
carrot seed out of England, or for a handful of peas and beans,
and a bottle of ink. As it was, I had not the least advantage
by it, or benefit from it; but there it lay in a drawer, and grew
mouldy with the damp of the cave, in the wet season ; and if
I had had the drawer full of diamonds, it had been the same
case ; and they had been of no manner of value to me, because
of no use.
At the same time, I learned to look more upon the bright
side of my condition, and less upon the dark side, and to
consider what I enjoyed rather than what I wanted ; and this
gave me sometimes such secret comforts, that I cannot ex-
press them ; and which I take notice of here to put those
discontented people in mind of it, who cannot enjoy comfort-
ably what God has given them, because they see and covet
something that He has not given them. All our discontents
about what we want appeared to me to spring from the want
of thankfulness for what we have.
I had now been here so long, that many things which I had
brought on shore for my help were either quite gone, or very
much wasted and near spent My ink, as I observed, had beer
gone some time, all but a very little, which I eked out with
water, a little and a little, till it was so pale, it scarce left any
CRUSOES CLOTHES. 9-
*ppearance of black upon the paper; as long as it lasted 1
made use of it, to minute down the days of the month on
which any remarkable thing happened to me ; and first, by
casting up times past, I remembered that there was a strange
concurrence of days in the various providences which befell
me, and which, if I had been superstitiously inclined to observe
days as fatal or fortunate, I might have had reason to have
looked upon with a great deal of curiosity.
First, I had observed, that the same day that I broke away
from my father and friends, and ran away to Hull, in order to
go to sea, the same day afterwards I was taken by the Sallee
man-of-war, and made a slave. The same day of the year that
I escaped out of the wreck of the ship in Yarmouth Roads,
that same day a year afterwards, I made my escape from
Sallee. The same day of the year I was born on, vie. the 30th
of September, that same day I had my life so miraculously
saved twenty-six years after, when I was cast on shore in this
island, so that my wicked life and my solitary life began both
on a day.
The next thing to my ink's being wasted was that of my
bread—I mean the biscuit which 1 had brought out of the
ship; this I had husbanded to the last degree, allowing my-
self but one cake of bread a day for above a year; and yet I
was quite without bread for near a year before I got any corn
of my own.
My clothes, too, began to decay mightily; as to linen I had
none a good while, except some chequered shirts which I
found in the chests of the other seamen, and which I carefully
preserved, because many times I could bear no other clothes
on but a shirt; and it was a very great help to me that I had,
among all the men's clothes of the ship, almost three dozen of
shirts. There were also several thick watch-coats of the sea-
men which were left indeed, but they were too hot to wear ;
and though it is true that the weather was so violently hot
that there was no need of clothes, yet I could not go quite
naked—no, though I had been inclined to it, which I was not;
—nor could I abide the thought of it, though I was all alone
The reason why I could not go naked was, I could not bear
the heat of the sun so well when quite naked as with some
clothes on ; nay, the very heat frequently blistered my skin ;
whereas, with a shirt on, the air itself made some motion, and
whistling under the shirt, was twofold cooler than without it;
no more could I ever bring myself to go out in the heat of
the sun without a cap or a hat; the heat of the sun, beating
with such violence as it does in that place, would give me the
headache presently, by darting so directly on my head, with-
out a cap or a hat on, so that I could not bear it; whereas, if
I put on my hat, it would presently go away.
Upon these views, I began to consider about putting the
few rags I had, which I called clothes, into some order; I had
worn out all the waistcoats I had, and my business was now
to try if I could not make jackets out of the great watch-coats
which I had by me, and with such other materials as I had ;
so I set to work, a-tailoring, or rather, indeed, a-botching, for
I made most piteous work of it. However, I made shift to
make two or three new waistcoats, which I hoped would
serve me a great while; as for breeches or drawers, I made
but a very sorry shift indeed till afterwards.
I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the creatures
that I had killed, I mean four-footed ones, and I had them
hung up, stretched out, with sticks in the sun; by which
means some of them were so dry and hard that they were fit
for little, but others, it seems, were very useful. The first
thing I made of these was a great cap for my head, with the
hair on the outside, to shoot off the rain ; and this I performed
so well, that after this I made me a suit of clothes wholly of
these skins ; that is to say, a waistcoat, and breeches open at
the knees, and both loose, for they were rather wanted to
keep me cool, than to keep me warm. I must not omit to
acknowledge that they were wretchedly made; for if I was a
bad carpenter, I was a worse tailor ; however, they were such
as I made very good shift with, and when I was abroad, if it
happened to rain, the hair of my waistcoat and cap being
outermost, I was kept very dry.
After this I spent a great deal of time and pains to make
an umbrella; I was indeed in great want of one, and had a
great mind to make one. I had seen them made in the Brazils,
where they are very useful in the great heats, and I felt the
heats every jot as great here, and greater too, being nearer
the equinox ; besides, as I was obliged to be much abroad, it
was a most useful thing to me, as well for the rains as the
heats. I took a world of pains at it, and was a great while
before I could make anything likely to hold: nay, after I
thought I had hit the way, I spoiled two or three before I
made one to my mind ; but at last I made one that answered
indifferently well; the main difficulty I found was to make it
MAKES A CANUE. 99
let down I could make it to spread ; but if it did not let
down too, and draw in, it would not be portable for me any
way but just over my head, which would not Ad. However,
at last, as I said, I made one to answer; I covered it with
skins, the hair upwards, so that it cast off the rain like a pent-
house, and kept off the sun so effectually, that I could walk
out in the hottest of the weather with greater advantage than
I could before in the coolest; and when I had no need of it,
could close it, and carry it under my arm.
I cannot say that, after this, for five years, any extraordinary
thing happened to me. I lived on in the same course as
before ; the chief things I was employed in, besides my yearly
labour of planting my barley and rice, and curing my raisins,
of both which I always kept up just enough to have sufficient
stock of one year's provisions beforehand ; I say, besides this
yearly labour, and my daily labour of going out with my gun,
I had to make a canoe, which at last I finished : so, that, by
digging a canal to it of six feet wide and four feet deep, I
brought it into the creek, almost half a mile. As for the first,
which was so vastly big, as I made it without considering
beforehand, as I ought to have done, how I should be able to
launch it, so, never being able to bring it into the water, or
bring the water to it, I was obliged to let it lie where it was
as a memorandum to teach me to be wiser next time : indeed,
the next time, though I could not get a tree proper for it, and
was in a place where I could not get the water to it at any
less distance than, as I have said, near half a mile, yet, as I
saw it was practicable at last, I never gave it over ; and though
I was near two years about it, yet I never grudged my labour,
in hopes of having a boat to go off to sea at last.
However, though my little periagua was finished, yet the
size of it was not at all answerable to the design which I had
in view when I made the first; I mean of venturing over to
the terra firma, where it was above forty miles broad ; accor-
dingly, the smallness of my boat assisted to put an end to
that design, and now I thought no more of it: but as I had a
boat, my next design was to make a cruise round the island ;
for as I had been on the other side in one place, crossing, as I
have already described it, over the land, so the discoveries I
made in that little journey made me very eager to see other
parts of the coast; and now I had a boat, I thought of nothing
but sailing round the island.
For this purpose, that I might do everything with discretion
and consideration, I fitted up a little mast in ray boat, and
made a sail to it out of some of the pieces of the ship's sail
which lay in store, and of which I had a great stock by me.
Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried the boat, I found
she would sail very well; then I made little lockers, or boxes,
at either end of my boat, to put provisions, necessaries, and
ammunition, &c, into, to be kept dry, either from rain or the
spray of the sea ; and a little, long, hollow place I cut in the
inside of the boat, where I could lay my gun, making a flap
to hang down over it, to keep it dry.
I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like a mast,
to stand over my head, and keep the heat of the sun off me,
like an awning; and thus I every now and then took a little
voyage upon the sea, but never went far out nor far from the
little creek ; but, at last, being eager to view the circumference
of my little kingdom, I resolved upon my tour, and accor-
dingly I victualled my ship for the voyage, putting in two dozen
of loaves (cakes I should rather call them) of barley bread, an
earthen pot full of parched rice (a food I ate a great deal of),
a little bottle of rum, half a goat, and powder and shot for
killing more, and two large watch-coats, of those which, as I
mentioned before, I had saved out of the seamen's chests ;
these I took, one to lie upon, and the other to cover me in
the night
It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of my reign,
or my captivity, that I set out on this voyage, and I found it
much longer than I expected ; for though the island itselt
was not very large, yet when I came to the east side of it, I
found a great ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues into
the sea, some above water, some under it; and beyond, a shoal
of sand, lying dry half a league more, so that I was obliged
to go a great way out to sea to double the point
When first I discovered them, I was going to give over my
enterprise, and come back again, not knowing how far it might
oblige me to go out to sea : and, above all, doubting how I
should get back again : so I came to an anchor; for I had
made a kind of an anchor with a piece of a broken grappling
which I got out of the ship.
Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on shore,
climbing up a hill, which seemed to overlook that point, where
I saw the full extent of it, and resolved to venture.
In my viewing the sea from that hill, I perceived a strong
and most furious current, which ran to the east, and even came
:lose to the point; I took the more notice of it, because I
>aw there might be some danger, that when I came into it, I
might be carried out to sea by the strength of it, and not be
able to make the island again: and, indeed, had I not got first
up upon this hill, I believe it would have been so ; for there
was the same current on the other side the island, only that it
set off at a farther distance, and I saw there was a strong eddy
under the shore; so I had nothing to do but to get out of the
first current, and I should presently be in an eddy.
I lay here, however, two days, because the wind blowing
pretty fresh at E.S.E., and that being just contrary to the said
current, made a great breach of the sea upon the point; so
that it was not safe for me to keep too close to the shore for
the breach, nor to go too far off, because of the stream.
The third day, in the morning, the wind having abated
overnight, the sea was calm, and I ventured: but I am a
warning to all rash and ignorant pilots ; for no sooner was I
come to the point, when I was not even my boat's length from
the shore, but I found myself in a great depth of water, and a
current like the sluice of a mill: it carried my boat along with
it with such violence that all I could do could not keep her so
much as on the edge of it; but I found it hurried me farther
and farther out from the eddy, which was on my left hand.
There was no wind stirring to help me, and all I could do
with my paddles signified nothing: and now I began to give
myself over for lost; for as the current was on both sides
of the island, I knew in a few leagues' distance they must join
again, and then I was irrecoverably gone; nor did I see any
possibility of avoiding it; so that I had no prospect before
me but of perishing, not by the sea, for that was calm enough,
but of starving from hunger. I had, indeed, found a tortoise
on the shore, as big almost as I could lift, and had tossed it
into the boat; and I had a great jar of fresh water, that is to
say, one of my earthen pots; but what was all this to being
driven into the vast ocean, where, to be sure, there was no
shore, no main land or island, for a thousand leagues at least ?
And now I saw how easy it was for the providence of God
to make even the most miserable condition of mankind worse.
Now I looked back upon my desolate, solitary island, as the
most pleasant place in the world, and all the happiness my
heart could wish for was to be but there again. I stretched
out my hands to it, with eager wishes : " O happy desert! "
said I, " I shall never see thee more. O miserable creature I
whither am I going!" Then I reproached myself with my
unthankful temper, and that I had repined at my solitary con-
dition ; and now what would I give to be on shore there
again ! Thus, we never see the true state of our condition till
it is illustrated to as by its contraries, nor know how to value
what we enjoy, but by the want of it It is scarcely possible
to imagine the consternation I was now in, being driven from
my beloved island (for so it appeared to me now to be) into
the wide ocean, almost two leagues, and in the utmost despair
of ever recovering it, again. However, I worked hard till in-
deed my strength was almost exhausted and kept my boat a?
much to the northward, that is, towards the side of the current
which the eddy lay on, as possibly I could ; when about noon
as the sun passed the meridian, I thought I felt a little breeze
of wind in my face, springing up from S.S.E. This cheered
my heart a little, and especially when, in about half an hour
more, it blew a pretty small gentle gale. By this time, I had
got at a frightful distance from the island, and had the least
cloudy or hazy weather intervened, I had been undone another
way too; for I had no compass on board, and should never
have known how to have steered towards the island, if I had
but once lost sight of it; but the weather continuing clear, I
applied myself to get up my mast again, and spread my sail,
standing away to the north as much as possible, to get out of
the current
Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began to
stretch away, I saw even by the clearness of the water some
alteration of the current was near ; for where the current was
so strong the water was foul; but perceiving the water clear,
I found the current abate, and presently I found to the east,
at about half a mile, a breach of the sea upon some rocks:
these rocks I found caused the current to part again, and as
the main stress of it ran away more southerly, leaving the
rocks to the north-east, so the other returned by the repulse
of the rocks, and made a strong eddy, which ran back again
to the north-west, with a very sharp stream.
They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to
them upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves just going
to murder them, or who have been in such like extremities,
may guess what my present surprise of joy was, and how
gladly I put my boat into the stream of this eddy, and the
wind also freshening, how gladly I spread my sail to it, run-
ning cheerfully before the wind, and with a strong tide 01
ANOTHER DELIVERANCE. I03
eddy under foot This eddy carried me about a league in my
way back again directly towards the island, but about two
leagues more to the northward than the current which carried
me away at first; so that when I came near the island I found
myself open to the northern shore of it, that is to say, the
other end of the island, opposite to that which I went out
from.
When I had made something more than a league of way
by the help of this current or eddy, I found it was spent, and
served me no farther. However I found that being between
two great currents, viz., that on the south side, which had
hurried me away, and that on the north, which lay about a
league on the other side; I say, between these two, in the
wake of the island, I found the water at least still, and run-
ning no way; and having still a breeze of wind fair for me, I
kept on steering directly for the island, though not making
such fresh way as I did before.
About four o'clock in the evening, being then within a
league of the island I found the point of the rocks which
occasioned this disaster, stretching out as is described before,
to the southward, and casting off the current more southerly,
had of course made another eddy to the north, and this I
found very strong, but not directly setting the way my course
lay, which was due west, but almost full north. However,
having a fresh gale, I stretched across this eddy, slanting
north-west; and in about an hour came within about a mile
of the shore, where it being smooth water, I soon got to land.
When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God
thanks for my deliverance; and refreshing myself with such
things as I had, I brought my boat close to the shore, in a
little cove that I had spied under some trees, and laid me
down to sleep, being quite spent with the labour and fatigue
of the voyage.
I was now at a great loss which way to get home with my
boat: I had run so much hazard, and knew too much of the
case, to think of attempting it by the way I went out; and
what might be at the other side (I mean the west side) I
knew not, nor had I any mind to run any more ventures: so
I only resolved in the morning to make my way westward
along the shore, and to see if there was no creek where I
might lay up my frigate in safety, so as to have her again, if I
wanted her. In about three miles, or thereabout, coasting the
shore, I came to a very good inlet or bay about a mile over,
9
which narrowed till it came to a very little rivulet or brook,
where 1 found a very convenient harbour for my boat, and
where she lay as if she had been in a little dock made on pur-
pose for her. Here I put in, and having stowed my boat very
safe, I went on shore to look about me, and see where I was.
I soon found I had but a little passed by the place where I
had been before, when I travelled on foot to that shore; so
taking nothing out of my boat but my gun and umbrella, for
it was exceedingly hot, I began my march. The way was
comfortable enough after such a voyage as I had been upon,
and I reached my old bower in the evening, where I found
everything standing as I left it; for I always kept it in good
order, it being, as I said before, my country-house. I got over
the fence, and laid me down in the shade to rest my limbs, for
I was very weary, and fell asleep; but judge you, if you can
that read my story, what a surprise I must be in when I was
awaked out of my sleep by a voice, calling me by my name
several times, " Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe : poor Robin
Crusoe! Where are you Robin Crusoe ? Where are you ?
Where have you been ? " I was so dead asleep at first, being
fatigued with rowing, or paddling as it is called, the first part
of the day, and with walking the latter part, that I did not
wake thoroughly; but dozing between sleeping and waking,
thought I dreamed that somebody spoke to me; but as the
voice continued to repeat, " Robin Crusoe, Robin Crusoe," at
last I began to wake more perfectly, and was at first dread-
fully frightened, and started up in the utmost consternation ;
but no sooner were my eyes open, but I saw my Poll sitting
on the top of the hedge ; and immediately knew that it was
he that spoke to me; for just in such bemoaning language I
had used to talk to him, and teach him ; and he had learned
it so perfectly that he would sit upon my finger, and lay his
bill close to my face, and cry, " Poor Robin Crusoe ! Where
are you ? Where have you been ? How came you here ?"
and such things as I had taught him.
However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and that
indeed it could be nobody else, it was a good while before 1
could compose myself. First, I was amazed how the creature
got thither; and then, how he should just keep about the
place, and nowhere else ; but as I was well satisfied it could
be nobody but honest Poll, I got over it; and holding out
my hand, and calling him by his name, " Poll," the sociable
creature came to me, and sat upon my thumb, as he used to
CRUSOE AND HIS PARROT. 105
do, and continued talking to me, " Poor Robin Crusoe! and
how did I come here?> and where had I been ?" just as if he
had been overjoyed to see me again ; and so I carried him
home along with me.
I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some time,
and had enough to do for many days to sit still, and reflect
upon the danger I had been in. I would have been very glad
to have had my boat again on my side of the island ; but
I knew not how it was practicable to get it about; so I con-
tented myself to be without any boat, though it had been the
product of so many months' labour to make it, and of so
many more to get it into the sea. In this government of
my temper, I remained near a year, and lived a very sedate,
retired life, as you may well suppose; and my thoughts being
very much composed, as to my condition, and fully comforted
in resigning myself to the dispositions of Providence, I thought
I lived really very happily in all things, except that of society.
I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic exercises
which my necessities put me upon applying myself to; and
I believe I should, upon occasion, have made a very good
carpenter, especially considering how few tools I had.
Besides this,"I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my
earthenware, and contrived well enough to make them with
a wheel, which I found infinitely easier and better; because
I made things round and shapeable which before were filthy
things indeed to look on. But I think I was never more vain
of my own performance, or more joyful for anything I found
out, than for my being able to make a tobacco-pipe. And
though it was a very ugly, clumsy thing when it was done,
and only burned red, like other earthenware, yet as it was
hard and firm, and would draw the smoke, I was exceedingly
comforted with it; for I had been always used to smoke ; and
there were pipes in the ship, but I forgot them at first, not
knowing that there was tobacco in the island ; and afterwards,
when I searched the ship again, I could not come at any
pipes at all.
In my wicker-ware, also, I improved much, and made abun-
dance of necessary baskets, as well as my invention showed
me ; though not very handsome, yet they were such as were
very handy and convenient for laying things up in, or fetching
things home in. For example, if I killed a goat abroad, I
could hang it up in a tree, flay it, dress it, and cut it in pieces,
and bring it home in a basket; and the like by a turtle, I
could cut it up, take out the eggs, and a piece or two of the
flesh, which was enough for me, and bring them home in a
basket, and leave the rest behind me. Also, large deep
baskets were the receivers for my corn, which I always rubbed
out as soon as it was dry, and cured, and kept it in great
baskets.
I began now to perceive my powder abated considerably,
and this was a want which it was impossible for me to
supply, and I began seriously to consider what I must do
when I should have no more powder; that is to say, how I
should kill any goats. I had, as is observed in the third year
of my being here, kept a young kid, and bred her up tame,
and I was in hopes of getting a he-goat: but I could not by
any means bring it to pass, till my kid grew an old goat; and
I could never find in my heart to kill her, till she died at last
of mere age.
But being now in the eleventh year of my residence, and,
as I have said, my ammunition growing low, I set myself to
study some art to trap and snare the goats, to see whether I
could not catch some of them alive; and particularly, I wanted
a she-goat and her young. To this purpose I made snares to
hamper them ; and I do believe they were more than once
taken in them, my but tackle was not good, for I had no
wire, and I always found them broken, and my bait devoured.
At length, I resolved to try a pitfall, so I dug several large pits
in the earth, in places where I had observed the goats used to
feed, and over those pits I placed hurdles of my own making
too, with a great weight upon them ; and several times I put
ears of barley and dry rice, without setting the trap, and I
could easily perceive that the goats had gone in and eaten
up the corn, for I could see the marks of their feet At length,
I set three traps in one night, and going the next morning, I
found them all standing, and yet the bait eaten and gone.
This was very discouraging; however, I altered my traps, and,
not to trouble you with particulars, going one morning to see
my traps, I found in one of them a large old he-goat, and in
one of the others, three kids, a male and two females.
As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him ; he
was so fierce, I durst not go into the pit to him; that is to
say, to bring him away alive, which was what I wanted.
I could have killed him, but that was not my business, nor
would it answer my end. So I even let him out, and he ran
away as if he had been frighted out of his wits: but I had
" / CATCH SOME GOATS." 107
forgot then what I learned afterwards, that hunger will tame
a lion. If I had let him stay there three or four days without
food, and then have carried him some water to drink, and
then a little corn, he would have been as tame as one of the
kids, for they are mighty sagacious, tractable creatures, where
they are well used. However, for the present I let him go,
knowing no better at that time: then I went to the three kids,
and, taking them one by one, I tied them with strings together,
and with some difficulty brought them all home.
It was a good while before they would feed, but throwing
them some sweet corn, it tempted them, and they began to be
tame: and now I found that if I expected to supply myself
with goats' flesh, when I had no powder or shot left, breeding
some up tame was my only way, when, perhaps, I might have
them about my house like a flock of sheep. But then it
occurred to me that I must keep the tame from the wild, or
else they would always run wild when they grew up ; and the
only way for this was to have some inclosed piece of ground,
well fenced either with hedge or pale, to keep them in so
effectually, that those within might not break out, or those
without break in. This was a great undertaking for one
pair of hands; yet, as I saw there was an absolute necessity
for doing it, my first work was to find out a proper piece of
ground, viz., where there was likely to be herbage for them
to eat, water for them to drink, and cover to keep them from
the sun.
Those who understand such inclosures will think I had very
little contrivance, when I pitched upon a place very proper
for all these, being a plain open piece of meadow land, or
savannah (as our people call it in the western colonies) which
had two or three -rills of fresh water in it, and at one end was
very woody: I say, they will smile at my forecast, when I
shall tell them I began by inclosing this piece of ground in
such a manner, that my hedge or pale must have been at least
two miles about. Nor was the madness of it so great as to
the compass, for it was ten miles about, I was like to have
time enough to do it in ; but I did not consider that my goats
would be as wild in so much compass as if they had had the
whole island, and then I should have so much room to chase
them in that I should never catch them.
My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe, about fifty
yards when this thought occurred to me; so I presently
stopped short, and for the first beginning, I resolved to
inclose a piece of about 150 yards in length, and 100 yards in
breadth, which, as it would maintain as many as I should have
in any reasonable time, so, as my flock increased, I could add
more ground to my inclosure.
This was acting with some prudence, and I went to work
with courage. I was about three months hedging in the first
piece, and, till I had done it, I tethered the three kids in the
best part of it, and used (them to feed as near me as possible
to make them familiar ; and very often I would go and carry
them some ears of barley, or a handful of rice, and feed them
out of my hand ; so that, after my inclosure was finished, and
I let them loose, they would follow me up and down, bleating
after me for a handful of corn.
This answered my end, and in about a year and a half I
had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all; and in two
years more I had three-and-forty, besides several that I took
and killed for my food. After that, I inclosed five several
pieces of ground to feed them in, with little pen? to drive
them into, to take them as I wanted, and gates out of one
piece of ground into another.
But this was not all: for now I not only had goat's flesh to
feed on when I pleased, but milk too, a thing which, indeed,
in the beginning, I did not so much as think of, and which,
when it came into my thoughts, was really an agreeable sur-
prise. For now I set up my dairy, and had sometimes a
gallon or two of milk in a day. And as nature, who gives
supplies of food to every creature, dictates even naturally
how to make use of it; so I, that had never milked a cow,
much less a goat, or seen butter or cheese made, very readily
and handily, though after a great many essays and mis-
carriages, made both butter and cheese at last, and never
wanted it afterwards. How mercifully can our Creator treat
His creatures, even in those conditions in which they seemed
to be overwhelmed in destruction I How can He sweeten the
bitterest providences, and give us cause to praise Him for
dungeons and prisons! What a table was here spread for me
in the wilderness, where I saw nothing at first but to perish
for hunger!
It would have made a Stoic smile to have seen me and my
little family sit down to dinner; there was my majesty, the
prince and lord of the whole island ; I had the lives of all
my subjects at my absolute command. I could hang, draw,
give liberty, and take it away, and no rebels among all
THE PRINCE OF THE ISLAND. 109
my subjects. Then, to see how like a king I dined too, all
alone, attended by my servants ; Poll, as if he had been my
favourite, was the only person permitted to talk to me. My
dog, who was now grown old and crazy, sat always at my
right hand ; and two cats, one on one side of the table, and
one on the other, expecting now and then a bit from my hand,
as a mark of especial favour.
But these were not the two cats which I brought on shore
at first, for they were both of them dead, and had been
interred near my habitation by my own hand; but these
were two which I had preserved tame ; whereas the rest ran
wild in the woods, and became indeed troublesome to me at
last, for they would often come into my house, and plunder
me too, till at last I was obliged to shoot them, and did
kill a great many; at length they left me. With this
attendance, and in this plentiful manner I lived ; neither
could I be said to want anything but society; and of that,
some time after this, I was like to have too much.
I was something impatient, as I have observed, to have the
use of my boat, though very loth to run any more hazards;
and therefore sometimes I sat contriving ways to get her
about the island, and at other times I sat myself down
contented enough without her. But I had a strange uneasi-
ness in my mind to go down to the point of the island, where,
as I have said, in my last ramble, I went up the hill to see
how the shore lay, and how the current set, that I might see
what I had to do : this inclination increased upon me every
day, and at length I resolved to travel thither by land, follow-
ing the edge of the shore. I did so; but had any one in
England met such a man as I was, it must either have
frighted him, or raised a great deal of laughter; and as I
frequently stood still to look at myself, I could not but smile
at the notion of my travelling through Yorkshire with such an
equipage, and in such a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch of
my figure, as follows:—
I had a great high shapeless cap, made of a goat's skin,
with a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep the sun from
me as to shoot the rain off from running into my neck,
nothing being so hurtful in these climates as the rain upon
the flesh under the clothes. I had a short jacket of goat's
skin, the skirts coming down to about the middle of my
thighs, and a pair of open-kneed breeches of the same ; the
breeches were made of the skin of an old he-goat, whose
hair hung down such a length on either side, that, like pan-
taloons, it reached to the middle of my legs; stockings and
shoes I had none, but had made me a pair of somethings, I
scarce know what to call them, like buskins, to flap over my
legs, and lace on either side like spatter-dashes ; but of a most
barbarous shape, as indeed were all the rest of my clothes.
I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I drew
together with two thongs of the same, instead of buckles, and
in a kind of a frog on either side of this. Instead of a sword
and dagger, hung a little saw and a hatchet, one on one side
one on the other. I had another belt not so broad, and
fastened in the same manner, which hung over my shoulder,
and at the end of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches,
both made of goat's skin too, in one of which hung my
powder, in the other my shot At my back I carried my
basket, on my shoulder my gun, and over my head a great
clumsy, ugly, goat's-skin umbrella, but which, after all, was
the most necessary thing I had about me next to my gun;
as for my face, the colour of it, was really not so mulatto-
like as one might expect from a man not at all careful of it,
and living within nineteen degrees of the equinox. My beard
I had once suffered to grow till it was about a quarter of a
yard long ; but as I had both scissors and razors sufficient, I
had cut it pretty short, except what grew on my upper lip,
which I had trimmed into a large pair of Mahometan whiskers,
such as I had seen worn by some Turks at Sallee, for the
Moors did not wear such, though the Turks did ; of these
moustachios, or whiskers, I will not say they were long
enough to hang my hat upon them, but they were of a
length and shape monstrous enough, and such as in England
would have passed for frightful.
But all this is by the bye ; for, as to my figure, I had so few
to observe me, that it was no manner of consequence. In this
kind of figure I went my new journey, and was out five or six
days. I travelled first along the sea-shore, directly to the
place where I first brought my boat to an anchor to get upon
the rocks; and having no boat now to take care of, I went
over the land a nearer way to the same height that I was
upon before; when, looking forward to the points of the
rocks which lay out, and which I was obliged to double with
my boat, I was surprised to see the sea all smooth and quiet,
no rippling, no motion, no current, any more there than in
any other places. I was at a strange loss to understand this,
<^3 «sss5*
Full Dress.
MY PLANTA TfONS AND D WELL1NGS. 111
and resolved to spend some time in the observing it, to see if
nothing from the sets of the tide had occasioned it; but I was
presently convinced how it was, viz., that the tide of ebb
setting from the west, and joining with the current of waters
from some great river on the shore, must be the occasion of
this current, and that, according as the wind blew more
forcibly from the west or from the north, this current came
near or went farther from the shore ; for, waiting thereabouts
till evening, I went up to the rock again, and then the tide of
ebb being made, I plainly saw the current again as before,
only that it ran farther off, being near half a league from
the shore; whereas in my case it set close upon the shore,
and hurried me and my canoe along with it, which at another
time it would not have done.
This observation convinced me that I had nothing to do
but to observe the ebbing and flowing of the tide, and I might
very easily bring my boat about the island again ; but when I
began to think of putting it in practice, I had such terror
upon my spirits at the remembrance of the danger I had been
in, that I could not think of it again with any patience, but,
on the contrary, I took up another resolution, which was more
safe, though more laborious—and this was, that I would build,
or rather make, me another periagua or canoe, and so have
one for one side of the island, and one for the other.
You are to understand, that now I had, as I may call it, two
plantations in the island; one my little fortification or tent,
with the wall about it, under the rock, with the cave behind
me, which by this time I had enlarged into several apart-
ments, or caves, one within another. One of these, which was
the driest and largest, and had a door out beyond my wall or
fortification, that is to say, beyond where my wall joined to
the rock, was all filled up with the large earthern pots, of
which I have given an account, and with fourteen or fifteen
great baskets, which would hold five or six bushels each,
where I laid up my stores of provision, especially my corn,
some in the ear, cut off short from the straw, and the other
rubbed out with my hand. As for my wall, made as before,
with long stakes or piles, those piles grew all like trees, and
were by this time grown so big, and spread so very much, that
there was not the least appearance, to any one's view, of any
habitation behind them.
Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther within the
land, and upon lower ground, lay my two pieces of corn land.
which I kept duly cultivated and sowed, and which duly
yielded me their harvest in its season ; and whenever I had
occasion for more corn, I had more land adjoining as fit as
that
Besides this, I had my country seat, and I had now a toler-
able plantation there also ; for, first, I had my little bower, as
I called it, which I kept in repair; that is to say, I kept the
hedge, which encircled it in, constantly fitted up to its usual
height, the ladder standing always in the inside ; I kept the
trees, which at first were no more than stakes, but were now
grown very firm and tall, always cut, so that they might
spread and grow thick and wild, and make the more agreeable
shade, which they did effectually to my mind. In the middle
of this I had my tent always standing, being a piece of a sail
spread over poles, set up for that purpose, and which never
wanted any repair or renewing; and under this I had made
me a squab or couch, with the skins of the creatures I had
killed, and with other soft things, and a blanket laid on them,
such as belonged to our sea-bedding, which I had saved ; and
a great watch-coat to cover me; and here, whenever I had
occasion to be absent from my seat, I took up my country
habitation.
Adjoining to this, I had my inclosures for my cattle, that is
to say, my goats; and as I had taken an inconceivable deal
of pains to fence and inclose this ground, so I was so uneasy
to see it kept entire, lest the goats should break through, that
I never left off till, with infinite labour, I had stuck the out-
side of the hedge so full of small stakes, and so near to one
another, that it was rather a pale than a hedge, and there was
scarce room to put a hand through between them, which after-
wards, when those stakes grew, as they all did in the next
rainy season, made the inclosure strong like a wall, indeed
stronger than any wall. This will testify for me that I was
not idle, and that I spared no pains to bring to pass whatever
appeared necessary for my comfortable support
In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I princi-
pally depended on for my winter store of raisins, and which I
never failed to preserve very carefully, as the best and most
agreeable dainty of my whole diet; and indeed they were not
agreeable only, but medicinal, wholesome, nourishing, and re-
freshing to the last degree.
As this was also about half-way between my other habita-
tion and the place where I had laid up my boat , I generally
staid and lay here in my way thither; for I used frequently to
visit my boat, and I kept all things about, or belonging to her
in very good order; sometimes I went out in her to divert
myself, but no more hazardous voyages would I go, scarcely
ever above a stone's cast or two from the shore, I was so
apprehensive of being hurried out of my knowledge again by
the currents or winds, or any other accident But now I come
to a new scene of my life.
It happened one day, about noon, going towards my boat,
I was exceedingly surprised with the print of a man's naked
foot on the shore, which was very plain to be seen on the
sand. I stood like one thunderstruck, or as if I had seen
an apparition ; I listened, I looked round me, I could hear
nothing, nor see anything ; I went up to a rising ground, to
look farther; I went up the shore, and down the shore, but it
was all one, I could see no other impression but that one. I
went to it again to see if there were any more, and to observe
if it might not be my fancy ; but there was no room for that,
for there was exactly the print of a foot, toes, heel, and every
part of a foot; how it came thither I knew not, nor could I in
the least imagine. But after innumerable fluttering thoughts,
like a man perfectly confused and out of myself, I came home
to my fortification, no feeling, as we say, the ground I went
on, but terrified to the last degree, looking behind me at every
two or three steps, mistaking every bush and tree, and fancy-
ing every stump at a distance to be a man ; nor is it possible
to describe how many various shapes affrighted imagination
represented things to me in ; how many wild ideas were found
every moment in my fancy, and what strange, unaccountable
whimseys came into my thoughts by the way.
When I came to my castle (for so I think I called it ever
after this), I fled into it like one pursued ; whether I went
over by the ladder, as first contrived, or went in at the hole in
the rock, which I had called a door, I cannot remember; no,
nor could I remember the next morning; for never frightened
hare fled to cover, or fox to earth, with more terror of mind
than I to this retreat
I slept none that night; the farther I was from the occasion
of my fright, the greater my apprehensions were; which is
something contrary to the nature of such things, and especially
to the usual practice of all creatures in fear; but I was so
embarrassed with my own frightful ideas of the thing, that I
formed nothing but dismal imaginations to myself, even
though I was now a great way off it Sometimes I fancied it
must be the devil; and reason joined in with me in this sup-
position ; for how should any other thing in human shape
come into the place? Where was the vessel that brought
them? What marks were there of any other footstep ? And
how was it possible a man should come there ? But then, to
think that Satan should take human shape upon him in such
a place, where there could be no manner of occasion for it, but
to leave the print of his foot behind him, and that even for no
purpose too, for he could not be sure I should see it; this was
an amusement the other way; I considered that the devil
might have found out abundance of other ways to have terri-
fied me than this of the single print of a foot That as I lived
quite on the other side of the island, he would never have
been so simple as to leave a mark in a place where it was ten
thousand to one whether I should ever see it or not , and in
the sand, too, which the first surge of the sea, upon a high
wind, would have defaced entirely: all this seemed inconsis-
tent with the thing itself, and with all the notions we usually
entertain of the subtilty of the devil.
Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue me out
of all apprehensions of its being the devil; and I presently
concluded then, that it must be some more dangerous creature;
that it must be some of the savages of the main land over
against me, who had wandered out to sea in their canoes, and
either driven by the currents, or by contrary winds, had made
the island ; and had been on shore, but were gone away again
to sea, being as loth, perhaps, to have stayed in this desolate
island, as I would have been to have had them.
While these reflections were rolling in my mind, I was very
thankful in my thoughts, that I was so happy as not to be
thereabouts at that time, or that they did not see my boat, by
which they would have concluded that some inhabitants had
been in the place, and perhaps have searched farther for me.
Then terrible thoughts racked my imagination about their
having found out my boat, and that there were people here ;
and that, if so, I should certainly have them come again in
greater numbers, and devour me ; that if it should happen
that they should not find me, yet they would find my inclosure,
destroy all my corn, and carry away all my flock of tame goats,
and I should perish at last for mere want
Thus my fear banished all my religious hope, all that former
confidence in God, which was founded upon such wonderful
COMFORT FROM THE BIBLE. 115
experience as I had had of His goodness ; as if He that had
fed me by miracle hitherto could not preserve, by His power,
the provision which He had made for me by His goodness.
I reproached myself with my laziness, that would not sow any
more corn one year than would just serve me till the next
season, as if no accident could intervene to prevent my enjoy-
ing the crop that was upon the ground; and this I thought
so just a reproof, that I resolved for the future to have two or
three years' corn beforehand ; so that, whatever might come,
I might not perish for want of bread.
One morning early, lying in my bed, and filled with thoughts
about my danger from the appearances of savages, I found it
discomposed me very much; upon which these words of the
Scripture came into my thoughts : " Call upon me in the day
of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me."
Upon this, rising cheerfully out of my bed, my heart was not
only comforted, but I was guided and encouraged to pray
earnestly to God for deliverance : when I had done praying,
I took up my Bible, and opening it to read, the first words
presented to me were, " Wait on the Lord, and be of good
cheer, and He shall strengthen thy heart; wait, I say, on the
Lord." It is impossible to express the comfort this gave me.
In answer, I thankfully laid down the book, and was no more
sad.
In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and re-
flections, it came into my thoughts one day, that all this might
be a mere chimera of my own, and that this foot might be the
print of my own foot, when I came on shore from my boat:
this cheered me up a little, too, and I began to persuade myself
it was all a delusion ; that it was nothing else but my own
foot; and why might I not come that way from the boat, as
well as I was going that way to the boat ?
Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again j
for I had not stirred out of my castle for three days and nights ;
so that I began to starve for provision ; for I had little 01
nothing within doors but some barley-cakes and water. Then
I knew that my goats wanted to be milked too, which usually
was my evening diversion ; and the poor creatures were in
great pain and inconvenience for want of it; and, indeed, it
almost spoiled some of them, and almost dried up their milk.
Heartening myself, therefore, with the belief that this was
nothing but the print of one of my own feet, and that I might
be truly said to start at my own shadow, I began to go abroad
again, and went to my country house to milk my flock ; but
to see with what fear I went forward, how often I looked behind
me, how I was ready, every now and then, to lay down my
basket, and run for my life, it would have made any one have
thought I was haunted with an evil conscience, or that I had
been lately most terribly frightened ; and so, indeed, I had.
However, I went down thus two or three days, and having
seen nothing, I began to be a little bolder, and to think there
was really nothing in it but my own imagination ; but I could
not persuade myself fully of this till I should go down to the
shore again, and see this print of a foot, and measure it by
my own, and see if there was any similitude or fitness, that I
might be assured it was my own foot: but when I came to the
place, first, it appeared evidently to me, that when I laid up
my boat, I could not possibly be on shore anywhere there-
about Secondly, when I came to measure the mark with my
own foot, I found my foot not so large by a great deal; both
these things filled my head with new imaginations, and gave
me the vapours again to the highest degree, so that I shook
with cold like one in an ague; and I went home again, filled
with the belief that some man or men had been on shore there;
or, in short, that the island was inhabited, and I might be
surprised before I was aware; and what course to take for
my security I knew not
This confusion of my thoughts kept me awake all night; but
in the morning I fell asleep; and having, by the amusement
of my mind, been, as it were, tired, and my spirits exhausted,
I slept very soundly, and waked much better composed than
I had ever been before; and now I began to think sedately;
and, upon the utmost debate with myself, I concluded that
this island (which was so exceedingly pleasant, fruitful, and
no farther from the main land than as I had seen) was not so
entirely abandoned as I might imagine ; that although there
were no stated inhabitants who lived on the spot , yet that
there might sometimes come boats off from the shore, who,
either with design, or perhaps never but when they were driven
by cross winds, might come to this place. That I had lived
here fifteen years now, and had not met with the least shadow
or figure of any people yet; and that if at any time they
should be driven here, it was probable they went away again
as soon as ever they could, seeing they had never thought fit
to fix here upon any occasion to this time. That the most I
could suggest any danger from was, from any casual accidental
THE OUTER WALL. 117
landing of straggling people from the main, who, as it was
likely, if they were driven hither, were here against their wills ;
so they made no stay here, but went off again with all possible
speed, seldom staying one night on shore, lest they should not
have the help of the tides and daylight back again ; and that,
therefore, I had nothing to do but to consider of some safe
retreat, in case I should see any savages land upon the spot
Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave so
large as to bring a door through again, which door, as I said,
came out beyond where my fortification joined to the rock:
upon maturely considering this, therefore, I resolved to draw
me a second fortification, in the manner of a semicircle, at a
distance from my wall, just where I had planted a double row
of trees about twelve years before, of which I made mention :
these trees having been planted so thick before, they wanted
but few piles to be driven between them, that they might be
thicker and stronger, and my wall would be soon finished. So
that I had now a double wall; and my outer wall was thick-
ened with pieces of timber, old cables, and everything I could
think of, to make it strong; having in it seven little holes,
about as big as I might put my arm out at In the inside of
this, I thickened my wall to about ten feet thick, with con-
tinually bringing earth out of my cave, and laying it at the
foot of the wall, and walking upon it; and through the
seven holes I contrived to plant the muskets, of which I took
notice that I had got seven on shore out of the ship; these I
planted like my cannon, and fitted them into frames, that held
them like a carriage, so that I could fire all the seven guns in
two minutes' time; this wall I was many a weary month in
finishing, and yet never thought myself safe till it was done.
When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my wall,
for a great length every way, as full with stakes or sticks of
the osier-like wood, which I found so apt to grow, as they could
well stand ; insomuch, that I believe I might set in near twenty
thousand of them, leaving a pretty large space between them
and my wall, that I might have room to see an enemy, and
they might have no shelter from the young trees, if they at-
tempted to approach my outer wall.
Thus, in two years' time, I had a thick grove, and in five or
six years' time I had a wood before my dwelling, growing so
monstrously thick and strong that it was indeed perfectly im-
passable ; and no men, of what kind soever, could ever imagine
that there was anything beyond it, much less a habitation.
TO
As for the way which I proposed to myself to go in and out
(for I left no avenue), it was by setting two ladders, one to a
part of the rock which was low, and then broke in, and left
room to place another ladder upon that; so when the two
ladders were taken down, no man living could come down to
me without doing himself mischief, and if they had come down,
they were still on the outside of my outer wall. Thus I took
all the measures human prudence could suggest for my own
preservation ; and it will be seen, at length, that they were not
altogether without just reason ; though I foresaw nothing at
that time more than my mere fear suggested to me.
While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of my
other affairs ; for I had a great concern upon me for my little
herd of goats : they were not only a ready supply to me on
every occasion, and began to be sufficient for me, without the
expense of powder and shot, but also without the fatigue of
hunting after the wild ones; and I was loth to lose the ad-
vantage of them, and to have them all to nurse up over again.
Accordingly, I spent some time to find out the most retired
parts of the island; and I pitched upon one, which was as
private, indeed, as my heart could wish for; it was a little
damp piece of ground, in the middle of the hollow and thick
woods, where, as I observed, I almost lost myself once before,
endeavouring to come back that way from the eastern part of
the island. Here I found a clear piece of land, near three
acres, so surrounded with woods that it was almost an inclosure
by nature; at least, it did not want near so much labour to
make it so, as the other piece of ground I had worked so
hard at
I immediately went to work with this piece of ground ; and,
in less than a month's time, I had so fenced it round, that my
flock, or herd, call it which you please, which were not so wild
now as at first they might be supposed to be, were well enough
secured in it So, without any further delay, I removed ten
young she-goats, and two he-goats, to this piece ; and, when
they were there, I continued to perfect the fence, till I had
made it as secure as the other, which, however, I did at more
leisure, and it took me up more time by a great deal.
All this labour I was at the expense of, purely from my ap-
prehension on account of the print of a man's foot which I had
seen ; for, as yet, I never saw any human creature come near
the island, and I had now lived two years under these uneasi-
nesses, which, indeed, made my life much less comfortable
SIGNS OF CANNIBALISM. ng
than it was before ; as may be well imagined by any who may
know what it is to live in the constant snare of the fear of man.
After I had thus secured one part of my little living stock,
I went about the whole island, searching for another private
place to make such another deposit; when, wandering more
to the west point of the island than I had ever done yet, and
looking out to sea, I thought I saw a boat upon the sea, at a
great distance ; I had found a perspective-glass or two in one
of the seamen's chest, which I saved out of our ship, but I had
it not about me; and this was so remote that I could not tell
what to make of it, though I looked at it till my eyes were
not able to hold to look any longer : whether it was a boat or
not, I do not know, but as I descended from the hill I could
see no more of it, so I gave it over; only I resolved to go no
more out without a perspective-glass in my pocket When I
was come down the hill to the end of the island, where, indeed,
I had never been before, I was presently convinced that the
seeing the print of a man's foot was not such a strange thing
in the island as I imagined ; and, but that it was a special pro-
vidence that I was cast upon the side of the island where the
savages never came, I should easily have known that nothing
was more frequent than for the canoes from the main, when
they happened to be a little too far out at sea, to shoot over to
that side of the island for harbour : likewise, as they often met
and fought in their canoes, the victors, having taken any
prisoners, would bring them over to this shore, where, according
to their dreadful customs, being all cannibals, they would
kill and eat them ; of which hereafter.
When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said
above, being the S.W. point of the island, I was perfectly
confounded and amazed ; nor is it possible for me to express
the horror of my mind, at seeing the shore spread with skulls,
hands, feet, and other bones of human bodies ; and particularly,
I observed a place where there had been a fire made, and a
circle dug in the earth, like a cockpit, where I supposed the
savage wretches had sat down to their inhuman feastings upon
the bodies of their fellow-creatures.
I was so astonished with the sight of these things, that I
entertained no notions of any danger to myself from it for a
long while: all my apprehensions were buried in the thoughts
of such a pitch of inhuman, hellish brutality, and the horror of
the degeneracy of human nature, which, though I had heard of
it often, yet I never had so near a view of before : in short, I
turned away my face from the horrid spectacle; my stomach
grew sick, and I was just at the point of fainting, when nature
discharged the disorder from my stomach ; and having vomited
with uncommon violence, I was a little relieved, but could not
bear to stay in the place a moment; so I got me up the hill
again with all the speed I could, and walked on towards my
own habitation.
When I came a little out of that part of the island, I stood
still awhile, as amazed, and then, recovering myself, I looked
up with the utmost affection of my soul, and, with a flood of
tears in my eyes, gave God thanks, that had cast my first lot
in a part of the world where I was distinguished from such
dreadful creatures as these.
In this frame of thankfulness, I went home to my castle,
and began to be much easier now, as to the safety of my cir-
cumstances, than ever I was before: for I observed that these
wretches never came to this island in search of what they could
get; perhaps not seeking, not wanting, or not expecting, any-
thing here; and having often, no doubt, been up to the covered,
woody part of it, without finding anything to their purpose.
I knew I had been here now almost eighteen years, and never
saw the least footsteps of human creature there before ; and I
might be eighteen years more as entirely concealed as I was
now, if I did not discover myself to them, which I had no
manner of occasion to do; it being my only business to keep
myself entirely concealed where I was, unless I found a better
sort of creatures than cannibals to make myself known to. Yet
I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage wretches that I
have been speaking of, and of the wretched inhuman custom
of their devouring and eating one another up, that I continued
pensive and sad, and kept close within my own circle, for
almost two years after this. When I say my own circle, I
mean by it my three plantations, vis., my castle, my country-
seat, which I called my bower, and my inclosure in the woods:
nor did I look after this for any other use than as an inclosure
for my goats ; for the aversion which nature gave me to these
hellish wretches was such, that I was as fearful of seeing them
as of seeing the devil himself. I did not so much as go to look
after my boat all this time, but began rather to think of making
another ; for I could not think of ever making any more at-
tempts to bring the other boat round the island to me, lest I
should meet with some of these creatures at sea; in which
case, if I had happened to have fallen into their hands I knew
what would have been my lot
CRUSOE TRIES TO BREW BEER. 121
Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I was in no
danger of being discovered by these people, began to wear off
my uneasiness about them; and I began to live just in the
same composed manner as before, only with this difference,
that I used more caution, and kept my eyes more about me
than I did before lest I should happen to be seen by any of
them; and I was more cautious of firing my gun, lest any of
them, being on the island, should happen to hear it; it was,
therefore, a good providence to me that I had furnished
myself with a tame breed of goats, and that I needed not to
hunt any more about the woods, or shoot at them ; and if I
did catch any of them after this, it was by traps and snares, as
I had done before; so that for two years after this, I believe
I never fired my gun off once, though I never went out without
it; and as I had saved three pistols out of the ship, I always
carried them out with me, or at least two of them, sticking
them in my goat-skin belt; I also furbished up one of the
great cutlasses that I had out of the ship, and made me a belt
to hang it on also; so that I was now a most formidable fellow
to look at when I went abroad, if you add to the former
description of myself, the particular of two pistols, and a great
broadsword hanging at my side in a belt, but without a
scabbard.
As in my present condition there were not really many
things which I wanted, so, indeed, I thought that the frights
I had been in about these savage wretches, and the concern I
had been in for my own preservation, had taken off the edge
of my invention for my own conveniences; and I had dropped
a good design, which I had once bent my thoughts upon, and
that was to try if I could not make some of my barley into
malt, and then to try and brew myself some beer. This was
really a whimsical thought, and I reproved myself often for
the simplicity of it: for I presently saw there would be the
want of several things necessary to the making my beer, that
it would be impossible for me to supply; as, first, casks to
preserve it in, which was a thing that, as I have observed
already, I could never compass: no, though I spent not only
many days, but weeks, nay months, in attempting it, but to no
purpose. In the next place, I had no hops to make it keep,
no yeast to make it work, no copper or kettle to make it boil;
and yet with all these things wanting, I verily believe, had
not the frights and terrors I was in about the savages inter-
vened, I had undertaken it, and perhaps brought it to pass
too; for I seldom gave anything over without accomplishing
it, when once I had it in my head to begin it. But my in-
vention now ran quite another way; for, night and day, I
could think of nothing but how I might destroy some of these
monsters in their cruel, bloody entertainment; and, if pos-
sible, save the victim they should bring hither to destroy.
Sometimes I contrived in my thoughts to dig a hole under
the place where they made their fire, and put in five or six
pounds of gunpowder, which when they kindled their fire,
would consequently take fire, and blow up all that was near it;
but as in the fiist place I should be very loth to waste so
much powder upon them, my store being now within the
quantity of one barrel; so neither could I be sure of its going
off, at any certain time, when it might surprise them, and at
best, that it would do little more than just blow the fire
about their ears and fright them, but not sufficient to make
them forsake the place ; so I laid it aside, and then proposed,
that I would place myself in ambush, in some convenient
place, with my three guns, all double loaded; and in the
middle of their bloody ceremony, let fly at them, when I should
be sure to kill or wound perhaps two or three at every shoot;
and then falling in upon them with my three pistols, and my
sword, I made no doubt but that if there was twenty I should
kill them all. This fancy pleased my thoughts for some weeks,
and I was so full of it, that I often dreamed of it; and some-
times, that I was just going to let fly at them in my sleep.
At length I found a place in the side of the hill, where I
was satisfied I might securely wait till I saw any of their
boats coming; and might then, even before they would be
ready to come on shore, convey myself unseen into some
thickets of trees, in one of which there was a hollow large
enough to :onceal me entirely; and there I might sit and
observe all their bloody doings, and take my full aim at their
heads, when they were so close together as that it would be
next to impossible that I should miss my shot, or that I could
fail wounding three or four of them at the first shot
After I had thus laid the scheme of my design, and in my
imagination put it into practice, I continually made my tour
every morning to the top of the hill, which was from my castle,
as I called it, about three miles, or more, to see if I could
observe any boats upon the sea, coming near the island, or
standing over towards it; but I began to tire of this hard duty
As long as I kept my daily tour to the hill to look out, so
DESIGNS AGAINST THE SAVAGES. 123
long also I kept up the vigour of my design, and my spirits
seemed to be all the while in a suitable frame for so out-
rageous an execution as the killing twenty or thirty naked
savages, for an offence which I had not a,t all entered into
any discussion of in my thoughts. But when I began to be
weary of the fruitless excursion which I had made so long
and so far every morning in vain, so my opinion of the action
itself began to alter; and I began, with cooler and calmer
thoughts, to consider what I was going to engage in; what
authority or call I had to pretend to be judge and executioner
upon these men as criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit
for so many ages, to suffer, unpunished, to go on, and to be,
as it were, the executioners of His judgments one upon
another; how far these people were offenders against me,
and what right I had to engage in the quarrel of that blood
which they shed promiscuously one upon another.
When I considered this a little, it followed necessarily that
I was certainly in the wrong; that these people were not mur-
derers, in the sense that I had before condemned them in my
thoughts, any more than those Christians were murderers who
often put to death the prisoners taken in battle; or more
frequently, upon many occasions, put whole troops of men
to the sword, without giving quarter, though they threw down
their arms, and submitted.
These considerations really put me to a pause, and to a
kind of full stop ; and I began, by little and little, to be off
my design, and to conclude I had taken wrong measures in
my resolution to attack the savages; and that it was not
my business to meddle with them, unless they first attacked
me; and this it was my business, if possible, to prevent;
but that, if I were discovered and attacked by them, I knew
my duty.
In this disposition I continued for near a year after this;
and so far was I from desiring an occasion for falling upon
these wretches, that in all that time I never once went up
the hill to see whether there were any of them in sight, or to
know whether any of them had been on shore there or not,
that I might not be tempted to renew any of my contrivances
against them, or be provoked by any advantage that might
present itself, to fall upon them. Only this I did ; I went and
removed my boat, which I had on the other side of the island,
and carried it down to the east end of the whole island,
where I ran it into a little cove, which I found under some
high rocks, and where I knew, by reason of the currents, the
savages durst not, at least would not, come with their boats
upon any account whatever. With my boat I carried away
everything that I had left there belonging to her, though not
necessary for the bare going thither, viz., a mast and sail
which I had made for her, and a thing like an anchor, but
which indeed could not be called either anchor or grapnel;
however, it was the best I could make of its kind ; all these
I removed, that there might not be the least shadow for dis-
covery, or appearance of any boat, or of any human habita-
tion upon the island. Besides this, I kept myself, as I said,
more retired than ever, and seldom went from my cell except
upon my constant employment, to milk my she-goats, and
manage my little flock in the wood, which, as it was quite
on the other part of the island, was out of danger; for certain
it is that these savage people, who sometimes haunted this
island, never came with any thoughts of finding anything here,
and consequently never wandered off from the coast, and I
doubt not but they might have been several times on shore
after my apprehensions of them had made me cautious, as
well as before. Indeed, I looked back with some horror upon
the thoughts of what my condition would have been, if I had
chopped upon them and been discovered before that, when
naked and unarmed, except with one gun, and that loaded
often only with small shot, I walked everywhere, peeping and
peering about the island to see what I could get; what a
surprise should I have been in, if, when I discovered the print
of a man's foot, I had, instead of that, seen fifteen or twenty
savages, and found them pursuing me, and, by the swiftness
of their running, no possibility of my escaping them.
I had the care of my safety more now upon my hands than
that of my food. I dared not to drive a nail, or chop a stick
of wood now, for fear the noise I might make should be
heard: much less would I fire a gun for the same reason:
and, above all, I was intolerably uneasy at making any fire,
lest the smoke, which is visible at a great distance in the day,
should betray me. For this reason, I removed that part of
my business which required fire, such as burning of pots and
pipes, &c, into my new apartment in the woods ; where, after
I had been some time, I found to my unspeakable consolation
a mere natural cave in the earth, which went in a vast way,
and where, I dare say, no savage, had he been at the mouth
of it, would be so hardy as to venture in.
Afraid.
ANOTHER CAVE DISCOVERED. 125
The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a great
rock, where, by mere accident (I would say, if I did not see
abundant reason to ascribe all such things now to Providence),
I was cutting down some thick branches of trees to make
charcoal; and before I go on I must observe the reason of
my making this charcoal, which was thus: I was afraid of
making a smoke about my habitation, as I said before ; and
yet I could not live there without baking my bread, cooking
my meat, &c; so I contrived to burn some wood here, as I
had seen done in England, under turf, till it became chark or
dry coal; and then putting the fire out, I preserved the coal
to carry home, and perform the other services for which fire
was wanting, without danger of smoke.
While I was cutting down some wood here, I perceived that,
behind a very thick branch of low brushwood or underwood,
there was a kind of hollow place : I was curious to look into
it; and getting with difficulty into the mouth of it, I found it
was pretty large, that is to say, sufficient for me to stand
upright in it, and perhaps another with me; but I must con-
fess to you that I made more haste out than I did in, when
looking farther into the place, which was perfectly dark, I saw
two broad shining eyes of some creature, whether devil or man
I knew not, which twinkled like two stars; the dim light from
the cave's mouth shining directly in, and making the reflection.
However, after some pause, I recovered myself, and began
to call myself a thousand fools, and tell myself that he that
was afraid to see the devil was not fit to live twenty years in
an island all alone ; and that I durst to believe there was
nothing in this cave that was more frightful than myself;
upon this, plucking up my courage, I took up a- firebrand,
and in I rushed again, with the stick flaming in my hand : I
had not gone three steps in, before I was almost as much
frighted as I was before ; for I heard a very loud sigh, like
that of a man in some pain, and it was followed by a broken
noise, as of words half expressed, and then a deep sigh again.
I stepped back, and was indeed struck with such a surprise
that it put me into a cold sweat, and if I had had a hat on
my head, I will not answer for it that my hair might not
have lifted it off. But still plucking up my spirits as well as
I could, and encouraging myself a little with considering that
the power and presence of God was everywhere, and was able
to protect me, I stepped forward again, and by the light of
the firebrand, holding it up a little over my head, I saw lying
on the ground a monstrous, frightful, old he-goat, just making
his will, as we say, and gasping for life, and dying, indeed, of
mere old age.
I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out, and he
essayed to get up, but was not able to raise himself; and I
thought with myself he might even lie there; for if he had
frighted me, so he would certainly fright any of the savages, if
any of them should be so hardy as to come in there while he had
any life in him.
I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to look
round me, when I found the cave was but very small, that is
to say, it might be about twelve feet over, but in no manner
of shape, neither round nor square, no hands having ever been
employed in making it but those of mere Nature. I observed
also that there was a place at the farther side of it that went
in further, but was so low that it required me to creep upon
my hands and knees to go into it, and whither it went I knew
not; so, having no candle, I gave it over for that time, but
resolved to go again the next day provided with candles and
a tinder-box, which I had made of the lock of one of the
muskets, with some wildfire in the pan.
Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six large
candles of my own making; for I made very good candles
now of goat's tallow; and going into this low place I was
obliged to creep upon all-fours, as I have said, almost tea
yards ; which I thought was a venture bold enough, consider-
ing that I knew not how far it might go, nor what was beyond
it When I was got through the strait, I found the roof rose
higher up, I believe near twenty feet; but never was such a
glorious sight seen in the island, I dare say, as it was to look
round the sides and roof of this vault or cave ; the walls re-
flected a hundred thousand lights to me from my two candles;
what it was in the rock—whether diamonds or any other
precious stones, or gold—which I rather supposed it to be—I
knew not
The place I was in was a most delightful cavity, or grotto,
of its kind, though perfectly dark; the floor was dry and level,
and had a sort of a small loose gravel upon it , so that there
was no nauseous or venomous creature to be seen, neither was
there any damp or wet on the sides or roof; the only difficulty
in it was the entrance—which, however, as it was a place of
security, and such a retreat as I wanted, I thought was a con-
venience ; so that I was really rejoiced at the discovery, and
"MY MAGAZINE." 1*7
resolved, without any delay, to bring some of those things
which I was most anxious about to this place ; particularly, I
resolved to bring hither my magazine of powder, and all my
spare arms, viz., two fowling-pieces, for I had three in all; and
three muskets, for of them I had eight in all; so I kept in my
castle only five, which stood ready mounted like pieces of
cannon on my outmost fence, and were ready also to take out
upon any expedition.
Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition I happened
to open the barrel of powder which I took up out of the sea,
and which had been wet, and I found that the water had
penetrated about three or four inches into the powder on
every side, which, caking and growing hard, had preserved
the inside like a kernel in the shell, so that I had near sixty
pounds of very good powder in the centre of the cask. This
was a very agreeable discovery to me at that time; so I
carried all away thither, never keeping above two or three
pounds of powder with me in my castle, for fear of a surprise
of any kind ; I also carried thither all the lead I had left for
bullets.
I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants who
were said to live in caves and holes in the rocks, where none
could come at them ; for I persuaded myself, while I was here,
that if five hundred savages were to hunt me, they could
never find me out; or if they did, they would not venture to
attack me here. The old goat whom I found expiring died
in the mouth of the cave the next day after I made this dis-
covery ; and I found it much easier to dig a great hole there,
and throw him in and cover him with earth, than to drag him
out; so I interred him there, to prevent offence to my nose.
I was now in the twenty-third year of my residence in this
island, and was so naturalized to the place and the manner
of living, that, could I but have enjoyed the certainty that no
savages would come to the place to disturb me, I could have
been content to have capitulated for spending the rest of my
time there, even to the last moment, till I had laid me down
and died, like the old goat in the cave. I had also arrived to
some little diversions and amusements, which made the time
pass a great deal more pleasantly with me than it did before;
as first, I had taught my Poll,as I noted before, to speak; and
he did it so familiarly, and talked so articulately and plain,
that it was very pleasant to me; and he lived with me no
less than six-and-twenty years; how long he might have lived
afterwards I know not, though I know they have a notion in
the Brazils that they live a hundred years. My dog was a
very pleasant and loving companion to me for no less than
sixteen years of my time, and then died of mere old age ; as
for my cats, they multiplied, as I have observed, to that degree,
that I was obliged to shoot several of them at first, to keep
them from devouring me and all I had ; but, at length, when
the two old ones I brought with me were gone, and after some
time continually driving them from me, and letting them have
no provision with me, they all ran wild into the woods, except
two or three favourites, which I kept tame, and whose young,
when they had any, I always drowned ; and these were part
of my family. Besides these I always kept two or three
household kids about me, whom I taught to feed out of my
hand ; and I had two more parrots, which talked pretty well,
and would all call " Robin Crusoe," but none like my first;
nor, indeed, did I take the pains with any of them that I had
done with him. I had also several tame sea-fowls, whose
name I knew not, that I caught upon the shore, and cut their
wings; and the little stakes which I had planted before my
castle-wall being now grown up to a good thick grove, these
fowls all lived among these low trees, and bred there, which
was very agreeable to me ; so that, as I said above, I began
to be very well contented with the life I led, if I could have
been secured from the dread of savages. But it was otherwise
directed.
It was now the month of December, as I said before, in my
twenty-third year; and this being the southern solstice, for
winter I cannot call it, was the particular time of my harvest,
and required my being pretty much abroad in the fields;
when, going out early in the morning, even before it was
thorough daylight, I was surprised with seeing a light of some
fire upon the shore, at a distance from me of about two miles,
toward that part of the island where I'had observed some
savages had been ; and not, as before, on the other side, but,
to my great affliction, it was on my side of the island.
I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped
short within my grove, not daring to go out, lest I might be
surprised; and yet I had no more peace within, from the
apprehensions I had that if these savages, in rambling through
the island, should find my corn standing or cut, or any of
my improvements, they would immediately conclude that
tb«re were people in the place, and would then never give
over till they had found me out In this extremity I went
back directly to my castle, pulled up the ladder after me, and
made all things without look as wild and natural as I could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a posture
of defence ; I loaded all my cannon, as I called them ; that
is to say my muskets, which were mounted upon my new
fortification, and all my pistols, and resolved to defend myself
to the last gasp, not forgetting seriously to commend mysell
to the Divine protection, and earnestly to pray to God to
deliver me out of the hands of the barbarians. In this posture
I continued about two hours, and began to be impatient for
intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to send out After
sitting awhile longer, and musing what I should do in this
case, I was not able to bear sitting in ignorance any longer;
so setting up my ladder to the side of the hill, where there
was a flat place, as I observed before, and then pulling the
ladder up after me, I set it up again and mounted the top of
the hill; and pulling out my perspective-glass, which I had
taken on purpose, I laid me down flat on the ground, and
began to look for the place.
I presently found there were no less than nine naked savages,
sitting round a small fire they had made, not to warm them,
for they had no need of that the weather being extremely
hot, but, as I supposed, to dress some of their barbarous diet
of human flesh which they had brought with them, whether
alive or dead I could not tell.
They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled up
upon the shore ; and as it was then tide of ebb, they seemed
to wait for the return of the flood to go away again ; it is not
easy to imagine what confusion this sight put me into, espe-
cially seeing them come on my side of the island, and so near
me too ; but when I observed their coming must be always
with the current of the ebb, I began afterwards to be more
sedate in my mind, being satisfied that I might go abroad
with safety all the time of the tide of flood, if they were not
on shore before: and having made this observation, I went
abroad about my harvest work with the more composure.
As I expected, so it proved ; for, as soon as the tide made
to the westward, I saw them all take boat, and row (or paddle,
as we call it) all away. I should have observed, that for an
hour or more before they went off they were dancing, and
I could easily discern their postures and gestures by my glass ;
I could not perceive, by my nicest observation, but that
they were stark naked, and had not the least covering upon
them ; but whether they were men or women I could not dis-
tinguish.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two guns
upon my shoulders, and two pistols at my girdle, and my
great sword by my side without a scabbard, and, with all
the speed I was able to make, I went away to the hill where
I had discovered the first appearance of all; and as soon as
I got thither, which was not in less than two hours (for I could
not go quickly, being so loaded with arms as I was), I perceived
there had been three canoes more of the savages at that place;
and looking out farther, I saw they were all at sea together,
making over for the main. This was a dreadful sight to me,
especially as, going down to the shore, I could see the marks
of horror which the dismal work they had been about had left
behind it, viz., the blood, the bones, and part of the flesh of
human bodies eaten and devoured by those wretches with
merriment and sport: I was so filled with indignation at the
sight, that I now began to premeditate the destruction of the
next that I saw there, let them be who or how many soever.
It seemed evident to me that the visits which they made thus
to this island were not very frequent; for it was above fifteen
months before any more of them came on shore there again ;
that is to say, I neither saw them, nor any footsteps or signals
of them in all that time; for as to the rainy seasons, then they
are sure not to come abroad, at least not so far ; yet all this
while I lived uncomfortably, by reason of the constant appre-
hensions I was in of their coming upon me by surprise: from
whence I observe, that the expectation of evil is more bitter
than the suffering.
I spent my days now in great perplexity and anxiety of
mind, expecting that I should one day or other fall into the
hands of these merciless creatures; and if I did at any time
venture abroad, it was not without looking around me with
the greatest care and caution imaginable. And now I found,
to my great comfort, how happy it was that I had provided a
tame flock or herd of goats; for I durst not upon any account
fire my gun, especially near that side of the island where they
usually came, lest I should alarm the savages ; and if they
had fled from me now, I was sure to have them come again
with perhaps two or three hundred canoes with them in a few
days, and then I knew what to expect However, I wore out
a year and three months more before I ever saw any more of
A SIGNAL OF DISTRESS. 131
of the savages, and then I found them again, as 1 shall soon
observe. It is true they might have been there once or twice ;
but either they made no stay, or at least I did not see them ;
but in the month of May, as near as I could calculate, and in
my four-and-twentieth year, I had a very strange encounter
with them ; of which in its place.
It was in the middle of May, on the sixteenth day, I think,
as well as my poor wooden calendar would reckon, for I
marked all upon the post still ; I say, it was on the sixteenth
of May that it blew a very great storm of wind all day, with
a great deal of lightning and thunder, and a very foul night
it was after it I know not what was the particular occasion
of it; but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken up with
very serious thoughts about my present condition, I was sur-
prised with the noise of a gun, as I thought, fired at sea. This
was, to be sure, a surprise quite of a different nature from any
I had met with before ; for the notions this put into my
thoughts were quite of another kind. I started up in the
greatest haste imaginable ; and, in a trice, clapped my ladder
to the middle place of the rock, and pulled it after me, and
mounting it the second time, got to the top of the hill the
very moment that a flash of fire bid me listen for a second gun,
which, accordingly, in about half a minute, I heard, and by
the sound, knew that it was from that part of the sea where I
was driven down the current in my boat I immediately
considered that this must be some ship in distress, and that
they had some comrade, or some other ship in company, and
fired these for signals of distress, and to obtain help; I had
the presence of mind, at that minute, to think, that though I
could not help them, it might be they might help me; so I
brought together all the dry wood I could get at hand, and,
making a good, handsome pile, I set it on fire upon the hill.
The wood was dry, and blazed freely ; and, though the wind
blew very hard, yet it burned fairly out; that I was certain, if
there was any such thing as a ship, they must needs see it,
and no doubt they did; for as soon as ever my fire blazed
up, I heard another gun, and after that several others, all from
the same quarter. I plied my fire all night long, till day
broke; and when it was broad day, and the air cleared up, I
saw something at a great distance at sea, full east of the
island, whether a sail or a hull I could not distinguish, no, not
with my glasses, the distance was so great, and the weather
still something hazy also; at least it was so out at sea.
11
I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon perceived
that it did not move ; so I presently concluded that it was
a ship at anchor; and being eager, you may be sure, to be
satisfied, I took my gun in my hand, and ran towards the
south side of the island, to the rocks where I had formerly
been carried away by the current, and getting up there, the
weather by this time being perfectly clear, I could plainly see,
to my great sorrow, the wreck of a ship, cast away in the
night upon those concealed rocks which I found when I was
out in my boat; and which rocks, as they checked the
violence of the stream, and made a kind of counter-stream,
or eddy, were the occasion of my recovering from the most
desperately hopeless condition that ever I had been in in all
my life.
Thus, what is one man's safety is another man's destruction;
for it seems these men, whoever they were, being out of their
knowledge, and the rocks being wholly under water, had been
driven upon them in the night, the wind blowing hard at
E.N.E. Had they seen the island, as I must necessarily
suppose they did not, they must, as I thought, have en-
deavoured to have saved themselves on shore by the help
of their boat; but their firing off guns for help, especially
when they saw, as I imagined, my fire, filled me with many
thoughts.
In the condition I was in, I could do no more than look on
upon the misery of the poor men, and pity them, which had
still this good effect upon my side, that it gave me more and
more cause to give thanks to God, who had so happily and
comfortably provided for me in my desolate condition, and
that of two ships' companies who were now cast away upon
this part of the world, not one life should be spared but mine.
Such were my earnest wishings, that but one man had been
saved—" O that it had been but one I" that I believe I repeated
the words, " 0 that it had been but one ! " a thousand times ;
and the desires were so moved by it, that when I spoke the
words, my hands would clinch together, and my fingers press
the palms of my hands, that if I had had any soft thing in my
hand, it would have crushed it involuntarily ; and my teeth
in my head would strike together, and set against one another
so strong, that for some time I could not part them again.
But it was not to be; either their fate, or mine, or both,
forbade it; for till the last year of my being on this island, I
never knew whether any were saved out of that ship or no ;
PREPARING TO VISIT THE WRECK. 133
and had only the affliction some days after to see the corpse
of a drowned boy come on shore, at the end of the island
which was next the shipwreck: he had on no clothes but a
seaman's waistcoat, a pair of open-kneed linen drawers, and
a blue linen shirt; but nothing to direct me so much as to
guess what nation he was of. He had nothing in his pocket
but two- pieces of eight and a tobacco pipe ; the last was to
me of ten times more value than the first
It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out in
my boat to this wreck ; not doubting but I might find some-
thing on board that might be useful to me ; but that did not
altogether press me so much as the possibility that there
might be yet some living creature on board, whose life I
might not only save, but might, by saving that life, comfort
my own to the last degree.
Under the power of this impression, I hastened back to my
castle, prepared everything for my voyage, took a quantity of
bread, a great pot of fresh water, a compass to steer by, a
bottle of rum (for I had still a great deal of that left), and
a basket full of raisins ; and thus, loading myself with every-
thing necessary, I went down to my boat, got the water out
of her and got her afloat, loaded all my cargo in her, and
then went home again for more. My second cargo was a
great bagful of rice, the umbrella to set up over my head
for shade, another large pot full of fresh water, and about
two dozen of my small loaves, or barley cakes, more than
before, with a bottle of goat's milk, and a cheese : all which
with great labour and sweat I brought to my boat; and
praying to God to direct my voyage, I put out, and rowing
or paddling the canoe along the shore, I came at last to the
utmost point of the island on that side N.E. And now I was
to launch out into the ocean, and either to venture or not to
venture. I looked on the rapid currents which ran con-
stantly on both sides of the island at a distance, and which
were very terrible to me, from the remembrance of the
hazard I had been in before, and my heart began to fail me;
for I foresaw that if I was driven into either of those currents,
I should be carried a great way out to sea, and perhaps out
of sight of the island again; and that then, as my boat was
but small, if any little gale of wind should rise, I should be
inevitably lost
These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I began to
/ive over my enterprise; and having hauled my boat into
a little creek on the shore, I stepped out, and sat down upon
a rising bit of ground, very pensive and anxious, between
fear and desire about my voyage; when, as I was musing, I
could perceive that the tide was turned, and the flood come
on ; upon which, my going was for so many hours impractic-
able. Upon this, presently it occurred to me, that I should
go up to the highest piece of ground I could find, and
observe, if I could, how the sets of the tide or currents lay
when the flood came in, that I might judge whether if I was
driven one way out, I might not expect to be driven another
way home, with the same rapidness of the currents; this
thought was no sooner in my head than I cast my eye upon
a little hill, which sufficiently overlooked the sea both ways,
and from whence I had a clear view of the currents or sets of
the tides, and which way I was to guide myself in my return ;
here I found that as the current of the ebb set out close by the
south point of the island, so the current of the flood set in
close by the shore of the north side, and that I had nothing
to do but to keep to the north side of the island in my return,
and I should do well enough.
Encouraged with this observation, I resolved, the next
morning, to set out with the first of the tide ; and, reposing
myself for the night in the canoe, under the great watch-coat
I mentioned, I launched out; I made first a little out to sea,
full north, till I began to feel the benefit of the current, which
set eastward, and which carried me at a great rate, and yet
did not so hurry me as the current on the south side had done
before, so as to take from me all government of the boat; but
having a strong steerage with my paddle, I went, at a great
rate, directly for the wreck, and in less than two hours I came
up to it It was a dismal sight to look at: the ship, which,
by its building, was Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in between
two rocks; all the stern and quarter of her was beaten to
pieces with the sea; and as her forecastle which stuck in the
rocks had run on with great violence, her mainmast and fore-
mast were brought by the board ; that is to say, broken short
off; but her bowsprit was sound, and the head and bow
appeared firm ; when I came close to her, a dog appeared
upon her, who, seeing me coming yelped and cried ; and as
soon as I called him, jumped into the sea to come to me, and
I took him into the boat, but found him almost dead with
hunger and thirst; I gave him a cake of my bread, and he ate
it like a ravenous wolf, that had been starving a fortnight in
THE WRECK VISITED. i3S
the snow; I then gave the poor creature some fresh water,
with which, if I would have let him, he would have burst him-
self. After this I went on board ; but the first sight I met
with was two men drowned in the cook-room, or forecastle of
the ship, with their arms fast about one another : I concluded,
as is indeed probable, that when the ship struck, it being in a
storm, the sea broke so high and so continually over her, that
the men were not able to bear it, and were strangled with the
constant rushing in of the water, as much as if they had been
under water. Besides the dog, there was nothing left in the
ship that had life ; nor any goods, that I could see, but what
were spoiled by the water. There were some casks of liquor,
whether wine or brandy I knew not, which lay lower in the
hold, and which, the water being ebbed out, I could see ; but
they were too big to meddle with: I saw several chests,
which, I believe, belonged to some of the seamen ; and I got
two of them into the boat, without examining what was in
them. Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the forepart
broken off, I am persuaded I might have made a good voy-
age ; for, by what I found in these two chests, I had room to
suppose the ship had a great deal of wealth on board ; and if
I may guess from the course she steered, she must have been
bound from Buenos Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata, in the
south part of America, beyond the Brazils to the Havannah,
in the Gulf of Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain ; she had, no
doubt, a great treasure in her, but of no use, at that time,
to anybody ; and what became of her people I then knew
not
I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of liquor, of
about twenty gallons, which I got into my boat with much
difficulty; there were several muskets in the cabin, and a
great powder-horn, with about four pounds of powder in it:
as for the muskets, I had no occasion for them, so I left them,
but took the powder-horn ; I took a fire-shovel and tongs,
which I wanted extremely; as also two little brass kettles, a
copper pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron ; and with this
cargo and the dog, I came away, the tide beginning to make
home again : and the same evening, about an hour within
night, I reached the island again, weary and fatigued to the
last degree. I reposed that night in the boat; and in the
morning I resolved to harbour what I had gotten in my new
cave, not carry it home to my castle. After refreshing myself,
I got all my cargo on shore, and began to examine the par-
ticulars : the cask of liquor I found to be a kind of rum, but
not such as we had at the Brazils ; and, in a word, not at all
good ; but when I came to open the chests, I found several
things of great use to me: for example, I found in one a fine
case of bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and filled with cor-
dial waters, fine and very good ; the bottles held about three
pints each, and were tipped with silver ; I found two pots of
very good succades, or sweetmeats, so fastened also on the top
that the salt-water had not hurt them; and two more of the
same, which the water had spoiled ; I found some very good
shirts, which were very welcome to me, and about a dozen and
a half of linen white handkerchiefs and coloured neckcloths ;
the former were also very welcome, being exceedingly refresh-
ing to wipe my face in a hot day; besides this, when I came
to the till in the chest, I found there three great bags of pieces
of eight, which held about eleven hundred pieces in all ; and
in one of them, wrapped up in a paper, six doubloons of gold,
and some small bars or wedges of gold ; I suppose they
might all weigh near a pound. The other chest I found had
some clothes in it, but of little value; but, by the circum-
stances, it must have belonged to the gunner's mate, though
there was no powder in it, except two pounds of fine glazed
powder, in three flasks, kept, I suppose, for charging their
fowling-pieces on occasion ; upon the whole, I got very little
by this voyage that was of any use to me; for, as to the
money, I had no manner of occasion for it; it was to me as
the dirt under my feet, and I would have given it all for three
or four pair of English shoes and stockings, which were
things I greatly wanted, but had not had on my feet for
many years ; I had, indeed, gotten two pairs of shoes now,
which I took off the feet of the two drowned men whom I
saw in the wreck, and I found two pair more in one of the
chests, which were very welcome to me ; but they were not
like our English shoes, either for ease or service, being rather
what we call pumps than shoes ; I found in this seaman's
chest about fifty pieces of eight, in reals, but no gold : I sup-
pose this belonged to a poorer man than the other, which
seemed to belong to some officer.
Well, however, I lugged the money home to my cave, and
laid it up, as I had done that before which I brought from
our own ship; but it was great pity, as I said, that the other
Dart of this ship had not come to my share, for I am satisfied
I might have loaded my canoe several times over with money,
A SLEEPLESS NIGHT. 137
which if I had ever escaped to England would have lain here
safe enough till I might have come again and fetched it
Having now brought all my things on shore, and secured
them, I went back to my boat, and rowed or paddled her
along the shore to her old harbour, where I laid her up, and
made the best of my way to my old habitation, where I found
everything safe and quiet; so I began to repose myself, live
after my old fashion, and take care of my family affairs ; and
for a while I lived easy enough; only that I was more vigi-
lant than I used to be, looked out oftener, and did not go
abroad so much ; and if at any time I did stir with any free-
dom, it was always to the east part of the island, where I was
pretty well satisfied the savages never came, and where I
could go without so many precautions, and such a load of
arms and ammunition as I always carried with me if I went
the other way.
I am now to be supposed retired in my castle, after my
late voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up and secured
under water, and my condition restored to what it was before ;
I had more wealth than I had before, but was not at all the
richer; for I had no more use for it than the Indians of Peru
had before the Spaniards came there.
It was one of the nights in the rainy season in March, the
four-and-twentieth year of my first setting foot in this island
of solitariness ; I was lying in my bed or hammock awake,
very well in health, had no pain, no distemper, no uneasiness
of body, nor any uneasiness of mind more than ordinary, but
could by no means close my eyes ; that is, so as to sleep ; no,
not a wink all night long. It is impossible to set down the
innumerable crowd of thoughts that whirled through that
great thoroughfare of the brain, the memory, in this night's
time: I ran over the whole history of my life in miniature, or
by abridgment, as I may call it, to my coming to this island,
and also of that part of my life since I came to this island.
When these thoughts were over, my head was for some
time taken up in considering the nature of those wretched
creatures, the savages, and how it came to pass in the world
that the wise Governor of all things should give up any of his
creatures to such inhumanity—nay, to something so much
below even brutality itself—as to devour its own kind : but,
as this ended in some (at that time) fruitless speculations, it
occurred to me to inquire, what part of the world these
wretches lived in ? how far off the coast was from whence
they came ? what they ventured over so far from home for ?
what kind of boats they had ? and why I might not order
myself and my business so, that I might be able to go over
thither, as they were to come to me ?
I never so much as troubled myself to consider what I
should do with myself when I went thither; what would
become of me if I fell into the hands of these savages ; or
how I should escape them if they attacked me ; but my mind
was wholly bent upon the notion of my passing over in my
boat to the main land. I looked upon my present condition
as the most miserable that could possibly be ; that I was not
able to throw myself into anything but death, that could be
called worse ; and if I reached the shore of the main, I might
perhaps meet with relief, or I might coast along, as I did on
the African shore, till I came to some inhabited country, and
where I might find some relief; and, after all, perhaps I might
fall in with some Christian ship that might take me in ; and
if the worst came to the worst, I could but die, which would
put an end to all these miseries at once. All this was the
fruit of a disturbed mind, an impatient temper, made despe-
rate, as it were, by the long continuance of my troubles, and
the disappointments I had met in the wreck I had been on
board of, and where I had been so near obtaining what I so
earnestly longed for—somebody to speak to, and to learn
some knowledge from them of the place where I was, and of
the probable means of my deliverance. I was agitated wholly
by these thoughts ; all my calm of mind in my resignation to
Providence, and waiting the issue of the dispositions of Heaven,
seemed to be suspended ; and I had, as it were, no power to
turn my thoughts to anything but to the project of a voyage
to the main, which came upon me with such force, and such an
impetuosity of desire, that it was not to be resisted.
When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or
more, with such violence that it set my very blood into a
ferment, and my pulse beat as if I had been in a fever, merely
with the extraordinary fervour of my mind about it, Nature, as
if I had been fatigued and exhausted with the very thoughts
of it, threw me into a sound sleep. One would have thought
I should have dreamed of it, but I did not, nor of anything
relating to it; but I dreamed that as I was going out in the
morning as usual, from my castle, I saw upon the shore two
canoes and eleven savages, coming to land, and that they
brought with them another savage, whom they were going to
A DREAM. 139
kill, In order to eat him ; when, on a sudden, the savage that
they were going to kill jumped away, and ran for his life ; and
I thought, in my sleep, that he came running into my little
thick grove before my fortification, to hide himself; and that
I, seeing him alone, and not perceiving that the others sought
him that way, showed myself to him, and smiling upon him,
encouraged him: that he kneeled down to me, seeming to pray
me to assist him ; upon which I showed him my ladder, made
him go up, and carried him into my cave, and he became my
servant; and that as soon as I had gotten this man, I said
to myself, " Now I may certainly venture to the main land, for
this fellow will serve me as a pilot, and will tell me what to do,
and whither to go for provisions, and whither not to go for fear
of being devoured ; what places to venture into, and what to
escape." I waked with this thought; and was under such
inexpressible impressions of joy at the prospect of my escape
in my dream, that the disappointments which I felt upon
coming to myself, and finding that it was no more than a
dream, were equally extravagant the other way, and threw
me into a very great dejection of spirit.
Upon this, however, I made this conclusion : that my only
way to go about to attempt an escape was, to endeavour to
get a savage into my possession ; and, if possible, it should be
one of their prisoners, whom they had condemned to be eaten,
and should bring hither to kill. But these thoughts still were
attended with this difficulty: that it was impossible to effect
this without attacking a whole caravan of them, and killing
them all; and this was not only a very desperate attempt, and
might miscarry; but, on the other hand, I had greatly scrupled
the lawfulness of it to me; and my heart trembled at the
thoughts of shedding so much blood, though it was for my
deliverance.
However, at last, after many secret disputes with myself,
and after great perplexities about it, the eager prevailing
desire of deliverance at length mastered all the rest; and
I resolved, if possible, to get one of these savages into my
hands, cost what it would. My next thing was to contrive
how to do it, and this indeed was very difficult to resolve
on ; but as I could pitch upon no probable means for it, so
I resolved to put myself upon the watch, to see them when
they came on shore, and leave the rest to the event, taking
such measures as the opportunity should present, let what
would be.
With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself upon
the scout as often as possible, and indeed so often, that I
was heartily tired of it; for it was above a year and a half
that I waited, and for great part of that time went out to the
west end, and to the south-west corner of the island almost
every day, to look for canoes, but none appeared. This
was very discouraging, and began to trouble me much, though
I cannot say that it did in this case wear off* the edge of my
desire to the thing; but the longer it seemed to be delayed,
the more eager I was for it: in a word, I was not at first so
careful to shun the sight of these savages, and avoid being
seen by them, as I was now eager to be upon them.
About a year and a half after I had entertained these
notions, and by long musing had, as it were, resolved them all
into nothing, for want of an occasion to put them into execu-
tion, I was surprised one morning by seeing no less than
five canoes all on shore together on my side the island, and
the people who belonged to them all landed and out of my
sight The number of them broke all my measures ; for seeing
so many, and knowing that they always came four or six, or
sometimes more in a boat, I could not tell what to think of
it, or how, to take my measures to attack twenty or thirty
men single-handed; so lay still in my castle, perplexed and
discomforted ; however, I put myself into all the same postures
for an attack that I had formerly provided, and was just as
ready for action if anything had presented. Having waited
a good while, listening to hear if they made any noise, at
length, being very impatient, I set my guns at the foot of my
rudder, and clambered up to the top of the hill, by my two
stages, as usual; standing so, however, that my head did not
appear above the hill, so that they could not perceive me by
any means. Here I observed, by the help of my perspective,
glass, that they were no less than thirty in number ; that they
had a fir« kindled, and that they had meat dressed ; how they
had cooked it, I knew not, or what it was ; but they were all
dancing, in I know not how many barbarous gestures and
figures, their own way, round the fire.
While I was thus looking on them, I perceived, by my
perspective, two miserable wretches dragged from the boats,
where, it seems, they were laid by, and were now brought out
for the slaughter. I perceived one of them immediately fill;
being knocked down, I suppose with a club, or wooden sword,
for that was their way. and two or three others were at work
THE SAVAGES. 141
immediately, cutting him open for their cookery, while the
other victim was left standing by himself, till they should be
ready for him. In that very moment, this poor wretch seeing
himself a little at liberty, nature inspired him with hopes of life,
and he started away from them, and ran with incredible swift-
ness along the sands, directly towards me, I mean, towards
that part of the coast where my habitation was. I was dread-
fully frighted, I must acknowledge, when I perceived him
run my way ; and especially when, as I thought, I saw him
pursued by the whole body ; and now I expected that part of
my dream was coming to pass, and that he would certainly
take shelter in my grove: but I could not depend, by any
means, upon my dream for the rest, that the other savages
would not pursue him thither, and find him there. However, I
kept my station, and my spirits began to recover when I found
that there was not above three men that followed him, and
still more was I encouraged, when I found that he outstripped
them exceedingly in running, and gained ground on them, so
that, if he could but hold out for half an hour, I saw easily
he would fairly get away from them all.
There was between them and my castle, the creek, which I
mentioned often at the first part of my story, where I landed
my cargoes out of the ship; and this I saw plainly he must
necessarily swim over, or the poor wretch would be taken
there ; but when the savage escaping came thither, he made
nothing of it, though the tide was then up ; but, plunging in,
swam through in about thirty strokes, or thereabouts, landed,
and ran with exceeding strength and swiftness ; when the
three pursuers came to the creek, I found that two of them
could swim, but the third could not, and that, standing on the
other side, he looked at the others, but went no farther, and
soon after went softly back ; which, as it happened, was very
well for him in the end. I observed that the two who swam
were yet more than twice as long swimming over the creek as
the fellow was that fled from them. It came now very warmly
upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now was the
time to get me a servant, and perhaps a companion or assistant;
and that I was plainly called by Providence to save this poor
creature's life; I immediately ran down the ladders with all
possible expedition, fetched my two guns, for they were both
at the foot of the ladders, as I observed before, and getting up
again with the same haste to the top of the hill, I crossed
towards the sea; and having a very short cut, and all down
hill, clapped myself in the way between the pursuers and the
pursued, hallooing aloud to him that fled, who, looking back,
was at first perhaps as much frighted at me as at them ; but I
beckoned with my hand to him to come back; and, in the
mean time, I slowly advanced towards the two that followed ;
then rushing at once upon the foremost, I knocked him down
with the stock of my piece; I was loth to fire because I would
not have the rest hear; though, at that distance, it would not
have been easily heard, and being out of sight of the smoke,
too, they would not have known what to make of it Having
knocked this fellow down, the other who pursued him stopped,
as if he had been frighted, and I advanced towards him : but
as I came nearer, I perceived presently he had a bow and arrow,
and was fitting it to shoot at me: so I was then necessitated
to shoot at him first, which I did, and killed him at the first
shot The poor savage who fled, but had stopped, though he
saw both his enemies fallen and killed, as he thought, yet was
so frighted with the fire and noise of my piece, that he stood
stock still, and neither came forward nor went backward,
though he seemed rather inclined still to fly than to come on.
I hallooed again to him, and made signs to come forward,
which he easily understood, and came a little way, then stopped
again, and then a little farther, and stopped again, and I could
then perceive that he stood trembling, as if he had been taken
prisoner, and had just been to be killed, as his two enemies
were. I beckoned to him again to come to me, and gave him
all the signs of encouragement that I could think of, and he
came nearer and nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve
steps, in token of acknowledgment for my saving his life. I
smiled at him, and looked pleasantly, and beckoned to him
' to come still nearer ; at length, he came close to me, and then
he kneeled down again, kissed the ground, and laid his head
upon the ground, and, taking me by the foot, set my foot upon
his head ; this, it seems, was in token of swearing to be my
slave for ever. I took him up and made much of him, and
encouraged him all I could. But there was more work to do
yet; for I perceived the savage whom I had knocked down
was not killed, but stunned with the blow, and began to come
to himself: so I pointed to him, and showed him the savage,
that he was not dead ; upon this he spoke some words to me,
and though I could not understand them, yet I thought they
were pleasant to hear; for they were the first sound of a man's
voice that I had heard, my own excepted, for above twenty
A SAVAGE RESCUED. 145
five years. But there was no time for such reflections now ;
the savage who was knocked down recovered himself so far as
to sit up upon the ground, and I perceived that my savage
began to be afraid ; but when I saw that, I presented my other
piece at the man, as if I would shoot him : upon this, my
savage, for so I called him now, made a motion to me to lend
him my sword, which hung naked in a belt by my side; so I
did. He no sooner had it, but he runs to his enemy, and at
one blow cut off his head so cleverly that no executioner in
Germany could have done it sooner or better ; which I thought
very strange for one who, I had reason to believe, never saw a
sword in his life before, except their own wooden swords:
however, it seems, as I learned afterwards, they make their
wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so hard,
that they will even cut off heads with them, ay, and arms, and
that at one blow too. .When he had done this, he comes
laughing to me in sign of triumph, and brought me the sword
again, and with abundance of gestures which I did not under-
stand, laid it down, with the head of the savage that he had
killed, just before me. But that which astonished him most
was to know how I killed the other Indian so far off; so,
pointing to him, he made signs to me to let him go to him ;
and I bade him go, as well as I could ; when he came to him,
he stood like one amazed, looking at him, turned him first on
one side, then on the other, looked at the wound the bullet had
made, which it seems was just in his breast, where it had
made a hole, and no great quantity of blood had followed;
but he had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead. He took
up his bow and arrows, and came back, so I turned to go
away, and beckoned him to follow me, making signs to him
that more might come after them. Upon this he made signs
to me that he should bury them with sand, that they might
not be seen by the rest, if they followed ; and so I made signs
to him again to do so. He fell to work; and in an instant he
had scraped a hole in the sand with his hands, big enough to
bury the first in, and then dragged him into it, and covered
him ; and did so by the other also; I believe he had buried
them both in a quarter of an hour. Then calling him away, I
carried him, not to my castle, but quite away to my cave, on
the farther part of the island : so I did not let my dream come
to pass in that part, that he came into my grove for shelter.
Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to eat, and a
draught of water, which I found he was indeed in great distress
for, from- his running : and having refreshed him, I made signs
for him to go and lie down to sleep, showing him a place where
I had laid some rice-siraw, and a blanket upon it, which I used
to sleep upon myself sometimes ; so the poor creature lay
down, and went to sleep.
He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well made, with
straight strong limbs, not too large, tall and well shaped ; and,
as I reckon, about twenty-six years of age. He had a very
good countenance, not a fierce and surly aspect, but seemed to
have something very manly in his face ; and yet he had all the
sweetness and softness of a European in his countenance too,
especially when he smiled. His hair was long and black, not
curled like wool ; his forehead very high and large; and a
great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes. The colour
of the skin was not quite black, but very tawny; and yet not
an ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny, as the Brazilians and Vir-
ginians, and other natives of America are, but of a bright kind
of a dun olive-colour, that had in it something very agreeable,
though not very easy to describe. His face was round and'
plump ; his nose small, not flat like the Negroes, a very good
mouth, thin lips, and his fine teeth well set, and as white as
ivory. After he had slumbered rather than slept, about half
an hour, he awoke again, and came out of the cave to me ; for
I had been milking my goats, which I had in the inclosure just
by: when he espied me, he came running to me, laying himself
down again upon the ground, with all the possible signs of an
humble, thankful disposition, making a great many antic
gestures to show it; at last he lays his head flat upon the
ground, close to my foot, and sets my other foot upon his head,
as he had done before ; and after this, made all the signs to
me of subjection, servitude, and submission imaginable, to let
me know how he would serve me so long as he lived. I
understood him in many things, and let him know I was very
well pleased with him. In a little time I began to speak to
him, and teach him to speak to me ; and, first, I let him know
his name should be Friday, which was the day I saved his
life : I called him so for the memory of the time; I likewise
taught him to say Master ; and then let him know that was
to be my name : I likewise taught him to say Yes and No, and
to know the meaning of them ; I gave him some milk in an
earthen pot, and let him see me drink it before him, and sop
my bread in it; and I gave him a cake of bread to do the like,
which he quickly complied with, and made signs that it was
4Mtffe
T- tfMMntf/-
A Savage Executioner.
frida y. 145
trery good for him. I kept there with him all night; but, as
soon as it was day, I beckoned to him to come with me, and
let him know I would give him some clothes ; at which he
seemed very glad, for he was stark naked. As we went by the
place where he had buried the two men, he pointed exactly to
the place, and showed me the marks that he had made to find
them again, making signs to me that we should dig them up
again and eat them. At this, I appeared very angry, expressed
my abhorrence of it, made as if I would vomit at the thoughts
of it, and beckoned with my hand to him to come away, which
he did immediately, with great submission. I then led him
up to the top of the hill, to see if his enemies were gone ; and
pulling out my glass, I looked, and saw plainly the place where
they had been, but no appearance of them or their canoes ;
so that it was plain they were gone, and had left their two
comrades behind them, without any search after them.
But I was not content with this discovery; but having now
more courage, and consequently more curiosity, I took my man
Friday with me, giving him the sword in his hand, with the
bow and arrows at his back, which I found he could use very
dexterously, making him carry one gun for me, and I two for
myself; and away we marched to the place where these crea-
tures had been ; for I had a mind now to get some fuller in-
telligence of them. When I came to the place, my very blood
ran chill in my veins, and my heart sunk within me, at the
horror of the spectacle; indeed, it was a dreadful sight, at least
it was so to me, though Friday made nothing of it. The place
was covered with human bones, the ground dyed with their
blood, and great pieces of flesh left here and there, half-eaten,
mangled, and scorched ; and, in short, all the tokens of the
triumphant feast they had been making there, after a victory
over their enemies. I saw three skulls, five hands, and the
bones of three or four legs and feet, and abundance of other
parts of the bodies ; and Friday, by his signs, made me under-
stand that they brought over four prisoners to feast upon ;
that three of them were eaten up, and that he, pointing to
himself, was the fourth; that there had been a great battle
between them and their next king, of whose subjects, it seems,
he had been one; and that they had taken a great number of
prisoners, all which were carried to several places, by those
who had taken them in the fight, in order to feast upon them,
as was done here by these wretches upon those they brought
hither.
12
I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh, and
whatever remained, and lay them together in a heap, and
make a great fire upon it, and burn them all to ashes. I
found Friday had still a hankering stomach after some of the
flesh, and was still a cannibal in his nature ; but I discovered
so much abhorrence at the very thoughts of it, and at the
least appearance of it, that he durst not discover it; for I had,
by some means, let him know that I would kill him if he
offered it.
When he had done this, we came back to our castle; and
there I fell to work for my man Friday ; and first of all, I gave
him a pair of linen drawers, which I had out of the poor
gunner's chest I mentioned, which I found in the wreck, and
which, with a little alteration, fitted him very well; then I made
him a jerkin of goat's skin, as well as my skill would allow,
and I was now grown a tolerably good tailor ; and I gave him
a cap which I had made of a hare's skin, very convenient, and
fashionable enough ; and thus he was clothed, for the present,
tolerably well; and was mighty well pleased to see himself
almost as well clothed as his master. It is true, he went
awkwardly in these clothes at first: wearing the drawers was
very awkward to him, and the sleeves of the waistcoat galled
his shoulders and the inside of his arms ; but a little easing
them where he complained they hurt him, and using himself to
them, at length he took to them very well.
The next day, after I came home to my hutch with him, I
began to consider where I should lodge him ; and that I might
do well for him and yet be perfectly easy myself, I made a
little tent for him in the vacant place between my two fortifi-
cations, in the inside of the last, and in the outside of the first;
and as there was a door or entrance there into my cave, I
made a formal framed door-case, and a door to it of boards,
and set it up in the passage, a little within the entrance ; and,
causing the door to open in the inside, I barred it up in the
night, taking in my ladders, too ; so that Friday could no way
come at me in the inside of my innermost wall, without making
so much noise in getting over that it must needs awaken me ;
for my first wall had now a complete roof over it of long
poles, covering all my tent, and leaning up to the side of the
hill; which was again laid across with smaller sticks, instead
of laths, and then thatched over a great thickness with the rice-
straw, which was strong, like reeds ; and at the hole or place
which was left to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed a
CIVILISING A SAVAGE. 147
kind of trap-door, which, if it had been attempted on the out-
side, would not have opened at all, but would have fallen down
and made a great noise; and as to weapons, I took them all
into my side every night But I needed none of all this pre-
caution : for never man had a. more faithful, loving, sincere
servant than Friday was to me ; without passions, sullenness,
or designs, perfectly obliging and engaging ; his very affections
were tied to me like those of a child to a father ; and I daresay
he would have sacrificed his life to save mine, upon any occa-
sion whatsoever; the many testimonies he gave me of this put
it out of doubt, and soon convinced me that I needed to use no
precautions for my safety on his account
I was greatly delighted with him, and made it my business
to teach him everything that was proper to make him useful,
handy, and helpful; but especially to make him speak, and un-
derstand me when I spoke ; and he was the aptest scholar that
ever was ; and particularly was so merry, so constantly dili-
gent, and so pleased when he could but understand me, or make
me understand him, that it was very pleasant to me to talk to
him. Now my life began to be so easy that I began to say to
myself, that could I but have been safe from more savages, I
cared not if I wasneverto removed from the place where I lived.
After I had been two or three days returned to my castle, I
thought that, in order to bring Friday off from his horrid way
of feeding, and from the relish of a cannibal's stomach, I
ought to let him taste other flesh; so I took him out with
me one morning to the woods. I went, indeed, intending to
kill a kid out of my own flock, and bring it home and dress
it; but as I was going, I saw a she-goat lying down in the
shade, and two young kids sitting by her. I caught hold of
Friday. " Hold," said I," stand still;" and made signs to him
not to stir. Immediately, I presented my piece, shot, and
killed one of the kids. The poor creature, who had, at a
distance, indeed, seen me kill the savage, his enemy, but did
not know, nor could not imagine how it was done, was sensibly
jurprised ; trembled, and shook, and looked so amazed that I
thought he would have sunk down. He did not see the kid
I had shot at, or perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his
waistcoat, to feel whether he was not wounded, and, as I found
presently, thought I was resolved to kill him: for he came
and kneeled down to me, and embracing my knees, said a great
many things I did not understand ; but I could easily see the
meaning was, to pray me not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him that I would do him
no harm, and taking him up by the hand, laughed at him, and
pointing to the kid which I had killed, beckoned to him to
run and fetch it, which he did : and while he was wondering,
and looking to see how the creature was killed, I loaded my
gun again, and by-and-by, I saw a great fowl, like a hawk,
sitting upon a tree within shot; so, to let Friday understand
a little what I would do, I called him to me again, pointing
at the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, though I thought it
had been a hawk; I say, pointing to the parrot, and to my
gun, and to the ground under the parrot, to let him see I
would make it fall, I made him understand that I would shoot
and kill that bird ; accordingly, I fired, and bade him look,
and immediately he saw the parrot fall. He stood like ona
frighted again, notwithstanding all I had said to him ; and I
found he was the more amazed, because he did not see me
put anything into the gun ; but thought that there must be
some wonderful fund of death and destruction in that thing,
able to kill man, beast, bird, or anything near or far off; and
the astonishment this created in him was such as could not
wear off for a long time; and, I believe, if I would have let him,
he would have worshipped me and my gun ; as for the gun
itself, he would not so much as touch it for several days
after; but would speak to it and talk to it, as if it had answered
him, when he was by himself; which, as I afterwards learned
of him, was to desire it not to kill him. Well; after his
astonishment was a little over at this, I pointed to him to
run and fetch the bird I had shot, which he did, but stayed
some time ; or the parrot, not being quite dead, had fluttered
away a good distance from the place where she fell: however,
he found her, took her up, and brought her to me ; and as I
had perceived his ignorance about the gun before, I took this
advantage to charge the gun again, and not to let him see me
do it, that I might be ready for any other mark that might
present; but nothing more offered at that time ; so I brought
home the kid, and the same evening I took the skin off, and
cut it out as well as I could ; and having a pot tor that purpose,
I boiled or stewed some of the flesh, and made some very
good broth ; and after I had begun to eat some, I gave soma
to my man, who seemed very glad of it, and liked it very well
but that which was strangest to him was to see me eat salt
with it He made a sign to me that the salt was not good
to eat ; and putting a little into his own mouth, he seemed to
FRIDAY AT WORK. 149
nauseate it, and would spit and sputter at it, washing his
mouth with fresh water after it: on the other hand, I took
some meat into my mouth without salt, and I pretended to
spit and sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had done at
the salt; but it would not do ; he would never care for salt
with meat or in his broth ; at least, not for a great while, and
then but a very little.
Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was
resolved to feast him the next day by roasting a piece of the
kid : this I did by hanging it before the fire on a string, as I
had seen many people do in England, setting two poles up,
one on each side of the fire, and one across the top, and tying
the string to the cross stick, letting the meat turn continually.
This Friday admired very much; but when he came to taste
the flesh, he took so many ways to tell me how well he liked
it, that I could not but understand him: and at last he told
me, as well as he could, he would never eat man's flesh any
more, which I was very glad to hear.
The next day, I set him to work beating some corn out,
and sifting it in the manner I used to do, as I observed before;
and he soon understood how to do it as well as I, especially
after he had seen what the meaning of it was, and that it was
to make bread of; for after that, I let him see me make my
bread, and bake it too; and in a little time, Friday was able to
do all the work for me, as well as I could do it myself.
I began now to consider, that having two mouths to feed
instead of one, I must provide more ground for my harvest,
and plant a larger quantity of corn than I used to do; so I
marked out a larger piece of land, and began the fence in
the same manner as before, in which Friday worked not only
very willingly and very hard, but did it very cheerfully. And
I told him what it was for; that it was for corn to make
more bread, because he was now with me, and that I might
have enough for him and myself too. He appeared very
sensible of that part, and let me know that he thought I had
much more labour upon me on his account than I had for
myself; and that he would work the harder for me, if I would
tell him what to do.
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this
place. Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the
names of almost everything I had occasion to call for, and of
every place I had to send him to, and talk a great deal to
me : so that, in short, I began now to have some use for my
tongue again, which, indeed, I had very little occasion for
before, that is to say about speech. Besides the pleasure of
talking to him, I had a singular satisfaction in the fellow
himself: his simple, unfeigned honesty appeared to me more
and more every day, and I began really to love the creature;
and on his side I believe he loved me more than it was possible
for him ever to love anything before.
I had a mind once to try if he had any inclination for his
own country again ; and having taught him English so well
that he could answer me almost any questions, I asked him
whether the nation that he belonged to never conquered in
battle ? At which he smiled, and said, " Yes, yes, we always
fight the better;" that is, he meant, always get the better in
fight; and so we began the following discourse. " You always
fight the better," said I; " how came you to be taken prisoner,
then, Friday?"
Friday.—My nation beat much for all that
Master.—How beat ? If your nation beat them, how came
you to be taken ?
Friday.—They more many than my nation, in the place
where me was ; they take one, two, three, and me: my nation
over-beat them in the yonder place, where me no was ; there
vmy nation take one, two, great thousand.
Master.—But why did not your side recover you from the
hands of your enemies then ?
Friday.—They run, one, two, three, and me, and make go
in the canoe ; my nation have no canoe that time.
Master.—Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with
the men they take; do they carry them away and eat them,
as tliese did ?
Friday.—Yes, my nation eat mans too, eat all up.
Master.—Where do they carry them ?
Friday.—Go to other place, where they think.
Master.—Do they come hither ?
Friday.—Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else place.
Master.—Have you been here with them ?
Friday.—Yes, I been here (points to the N.W. side of the
island, which it seems was their side).
By this, I understood that my man Friday had formerly
been among the savages who used to come on shore on the
farther part of the island, on the same man-eating occasions
that he was now brought for: and, some time after, when I
took the courage to carry him to that side, being the same I
FRTDA V'S NA TION. 151
formerly mentioned, he presently knew the place, and told me
he was there once, when they ate up twenty men, two women,
and one child. He could not tell twenty in English, but he
numbered them, by laying so many stones in a row, and
pointing to me to tell them over.
I have told this passage, because it introduces what follows;
that after this discourse I had with him, I asked him how far
it was from our island to the shore, and whether the canoes
were not often lost; he told me there was no danger, no
canoes ever lost; but that after a little way out to sea, there
was a current and wind, always one way in the morning, the
other in the afternoon. This I understood to be no more
than the sets of the tide, as going out or coming in ; but I
afterwards understood it was occasioned by the great draft
and reflux of the mighty river Orinoco; in the mouth or gulf
of which river, as I found afterwards, our island lay; and this
land which I perceived to be W. and N.W. was the great
island Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth of the river.
I asked Friday a thousand questions about the country, the
inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and what nations were near: he
told me all he knew, with the greatest openness imaginable.
I asked him the names of the several nations of his sort of
people, but could get no other name than Caribs : from whence
I easily understood that these were the Caribbees, which om
maps place on the part of America which reaches from the
mouth of the river Orinoco to Guinea, and onwards to St
Martha. He told me, that up a great way beyond the moon,
that was, beyond the setting of the moon, which must be west
from their country, there dwelt white bearded men, like me,
and pointed to my great whiskers, which I mentioned before;
and that they had killed much mans, that was his word : by
all which I understood he meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties
in America had been spread over the whole country, and were
remembered by all the nations from father to son.
I inquired if he could tell me how I might go from this
island, and get among those white men. He told me, " Yes,
yes, yoru may go in two canoe." I could not understand what
he meant, or make him describe to me what he meant by
"two canoe," till at last with great difficulty, I found he meant
it must be in a large boat, as big as two canoes. This part
of Friday's discourse I began to relish very well, and from this
time I entertained some hopes that, one time or other, I might
find an opportunity to make my escape from this place,
and that this poor savage might be a means to help me to
do it
During the long time that Friday had now been with me,
and that he began to speak to me, and understand me, I was
not wanting in the wish to lay a foundation of religious
knowledge in his mind; particularly I asked him one time
who made him. The poor creature did not understand me at
all, but thought I had asked who was his father: but I took
it by another handle, and asked him, who made the sea, the
ground we walked on, and the hills and woods. He told me,
" It was old Benamuckee, that lived beyond all." He could
describe nothing of this great person, but that he was very old,
" much older," he said, " than the sea or the land, than the
moon or the stars." I asked him then, if this old person had
made all things, why did not all things worship him ? He
looked very grave, and, with a perfect look of innocence, said,
" All things say O to him." I asked him, if the people who
die in his country went away anywhere ? He said, " Yes,
they all went to Benamuckee." Then I asked him whether
those they eat up went thither too. He said, " Yes."
From these things, I began to instruct him in the knowledge
of the true God. I told him that the great Maker of all things
lived up there, pointing up towards heaven : that He governs
the world by the same power and providence by which He
made it; that He was omnipotent, and could do everything
for us, give everything to us, take everything from us; and
thus, by degrees, I opened his eyes. He listened with great
attention, and received with pleasure the notion of Jesus
Christ being sent to redeem us, and of the manner of making
our prayers to God, and His being able to hear us, even in
heaven. He told me one day, that if our God could hear us,
up beyond the sun, he must needs be a greater God than their
Benamuckee, who lived but a little way off, and yet could not
hear till they went up to the great mountains where he dwelt
to speak to him. I asked him if ever he went thither to speak
to him. He said, " No; they never went that were young
men; none went thither but the old men," whom he called
their Oowokakee, that is, as I made him explain it to me,
their religious, or clergy ; and that they went to say O (so he
called saying prayers) and then came back and told them
what Benamuckee said.
I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man Friday;
and told him that the pretence of their old men going up to
FRTDAY TURNED CHRISTIAN. 153
the mountains to say 0 to their god Benamuckee was a cheat,
and their bringing word from thence what he said was much
more so; that if they met with any answer, or spake with any
one there, it must be with an evil spirit: and then I entered
into a long discourse with him about the devil, the origin of
him, his rebellion against God, his enmity to man, the reason
of it, his setting himself up in the dark parts of the world to
be worshipped instead of God, and as God, and the many
stratagems he made use of to delude mankind to their ruin ;
how he had a secret access to our passions and to our
affections, and to adapt his snares to our inclinations, so as
to cause us even to be our own tempters, and run upon our
own destruction by our own choice.
I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in all the
methods I took for this poor creature's instruction, and must
acknowledge, what I believe all that act upon the same
principle will find, that in laying things open to him, I really
informed and instructed myself in many things that either I
did not know, or had not fully considered before, so that,
whether this poor wild wretch was the better for me or no, I
had great reason to be thankful that ever he came to me; my
grief sat lighter upon me; my habitation grew comfortable
to me beyond measure: and when I reflected that in this
solitary life which I had been confined to, I had not only been
moved myself to look up to heaven, and to seek the hand
that had brought me there, but was now made to be an
instrument, under Providence, to save the life, and, for aught
I knew, the soul of a poor savage.
In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder of my
time ; and the conversation which employed the hours between
Friday and me was such as made the three years which we
lived there together perfectly and completely happy, if any
such thing as complete happiness can be found in a sublunary
state. The savage was now a good Christian, a much better
than I.
After Friday and I became moi~ intimately acquainted, and
that he could understand almost all I said to him, and speak
pretty fluently, though in broken English, to me, I acquainted
him with my own history, or at least so much of it as related
to my coming to this place; how I had lived there, and how
long. I let him into the mystery, for such it was to him, of
gunpowder and bullet, and taught him how to shoot. I gave
him a knife, which he was wonderfully delighted with ; and I
made him a belt, with a frog hanging to it, such as in England
we wear hangers in ; and in the frog, instead of a hanger, I
gave him a hatchet, which was not only as good a weapon in
some cases, but much more useful upon other occasions.
I described to him the countries of Europe, particularly
England, which I came from; how we lived, how we wor-
shipped God, how we behaved to one another, and how we
traded in ships to all parts of the world. I gave him an
account of the wreck which I had been on board of, and
showed him, as near as I could, the place where she lay; but
she was all beaten in pieces before, and gone.
I showed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when
we escaped, and which I could not stir with my whole strength
then ; but was now fallen almost all to pieces. Upon seeing
this boat, Friday stood musing a great while, and said nothing.
I asked him what it was he studied upon. At last says he,
" Me see such boat like come to place at my nation." I did
not understand him for a good while; but, at last, when I had
examined further into it, I understood by him, that a boat,
such as that had been, came on shore upon the country where
he lived : that is, as he explained it, was driven thither by stress
of weather. I presently imagined that some European ship
must have been cast away upon their coast, and the boat
might get loose and drive ashore; but was so dull that I never
once thought of men making their escape from a wreck thither,
much less whence they might come: so I only inquired after
a description of the boat
Friday described the boat to me well enough; but brought
me better to understand him when he added with some
warmth," We save the white mans from drown." Then I
presently asked if there were any white mans, as he called
them, in the boat " Yes," he said; " the boat fuil of white
mans." I asked him how many. He told upon his fingers
seventeen. I asked him then what became of them. He
told me," They live, they dwell at my nation."
This put new thoughts into my head; for I presently
imagined that these might be the men belonging to the ship
that was cast away in the sight of my island, as I now called
it; and who after the ship was struck on the rock and they
saw her inevitably lost, had saved themselves in their boat, and
were landed upon that wild shore among the savages. Upon
this I inquired of him more critically what was become of
them. lie assured me they lived still there ; that they had
SUSPICIOUS. 155
been there about four years; that the savages left them alone
and gave them victuals to live on. I asked him how it came
to pass they did not kill them and eat them. He said,
" No, they make brother with them ; " that is, as I understood
him, a truce; and then he added, " They no eat mans but
when make the war fight; " that is to say, they never eat
any men but such as come to fight with them, and are taken
in battle.
It was after this some considerable time, that being upon
the top of the hill, at the east side of the island, whence, as
I have said, I had, in a clear day, discovered the main or
continent of America, Friday, the weather being very serene,
looks very earnestly towards the main land, and, in a kind
of surprise, falls a jumping and dancing, and calls out to me,
for I was at some distance from him. I asked him what was
the matter. "O joy!" says he; "O glad! there see my
country, there my nation!" I observed an extraordinary
sense of pleasure appeared in his face, and his eyes sparkled,
and his countenance discovered a strange eagerness, as if he
had a mind to be in his own country again ; and this obser-
vation of mine put a great many thoughts into me, which
made me, at first, not so easy about my new man Friday as I
was before; and I made no doubt but that, if Friday could
get back to his own nation again, he would not only forget
all his religion, but all his obligations to me, and would be
forward enough to give his countrymen an account of me,
and come back, perhaps, with a hundred or two of them, and
make a feast upon me, at which he might be as merry as he
used to be with those of his enemies, when they were taken
in war.
But I wronged the poor honest creature very much, for
which I was very sorry afterwards; however, as my jealousy
increased, and held me some weeks, I was a little more circum-
spect, and not so familiar and kind to him as before: in which
I was certainly wrong too; the honest, grateful creature
having no thought about it, but what consisted with the
best principles, both as a religious Christian, and as a grateful
friend.
Whilst my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I was
every day pumping him, to see if he would discover any of
the new thoughts which I suspected were in him ; but I found
everything he said was so honest and so innocent, that I could
find nothing to nourish my suspicion ; and, in spite of all my
uneasiness, he made me at last entirely his own again, nor
did he in the least perceive that I was uneasy, and therefore
I could not suspect him of deceit
One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather being
hazy at sea, so that we could not see the continent, I called
to him, and said, " Friday, do you not wish yourself in your
own country, your own nation?"—"Yes," he said,' I be much
0 glad to be at my own nation."—" What would you do there?"
said I: "would you turn wild again, eat men's flesh again,
and be a savage, as you were before ?" He looked full of
concern, and shaking his head, said, " No, no, Friday tell them
to live good ; tell them to pray God ; tell them to eat corn-
bread, cattle-flesh, milk ; no eat man again."—" Why then,"
said I to him, " they will kill you." He looked grave at that,
and theft said, " No, they no kill me, they willing love learn."
He meant by this, they would be willing to learn. He added,
they learned much of the bearded mans that came in the boat
Then I asked him if he would go back to them. He smiled
at that, and told me that he could not swim so far. I told
him, I would make a canoe for him. He told me he would
go, if I would go with him. " I go !" says I; " why, they will
eat me if I come there."—" No, no," says he, " me make they
no eat you ; me make they much love you." He meant, ho
would tell them how I had killed his enemies, and saved his
life, and so he would make them love me. Then he told me,
as well as he could, how kind they were to seventeen white
men, or bearded men, as he called them, who came on shore
there in distress.
From this time, I confess, I had a mind to venture over,
and see if I could possibly join with those bearded men, who
1 made no doubt were Spaniards and Portuguese ; not doubt-
ing but, if I could, we might find some method to escape
from thence, being upon the continent , and a good companj.
together, better than I could from an island forty miles off tha
shore, alone, and without help. So, after some days, I took
Friday to work again, by way of discourse, and told him I
would give him a boat to go back to his own nation; and,
accordingly, I carried him to my frigate, which lay on the
other side of the island, and having cleared it of water (for
I always kept it sunk in water), I brought it out , showed it
him, and we both went into it I found he was a most dex-
terous fellow at managing it, and would make it go almost as
swift again as I could. So when he was in, I said to him.
FRIDAY FAITHFUL. > 157
" Well, now, Friday, shall we go to your nation ?" He looked
very dull at my saying so; which it seems was because he
thought the boat was too small to go so far. I then told
him I had a bigger ; so the next day I went to the place where
the firs! boat lay which I had made, and which I could not
get into the water ; he said that was big enough ; but then, as
I had taken no care of it, and it had lain two or three and
twenty years there, the sun had split and dried it, that it was
rotten. Friday told me such a boat would do very well, and
would carry " much enough vittle, drink, bread "—this was his
way of talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my
design of going over with him to the continent, that I told
him we would go and make one as big as that, and he should
go home in it He answered not one word, but looked very
grave and sad. I asked him what was the matter with him.
He asked me again, " Why you angry mad with Friday ?—
what me done ? " I asked him what he meant I told him
I was not angry with him at all. " No angry!" says he,
repeating the words several times ; " why send Friday home
away to my nation ?"—" Why," says I, " Friday, did not you
say you wished you were there ?"—" Yes, yes," says he, " wish
we both there ; no wish Friday there, no Master there." In
a word, he would not think of going there without me. " I go
there, Friday !" says I, " what shall I do there ? " He turned
very quick upon me at this. " You do great deal much good,"
says he; " you teach wild mans be good, sober, tame mans ;
you tell them know God, pray God, and live new life."—
" Alas, Friday!" says I, " thou knowest not what thou sayest;
I am but an ignorant man myself."—" Yes, yes," says he," you
teachee me good, you teachee them good." " No, no, Friday,"
says I, " you shall go without me ; leave me here to live by
myself, as I did before." He looked confused again at that
word ; and running to one of the hatchets he used to wear, he
takes it up hastily, and gives it to me. " What must I do with
this?" says I to him. "You take kill Friday," says he.
" What must I kill you for ?" said I again. He returns very
quick—"What you send Friday away for ? Take kill Friday,
no send Friday away." This he spoke so earnestly that I saw
tears stand in his eyes. In a word, I so plainly discovered
the utmost affection in him to me, and a firm resolution in
him, that I told him then, and often after, that I would never
send him away from me, if he was willing to stay with me.
Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse a settled
affection to me, and that nothing could part him from me, so
I found all the foundation of his desire to go to his own
country was laid in his ardent affection to the people, and his
hopes of my doing them good ; a thing which, as I had no
notion of myself, so I had not the least thought or intention,
or desire of undertaking it; but still I found a strong inclina-
tion to attempting my escape as above, founded on the suppo-
sition gathered from the former discourse, that there were
seventeen bearded men there ; and therefore, without any
more delay, I went to work with Friday to find out a great
tree proper to fell, and make a large periagua, or canoe, to
undertake the voyage. There were trees enough in the island
to have built a little fleet, not of periaguas or canoes, but even
of good large vessels ; but the main thing I looked at was, to
get one so near the water that we might launch it when it was
made, to avoid the mistake I committed at first At last,
Friday pitched upon a tree ; for I found he knew much better
than I what kind of wood was fittest for it Friday was for
burning the hollow or cavity of this tree out, to make it into a
boat; but I showed him how to cut it with tools, which, after
I had showed him how to use, he did very handily; and in
about a month's hard labour, we finished it and made it very
handsome ; especially, when, with our axes, which I showed
him how to handle, we cut and hewed the outside into the
true shape of a boat. After this, however, it cost us near a
fortnight's time to get her along, as it were inch by inch, upon
great rollers into the water ; but when she was in, she would
have carried twenty men with great ease.
When she was in the water, and though she was so big, it
amazed me to see with what dexterity and how swift my man
Friday could manage her, turn her, and paddle her along ; so
I asked him if he would go, and if we might venture over in
her. " Yes," he said," we venture over in her very well, though
great blow wind." However, I had a further design that he
knew nothing of, and that was, to make a mast and a sail, and
to fit her with an anchor and cable. As to a mast, that was
easy enough to get; so I pitched upon a straight young cedar-
tree, which I found near the place, and which there were
plenty of in the island ; and I set Friday to work to cut it
down, and gave him directions how to shape and order it; but
as to the sail, and that my particular care; I knew I had old
tails, or lather pieces of old sails enough ; but as I had had
THE BOAT FINISHED. 159
them now six and twenty years by me, and had not been
very careful to preserve them, not imagining that I should
ever have this kind of use for them, I did not doubt but that
they were all rotten ; and, indeed, most of them were so,;
however, I found two pieces, which appeared pretty good, and
with these I went to work; and with a great deal of pains,
and awkward stitching (you maybe sure), for want of needles,
I at length made a three-cornered ugly thing, like what we
call in England a shoulder-of-mutton sail, to go with a boom
at bottom, and a little short sprit at the top, such as usually
our ships' long-boats sail with, and such as I best knew how
to manage ; because it was such a one as I had to the boat in
which I made my escape from Barbary.
I was near two months performing this last work, viz.,
n'gging ar)d fitting my mast and sails ; for I finished them
very complete, making a small stay, and a sail, or foresail to
it, to assist if we should turn to windward; and, which was
more than all, I fixed a rudder to the stern of her to steer
with; and though I was but a bungling shipwright, yet as I
knew the usefulness, and even necessity of such a thing, I
applied myself with so much pains to do it, that at last I
brought it to pass; though, considering the many dull con-
trivances I had for it that failed, I think it cost me as much
labour as making the boat
After all this was done, I had my man Friday to teach as to
what belonged to the navigation of my boat; for, though he
knew very well how to paddle a canoe, he knew nothing of
what belonged to a sail and a rudder, and was the more
amazed when he saw me work the boat to and again in the
sea by the rudder, and how the sail jibed, and filled this way
or that way, as the course we sailed changed. However,
with a little use, I made all these things familiar to him, and
he became an expert sailor, except that as to the compass I
could make him understand very little of that; on the other
hand, as there was very little cloudy weather, and seldom or
never any fogs in those parts, there was the less occasion for
a compass, "seeing the stars were always to be seen by night,
and the shore by day, except in the rainy season, and then
nobody cared to stir abroad either by land or sea.
I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year of my
captivity in this place; though the three last years that I had
this creature with me ought rather to be left out of the
account, my habitation being quite of another kind than in all
the rest of my time. I kept the anniversary of my landing
here with the same thankfulness to God for His mercies as at
first: and if I had such cause for acknowledgment at first, I
had much more so now, having such additional testimonies of
the care of Providence over me, and the great hopes I had of
being effectually and speedily delivered ; for I had an invin-
cible impression upon my thoughts that my deliverance was
at hand, and that I should not be another year in this place.
I went on, however, with my husbandry; digging, planting,
and fencing, as usual. I gathered and cured my grapes, and
did every necessary thing as before.
The rainy season was, in the mean time, upon me, when I
kept more within doors than at other times. We had stowed
our new vessel as secure as we could, bringing her up into the
creek, where, as I said in the beginning, I landed my rafts
from the ship; and hauling her up to the shore at high-water
mark, I made my man Friday dig a little dock, just big
enough to hold her, and just deep enough to give her water
enough to float in ; and then, when the tide was out, we made
a strong dam across the end of it, to keep the water out; and
so she lay dry as to the tide from the sea; and to keep the
rain off", we laid a great many boughs of trees, so thick that
she was as well thatched as a house; and thus we waited for
the months of November and December, in which I designed
to make my adventure.
When the settled season began to come in, as the thought
of my design returned with the fair weather, I was preparing
daily for the voyage; and the first thing I did was to lay by
a certain quantity of provisions, being the store for our voyage;
and intended in a week or a fortnight's time, to open the
dock, and launch out our boat I was busy one morning upon
something of this kind, when I called to Friday, and bid him
go to the sea-shore, and see if he could find a turtle or tortoise,
a thing which we generally got once a week, for the sake of
the eggs as well as the flesh. Friday had not been long gone
when he came running back, and flew over my outer wall,
or fence, like one that felt not the ground, or the steps he set
his feet on; and before I had time to speak to him, he cries
out to me, "O Master! O Master! O sorrow! O bad!"—
"What's the matter, Friday?" says I. "O yonder there,"
says he, " one, two, three canoes; one, two, three I" By this
way of speaking, I concluded there were six; but on inquiry
I found there were but three. "Well, Friday," says I, "do
A CANNIBAL BANQUET. 16;
not be frighted." So I heartened him up as well as I could.
However, I saw the poor fellow was most terribly scaitd, for
nothing ran in his head but that they were come to look for
him, and would cut him in pieces and eat him ; and the poor
fellow trembled so that I scarcely knew what to do with him ;
I comforted him as well as I could, and told him I was in as
much danger as he, and that they would eat me as well as
him. " But," says I, " Friday, we must resolve to fight them.
Can you fight, Friday?"—"Me shoot," says he, "but there
come many great number."—" No matter for that," said I
again; " our guns will fright them that we do not kill." So
I asked him whether, if I resolved to defend him, he would
defend me, and stand by me, and do just as I bid him. He
said, " Me die, when you bid die, Master." So I went and
fetched a good dram of rum and gave him; for I had been so
good a husband of my rum, that I had a great deal left
When he had drunk it, I made him take the two fowling-
pieces, which we always carried, and load them with large
swan-shot, as big as small pistol-bullets; then I took four
muskets, and loaded them with two slugs, and five small
bullets each; and my two pistols I loaded with a brace of
bullets each: I hung my great sword, as usual, naked by my
side, and gave Friday his hatchet
When I had thus prepared myself, I took my perspective-
glass, and went up to the side of the hill, to see what I could
discover; and I found quickly by my glass, that there were
one-and-twenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes;
and that their whole business seemed to be the triumphant
banquet upon these three human bodies; a barbarous feast,
indeed, but nothing more than, as I had observed, was usual
with them. I observed also, that they had landed, not where
they had done when Friday made his escape, but nearer to
my creek, where the shore was low, and where a thick wood
came almost close down to the sea; this, with the abhorrence
of the inhuman errand these wretches came about, filled me
with such indignation that I came down again to Friday, and
told him I was resolved to go down to them, and kill them
all; and asked him if he would stand by me. He had now
got over his fright, and his spirits being a little raised with
the dram I had given him, he was very cheerful, and told me,
as before, he would die when I bid die.
In this fit of fury I divided the arms, which I had charged,
u before, between us; I gave Friday one pistol to stick in hia
13
girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder, and I took one pistol
and three guns myself; and in this posture we marched out
I took a small bottle of rum in my pocket, and gave Friday
a large bag with more powder and bullets; and as to orders,
I charged him to keep close behind me, and not to stir or
shoot, or do anything till I bid him, and in the mean time not
to speak a word; in this posture I fetched a compass to my
right hand of near a mile, as well to get over the creek as
to get into the wood, so that I could come within shot ol
them before I should be discovered, which I had seen by my
glass it was easy to do.
While I was making this march, my former thoughts re-
turning, I began to abate my resolution : I do not mean that
I entertained any fear of their number, for, as they were
naked, unarmed wretches, it is certain I was superior to
them; nay, though I had been alone. But it occurred to my
thoughts, what call, what occasion, much less what necessity,
I was in to go and dip my hands in blood, to attack people
who had neither done nor intended me any wrong ? These
things were so warmly pressed upon my thoughts all the way
as I went, that I resolved I would only go and place myself
near them that I might observe their barbarous feast, and that
I would act then as God should direct; but that unless some-
thing offered that was more a call to me than yet I knew of,
I would not meddle with them.
With this resolution I entered the wood, and, with all pos-
sible wariness and silence, Friday following closely at my
heels, I marched till I came to the skirt of the wood on the
side which was next to them, only that one corner of the
wood lay between me and them. Here I called softly to
Friday, and showing him a great tree which was just at the
corner of the wood, I bade him go to the tree, and bring me
word if he could see there plainly what they were doing. He
did so, and came immediately back to me, and told me that
they might be plainly viewed there—that they were all about
their fire eating the flesh of one of their prisoners, and that
another lay bound upon the sand a little from them, whom
he said they would kill next; and this fired the very soul
within me. He told me it was not one of their nation, but
one of the bearded men he told me of, that came to their
country in their boat I was filled with horror at the very
naming of the white bearded man; and going to the tree, i
<aw plainly by my gbss a white man, who lay upon the beach
of the sea with his hands and his feet tied with flags, or tilings
like rushes, and that he was a European, and had clothes on.
There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it, about
fifty yards nearer to them than the place where I was, which,
by going a little way about, I saw I might come at undis-
covered, and that then I should be within half a shot of
them ; so I withheld my passion, though I was indeed enraged
to the highest degree; and going back about twenty paces,
I got behind some bushes, which held all the way till I came
to the other tree, and then came to a little rising ground, which
gave me a full view of them, at the distance of about eighty
yards.
I had now not a moment to lose; for nineteen of the dreadful
wretches sat upon the ground, all close huddled together, and
had just sent the other two to butcher the poor Christian, and
bring him, perhaps limb by limb, to their fire, and they were
stooping down to untie the bands at his feet I turned to
Friday. " Now, Friday," said I, " do as I bid thee." Friday
said he would. " Then, Friday," says I, " do exactly as you
see me do; fail in nothing." So I set down one of the
muskets and the fowling-piece upon the ground, and Friday
did the like by his, and with the other musket I took my aim
at the savages, bidding him do the like; then asking him if
he was ready, he said " Yes." " Then firej' and at the same
moment I fired also.
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the side
that he shot he killed two of them, and wounded three more;
and on my side I killed one, and wounded two. They were,
you may be sure, in a dreadful consternation : and all of them
that were not hurt jumped upon their feet, but did not imme-
diately know which way to run, or which way to look, for they
knew not from whence their destruction came. Friday kept
his eyes close upon me, that, as I had bid him, he might
observe what I did; so, as soon as the first shot was made,
I threw down the piece, and took up the fowling-piece, and
Friday did the like ; he saw me cock and present; he did the
same again. " Are you ready, Friday ?" said I. " Yes," says
he " Let fly, then," says I, " in the name of God !" and with
that I fired again among the amazed wretches, and so did
Friday; and as our pieces were now loaded with what I call
swan-shot, or small pistol-bullets, we found only two drop;
but so many were wounded, that they ran about yelling and
screaming like mad creatures, all bloodv, and most of them
miserably wounded; whereof three more fell quickly after
though not quite dead.
" Now, Friday," says I, laying down the discharged pieces,
and taking up the musket which was yet loaded, " follow me,"
which he did with a great deal of courage ; upon which I
rushed out of the wood and showed myself, and Friday close
it my feet; as soon as I perceived that they saw me, I shouted
as loud as I could, and bade Friday do so too, and running as
fast as I could, which by the way was not very fast, being
loaded with arms as I was, I made directly towards the poor
victim, who was, as I said, lying upon the beach or shore,
between the place where they sat and the sea ; the two butchers
who were just going to work with him had left him at the
surprise of our first fire, and fled in a terrible fright to the
sea-side, and had jumped into a canoe, and three more of the
rest made the same way. I turned to Friday, and bade him
step forwards and fire at them ; he understood me immedi-
ately, and running - about forty yards, to be nearer them, he
shot at them ; and I thought he had killed them all, for I saw
them all fall of a heap into the boat, though I saw two of
them up again quickly ; however, he killed two of them, and
wounded the third, so that he lay down in the bottom of the
boat as if he had been dead.
While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out my
knife and cut the flags that bound the poor victim; and loosing
his hands and feet, I lifted him up, and asked him in the
Portuguese tongue, what he was. He answered in Latin,
" Christianus ;" but was so weak and faint that he could
scarce stand or speak. I took my bottle out of my pocket,
and gave it him, making signs that he should drink, which he
did ; and I gave him a piece of bread, which he ate. Then I
asked him what countryman he was, and he said " Espagnole;"
and being a little recovered, let me know, by all the signs he
could possibly make, how much he was in my debt for his
deliverance. " Seignior," said I, with as much Spanish as I
could make up, " we will talk afterwards, but we must fight
now : if you have any strength left, take this pistol and sword,
and lay about you." He took them very thankfully ; and no
sooner had he the arms in his hands, but, as if they had put
new vigour into him, he flew upon his murderers like a fury,
and had cut two of them in pieces in an instant; for the
truth is, as the whole was a surprise to them, so the pool
creatures were so much frighted with the noise of our pieces
-firfbi/*£"
The Rescued Spaniard.
THE FIGHT. 165
that they fell down for mere amazement and fear, and had
no more power to attempt their own escape, than their flesh
had to resist our shot: and that was the case of those five
that Friday shot at in the boat; for as three of them fell with
the hurt they received, so the other two fell with the fright.
I kept my piece in my hand still without firing, being
willing to keep my charge ready, because I had given the
Spaniard my pistol and sword : so I called to Friday, and
bade him run up to the tree from whence we first fired, and
fetch the arms which lay there that had been discharged,
which he did with great swiftness; and then giving him my
musket, I sat down myself to load all the rest again, and bade
them come to me when they wanted. While I was loading
these pieces, there happened a fierce engagement between the
Spaniard and one of the savages, who made at him with one
of their great wooden swords, the weapon that was to have
killed him before, if I had not prevented it The Spaniard,
who was as bold and brave as could be imagined, though
weak, had fought the Indian a good while, and had cut two
great wounds on his head; but the savage being a stout, lusty
fellow, closing in with him, had thrown him down, being faint,
and was wringing my sword out of his hand; when the
Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quitting the sword, drew
the pistol from his girdle, shot the savage through the body,
and killed him upon the spot, before I, who was running to
help him, could come near him.
Friday, being now left to his liberty, pursued the flying
wretches with no weapon in his hand but his hatchet; and
with that he despatched those three who, as I said before,
were wounded at first, and fallen, and all the rest he could
come up with : and the Spaniard coming to me for a gun, I
gave him one of the fowling-pieces, with which he pursued
two ol the savages, and wounded them both ; but, as he was
not able to run, they both got from him into the wood, where
Friday pursued them, and killed one of them, but the other
was too nimble for him; and though he was wounded, yet
plunged into the sea, and swam with all his might off to those
two who were left in the canoe; which three in the canoe
with one wounded, that we knew not whether he died or no,
were all that escaped our hands, of one and twenty. The
account of the whole is as follows:—three killed at our first
shot from the tree; two killed at the next shot; two killed by
Friday in the boat • two killed by Friday of those at first
wounded; one killed by Friday in the wood ; three killed by
the Spaniard; four killed, being found dropped here and there,
of the wounds, or killed by Friday in his chase of them ; four
escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded.if not dead—twenty-
one in all.
Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of
gun-shot,and though Friday made two or three shots at them,
I did not find that he hit any of them. Friday would fain
have had me take one of their canoes, and pursue them ; and,
indeed, I was very anxious about their escape, lest, carrying
the news home to their people, they should come back perhaps'
with two or three hundred of the canoes, and devour us by
mere multitude; so I consented to pursue them by sea, and
running to one of their canoes, I jumped in, and bade Friday
follow me; but when I was in the canoe, I was surprised
to find another poor creature lie there, bound hand and foot,
as the Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and almost dead
with fear, not knowing what was the matter; for he had not
been able to look up over the side of the boat, he was tied so
hard neck and heels, and had been tied so long, that he had
really but little life in him.
I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which they
had bound him with, and would have helped him up; but
he could not stand or speak, but groaned most piteously,
believing, it seems, still, that he was only unbound in order to
be killed. When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to
him, and tell him of his deliverance; and pulling out my
bottle, made him give the poor wretch a dram; which, with
the news of his being delivered, revived him, and he sat up
in the boat But when Friday came to hear him speak, and
look in his face, it would have moved any one to tears to have
seen how Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged him,
cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about, danced, sung; then
cried again, wrung his hands, beat his own face and head ;
and then sung and jumped about again like a distracted
creature. It was a good while before I could make him speak
to me, or tell me what was the matter; but when he came
a little to himself, he told me that it was his father.
It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to see
ivhat ecstasy and filial affection had worked in this poor savage
at the sight of his father, and of his being delivered from
death; nor, indeed, can I describe half the extravagances
of his affection after this; for he went into the boat, and out
FRIDA rs FATHER. 167
of the boat, a great many times : when he went into him, he
would sit down by him, open his breast, and hold his father's
head close to his bosom for many minutes together, to nourish
it; then he took his arms and ankles, which were numbed with
the binding, and chafed and rubbed them with his hands;
and I, perceiving what the case was, gave him some rum out
of my bottle to rub them with, which did them a great deal
of good.
This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the
other savages, who were now almost out of sight; and it was
happy for us that we did not, for it blew so hard within two
hours after, and before they could be got a quarter of their
way, and continued blowing so hard all the night, and that
from the north-west, which was against them, that I could
not suppose their boat could live, or that they ever reached
their own coast.
But to return to Friday; he was so busy about his father,
that I could not find in my heart to take him off for some
time; but after I thought he could leave him a little, I called
him to me, and he came jumping and laughing, and pleased
to the highest extreme. Then I asked him if he had given
his father any bread. He shook his head, and said, " None ;
ugly dog eat all up self." So I gave him a cake of bread,
out of a little pouch I carried on purpose; I also gave him
a dram for himself; but he would not taste it, but carried it
to his father. I had in my pocket, also, two or thr,ee bunches
of raisins, so I gave him a handful of them for his father.
He had no sooner given his father these raisins, but I saw
him come out of the boat, and run away as if he had been
bewitched (for he was the swiftest fellow on his feet that ever
I saw), I say, he ran at such a rate that he was out of sight,
as it were, in an instant; and though I called, and hallooed
out too, after him, it was all one; away he went; and in a
quarter of an hour I saw him come back again, though not
so fast as he went; and, as he came nearer, I found his pace
slacker because he had something in his hand. When he
came up to me, I found he had been quite home for an earthen
jug or pot, to bring his father some fresh water, and that he
had got two more cakes or loaves of bread. The bread he
gave me, but the water he carried to his father; however, as
I was very thirsty too, 1 took a little of it; this water revived
his father more than all the rum or spirits I had given him
for he was fainting with thirst.
When hfs father had drunk, I called to him to know if there
was any water left. He said, " Yes; " and I bade him give it
to the poor Spaniard, who was in as much want of it as his
father; and I sent one of the cakes that Friday brought to
the Spaniard, too, who was indeed very weak, and was re-
posing himself upon a green place under the shade of a tree ;
and whose limbs were also very stiff, and very much swelled.
with the rude bandage he had been tied with. When I saw
that upon Friday's coming to him with the water, he sat up
and drank, and took the bread and began to eat, I went to
him and gave him a handful of raisins; he looked up in my
face with all the tokens of gratitude and thankfulness that
could appear in any countenance; but was so weak, notwith-
standing he had so exerted himself in the fight, that he could
not stand upon his feet; he tried to do it two or three times,
but was really not able, his ankles were so swelled and so
painful to him ; so I bade him sit still, and caused Friday to
rub his ankles, and bathe them with rum, as he had done his
father's.
I observed the poor affectionate creature, every two minutes,
or perhaps less, all the while he was here, turn his head about,
to see if his father was in the same place and posture as he
left him sitting; and at last he found he was not to be seen;
at which he started up, and, without speaking a word, flew
with that swiftness to him, that one could scarce perceive
his feet to touch the ground as he went: but when he came,
he only found he had lain himself down to ease his limbs.
So Friday came back to me presently, and then I spoke to
the Spaniard to let Friday help him up, if he could, and lead
him to the boat, and then he should carry him to our dwelling,
where I would take care of him ; but Friday, a lusty young
fellow, took the Spaniard upon his back, and carried him
away to the boat, and set him down softly upon the side or
gunnel of the canoe, with his feet in the inside of it; and
then lifting him quite in, he set him close to his father ; and
presently stepping out again, launched the boat off, and
paddled it along the shore faster than I could walk, though
the wind blew pretty hard too; so he brought them both safe
into our creek, and leaving them in the boat, ran away to
fetch the other canoe. As he passed me I spoke to him, and
asked him whither he went He told me, " Go fetch more
boat;" so away he went like the wind, for sure never man or
horse ran like him ; and he had the other canoe in the creek
MY NE W S UEJECTS. 169
almost as soon as I got to it by land. So he wafted me over,
and then went to help our new guests out of the boat, which
he did ; but they were neither of them able to walk; so that
poor Friday knew not what to do.
To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and calling
to Friday to bid them sit down on the bank while he came to
me, I soon made a.kind of hand-barrow to lay them on, and
Friday and I carried them both up together upon it between
us; but when we got them to the outside of our wall, or
fortification, we were at a worse loss than before, for it was
impossible to get them over, and I was resolved not to break
it down; so I set to work again, and Friday and I, in about
two hours' time, made a very handsome tent, covered with
old sails, and above that with boughs of trees, being in the
space without our outward fence, and between that and the
grove of young wood which I had planted; and here we
made two beds of such things as I had—of good rice-straw,
with blankets laid upon it to lie on, and another to cover
them, on each bed.
My island was now peopled, and I thought myself very
rich in subjects; and it was a merry reflection, which I fre-
quently made, how like a king I looked. First of all, the
whole country was my own property, so that I had an
undoubted right of dominion; secondly, my people were
perfectly subjected ; I was absolute lord and lawgiver; they
all owed their lives to me, and were ready to lay down their
lives, if there had been occasion for it, for me; it was remark-
able, too, I had but three subjects, and they were of three
different religions. My man Friday was a Protestant, his
father was a Pagan and a cannibal, and the Spaniard was a
Papist However, I allowed liberty of conscience throughout
my dominions.
As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued prisoners,
and given them shelter, and a place to rest them upon, I
began to think of making some provision for them ; and the
first thing I did, I ordered Friday to take a yearling goat,
betwixt a kid and a goat, out of my particular flock, to be
killed; when I cut off the hinder-quarter, and chopping it into
small pieces, I set Friday to work to boiling and stewing,
and made them a very good dish, I assure you, of flesh and
broth (having put some barley and rice also into the broth),
and as I cooked it without doors (for I made no fire within
my inner wall), so I carried it all into the new tent, and
having set a table there for them, I sat down, and ate my own
dinner also with them, and, as well as I could, cheered them
and encouraged them, Friday being my interpreter, especially
to his father, and, indeed, to the Spaniard too; for the Spaniard
spoke the language of the savages pretty well.
After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to
take one of the canoes, and go and fetch our muskets and
other fire-arms, which, for want of time, we had left upon the
place of battle; and the next day, I ordered him to go and
bury the dead bodies of the savages, which lay open to the
sun, and would presently be offensive; and I also ordered
him to bury the horrid remains of their barbarous feast,
which I could not think of doing myself; nay, I could not
bear to see them, if I went that way; all which he punctually
performed, and defaced the very appearances of the savages
being there; so that when I went again, I could scarce know
where it was, otherwise than by the corner of the wood
pointing to the place.
I then began to enter into a little conversation with my two
new subjects ; and first, I set Friday to inquire of his father
what he thought of the escape of the savages in that canoe,
and whether we might expect a return of them, with a power
too great for us to resist. His first opinion was, that the
savages in the boat never could live out the storm which blew
that night they went off, but must, of necessity, be drowned,
or driven south to those other shores, where they were as sure
to be devoured as they were to be drowned if they were cast
away; but, as to what they would do if they came safe on
shore, he said he knew not; but, it was his opinion, that they
were so dreadfully frighted with the manner of their being
attacked, the noise, and the fire, that he believed they would
tell the people they were all killed by thunder and lightning,
not by the hand of man ; and that the two which appeared
viz., Friday and I, were two heavenly spirits, or furies, come
down to destroy them, and not men with weapons. This, he
said he knew ; because he heard them all cry out so, in their
language, one to another; for it was impossible for them to
conceive that a man could dart fire, and speak thunder, and
kill at a distance, without lifting up the hand, as was done
now. And this old savage was in the right, for, as I under-
stood since, by other hands, the savages never attempted tc
go over to the island afterwards, they were so terrified with
the accounts given by those four men (for it seems they did
THE SPANIARUS STORY. 171
escape the sea), that they believed whoever went to that en-
chanted island would be destroyed with fire from the gods.
This, however, I knew not, and therefore was under continual
apprehensions for a good while, and kept always upon my
guard, with all my army; for, as there were now four of us, I
would have ventured upon a hundred of them fairly in the
open field, at anytime.
In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing, the fear
of their coming wore off, and I began to take my former
thoughts of a voyage to the main into consideration, being
likewise assured by Friday's father that I might depend upon
good usage from their nation, on his account, if I would go.
But my thoughts were a little suspended when I had a serious
discourse with the Spaniard, and when I understood that
there were sixteen more of his countrymen and Portuguese,
who having been cast away and made their escape to that
side, lived there at peace, indeed, with the savages, but were
very sore put to it for necessaries, and, indeed, for life. I
asked him all the particulars of their voyage, and found they
were a Spanish ship, bound from the Rio de la Plata to the
Havanna,_ being directed to leave their loading there, which
was chiefly hides and silver, and to bring back what European
goods they could meet with there; that they had five Portuguese
seamen on board, whom they took out of another wreck ; that
five of their own men were drowned when first the ship was
lost, and that these escaped through infinite dangers and
hazards, and arrived, almost starved, on the cannibal coast,
where they expected to have been devoured every moment He
told me they had some arms with them, but they were per-
fectly useless, for that they had neither powder nor ball, the
washing of the sea having spoiled all their powder, but a little,
which they used at first landing, to provide themselves with
some food.
I asked him what he thought would become of them there,
and if they had formed any design of making their escape.
He said they had many consultations about it; but that
having neither vessel, nor tools to build one, nor provisions
of any kind, their councils always ended in tears and despair.
I asked him how he thought they would receive a proposal
from me, which might tend towards an escape ; and whether,
if they were all here, it might not be done. I told him with
freedom, I feared mostly their treachery and ill-usage of me, if
I put my life in their hands ; for that gratitude was no inherent
virtue in the nature of man, nor did men always square their
dealings by the obligations they had received, so much as
they did by the advantages they expected. I told him it
would be very hard that I should be the instrument of their
deliverance, and that they should afterwards make me their
prisoner in New Spain, where an Englishman was certain to
be made a sacrifice, what necessity, or what accident soever
brought him thither; and that I had rather be delivered up to
the savages, and be devoured alive, than fall into the merciless
claws of the priests, and be carried into the Inquisition. I
added that, otherwise, I was persuaded, if they were all here,
we might, with so many hands, build a barque large enough to
carry us all away, either to the Brazils southward, or to the
islands or Spanish coast northward ; but that if, in requital,
they should, when I had put weapons into their hands, carry
me by force among their own people, I might be ill used for
my kindness to them, and make my case worse than it was
before.
He answered, with a great deal of candour and ingenuity,
that their condition was so miserable, and that they were so
sensible of it, that he believed they would abhor the thought
of using any man unkindly that should contribute to their
deliverance ; and that, if I pleased, he would go to them, with
the old man, and discourse with them about it, and return
again, and bring me their answer ; that he would make condi-
tions with them upon their solemn oath, that they should be
absolutely under my direction, as their commander and captain;
and they should swear upon the holy sacraments and gospel
to be true to me, and go to such Christian country as I should
agree to, and no other; and to be directed wholly and abso-
lutely by my orders, till they were landed safely in such country
as I intended ; and that he would bring a contract from them,
under their hands, for that purpose. Then he told me he
would first swear to me himself, that he would never stir from
me as long as he lived, till I gave him order; and that he
would take my side to the last drop of his blood, if there should
happen the least breach of faith among his countrymen. He
told me they were all of them very civil, honest men, and they
were under the greatest distress imaginable, having neither
weapons nor clothes, nor any food, but at tne mercy and dis-
cretion of the savages ; out of all hopes of ever returning to
their own country; and that he was sure, if I would undertake
their relief, they would live and die by me.
HUSBANDRY. 173
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve them,
if possible, and to send the old savage and this Spaniard over
to them to treat But when we had got all things in readiness
to go, the Spaniard himself started an objection, which had so
much prudence in it on one hand, and so much sincerity on
the other hand, that I could not but be very well satisfied with
it; and, by his advice, put off the deliverance of his comrades
for at least half a year. The case was thus: he had been with
us now about a month, during which time I had let him see
in what manner I had provided, with the assistance of Provi-
dence, for my support; and he saw evidently what stock ol
corn and rice I had laid up; which, though it was more than
sufficient for myself, yet it was not sufficient, without good
husbandry, for my family, now it was increased to four; but
much less would it be sufficient if his countrymen, who were,
as he said, sixteen, still alive, should come over ; and, least of
all, would it be sufficient to victual our vessel, if we should
build one, for a voyage to any of the Christian colonies of
America. So he told me he thought it would be more advis-
able to let him and the other two dig and cultivate some more
land, as much as I could spare seed to sow, and that we should
wait another harvest, that we might have a supply of corn for
his countrymen, when they should come; for want might be
a temptation to them to disagree, or not to think themselves
delivered, otherwise than out of one difficulty into another.
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good, that
I could not but be very well pleased at his proposal, as well
as I was satisfied with his fidelity; so we fell to digging, all
four of us, as well as the wooden tools we were furnished with
permitted ; and, in about a month's time, by the end of which
it was seed-time, we had got as much land cured and trimmed
up, as we sowed two and twenty bushels of barley on, and
sixteen jars of rice, which was, in short, all the seed we had
to spare; nor indeed did we leave ourselves barely sufficient
for our own food for the six months that we had to expect our
crop; that is to say, reckoning from the time we set our seed
aside for sowing; for it is not to be supposed it is six months
in the ground in that country.
Having now society enough, and our number being sufficient
to put us out of fear of the savages, if they had come, unless
their number had been very great, we went freely all over the
island, whenever we found occasion; and as we had our escape
or deliverance upon our thoughts, it was impossible, at least
for me, to have the means of it out of mine; to this purpose,
I marked out several trees, which I thought fit for our work,
and I set Friday and his father to cut them down ; and then
I caused the Spaniard, to whom I imparted my thoughts on
that affair, to oversee and direct their work ; I showed them
with what indefatigable pains I had hewed a large tree into
single planks, and I caused them to do the like, till they made
about a dozen large planks of good oak, near two feet broad,
thirty-five feet long, and from two inches to four inches thick:
what prodigious labour it took up, any one may imagine.
At the same time, I contrived to increase my little flock of
tame goats as much as I could ; and for this purpose I made
Friday and the Spaniard go out one day, and myself with
Friday the next day (for we took our turns), and by this
means we got about twenty young kids to breed up with the
rest; for whenever we shot the dam, we saved the kids, and
added them to our flock ; but, above all, the season for curing
the grapes coming on, I caused such a prodigious quantity to
be hung up in the sun, that, I believe, had we been at Alicant,
where the raisins of the sun are cured, we could have filled
sixty or eighty barrels; and these, with our bread, was a great
part of our food—very good living, too, I assure you, for it is
exceedingly nourishing food.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order; it was
not the most plentiful increase I had seen in the island, but,
however, it was enough to answer our end. When we had
thus housed and secured our magazine of corn, we fell to
work to make more wicker-ware, viz., great baskets, in which
we kept it; and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous
at this part, and often blamed me that I did not make some
things for defence of this kind of work ; but I saw no need of
it And now, having a full supply of food for all the guests
I expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the main,
to see what he could do with those he had left behind him
there. I gave him a strict charge in writing not to bring any
men who would not first swear, in the presence of himself and
the old savage, that they would in no way injure, fight with,
or attack the person they should find in the island, who was
so kind as to send for them in order to their deliverance; but
that they would stand by him and defend him against all such
attempts, and wherever they went, would be entirely under
and subjected to his command ; and that this should be put
in writing, and signed with their hands: how we were to have
MY AMBASSADORS DEPARTURE. 175
this done, when I knew they had neither pen nor ink, was a
question which we never asked. Under these instructions,
the Spaniard and the old savage, the father of Friday, went
away in one of the canoes which they might be said to have
come in, or rather were brought in, when they came as
prisoners to be devoured by the savages. I gave each of
them a musket, with a fire-lock on it, and about eight charges
of powder and ball, charging them to be very good husbands
of both, and not to use either of them but upon urgent
occasions.
This was a cheerful work, being the first measures used by
me, in view of my deliverance, for now 27 years and some
days. I gave them provisions of bread, and of dried grapes,
sufficient for themselves for many days, and sufficient for all
the Spaniards for about eight days' time; and wishing them
a good voyage, I saw them go. They went away, with a fair
gale, on the day that the moon was at full, by my account in
the month of October; but as for an exact reckoning of days,
after I had once lost it, I could never recover it again; nor
had I kept even the number of years so punctually as to be
sure I was right; though, as it proved, when I afterwards
examined my account, I found I had kept a true reckoning of
years.
It was no less than eight days I waited for them, when a
strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the like
has not, perhaps, been heard of in history. I was fast asleep
in my hutch one morning, when my man Friday came running
in to me, and called aloud, " Master, Master, they are come,
they are cornel" I jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I
went, as soon as I could get my clothes on, through my little
grove, which, by the way, was by this time grown to be a very
thick wood; I say, regardless of danger, I went without my
arms, which was not my custom to do : but I was surprised,
when, turning my eyes to the sea, I presently saw a boat at
about a league and a half distance, standing in for the shore,
with a shoulder-of-mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind
blowing pretty fair to bring them in: also I observed
presently, that they did not come from that side which the
shore lay on, but from the southernmost end of the island.
Upon this I called Friday in, and bade him lie close, for these
were not the people we looked for, and that we might not
know yet whether they were friends or enemies. In the next
nlace, I went in to fetch my perspective-glass, to see what J
14
could make of them; and, having taken the ladder out, 1
climbed up to the top of the hill, as I used to do when I was
apprehensive of anything, and to take my view the plainer,
without being discovered.
I had scarce set my foot upon the hill, when my eye plainly
discovered a ship lying at anchor, at about two leagues and
a half distance from me, S.S.E., but not above a league and
a half from the shore. By my observation, it appeared plainly
to be an English ship, and the boat appeared to be an English
long-boat
I cannot express the confusion I was in ; though the joy of
seeing a ship, and one that I had reason to believe was manned
by my own countrymen, and consequently friends, was such as
I cannot describe; but yet I had some secret doubts hung
about me—I cannot tell from whence they came—bidding me
keep upon my guard; for that I had better continue as I
was, than fall into the hands of thieves and murderers.
I saw the boat draw near the shore, as if they looked for a
creek to thrust in at, for the convenience of landing ; however,
as they did not come quite far enough, they did not see the
little inlet where I formerly landed my rafts, but ran their boat
on shore upon the beach, at about half a mile from me; which
was very happy for me; for otherwise they would have landed
just at my door, as I may say, and would soon have beaten
me out of my castle, and perhaps have plundered me of all I
had. When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied they
were Englishmen, at least most of them ; one or two I thought
were Dutch, but it did not prove so; there were in all eleven
men, whereof three of them I found were unarmed, and, as I
thought, bound ; and when the first four or five of them were
jumped on shore, they took those three out of the boat, as
prisoners. One of the three I could perceive using the most
passionate gestures of entreaty, affliction, and despair, even to
a kind of extravagance ; the other two, I could perceive, lifted
up their hands sometimes, and appeared concerned indeed, but
not to such a degree as the first. I was perfectly confounded
at the sight, and knew not what the meaning of it should be.
Friday called out to me in English, as well as he could, " O
Master! you see English mans eat prisoner as well as savage
mans."—" Why," said I," Friday; I am afraid they will murder
them, indeed ; but you may be sure they will not eat them."
All this while I had no thought of what the matter really
was. but stood trembling with the horror of the sight, expect-
ENGLISH VISITORS. 177
ing every moment when the three prisoners should be killed ;
nay, once I saw one of the villains lift up his arm with a great
cutlass, as the seamen call it, or sword, to strike one of the
poor men ; and I expected to see him fall every moment; at
which all the blood in my body seemed to run chill in my
veins. I wished heartily now for the Spaniard, and the savage
that was gone with him, or that I had any way to have come
undiscovered, within shot of them, that I might have secured
the three men, for I saw no fire-arms they had among them ;
but it fell out to my mind another way. After I had observed
the outrageous usage of the three men by the insolent seamen,
I observed the fellows run scattering about the island, as if
they wanted to see the country. I observed that the three
other men had liberty to go also where they pleased; but
they sat down all three upon the ground very pensive, and
looked like men in despair.
It was just at high water when these people came on shore;
and while they rambled about to see what kind of a place
they were in, they had carelessly stayed till the tide was
spent, and the water was ebbed considerably away, leaving
their boat aground. They had left two men in the boat,
who, as I found afterwards, having drunk a little too much
brandy, fell asleep; however, one of them waking a little
sooner than the other, and finding the boat too fast aground
for him to stir it, hallooed out for the rest, who were stragg-
ling about; upon which they all soon came to the boat: but
it was past all their strength to launch her, the boat being
very heavy, and the shore on that side being a soft oozy sand,
almost like a quicksand. In this condition, like true seamen,
who are, perhaps, the least of all mankind given to fore-
thought, they gave it over, and away they strolled about the
tountry again; and I heard one of them say aloud to
another, calling them off from the boat, " Why, let her alone,
Jack, can't you ? she'll float next tide;" by which I was fully
confirmed in the main inquiry of what countrymen they were.
All this while I kept myself very close, not once daring to
stir out of my castle any farther than to my place of observa-
tion, near the top of the hill: and very glad I was to think
how well it was fortified. I knew it was no less than ten hours
before the boat could float again, and by that time it would
be dark, and I might be at more liberty to see their motions,
and to hear their discourse, if they had any.
In the meantime, I fitted myself up for a battle, as before,
though with more caution, knowing I had to do with another
kind of enemy than I had at first I ordered Friday also,
whom I had made an excellent marksman with his gun, to
load himself with arms. I took myself two fowling-pieces,
and I gave him three muskets; my figure, indeed, was very
fierce; I had my formidable goat-skin coat on, with the great
tap I have mentioned, a naked sword by my side, two pistols
in my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder.
It was my design not to have made any attempt till it was
dark; but about two o'clock, being the heat of the day, I
found that they were all gone straggling into the woods, and,
as I thought, laid down to sleep; the three poor distressed
men, too anxious for their condition to get any sleep, were,
however, sat down under the shelter of a great tree, at about
a quarter of a mile from me, and, as I thought, out of sight of
any of the rest Upon this I resolved to discover myself to
them, and learn something of their condition. Immediately I
marched as above, my man Friday at a good distance behind
me, as formidable for his arms as I, but not making quite so
staring a spectre-like figure as I did. I came as near them
undiscovered as I could, and then, before any of them saw
me, I called aloud to them in Spanish, " What are ye, gentle-
men ?" They started up at the noise, but were ten times
more confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth figure
that I made. They made no answer at all, but I thought I
perceived them just going to fly from me, when I spoke to
them in English.
" Gentlemen," said I, " do not be surprised at me; perhaps
you may have a friend near, when you did not expect it"
" He must be sent directly from Heaven, then," said one
of them very gravely to me, and pulling off his hat at the
same time to me; " for our condition is past the help of
man."
" All help is from Heaven, sir," said I: " but can you put a
stranger in the way to help you ? for you seem to be in some
great distress. I saw you when you landed ; and when you
seemed to make application to the brutes that came with
you, I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill you."
The poor man, with tears running down his face, and
trembling, looking like one astonished, returned—
" Am I talking to God, or man ? Is it a real man, or an
angel?"
" Be in no fear about that sir," said I: " if God had sent an
THE MUTINEERS.
179
angel to relieve you, he would have come better clothed, and
armed after another manner than you see me in; pray laj
aside your fears; I am a man, an Englishman, and disposed
to assist you ; you see I have one servant only; we have
arms and ammunition; tell us freely, can we serve you ?
What is your case ? "
" Our case, sir," said he, " is too long to tell you, while our
murderers are so near us ; but, in short, sir, I was commander
of that ship: my men have mutinied against me; they have
been hardly prevailed on not to murder me, and, at last, have
set me on shore in this desolate place, with these two men
with me—one my mate, the other a passenger; where we ex-
pected to perish, believing the place to be uninhabited, and
know not what to think of it"
" Where are those brutes, your enemies," said I ; "do you
know where they are gone ?"
" There they lie, sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of trees ;
" my heart trembles for fear they have seen us, and heard you
speak; if they have, they will certainly murder us all."
"Have they any fire-arms? " said I.
"They had only two pieces," he answered, "one of which
they left in the boat"
" Well, then," said I, " leave the rest to me; I see they are
all asleep; it is an easy thing to kill them all; but shall we
rather take them prisoners ?"
He told me there were two desperate villains among them
that it was scarce safe to show any mercy to ; but if they were
secured, he believed all the rest would return to their duty.
I asked him which they were. He told me he could not at
that distance distinguish them, but he would obey my orders
in everything I would direct
" Well," says I, " let us retreat out of their view or hearing,
lest they awake, and we will resolve further."
So they willingly went back with me, till the woods covered
us from them.
" Look you, sir," said I," if I venture upon your deliverance,
are you willing to make two conditions with me ?" He anti-
cipated my proposals by telling me that both he and the ship,
if recovered, should be wholly directed and commanded by me
in everything; and if the ship was not recovered, he would
live and die with me in what part of the world soever I would
send him ; and the two other men said the same.
"Well," says I, "my conditions are but two: fhvt—that
while you stay in this island with me, you will not pretend to
any authority here; and if I put arms in your hands, you will,
upon all occasions, give them up to me, and do no prejudice to
me or mine upon this island, and in the meantime be governed
by my orders; secondly—that if the ship is or may be recovered,
you will carry me and my man to England passage free."
He gave me all the assurance that the invention or faith
of man could devise, that he would comply with these most
reasonable demands, and, besides, would owe his life to me,
and acknowledge it upon all occasions as long as he lived.
" Well, then," said I, " here are three muskets for you, with
powder and ball; tell me next what you think is proper to
be done." He showed all the testimonies of his gratitude that
he was able, but offered to be wholly guided by me. I told
him I thought it was hard venturing anything ; but the best
method I could think of was to fire on them at once as they
lay, and if any were not killed at the first volley, and offered
to submit, we might save them, and so put it wholly upon
God's providence to direct the shot He said, very modestly,
that he was loth to kill them, if he could help it; but that those
two were incorrigible villains, and had been the authors of all
the mutiny in the ship, and if they escaped, we should be
undone still, for they would go on board and bring the whole
ship's company, and destroy us all. "Well, then," says I,
" necessity legitimates my advice, for it is the only way to save
our lives." However, seeing him still cautious of shedding
blood, I told him they should go themselves, and manage as
they found convenient
In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them awake,
and soon after we saw two of them on their feet I asked if
either of them were the men who, he had said, were the heads
of the mutiny. He said, " No."—" Well, then," said I, " you
may let them escape ; and Providence seems to have awakened
them on purpose to save themselves. Now," says I, "if the
rest escape you, it is your fault" Animated with this, he took
the musket I had given him in his hand, and a pistol in his
belt, and his two comrades with him, with each a piece in his
hand. The two men who were with him going first made some
noise, at which one of the seamen, who was awake, turned
about, and seeing them coming, cried out to the rest; but it
was too late then, for the moment he cried out they fired, I
mean the two men, the captain wisely reserving his own piece.
They had so well aimed their shot at the men they knew, that
THE CAPTAIN DELIVERED. tSi
one of them was killed on the spot, and the other very much
wounded ; but not being dead, he started up on his feet, and
called eagerly for help to the other; but the captain stepping
up to him, told him it was too late to cry for help, he should
call upon God to forgive his villainy, and with that word
knocked him down with the stock of his musket, so that he
never spoke more: there were three more in the company,
and one of them was slightly wounded ; by this time I was
come ; and when they saw their danger, and that it was in vain
to resist, they begged for mercy. The captain told them he
would spare their lives if they would give him an assurance of
their abhorrence of the treachery they had been guilty of, and
would swear to be faithful to him in recovering the ship, and
afterwards in carrying her back to Jamaica, from whence they
came. They gave him all the protestations of their sincerity
that could be desired ; and he was willing to believe them, and
spare their lives, which I was not against; only that I obliged
him to keep them bound hand and foot while they were upon
the island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's mate
to the boat, with orders to secure her, and bring away the oars
and sail, which they did ; and by-and-by three straggling men,
that were (happily for them) parted from the rest, came back
upon hearing the guns fired ; and seeing the captain, who was
before their prisoner, now their conqueror, they submitted to
be bound also, and so our victory was complete.
It now remained that the captain and I should inquire into
one another's circumstances. I began first, and told him my
whole history, which he heard with an attention even to amaze-
ment, and particularly at the wonderful manner of my being
furnished with provisions and ammunition ; and, indeed, as
my story is a whole collection of wonders, it affected him
deeply ; but when he reflected from thence upon himself, and
how I seemed to have been preserved thereon purpose to save
his life, the tears ran down his face, and he could not speak a
word more. After this communication was at an end, I carried
him and his two men into my apartment, leading them in just
where I came out, viz., at the top of the house; where I re-
freshed him with such provision as I had, and showed them
all the contrivances I had made during my long, long inhabi-
ting that place.
All I showed them, all I said to them, was pecfectly amazing-,
but above all, the cap^n admired my fortifications ; and how
perfectly I had concealed my retreat with a grove of trees,
which, having been now planted nearly twenty years, and the
trees growing much faster than in England, was become a little
wood, and so thick that it was impassable in any part of it but
at that one side where I had reserved my little winding passage
into it: this I told him was my castle and my residence ; but
that I had a seat in the country, as most princes have, whither
I could retreat upon occasion, and I would show him that, too,
another time ; but at present our business was to consider how
to recover the ship. He agreed with me as to that, but told
me he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take, for that
there were still six and twenty hands on board, who, having
entered into a cursed conspiracy, by which they had all forfeited
their lives to the law, would be hardened in it now by despera-
tion ; and would carry it on, knowing that if they were subdued
they would be brought to the gallows as soon as they came to
England, or to any of the English colonies; and that, there-
fore, there would be no attacking them with so small a number
as we were.
I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found
it was a very rational conclusion, and that therefore something
was to be resolved on speedily, as well to draw the men on
board into some snare for their surprise; as to prevent their
landing upon us, and destroying us: upon this, it presently
occurred to me that in a little while the ship's crew, wondering
what was become of their comrades and of the boat, would
certainly come on shore in their other boat to look for them,
and that then, perhaps, they might come armed, and be too
strong for us: this he allowed to be rational. Upon this, I
told him the first thing we had to do was to stave the boat,
which lay upon the beach, so that they might not carry her off;
and taking everything out of her, leave her so far useless as
not to be fit to swim; accordingly we went on board, took the
arms which were left on board out of her, and whatever else
we found there, which was a bottle of brandy, and another of
rum, a few biscuit-cakes, a horn of powder, and a great lump
of sugar in a piece of canvas (the sugar was five or six pounds);
all which was very welcome to me, especially the brandy and
sugar, of which I had had none left for many years.
When we had carried all these things on shore (the oars,
mast, sail, and rudder of the boat were carried before), we
knocked a great hole in her bottom, that if they had come
strong enough to master us, yet they could not carry off the
PREPARING FOR AC7T0N. 183
boat Indeed, it was not much in my thoughts that we could
be able to recover thenship; but my view was, that if they
went away without the boat, I did not much question to make
her again fit to carry us to the Leeward Islands, and call upon
our friends the Spaniards in my way.
While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first, by
main strength, heaved the boat upon the beach, so high that
the tide would not float her off at high-water mark; and be-
sides, had broken a hole in her bottom too big to be quickly
stopped, and were sat down musing what we should do, we
heard the ship fire a gun, and make a waft with her ancient,
as a signal for the boat to come on board : but no boat stirred;
and they fired several times, making other signals for the boat.
At last, when all their signals and firing proved fruitless, and
they found the boat did not stir, we saw them, by the help of
my glasses, hoist another boat out, and row towards the shore;
and we found, as they approached, that there were no less than
ten men in her, and that they had fire-arms with them.
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we had
a full view of them as they came, and a plain sight even of
their faces; because the tide having set them a little to the
east of the other boat, they rode up under shore, to come to the
same place where the other had landed, and where the boat
lay. By this means, I say, we had a full view of them, and
the captain knew the persons and characters of all the men in
the boat, of whom, he said, there were three very honest fellows,
who, he was sure, were led into this conspiracy by the rest,
being overpowered and frightened. But that as for the boat-
swain, who it seems was the chief officer among them, and all
the rest, they were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew, and
were no doubt made desperate in their new enterprise; and
terribly apprehensive he was that they would be too powerful
for us. I smiled at him, and told him that men in our cir-
cumstances were past the operation of fear; that seeing almost
every condition that could be was better than that which we
were supposed to be in, we ought to expect that the conse-
quences, whether death or life, would be sure to be a deliver-
ance. I asked him what he thought of the circumstance of my
life, and whether a deliverance were not worth venturing for.
" And where, sir," said I, " is your belief of my being pre-
served here on purpose to save your life, which elevated you
a little while ago ? For my part," said I, " there seems to be
but one thing amiss in all the prospect of it"
" What is that ? " says he.
"Why," said I, "it is that, as you say, there are three or
four honest fellows among them, which should be spared; had
they been all of the wicked part of the crew, I should have
thought God's providence had singled them out to deliver
them into your hands; for depend upon it, every man that
comes ashore is our own, and shall die or live as they behave
to us."
As I spoke this with a raised voice and cheerful counte-
nance, I found it greatly encouraged him; so we set vigor-
ously to our business: we had, upon the first appearance of
the boat's coming from the ship, considered of separating our
prisoners; and we had, indeed, secured them effectually.
Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured than
ordinary, I sent with Friday, and one of the three delivered
men, to my cave, where they were remote enough, and out of
danger of being heard or discovered, or of finding their way
out of the woods, if they could have delivered themselves;
here they left them bound, but gave them provisions, and
promised them, if they continued there quietly, to give them
their liberty in a day or two; but that if they attempted their
escape, they should be put to death without mercy. They
promised faithfully to bear their confinement with patience,
and were very thankful that they had such good usage as to
have provisions and light left them; for Friday gave them
candles (such as we made ourselves) for their comfort; and
they did not know but that he stood sentinel over them at the
entrance.
The other prisoners had better usage; two of them were
kept pinioned, indeed, because the captain was not able to
trust them; but the other two were taken into my service,
upon the captain's recommendation, and upon their solemnly
engaging to live and die with us; so with them and the three
honest men we were seven men, well armed; and I made no
doubt we should be able to deal well enough with the ten
that were coming, considering that the captain had said there
were three or four honest men among them also. As soon as
they got to the place where their other boat lay, they ran their
boat into the beach and came all on shore, hauling the boat
up after them ; which I was glad to see, for I was afraid they
would rather have left the boat at an anchor some distance
from the shore, with some hands in her, to guard her, and so
we should not be able to seize the boat. Being on shore, the
MOVEMENTS OF THE MUTINEERS. 185
first thing they did, they ran all to their other boat; and it
was easy to see they were under a great surprise to find her
stripped, as above, of all that was in her, and a great hole in
her bottom. After they had mused awhile upon this, they set
up two or three great shouts, hallooing with all their might, to
try if they could make their companions hear; but all was to
no purpose. Then they came all close in a ring, and fired a
volley of their small arms, which, indeed, we heard, and the
echoes made the woods ring: but it was all one; those in the
cave, we were sure, could not hear ; and those in our keeping,
though they heard it well enough, yet durst give no answer to
them. They were so astonished at the surprise of this, that
as they told us afterwards, they resolved to go all on board
again to their ship, and let them know that the men were all
murdered, and the long-boat staved ; accordingly, they imme-
diately launched their boat again, and got all of them on
board.
The captain .was terribly amazed, and even confounded, at
this, believing they would go on board the ship again, and set
sail, giving their comrades over for lost, and so he should still
lose the ship, which he was in hopes we should have re-
covered ; but he was quickly as much frighted the other way.
They had not been long put off with the boat, when we
perceived them all coming on shore again ; but with this new
measure in their conduct, which it seems they consulted to-
gether upon, viz., to leave three men in the boat, and the rest
to go on shore, and go up into the country to look for their
fellows.
This was a great disappointment to us, for now we were at
a loss what to do, as our seizing those seven men on shore
would be no advantage to us if we let the boat escape, because
they would row away to the ship, and then the rest of them
would be sure to weigh ar -\ set sail, and so our recovering the
ship would be lost However, we had no remedy but to wait
and see what the issue of things might present: the seven
men came on shore, and the three who remained in the boat
put her off to a good distance from the shore, and came to an
anchor to wait for them ; so that it was impossible for us to
come at them in the boat Those that came on shore kept
close together, marching towards the top of the little hill
under which my habitation lay; and we could see them
plainly, though-they could not perceive us : we should have
been very glad if they would have come nearer to us, so that
we might have fired at them, or that they would have gone
farther off, that we might come abroad. But when they were
come to the brow of the hill, where they could see a great
way into the valleys and woods, which lay towards the north-
east part, and where the island lay lowest, they shouted and
hallooed till they were weary : and not caring, it seems, to
venture far from the shore, nor far from one another, they sat
down together, under a tree to consider it: had they thought
fit to have gone to sleep there, as the other part of them had
done, they had done the job for us; but they were too full
of apprehensions of danger to venture to go to sleep, though
they could not tell what the danger was they had to fear.
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this
consultation of theirs, viz., that perhaps they would all fire a
volley again, to endeavour to make their fellows hear, and
that we should all sally upon them just at the juncture when
their pieces were all discharged, and they would certainly
yield, and we should have them without bloodshed. I liked
the proposal, provided it was done while we were near enough
to come up to them before they could load their pieces again.
But this event did not happen; and we lay still a long time,
very irresolute what course to take; at length, I told them
there would be nothing done, in my opinion, till night; and
then, if they did not return to the boat, perhaps we might
find a way to get between them and the shore, and so might
use some stratagem with them in the boat to get them on
shore. We waited a great while, though very impatient for
their removing; and were very uneasy, when, after a long
consultation, we saw them all start up, and march down
towards the sea: it seems they had such dreadful apprehen-
sions of the danger of the place, that they resolved to go on
board the ship again, give their companions over for lost, and
so go on with their intended voyage with the ship.
As soon as I perceived them go towards the shore, I
imagined it to be as it really was, that they had given over
their search, and were going back again ; and the captain, as
soon as I told him my thoughts, was ready to sink at the
apprehensions of it: but I presently thought of a stratagem
to fetch them back again, and which answered my end to a
tittle. I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to go over
the little creek westward, towards the place where the savages
came on shore when Friday was rescued, and so soon as they
came to a little rising ground, at about half a mile distance, I
A STRATAGEM. t9)
bade them halloo out, as loud as they could, and wait till they
found the seamen heard them; that as soon as ever they
heard the seamen answer them, they should return it again ;
and then, keeping out of sight, take a round, always answering
when the others hallooed, to draw them as far into the island
and among the woods as possible, and then wheel about
again to me by such ways as I directed them.
They were just going into the boat when Friday and the
mate hallooed; and they presently heard them, and, answering,
ran along the shore westward, towards the voice they heard,
when they were stopped by the creek, where, the water being
up, they could not get over, and called for the boat to come
up and set them over; as, indeed, I expected. When they
had set themselves over, I observed that the boat being gone
a good way into the creek, and, as it were, in a harbour within
the land, they took one of the three men out of her, to go
along with them, and left only two in the boat, having fastened
her to a stump of a little tree on the shore. This was what I
wished for; and immediately leaving Friday and the captain's
mate to their business, I took the rest with me; and, crossing
the creek out of their sight, we surprised the two men before
they were aware—one of them lying on the shore, and the
other being in the boat; the fellow on shore was between
sleeping and waking, and going to start up; the captain, who
was foremost, ran in upon him, and knocked him down ; and
then called out to him in the boat to yield, or he was a dead
man. There needed very few arguments to persuade a
single man to yield, when he saw five men upon him, and
his comrade knocked down; besides, this was, it seems, one
of the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as the rest
of the crew, and therefore was easily persuaded not only to
yield, but afterwards to join very sincerely with us. In the
mean time Friday and the captain's mate so well managed
their business with the rest, that they drew them, by hallooing
and answering, from one hill to another, and from one wood
to another, till they not only heartily tired them, but left them
where they were very sure they could not reach back to their
boat before it was dark ; and, indeed, they were heartily tired
~themselves also, by the time they came back to us.
We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in the
dark, and to fall upon them, so as to make sure work with
them. It was several hours after Friday came back to me
before they came back to their boat; and we could hear the
foremost of them, long before they came quite up, calling to
those behind to come along; and could also hear them answer,
and complain how lame and tired they were, and not able
to go any faster : which was very welcome news to us. At
length they came up to the boat; but it is impossible to express
their confusion when they found the boat aground in the creek,
the tide ebbed out, and their two men gone; we could hear
them call one to another in the most lamentable manner,
telling one another they were got into an enchanted island;
that either there were inhabitants in it, and they should all
be murdered, or else there were devils and spirits in it, and
they should be all carried away and devoured. They hallooed
again, and called their two comrades by their names a great
many times; but no answer. After some time, we could see
them by the little light there was, run about, wringing their
hands like men in despair; and sometimes they would go
and sit down in the boat to rest themselves, then come ashore
again, and walk about again, and so the same thing over
again. My men would fain have had me give them leave
to fall upon them at once in the dark ; but I was willing to
take them at some advantage, so as to spare them, and kill
as few of them as I could; and especially I was unwilling to
hazard the killing of any of our men, knowing the others were
very well armed. I resolved to wait, to see if they did not
separate; and therefore, to make sure of them, I drew my
ambuscade nearer; and ordered Friday and the captain to
creep upon their hands and feet, as close to the ground as they
could, that they might not be discovered, and get as near them
as they could possibly, before they offered to fire.
They had not been long in that posture, when the boatswain,
who was the principal ringleadir of the mutiny, and had now
shown himself the most dejected and dispirited of all the rest,
came walking towards them, with two more of the crew. The
captain was so eager at having this principal rogue so much
in his power, that he could hardly have patience to let him
come so near as to be sure of him, for they only heard his
tongue before : but when they came nearer, the captain and
Friday, starting up on their feet, let fly at them. The boat-
swain was killed upon the spot; the next man was shot in the
body, and fell just by him, though he did not die till an hour
or two after; and the third ran for it At the noise of the
fire, I immediately advanced with my whole army, which was
now eight men; viz., mysell, generalissimo; Friday, my
THE MUITNEERS CAPTURED. 189
lieutenant-general ; the captain and his two men, and the
three prisoners of war whom we had trusted with arms.
We came upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that they could
not see our number; and I made the man they had left in
the boat, who was now one of us, to call them by name, to try
if I could bring them to a parley, and so perhaps might reduce
them to terms ; which fell out just as we desired : for, indeed,
it was easy to think, as their condition then was, they would
be very willing to capitulate. So he calls out as loud as he
could to one of them, " Tom Smith! Tom Smith ! " Tom
Smith answered immediately," Is that Robinson ?" for it seems
he knew the voice. The other answered, " Ay, ay; for God's
sake, Tom Smith, throw down your arms and yield, or you
are all dead men this moment"—" Who must we yield to ?
Where are they ?" says Smith again. " Here they are,"
says he; " here's our captain and fifty men with him, have
been hunting you these two hours; the boatswain is killed,
Will Fry is wounded, and I am a prisoner; and if you do
not yield you are all lost"—" Will they give us quarter
then ? " says Tom Smith, " and we will yield."—" I'll go and
ask, if you promise to yield," said Robinson : so he asked
the captain. And the captain himself then calls out, " You,
Smith, you know my voice; if you lay down your arms
immediately, and submit, you shall have your lives, all but
Will Atkins."
Upon this, Will Atkins cried out, " For God's sake, captain,
give me quarter; what have I done ? They have all been
as bad as I " (which, by the way, was not true; for, it seems,
this Will Atkins was the first man that laid hold of the
captain, when they first mutinied, and used him barbarously,
in tying his hands, and giving him injurious language) : how-
ever, the captain told him he must lay down his arms at
discretion, and trust to the Governor's mercy: by which he
meant me, for they all called me Governor. In a word, they
all laid down their arms, and begged their lives; and I sent
the man that had parleyed with them, and two more, who
bound them all; and then my great army of fifty men, which,
with those three, were in all but eight, came up and seized
upon them, and upon their boat; only that I kept myself and
one more out of sight, for reasons of state.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of seizing
the ship ; and as for the captain, now he had leisure to parley
with them, he expostulated with them upon the villainy of
their practices with him, and at length upon the further
wickedness of their design, and how certainly it must bring
them to misery and distress in the end, and perhaps to the
gallows. They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard
for their lives. As for that, he told them they were not his
prisoners, but the commander's of the island; that they
thought they had set him on shore in a barren, uninhabited
island ; but it had pleased God so to direct them, that it
was inhabited, and that the Governor was an Englishman;
that he might hang them all there if he pleased; but, as
he had given them all quarter, he supposed he would send
them to England, to be dealt with there as justice required,
except Atkins, whom he was commanded by the Governor to
advise to prepare for death ; for that he would be hanged in
the morning.
Though this was all but a fiction of his own, yet it had its
desired effect; Atkins fell upon his knees, to beg the captain
to intercede with the Governor for his life; and all the rest
begged of him, for God's sake, that they might not be sent
to England.
It now occurred to me, that the time of our deliverance was
come, and that it would be a most easy thing to bring these
fellows in to be hearty in getting possession of the ship; so I
retired in the dark from them, that they might not see what
kind of a Governor they had, and called the captain to me ;
when I called, as at a good distance, one of the men was ordered
to speak again, and say to the captain, " Captain, the com-
mander calls for you ;" and presently the captain replied,
" Tell his Excellency I am just a-coming." This more per-
fectly amused them, and they all believed that the commander
was just by, with his fifty men. Upon the captain coming to
me, I told him my project for seizing the ship, which he liked
wonderfully well, and resolved to put it in execution the next
morning. But, in order to execute it with more art, and to
be secure of success, I told him we must divide the prisoners,
and that he should go and take Atkins, and two more of the
worst of them, and send them pinioned to the cave where the
others lay: this was committed to Friday and the two men
who came on shore with the captain. They conveyed them
to the cave as to a prison ; and it was, indeed, a dismal place,
especially to men in their condition. The others I ordered to
my bower, as I called it, of which I have given a full descrip-
iion ; and as it was fenced in, and they u-ere pinioned, the
THE PARLEY WITH THE MUTINEERS. 191
pkce was secure enough, considering they were upon their
behaviour.
To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was to enter
into a parley with them; in a word, to try them, and tell
me whether he thought they might be trusted or not to go
on board and surprise the ship. He talked to them of the
injury done him, of the condition they were brought to; and
that though the Governor had given them quarter for their
lives as to the present action, yet that if they were sent to
England, to be sure they would all be hanged in chains; but
that if they would join in so just an attempt as to recover
the ship, he would have the Governor's engagement for their
pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be
accepted by men in their condition; they fell down on their
knees to the captain, and promised, with the deepest impreca-
tions, that they would be faithful to him to the last drop, and
that they should owe their lives to him, and would go with
him all over the world ; that they would own him as a father
to them as long as they lived. " Well," says the captain, " I
must go and tell the Governor what you say, and see what I
can do to bring him to consent to it" So he brought me an
account of the temper he found them in, and that he verily
believed they would be faithful However, that we might be
very secure, I told him he should go back again and choose
out five of them, and tell them, they might see he did not
want men, that he would take out five of them to be his
assistants, and that the Governor would keep the other two
and the three that were sent prisoners to the castle (my cave)
as hostages for the fidelity of those five; and that if they
proved unfaithful in the execution, the five hostages should be,
hanged in chains alive upon the shore. This looked severe,
and convinced them that the Governor was in earnest; how-
ever, they had no way left them but to accept it; and it was
now the business of the prisoners, as much as of the captain,
to persuade the other five to do their duty.
Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition : 1,
the captain, his mate, and passenger : 2, the two prisoners of
the first gang, to whom, having their character from the
captain, I had given their liberty, and trusted them with arms':
3, the other two that I had kept till now in my apartment
pinioned, but, on the captain's motion, had now released : 4,
the single man taken in the boat: 5, these five released at
'5
last; so that there were thirteen in all, besides five we kept
prisoners in the cave for hostages.
I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with these
hands on board the ship ; but as for me and my man Friday
I did not think it was proper for us to stir, having seven men
left behind; and it was employment enough for us to keep
them asunder, and supply them with victuals. As to the five
in the cave, I resolved to keep them fast; but Friday went in
twice a day to them, to supply them with necessaries ; and I
made the other two carry provisions to a certain distance,
where Friday was to take them.
When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with the
captain, who told them I was the person the Governor had
ordered to look after them; and that it was the Governor's
pleasure they should not stir anywhere but by my direction ;
that if they did, they would be fetched into the castle, and be
laid in irons; so that as we never suffered them to see me as
Governor, I now appeared as another person, and spoke of
the Governor, the garrison, the castle, and the like, upon all
occasions.
The captain had now no difficulty before him, but to furnish
his two boats, stop the breach of one, and man them. He
made his passenger captain of one, with four of the men ; and
himself, his mate, and five more, went in the other; and they
contrived their business very well, for they came up to the
ship about midnight As soon as they came within call of the
ship, he made Robinson hail them, and tell them he had
brought off the men and the boat, but that it was a long time
before they had found them, and the like; holding them in
chat till they came to the ship's side; when the captain and
mate entering first, with their arms immediately knocked down
the second mate and carpenter with the butt-end of their
muskets, being very faithfully seconded by their men ; they
secured all the rest that were upon the main and quarter-
decks, and began to fasten the hatches, to keep them down
that were below, when the other boat and their men, entering
the forechains, secured the forecastle of the ship, and the
scuttle which went down into the cook-room, making three
men they found there prisoners. When this was done, and
all safe upon deck, the captain ordered the mate, with three
men, to break into the round-house, where the new rebel captain
lay, who, having taken the alarm, had got up, and with two
men and a boy had got fire-arms in their hands ; and when
Deliverance.
the mate, with a crow, split open the door, the new captain
and his men fired boldly among them, and wounded the mate
with a musket ball, which broke his arm, and wounded two
more of the men, but killed nobody. The mate, calling for
help, rushed, however, into the round-house, wounded as he
was, and with his pistol shot the new captain through the
head, the bullet entering at his mouth, and came out again
behind one of his ears, so that he never spoke a word more:
upon which the rest yielded, and the ship was taken effectually,
without any more lives being lost
As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered
seven guns to be fired, which was the signal agreed upon with
me to give me notice of his success; which, you may be sure,
I was very glad to hear, having sat watching upon the shore
for it till nearly two of the clock in the morning. Having
thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me down ; and it having
been a day of great fatigue to me, I slept very sound, till I
was surprised with the noise of a gun ; and presently starting
up, I heard a man call me by the name," Governor! Governor!"
and presently I knew the captain's voice; when, climbing to
the top of the hill, there he stood, and, pointing to the ship,
he embraced me in his arms. " My dear friend and deliverer,"
says he, " there's your ship; for she is all yours, and so are
we, and all that belong to her." I cast my eyes to the ship,
and there she rode, within little more than half a mile of the
shore; for they had weighed her anchor as soon as they were
masters of her, and, the weather being fair, had brought her to
an anchor just against the mouth of the little creek; and, the
tide being up, the captain had brought the pinnace in near the
place where I had first landed my rafts, and so landed just at
my door. I was at first ready to sink down with the surprise;
for I saw my deliverance, indeed, visibly put into my hands,
all things easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me away
whither I pleased to go. At first, for some time, I was not
able to answer him one word; but as he had taken me in his
arms, I held fast by him, or I should have fallen to the ground.
He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulled a bottle
out of his pocket and gave me a dram of cordial, which he had
brought on purpose for me. After I drank it, I sat down upon
the ground; and though it brought me to myself, yet it was a
good while before I could speak a word to him. All this
time the poor man was in as great an ecstasy as I, only not
under any surprise as I was; and he said a thousand kind
tender things to me, to compose and bring me to myself; but
such'was the flood of joy in my breast, that it put all my spirits
into confusion : at last it broke out into tears, and, in a little
while after, I recovered my speech. I then took my turn,
and embraced him as my deliverer, and we rejoiced together.
I told him I looked upon him as a man sent by Heaven to
deliver me, and that the whole transaction seemed to be a
chain of wonders; that such things as these were the testimonies
we had of a secret hand of Providence governing the world,
and an evidence that the eye of an infinite Power could search
into the remotest corner of the world, and send help to the
miserable whenever He pleased. I forgot not to lift up my
heart in thankfulness to Heaven ; and what heart could for-
bear to bless Him, who had not only in a miraculous manner
provided for me in such a wilderness, and in such a desolate
condition, but from whom every deliverance must always be
acknowledged to proceed ?
When we had talked a while, the captain told me he had
brought me some little refreshments such as the ship afforded,
and such as the wretches that had been so long his masters
had not plundered him of. Upon this, he called aloud to the
boat, and bade his men bring the things ashore that were for
the Governor ; and, indeed, it was a present as if I had been
one, not that I was to be carried along with them, but as if
I had been to dwell upon the island still, and they were to
go without me. First, he had brought me a case of bottles
full of excellent cordial waters, six large bottles of Madeira
wine (the bottles held two quarts apiece), two pounds of ex-
cellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the ship's beef,
and six pieces of pork, with a bag of peas, and about a hun-
dredweight of biscuit He brought me also a box of sugar, a
box of flour, a bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime-juice,
and abundance of other things : but besides these, and what
was a thousand times more useful to me, he brought me six
new clean shirts, six very good neckcloths, two pair of gloves,
one pair of shoes, a hat, and one pair of stockings, with a very
good suit of clothes of his own, which had been worn but very
little: in a word, he clothed me from head to foot It was a
very kind and agreeable present, as any one may imagine, to
one in my circumstances; but never was anything in the world
of that kind so unpleasant, awkward, and uneasy as it was to
me to wear such clothes at first putting on.
After these ceremonies were past, and after all his good
things were brought into my little apartment, we began to
consult what was to be done with the prisoners we had ; for
it was worth considering whether we might venture to take
them away with us or no, especially two of them, whom we
knew to be incorrigible and refractory to the last degree ; and
the captain said he knew they were such rogues that there
was no obliging them, and if he did carry them away, it must
be in irons, as malefactors, to be delivered over to justice at
the first English colony he could come at; and I found that
the captain himself was very anxious about it Upon this, I
told him that, if he desired it, I durst undertake to bring the
two men he spoke of to make it their own request that he
should leave them upon the island.
" I should be very glad of that," says the captain, " with all
my heart"
" Well," says I, " I will send for them up, and talk with
them for you."
So I caused Friday and the two hostages, for they were
now discharged, their comrades having performed their
promise ; I say, I caused them to go to the cave, and bring
up the five men, pinioned as they were, to the bower, and
keep them there till I came. After some time, I came thither
dressed in my new habit; and now I was called Governor
again. Being all met, and the captain with me, I caused all
the men to be brought before me, and I told them I had got
a full account of their villanous behaviour to the captain, but
that they were fallen into the pit which they had dug for
others. They might see by-and-by that their new captain
had received the reward of his villainy; for that they would
see him hanging at the yard-arm; as to them, I wanted to
know what they had to say why I should not execute them
as pirates, taken in the fact, as by my commission they could
not doubt I had authority to do.
One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they
had nothing to say but this, that when they were taken, the
captain promised them their lives, and they humbly implored
my mercy : but I told them I knew not what mercy to show
them ; for as for myself, I had resolved to quit the island with
all my men, and had taken passage with the captain to go
for England ; and as for the captain, he could not carry them
to England, other than as prisoners in irons, to be tried for
mutiny, and running away with the ship ; the consequence of
which, they must needs know, would be the gallows; so that
I could not tell what was best for them, unless they had a
mind to take their fate in the island ; if they desired that, I
did not care, as I had liberty to leave it. They seemed very
thankful for it, and said they would much rather venture to
stay there than to be carried to England to be hanged: so I
left it on that issue.
However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty of it,
as if he durst not leave them there: upon this, I seemed a
little angry with the captain, and told him they were my
prisoners, not his ; and that seeing I had offered them so much
favour, I would be as good as my word; and that if he did not
think fit to consent to it, I would set them at liberty, as I
found them; and if he did not like it, he might take them
again if he could catch them. Upon this, they appeared very
thankful, and I accordingly set them at liberty, and bade them
retire into the woods, to the place whence they came, and I
would leave them some fire-arms, some ammunition, and some
directions how they should live very well, if they thought fit
Upon this I prepared to go on board the ship, and desired him
to go on board in the meantime, and keep all right in the
ship; but told the captain I would stay that night to prepare
my things, and send the boat on shore next day for me;
ordering him, at all events, to cause the new captain, who was
killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that these men might
see him.
When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up to me to
my apartment, and entered seriously into discourse with them
on their circumstances. I told them I thought they had
made a right choice; that if the captain had carried them
away, they would certainly be hanged. I showed them the
new captain hanging at the yard-arm of the ship, and told
them they had nothing less to expect
When they had all declared their willingness to stay, I
then told them I would let them into the story of my living
there, and put them into the way of making it easy to them :
accordingly, I gave them the whole history of the place, and
of my coming to it; showed them my fortifications, the way
I made my bread, planted my corn, cured my grapes ; and,
in a word, all that was necessary to make them easy. I told
them the story also of the sixteen Spaniards that were to be
expected, for whom I left a letter, and made them promise to
treat them in common with themselves.
I left them my fire-arms, viz., five muskets, three fowling-
pieces, and three swords. I had above a barrel and a half
of powder left; for after the first year or two I used but little,
and wasted none. I gave them a description of the way I
managed the goats, and directions to milk and fatten them,
and to make both butter and cheese. In a word, I gave them
every part of my own story ; and told them I should prevail
with the captain to leave them two barrels of gunpowder
more, and some garden-seeds, which I told them I would
have been very glad of. Also, I gave them the bag of peas
which the captain had brought me to eat, and bade them to
be sure to sow and increase them.
I left them the next day, and went on board the ship. We
prepared immediately to sail, but did not weigh that night
The next morning early, two of the five men came swimming
to the ship's side, and, making the most lamentable complaint
of the other three, begged to be taken into the ship for God's
sake, for they should be murdered, and begged the captain
to take them on board, though he hanged them immediately.
Upon this the captain pretended to have no power without
me; but after some difficulty, and after solemn promises of
amendment, they were taken on board, and were, some time
after, soundly whipped and pickled ; after which they proved
very honest and quiet fellows.
Some time after this, the boat was ordered on shore, the tide
being up, with the things promised to the men; to which
the captain, at my intercession, caused their chests and clothes
to be added, which they took, and were very thankful for ; I
also encouraged them, by telling them that if it lay in my
power to send any vessel to take them in, I would not forget
them.
When I took leave of this island, I carried on board, for
relics, the great goat-skin cap I had made, my umbrella, and
my parrot; also, I forgot not to take the money I formerly
mentioned, which had lain by me so long useless, that it was
grown rusty or tarnished, and could hardly pass for silver till
it had been a little rubbed and handled, as also the money I
found in the wreck of the Spanish ship.
And thus I left the island, the 19th of December, as I found
by the ship's account, in the year 1686, after I had been upon
it eight and twenty years, two months, and nineteen days;
being delivered from this second captivity the same day of the
month that I first made my escape in the long-boat from
among the Moors of Sallee. In this vessel, after a long voyage,
I arrived In England the nth' of June, in the year 1687,
having been thirty-five years absent
When I came to England, I was as perfect a stranger to all
the world as if I had never been known there. My benefactor
and faithful steward, whom I had left in trust with my money,
was alive, but had had great misfortunes in the world ; was
become a widow the second time, and very low in the world.
I made her very easy as to what she owed me, assuring her I
would give her no trouble ; but on the contrary, in gratitude
to her former care and faithfulness to me, I relieved her as my
little stock would afford, which at that time would indeed
allow me to do but little for her: but I assured her I would
never forget her former kindness to me ; nor did I forget her
when I had sufficient to help her. I went down afterwards
into Yorkshire ; but my father was dead, and my mother and
all the family extinct; except that I found two sisters, and
two of the children of one of my brothers ; and as I had been
long ago given over for dead, there had been no provision made
for me, so that, in a word, I found nothing to relieve or assist
me; and that little money I had would not do much for me
as to settling in the world.
I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did not
expect; and this was, that the master of the ship, whom I had
so happily delivered, and by the same means saved the ship
and cargo, having given a very handsome account to the
owners, of the manner how I had saved the lives of the men,
and the ship, they invited me to meet them and some other
merchants concerned, and all together made me a very hand-
some compliment upon the subject, and a present of almost
£200 sterling.
After reflection, I resolved to go to Lisbon, and see if I
might not come at some information of the state of my plan-
tation in the Brazils, and of what was become of my partner,
who, I had reason to suppose, had some years past given me
over for dead. With this view, I took shipping for Lisbon,
where I arrived in April following; my man Friday accom-
panying me very honestly in all these ramblings, and proving
a most faithful servant upon all occasions. When I came to
Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry, and to my particular satis-
faction, my old friend, the captain of the ship, who first took
me up at sea off the shore of Africa. He was now grown old,
and had left off going to sea, having put his son, who was far
from a young man, into his ship, and who still used the Brazil
MY BRAZILIAN AFFAIRS. 199
trade. The old man did not know me; and indeed I hardly
knew him. But I soon brought myself to his remembrance,
when I told him who I was.
After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance
between us, I inquired, you may be sure, after my plantation
and my partner. The old man told me he had not been in
the Brazils for about nine years; but that he could assure
me, that when he came away my partner was living; but the
trustees, whom I had joined with him to take cognizance of
my part, were both dead ; that, however, he believed I would
have a very good account of the improvement of the planta-
tion ; for that, upon the general belief of vr.y being cast away
and drowned, my trustees had given in the account of the
produce of my part of the plantation to the procurator-fiscal,
who had appropriated it, in case I never came to claim it,
one-third to the king, and two-thirds to the monastery ef St.
Augustine, to be expended for the benefit of the poor, and for
the conversion of the Indians to the Catholic faith: but that,
if I appeared, or any one for me, to claim the inheritance, it
would be restored; only that the improvement, or annual
production, being distributed to charitable uses, could not be
restored : but he assured me that the steward of the king's
revenue from lands, and the proveditore, or steward of the
monastery, had taken great care all along that the incumbent,
that is to say, my partner, gave every year a faithful account
of the produce, of which they had duly received my moiety.
My partner was grown exceeding rich upon the enjoying his
part of it; and the king's third of my part, which was, it
seems, granted away to some other monastery or religious
house, amounted to above two hundred moidores a year ; as
to my being restored to a quiet possession of it, there was no
question to be made of that, my partner being alive to witness
my title, and my name being also enrolled in the register of
the country. Also he told me that the survivors of my two
trustees were very fair, honest people, and very wealthy ; and
he believed I would not only have their assistance for putting
me in possession, but would find a very considerable sum of
money in their hands for my account, being the produce of
the farm while their fathers held the trust, and before it was
given up, as above ; which as he remembered, was for about
twelve years.
I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this
account, and inquired of the old captain how it came to pass
that the trustees should thus dispose of my effects, when he
knew that I had made my will, and had made him, the Portu-
guese captain, my universal heir.
He told me that was true; but that as there was no proof
of my being dead, he could not act as executor, until some
certain account should come of my death; and, besides, he
was not willing to intermeddle with a thing so remote; that
it was true he had registered my will, and put in his claim ;
and could he have given any account of my being dead or
alive, he would have acted by procuration, and taken pos-
session of the ingenio (so they call the sugar-house), and have
given his son, who was now at the Brazils, orders to do it
After a few days' further conference with this ancient friend,
he brought me an account of the first six years' income of
my plantation, signed by my partner and the merchant-trustees,
being always delivered in goods, viz., tobacco in roll, and
sugar in chests, besides rum, molasses, &c, which is the con-
sequence of a sugar-work; and I found by this account, that
every year the income considerably increased; but the dis-
bursements being large, the sum at first was small: however,
the old man let me see that he was debtor to me four hundred
and seventy moidores of gold, besides sixty chests of sugar,
and fifteen double rolls of tobacco, which were lost in his
ship; he having been shipwrecked coming home to Lisbon,
about eleven years after my leaving the place. The good man
then began to complain of his misfortunes, and how he had
been obliged to make use of my money to recover his losses,
and buy him a share in a new ship. "However, my old
friend," says he, " you shall not want a supply in your neces-
sity ; and as soon as my son returns, you shall be fully satis-
fied." Upon this he pulls out an old pouch and gives me
two hundred Portuguese moidores in gold; and giving me the
writings of his title to the ship, which his son was gone to the
Brazils in, of which he was quarter-part owner, and his son
another, he put them both into my hands for security of the
rest
I was too much moved with the honesty and kindness of
the poor man to be able to bear this ; and remembering what
he had done for me, how he had taken me up at sea, and how
generously he had used me on all occasions, and particularly
how sincere a friend he was now to me, I could hardly refrain
weeping at what he had said to me; therefore I asked him
if his circumstances admitted him to spare so much money
MY PROPERTY RESTORED TO ME. toi
at that time, and if it would not straiten him. He told me he
could not say but it might straiten him a little; but, however,
it was my money, and I might want it more than he.
Everything the good man said was full of affection, and I
could hardly refrain from tears while he spoke. In short, I
took one hundred of the moidores, and called for a pen and
ink to give him a receipt for them : then I returned him the
rest, and told him if ever I had possession of the plantation I
would return the other to him also (as, indeed, I afterwards
did); and that as to the bill of sale of his part in his son's
ship, I would not take it by any means; but that if I wanted
the money, I found he was honest enough to pay me; and
if I did not, but came to receive what he gave me reason to
expect, I would never have a penny more from him.
When this was past, the old man asked me if he should
put me into a method to make my claim to my plantation.
I told him I thought to go over to it myself. He said I
might do so if I pleased ; but that, if I did not, there were
ways enough to secure my right, and immediately to appro-
priate the profits to my use; and as there were ships in the
river of Lisbon just ready to go away to Brazil, he made me
enter my name in a public register, with his affidavit, affirm-
ing, upon oath, that I was alive, and that I was the same
person who took up the land for the planting the said planta-
tion at first. This being regularly attested by a notary, and a
procuration affixed, he directed me to send it with a letter of
his writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance at the place;
and then proposed my staying with him till an account came
of the return.
Never was anything more honourable than the proceedings
upon this procuration; for in less than seven months I received
a large packet from the survivors of my trustees, the mer-
chants, for whose account I went to sea, in which were the
following particular letters and papers enclosed.
First, there was the account-current of the produce of my
farm or plantation ; the balance appeared to be one thousand
one hundred and seventy-four moidoresin my favour. Secondly,
there was the account of four years more, while they kept the
effects In their hands, before the government claimed the
administration, as being the effects of a person not to be found,
which they called civil death; and the balance of this, the
value of the plantation increasing, amounted to nineteen
thousand four hundred and forty-six crusadoes, being about
three thousand two hundred and forty moidores. Thirdly,
there was the Prior of St Augustine's account, who had
received the profits for above fourteen years; but not being
to account for what was disposed of by the hospital, very
honestly declared he had eight hundred and seventy-two
moidores not distributed, which he acknowledged to my
account: as to the king's part, that refunded nothing.
There was a letter of my partner's, congratulating me very
affectionately upon my being alive, giving me an account how
the estate was improved, and what it produced a year; with
the particulars of the number of squares or acres that it con-
tained, how planted, how many slaves there were upon it;
and making two and twenty crosses for blessings, told me he
had said so many Ave Marias to thank the Blessed Virgin
that I was alive; inviting me very passionately to come over
and take possession of my own; and, in the meantime, to give
him orders to whom he should deliver my effects, if I did not
come myself; concluding with a hearty tender of his friend-
ship, and that of his family; and sent me as a present, seven
fine leopards' skins, which he had, it seems, received from
Africa, by some other ship that he had sent thither, and
which, it seems, had made a better voyage than I. He sent
me also five chests of excellent sweatmeats, and a hundred
pieces of gold uncoined, not quite so large as moidores. By
the same fleet my two merchant-trustees shipped me 1200
chests of sugar, 800 rolls of tobacco, and the rest of the whole
account in gold.
I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of Job was
better than the beginning. It is impossible to express the
flutterings of my very heart when I found all my wealth about
me; for as the Brazil ships come all in fleets, the same ships
which brought my letters brought my goods: and the effects
were safe in the River before the letters came to my hand.
In a word, I turned pale, and grew sick; and, had not the
old man run and fetched me a cordial, I believe the sudden
surprise of joy had overset nature, and I had died upon the
spot Nay, after that, I continued very ill, and was so some
hours, till a physician being sent for, and something of the
real cause of my illness being known, he ordered me to be let
blood, after which I had relief, and grew well: but I verily
believe, if I had not been eased by a •vent given in that manner
to the spirits, I should have died.
I was now master, all on a sudden, of above 5000 pounds
REMEMBERING OLD FRIENDS. 903
sterling In money, and had an estate, as I might well call it,
in the Brazils, of above a thousand pounds a year, as sure as
an estate of lands in England: and, in a word, I was in a
condition which I scarce knew how to understand, or how to
compose myself for the enjoyment of it. The first thing I
did was to recompense my original benefactor, my good old
captain, who had been first charitable to me in my distress,
kind to me in my beginning, and honest to me at the end. I
showed him all that was sent to me; 1 told him that, next to
the providence of Heaven, which disposed all things, it was
owing to him; and that it now lay on me to reward him,
which I would do a hundred-fold. So I first returned to him
the hundred moidores I had received of him; then I sent for
a notary, and caused him to draw up a general release or dis-
charge from the four hundred and seventy moidores, which
he had acknowledged he owed me in the fullest and firmest
manner possible; after which I caused a procuration to be
drawn, empowering him to be my receiver of the annual profits
of my plantation ; and appointing my partner to account to
him, and make the returns, by the usual fleets, to him in my
name; and by a clause in the end, made a grant of 100
moidores a year to him during his life, out of the effects, and
50 moidores a year to his son after him, for his life; And
thus I requitted my old man.
I was now to consider which way to steer my course next;
and indeed I had more care upon my head now than I had in
my silent state of life in the island, where I wanted nothing
but what I had, and had nothing but what I wanted; whereas
I had now a great charge upon me, and my business was how
to secure it I determined to go back to England myself, and
take my effects with me.
It was some months, however, before I resolved upon this;
and therefore, as I had rewarded the old captain fully, and to
his satisfaction, who had been my former benefactor, so I began
to think of the poor widow whose husband had been my first
benefactor, and she, while it was in her power, my faithful
steward and instructor. So the first thing I did, I got a mer-
chant in Lisbon to write to his correspondent in London, not
only to pay a bill, but to find her out, and carry her, in
money, a hundred pounds from me, and to talk with her, and
comfort her in her poverty, by telling her she should, if I lived,
have a further supply. At the same time, 1 sent my two
sisters in the country a hundred pounds each, they being,
though not in want, yet not in very good circumstances; one
having been married and left a widow, and the other having a
husband not so kind to her as he should be. But, among all
my relations or acquaintances, I could not yet pitch upon one
to whom I durst commit the gross of my stock, that I might
go away to the Brazils, and leave things safe behind me; and
this greatly perplexed me.
Having settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and turned all my
effects into good bills of exchange, my next difficulty was which
way to go to England. I had been accustomed enough to the
sea, and yet I had a strange aversion to go to England by sea
at. that time ; and though I could give no reason for it, yet the
difficulty increased upon me so much, that though I had once
shipped my baggage in order to go, yet I altered my mind,
and that not once, but two or three times.
It is true I had been very unfortunate by sea, and this might
be one of the reasons; but let no man slight the strong im-
pulses of his own thoughts in cases of such moment: two of
the ships which I had singled out to go in, I mean more par-
ticularly singled out than any other, having put my things on
board one of them, and in the other having agreed with the
captain; I say two of these ships miscarried; vis., one was
taken by the Algerines, and the other was cast away on
the Start, near Torbay, and all the people drowned except
three; so that in either of those vessels I had been made
miserable.
Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot
pressed me earnestly not to go by sea, but either to go by land
to the Groyne, and cross over the Bay of Biscay to Rochelle,
from whence it was but an easy and safe journey by land to
Paris, and so to Calais and Dover; or to go up to Madrid, and
so all the way by land through France. I resolved to travel
all the way by land, which, as I was not in haste, and did not
value the charge, was by much the pleasanter way: and to
make it more so, my old captain brought an English gentleman,
the son of a merchant in Lisbon, who was willing to travel
with me; after which we picked up two more English mer-
chants also, and two young Portuguese gentlemen, the last
going to Paris only; so that in all there were six of us, and five
servants ; the two merchants and the two Portuguese con-
tenting themselves with one servant between two, to save the
charge; and as for me, I got an English sailor to travel with
me as a servant, besides my man Friday, who was too much a
EN ROUTE FOR ENGLAND. 105
stranger to be capable of supplying the place of a servant on
the road.
In this manner I set out from Lisbon; and our company
being very well mounted and armed, we made a little troop,
whereof they did me the honour to call me captain, as well
because I was the oldest man, as because I had two servants,
and, indeed, was the originator of the whole journey.
When we came to Madrid, we being all of us strangers to
Spain, were willing to stay some time to see the court of
Spain, and what was worth observing; but, it being the latter
part of the summer, we hastened away, and set out from Madrid
about the middle of October; but when we came to the edge
of Navarre, we were alarmed, at several towns on the way,
with the account that so much snow was fallen on the French
side of the mountains that several travellers were obliged to
come back to Pampeluna, after having attempted at an ex-
treme hazard to pass on.
When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so indeed;
and to me, that had been always used to a hot climate, and to
countries where I could scarce bear any clothes on, the cold
was insufferable: nor, indeed, was it more painful than sur-
prising, to come but ten days before out of Old Castile, where
the weather was not only warm, but very hot, and immediately
to feel a wind from the Pyrenean Mountains so very keen, so
severely cold, as to be intolerable, and to endanger benumbing
and perishing of our fingers and toes.
Poor Friday was really frighted when he saw the mountains
all covered with snow, and felt cold weather, which he had
never seen or felt before in his life. To mend the matter, when
we came to Pampeluna it continued snowing with so much
violence and so long, that the people said winter was come
before its time; and the roads, which were difficult before,
were now quite impassable ; there was no going without being
in danger of being buried alive every step. We stayed no less
than twenty days at Pampeluna; when (seeing the winter
coming on, and no likelihood of its being better, for it was the
severest winter all over Europe that had been known in the
memory of man), I proposed that we should go away to Font-
arabia, and there take shipping for Bordeaux, which was a very
little voyage. But, while we were considering this, there came
in four French gentlemen, who, having been stopped on the
French side of the passes, as we were on the Spanish, found
wut * guide, who, traversing the country near the head of
16
Languedoc, had brought them over the mountains by such
ways that they were not much incommoded with the snow.
We sent for this guide, who told us he would undertake to
carry us the same way, with no hazard from the snow, provided
we were armed sufficiently to protect ourselves from wild
beasts ; for, he said, in these great snows, it was frequent for
some wolves to show themselves at the foot of the mountains,
being made ravenous for want of food. We told him we were
well enough prepared for such creatures as they were, if he
would insure us from a kind of two-legged wolves, which, we
were told, we were in most danger from, especially on the
French side of the mountains. He satisfied us that there was
no danger of that kind in the way that we were to go; so we
readily agreed to follow him, as did also twelve other gentle-
men, with their servants, some French, some Spanish, who, as
I said, had attempted to go, and were obliged to come back
again.
Accordingly, we set out from Pampeluna with our guide, on
the 15th of November; and, indeed, I was surprised, when,
instead of going forward, he came directly back with us on the
same road that we came from Madrid, about twenty miles ;
when, having passed two rivers, and come into the plain
country, we found ourselves in a warm climate again, where
the country was pleasant, and no snow to be seen ; but, on a
sudden, turning to his left.he approached the mountains another
way; and though it is true the hills and precipices looked
dreadful, yet he made so many tours, such meanders, and led
us by such winding ways, that we insensibly passed the height
of the mountains without being much encumbered with the
snow; and all on a sudden he showed us the pleasant and
fruitful provinces of Languedoc and Gascony, all green and
flourishing.
We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed
one whole day and night so fast that we could not travel; but
he bid us be easy; we should soon be past it all: we found,
indeed, that we began to descend every day, and to come more
north than before; and so, depending upon our guide, we
went on.
It was about two hours before night, when, our guide being
something before us, and not just in sight, out rushed three
monstrous wolves, and after them a bear, from a hollow way
adjoining to a thick wood. Two of the wolves flew upon the
guide, and had he been half a mile before us, he would have
WOLVES. «07
been devoured before we could have helped him ; one of them
fastened upon his horse, and the other attacked the man with
such violence, that he had not time or presence of mind enough
to draw his pistol; but hallooed and cried out most lustily.
My man Friday being next me, I bade him ride up, and see
what was the matter. As soon as Friday came in sight of the
man, he hallooed out as loud as the other, " O Master I O
Master!" but like a bold fellow, rode directly up to the poor
man, and with his pistol shot the wolf that attacked him in
the head.
But it was enough to have terrified a bolder man than I;
and, indeed, it alarmed all our company, when, with the noise
of Friday's pistol, we heard on both sides the most dismal
howlings of wolves; and the noise, redoubled by the echo of
the mountains, appeared to us as if there had been a prodi-
gious multitude of them; and perhaps, indeed, there was not
such a few as that we had no cause for apprehensions. How-
ever, as Friday had killed this wolf, the other that had fast-
ened upon the horse left him immediately, and fled, having
happily fastened upon his head, where the bosses of the bridle
had stuck in his teeth, so that he had not done him much
hurt; the man, indeed, was most hurt; for the raging
creature had bit him twice, once in the arm, and the other
time a little above his knee; and he was just as it were tumb-
ling down by the disorder of the horse, when Friday came up
and shot the wolf.
But never was a fight managed so hardily, and in such a
surprising manner, as that which followed between Friday and
the bear, which gave us all (though at first we were surprised
and afraid for him) the greatest diversion imaginable; as the
bear is a heavy, clumsy creature, and does not gallop as the
wolf does, who is swift and light, so he has two particular
qualities, which generally are the rule of his actions; first, as
to men, who are not his proper prey (he does not usually
attempt them, except they first attack him, unless he be ex-
cessively hungry, which it is probable might now be the case,
the ground being covered with snow), if you do not meddle
with him, he will not meddle with you ; but then you must
take care to be very civil to him, and give him the road, for
he is a very nice gentleman; he will not go a step out of his
way for a prince; nay, if you are really afraid, your best way
is to look another way and keep going on ; for sometimes if
you stop and stand still, and look steadfastly at him, he takes
it for an affront; but if you throw or toss anything at him,
and it hits him, though it were but a bit of stick as big as
your finger, he thinks himself abused, and sets all other busi-
ness aside to pursue his revenge, and will have satisfaction in
point of honour;—that is his first quality : the next is, if he
be once affronted, he will never leave you, night or day, till
he has his revenge, but follows at a good round rate till h»
overtakes you.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we
came up to him, he was helping him off his horse, for the man
was both hurt and frighted, when on a sudden we espied the
bear coming out of the wood, and a monstrous one it was, the
biggest by far that ever I saw. We were all a little surprised
when we saw him; but when Friday saw him it was easy to see
joy and courage in the fellow's countenance.
" O, 0,0!" says Friday, three times, pointing to him ; " O
Master! you give me te leave, me shakee te hand with him ;
me makee you good laugh."
I was surprised to see the fellow so well pleased. " You
fool," says I, " he will eat you up."—"Eatee me up I eatee me
up !" says Friday, twice over again : " me eatee him up: me
make you good laugh; you all stay here, me show you good
laugh." So down he sits, and gets off his boots in a moment,
and puts on a pair of pumps(as we call the flat shoes they
wear), and which he had in his pocket, gives my other servant
his horse, and with his gun away he flew like a swift wind.
The bear was walking softly on, and offered to meddle with
nobody, till Friday coming pretty near, calls to him, as if the
bear could understand him, " Hark ye, hark ye," says Friday,
" me speakee wit you."
We followed at a distance, for now being down on the
Gascony side of the mountains, we were entering a vast forest,
where the country was plain and pretty open, though it had
many trees in it scattered here and there. Friday, who had,
as we say, the heels of the bear, came up with him quickly,
and takes up a great stone, and throws it at him, and hit him
just on the head; but did him no more harm than if he had
thrown it against a wall; but it answered Friday's end, for
the rogue was so void of fear that he did it purely to make
the bear follow him, and show us some laugh, as he called it
As soon as the bear felt the blow, and saw him, he turns
about, and comes after him, taking very long strides, and
shuffling on at a strange rate, so as he would put a horse at
FRIDAY AND THE BEAR. »o9
a middling gallop: away runs Friday, and takes his course as
if he ran towards us for help; so we all resolved to fire at
once upon the bear, and deliver my man; though I was
angry at him heartily for bringing the bear back upon us
when he was going about his own business another way; and
especially I was angry that he had turned the bear upon us
and then run away; and I called out," You dog! is this your
making us laugh ? Come away, and take your horse, that we
may shoot the creature." He hears me, and cries out, " No
shoot, no shoot; stand still, you get much laugh:" and as the
nimble creature ran two feet for the bear's one, he turned on
a sudden on one side of us, and seeing a great oak tree fit for
his purpose, he beckoned to us to follow; and doubling his
pace, he got nimbly up the tree, laying his gun down upon the
ground, at about five or six yards from the bottom of the
tree. The bear soon came to the tree, and we followed at a
distance. The first thing he did, he stopped at the gun,
smelled to it, but let it lie, and up he scrambles into the tree,
climbing like a cat, though so monstrous heavy. I was
amazed at the folly, as I thought it, of my man, and could not
for my life see anything to laugh at yet, till seeing the bear
get up the tree, we all rode near to him.
When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out to the
small end of a large branch, and the bear got about half way
to him. As soon as the bear got out to that part where the
limb of the tree was weaker, " Ha!" says he to us, " now you
see me teachee the bear dance:" so he falls a jumping and
shaking the bough, at which the bear began to totter, but
stood still, and began to look behind him, to see how he
should get back; then, indeed, we did laugh heartily. But
Friday had not done with him by a great deal; when seeing
him stand still, he called out to him again, as if he had sup-
posed the bear could speak English, "What, you come no
further? pray you come further;" so he left jumping and
shaking the tree; and the bear, just as if he understood what
he' said, did come a little further; then he fell a jumping
again, and the bear stopped again. We thought now was a
good time to knock him in the head, and called to Friday to
stand still, and we would shoot the bear: but he cried out
earnestly, " O pray! O pray! no shoot, me shoot by and
then;" he would have said by and by. However, to shorten
the story, Friday danced so much, and the bear stood so tick-
lish, that we had laughing enough, but still could not imagine
what the fellow would do: for first we thought he depended
upon shaking the bear off; and we found the bear was too
cunning for that too; for he would not go out far enough to
be thrown down, but clung fast with his great broad claws and
feet, so that we could not imagine what would be the end of
it, and what the jest would be at last But Friday put us out
of doubt quickly: for seeing the bear cling fast to the bough,
and that he would not be persuaded to come any farther,
" Well, well," says Friday, " you no come further, me go, me
go; you no come to me, me come to you;" and upon this he
goes out to the smallest end of the bough, where it would
bend with his weight, and gently lets himself down by it,
sliding down the bough till he came near enough to jump
down on his feet, and away he ran to his gun, takes it up, and
stands still. " Well," said I to him, " Friday, what will you
do now ? Why don't you shoot him ?"—" No shoot," says
Friday, " no yet; me shoot now, me no kill; me stay, give
you one more laugh:" and, indeed, so he did; for when the
bear saw his enemy gone, he comes back from the bough
where he stood, but did it mighty leisurely, looking behind
him every step, and coming backward till he got into the body
of the tree; then, with the same hinder end foremost, he came
down the tree, grasping it with his claws, and moving one foot
at a time, very leisurely ; at this juncture, and just before he
could set his hind foot on the ground, Friday stepped up close
to him, clapped the muzzle of his piece into his ear, and shot
him as dead as a stone. Then the rogue turned about to see
if we did not laugh; and when he saw we were pleased, by
our looks, he began to laugh very loud. " So we kills bear in
my country," says Friday. " So you kill them ? " says I; " why,
you have no guns."—" No," says he, " no gun, but shoot great
much long arrow."
This was good diversion to us; but we were still in a wild
place, and our guide very much hurt, and what to do we
hardly knew; the howling of wolves ran much in my head ;
and, indeed except the noise I once heard on the shore of
Africa, of which I have said something already, I never heard
anything that filled me with so much horror.
These things, and the approach of night, called us off, or
else, as Friday would have had us, we should certainly have
taken the skin of this monstrous creature off, which was worth
saving.
The ground was still covered with snow, though not so deep
ATTACKED BY THE WOLVES. tn
and dangerous as on the mountains, and the ravenous crea-
tures, as we heard afterwards, were come down into the forest
and plain country, pressed by hunger, to seek for food, and
had done a great deal of mischief in the villages, where they
surprised the country people, killed a great many of their
sheep and horses, and some people too. We had one danger-
ous place to pass, and our guide told us, if there were more
wolves in the country we should find them there; and this
was a small plain surrounded with woods on every side, and
a long narrow defile, or lane, which we were to pass to get
through the wood, and then we should come to the village
where we were to lodge. We kept our arms ready, and
our eyes about us; but we saw no more wolves till we
came through that wood, which was near half a league, and
entered the plain; as soon as we came into the plain, we
had occasion enough to look about us. The first object we
met was a dead horse; that is to say, a poor horse which the
wolves had killed, and at least a dozen of them at work;
we could not say eating him, but picking his bones rather;
for they had eaten up all the flesh before. We did not think
fit to disturb them at their feast, neither did they take much
notice of us. Friday would have let fly at them, but I would
not suffer him by any means; for I found we were like to
have more business upon our hands than we were aware of.
We were not half gone over the plain, but we began to hear
the wolves howl in the woods on our left in a frightful
manner; and presently after we saw about a hundred coming
on directly towards us, all in a body, and most of them in
a line, as regularly towards us as an army drawn up by
experienced officers. I scarce knew in what manner to
receive them, but found to draw ourselves in a close line
was the only way; so we formed in a moment; but that we
might not have too much interval, I ordered that only every
other man should fire, and that the others, who had not fired,
should stand ready to give them a second volley immediately,
if they continued to advance upon us; and then that those
who had fired at first, should not pretend to load their
fusils again, but stand ready, every one with a pistol, for we
were all armed with a fusee and a pair of pistols each man;
so we were, by this method, able to fire six volleys, half of
us at a time. However, at present we had no necessity; for
upon firing the first volley, the enemy made a full stop, being
terrified as well with the noise as with the fire. Four of
them being shot in the head, dropped; several others were
wounded, and went bleeding off, as we could see by the snow.
I found they stopped, but did not immediately retreat;
whereupon, remembering that I had been told that the
fiercest creatures were terrified at the voice of a man, I caused
all the company to halloo as loud as they could, and I found
the notion not altogether mistaken; for upon our shout they
began to retire and turn about; I then ordered a second volley
to be fired in their rear, which put them to the gallop, and
away they went to the woods. This gave us leisure to charge
our pieces again ; and that we might lose no time, we kept
going; but we had but little more than loaded our fusees, and
put ourselves in readiness, when we heard a terrible noise in
the same wood on our left, only that it was farther onward,
the same way we were to go.
The night was coming on, and the light began to be dusky,
which made it worse on our side; but the noise increasing,
we could easily perceive that it was the howling and yelling
of those hellish creatures; and, on a sudden, we perceived
three troops of wolves, one on our left, one behind us, and
one in our front, so that we seemed to be surrounded with
them: however, as they did not fall upon us, we kept our
way forward, as fast as we could make our horses go, which,
the way being very rough, was only a good hard trot; and in
this manner we came in view of the entrance of a wood,
through which we were to pass, at the farther side of the
plain ; but we were greatly surprised, when coming near the
lane or pass, we saw a confused number of wolves standing
just at the entrance. On a sudden, at another opening of
the wood, we heard the noise of a gun, and looking that way,
out rushed a horse, with a saddle and a bridle on him, flying
like the wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves after him full
speed: indeed, the horse had the heels of them; but as we
supposed that he could not hold it at that rate, we doubted
not but they would get up with him at last: no question but
they did.
Here we had a most horrible sight; for, riding up to the
entrance where the horse came out, we found the carcases of
another horse and of two men, devoured by the ravenous
creatures, and one of the men was no doubt the same whom
we heard fire the gun, for there lay a gun just by him fired
off; but as to the man, his head and the upper part of his
body were eaten up. This filled us with horror, and we knew
BESIEGED. a 13
not what course to take ; but the creatures resolved us soon,
for they gathered about us presently, in hopes of prey ; and I
verily believe there were three hundred of diem.
It happened, very much to our advantage, that at the en-
trance into the wood, but a little way from it, there lay some
farge timber-trees, which had been cut down the summer
before, and I suppose lay there for carriage; I drew my little
troop in among those trees, and placing ourselves in a line
behind one long tree, I advised them all to alight, and keeping
that tree before us for a breast-work, to stand in a triangle, or
three fronts, inclosing our horses in the centre. We did so,
and it was well we did; for never was a more furious charge
than the creatures made upon us in this place; they came on
us with a growling kind of noise, and mounted the piece of
timber, which, as I said, was our breastwork, as if they were
only rushing upon their prey ; and this fury of theirs, it seems,
was principally occasioned by their seeing our horses behind
us, which was the prey they aimed at I ordered our men to
fire as before, every other man: and they took their aim so
sure that they killed several of the wolves at the first volley;
but there was a necessity to keep a continual firing, for they
came on like devils, those behind pushing on those before.
When we had fired a second volley of our fusils, we thought
they stopped a little, and I hoped they would have gone off,
but it was but a moment, for others came forward again ; so
we fired two volleys of our pistols; and I believe in these
four firings we had killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and
lamed twice as many, yet they came on again. I was loth to
spend our shot too hastily; so I called my servant, not my
man Friday, for he was better employed, for, with the greatest
dexterity imaginable, he had charged my fusil and his own
while we were engaged,—but, as I said, I called my other man,
and giving him a horn of powder, I bade him lay a train all
along the piece of timber, and let it be a large train; he did
so, and had but just time to get away, when the wolves came
up to it, and some got upon it, when I, snapping an uncharged
pistol close to the powder, set it on fire; and those that were
upon the timber were scorched with it, and six or seven of them
fell, or rather jumped in among us with the force and fright of
the fire : we despatched these in an instant, and the rest were
so frightened with the light, which the night—for it was now
very near dark—made more terrible, that they drew back a
little. Upon which I ordered our last pistols to be fired off in
one volley, and after that we gave a shout; upon this the
wolves turned tail, and we sallied immediately upon near
twenty lame ones that we found struggling on the ground,
and fell to cutting them with our swords, which answered our
expectation, for the crying and howling they made were better
understood by their fellows ; so that they all fled and left us.
We had, first and last, killed about threescore of them, and
had it been daylight, we had killed many more. The field of
battle being thus cleared, we made forward again, for we had
still near a league to go; we heard the ravenous creatures
howl and yell in the woods as we went several times, and
sometimes we fancied we saw some of them ; but the snow
dazzling our eyes, we were not certain; so in about an hour
more we came to the town where we were to lodge, which we
found in a terrible fright and all in arms : for it seems that
the night before, the wolves and some bears had broken into
the village, and put them in a terrible fright, and they were
obliged' to keep guard night and day, but especially in the
night, to preserve their cattle, and indeed their people.
The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs swelled
so much with the rankling of his two wounds, that he could
go no farther; so we were obliged to take a new guide here,
and go to Toulouse, where we found a warm climate, a fruitful,
pleasant country, and no snow, no wolves, nor anything like
them; but when we told our story at Toulouse, they told us
it was nothing but what was ordinary in the great forest at
the foot of the mountains, especially when the snow lay on the
ground ; but they inquired much what kind of guide we had
got, that would venture to bring us that way in such a severe
season; and told us it was surprising we were not all devoured.
When we told them how we placed ourselves and the horses
in the middle, they blamed us exceedingly, and told us it was
fifty to one but we had been all destroyed, for it was the sight
of the horses which made the wolves so furious, seeing their
prey; whereas, had we been content to have sat still on horse-
back, and fired as horsemen, they would not have taken the
horses so much for their own, when men were on their backs,
as otherwise ; and, withal, they told us that at last, if we had
stood all together, and left our horses, they would have been
so eager to have devoured them, that we might have come
off safe, especially having our fire-arms in our hands, being so
many in number. For my part, I was never so sensible of
danger in my life; for, seeing above three hundred devils come
/ SELL MY PLANTATION. 215
roaring and open-mouthed to devour us, and having nothing
to shelter us or retreat to, I gave myself over for lost; and, as
it was, I believe I shall never care to cross those mountains
again; I think I would much rather go a thousand leagues by
sea, though I was sure to meet with a storm once a week.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my passage
through France; nothing but what other travellers have given
an account of with much more advantage than I can. I
travelled from Toulouse to Paris, and without any considerable
stay came to Calais, and landed safe at Dover the 14th of
January, after having had a severe cold season to travel in.
I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had in a
little time all my new-discovered estate safe about me, the bills
of exchange which I brought with me having been very cur-
rently paid.
My principal' guide and privy-counsellor was my good
ancient widow, who, in gratitude for the money I had sent
her, thought no pains too much nor care too great to employ
for me; and I trusted her so entirely with everything, that I
was perfectly easy as to the security of my effects.
And now I reselved to stay at home, and if I could find
means for it, to dispose of my plantation. To this purpose I
wrote to my old friend at Lisbon, who in return gave me notice
that he could easily dispose of it there, but that, if I thought
fit to give him leave to offer it in my name to the two merchants,
the survivors of my trustees, who lived in Brazil, he did not
doubt but I should make 4000 or 5000 pieces of eight the more
of it Accordingly I agreed, gave him orders to offer it to
them, and he did so; and in about eight months more, the
ship being then returned, he sent me an account that they
had accepted the offer, and had remitted 33,000 pieces of eight
to Lisbon, to pay for it
In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the form which
they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my old man, who sent
me the bills of exchange for thirty-two thousand eight hundred
pieces of eight for the estate, reserving the payment of one
hundred moidores a year to him (the old man) during his life,
and fifty moidores afterwards to his son for his life, which I
had promised them, and which the plantation was to make
good as a rent-charge. And thus I have given the first part
of a life of fortune and adventure—a life of Providence's
chequer-work, and of a variety which the world will be seldom
able to show the like of—beginning foolishly, but closing much
more happily than any part of it ever gave me leave so much
as to hope for.
Any one would think that in this state of complicated good
fortune, I was past running any more hazards, and so, indeed,
I had been, if other circumstances had concurred : but I was
inured to a wandering life, had no family, nor many relations ;
nor, however rich, had I contracted fresh acquaintance; and
though I had sold my estate in the Brazils, yet I could not keep
that country out of my head, and had a great mind to be upon
the wing again; especially I could not resist the strong in-
clination I had to see my island. My true friend, the widow,
earnestly dissuaded me from it, and so far prevailed with me,
that for almost seven years she prevented my running abroad,
during which time I took my two nephews, the children of one
of my brothers, into my care; the eldest, having something of
his own, I bred up as a gentleman, and gave him a settlement
of some addition to his estate after my decease. The other
I placed with the captain of a ship; and after five years,
finding him a sensible, bold, enterprising young fellow, I put
him into a good ship, and $ent him to sea; and this young
fellow afterwards drew me in, as old as I was, to further ad-
ventures myself.
In the meantime, I in part settled myself here; for, first of
all, I married, and that not either to my disadvantage or dis-
satisfaction, and had three children, two sons and one daughter;
but my wife dying, and my nephew coming home with good
success from a voyage to Spain, my inclination to go abroad,
and his importunity, prevailed, and engaged me to go in his
ship as a private trader to the East Indies; this was in the
year 1694.
In this voyage I visited my new colony in the island—saw
my successors the Spaniards,—had the whole story of their
lives, and of the villains I left there,—how at first they in-
sulted the poor Spaniards,—how they afterwards agreed, dis-
agreed, united, separated, and how at last the Spaniard were
obliged to use violence with them,—how they were subjected
to the Spaniards,—how honestly the Spaniards used them ; a
history, if it were entered into, as full of variety and wonderful
accidents as my own part,—particularly, also, as to their battles
with the Caribbeans, who landed several times upon the island,
and as to the improvement they made upon the island itself—
and how five of them made an attempt upon the mainland, and
brought away eleven men and five women prisoners, by which,
at my coming, I found about twenty young children on the
island.
Here I stayed about twenty days,—left them supplies of all
necessary things, and particularly of arms, powder, shot, clothes,
tools, and two workmen, which I had brought from England
with me,—viz., a carpenter and a smith.
Besides this, I shared the lands into parts with them, re-
served to myself the property of the whole, but gave them such
parts respectively as they agreed on; and having settled all
things with them, and engaged them not to leave the place,
I left them there.
From thence I touched at the Brazils, from whence I sent a
bark, which I bought there, with more people to the island ;
and in it, besides other supplies, I sent seven women, being
such as I found proper for service, or for wives to such as
would take them. As to the Englishmen, I promised to send
them some women from England, with a good cargo of neces-
saries, if they would apply themselves to planting,—which I
afterwards performed. The fellows proved very honest and
diligent after they were mastered, and had their properties set
apart for them. I sent them, also, from the Brazils, five cows,
some sheep, and some hogs, which when I came again were
considerably increased.
But all these things, with an account how three hundred
Caribbees came and invaded them, and ruined their plantations,
and how they fought with that whole number twice, and were
at first defeated, and one of them killed ; but, at last, a storm
destroying their enemies' canoes, they famished or destroyed
almost all the rest, and renewed and recovered the possession
of their plantation, and still lived upon the island: all these
things, with some very surprising incidents in some new ad-
ventures of my own, for ten years more, I may, perhaps, give
a further account of hereafter.
PART II.
j HAT homely proverb, used on so many occasions
in England, viz., " That what is bred in the bone
will not go out of the flesh," was never more verified
than in the story of my Life. Any one would think
that after thirty-five years' affliction, and a variety of unhappj
circumstances, which few men, if any, ever went through before,
and after near seven years of peace and enjoyment in the fulness
of all things ; grown old, and when, if ever, it might be allowed
me to have had experience of every state of middle life, and
to know which was most adapted to make a man completely
happy; I say, after all this, any one would have thought that
the native propensity to rambling, which I gave an account of
in my first setting out in the world to have been so predominant
in my thoughts, should be worn out, and I might, at sixty-one
years of age, have been a little inclined to stay at home, and
have done venturing life and fortune any more. I had nothing,
indeed, to do but to sit still, and fully enjoy what I had got,
and see it increase daily upon my hands.
Yet this had no effect upon me, or at least not enough ta
resist the strong inclination I had to go abroad again, which
hung about me like a chronical distemper; particularly the
desire of seeing my new plantation in the island, and the colony
I left there, ran in my head continually. I dreamed of it all
night, and my imagination ran upon it all day: it was upper-
most in all my thoughts; and my fancy worked so steadily and
strongly upon it, that I talked of 't in my sleep ; so that my
wife, who saw my mind so wholly bent upon it, told me very
A BEDFORDSHIRE FARMER. sip
seriously one night, that she believed there was some secret
powerful impulse of Providence upon me, which had deter-
mined me to go thither again; and that she found nothing
hindered my going, but my being engaged to a wife and chil-
dren. She told me that it was true she could not think of
parting with me ; but as she was assured, that if she was dead,
it would be the first thing I would do. So as it seemed to
her that the thing was determined above, she would not be
the only obstruction. " Rather," says she, " than I will be the
only hindrance, I will go with you; for though I think it a
most preposterous thing for one of your years, and in your
condition, yet if it must be," said she again weeping, " I won't
leave you; for if it be of Heaven, you must do it"
These words brought me for a time out of my vapours. I
bought a little farm in the county of Bedford, and found its
management and improvement suited to my instinct I farmed
upon my own land, I had no rent to pay, was limited by no
articles; I could pull up or cut down as I pleased. What I
planted was for myself, and what I improved was for my family;
and having thus left off the thoughts of wandering, I had not
the least discomfort in any part of life as to this world. Now
I thought , indeed, that I enjoyed the middle state of life, that
my father so earnestly recommended to me, and lived a kind
of heavenly life, something like what is described by the poet
upon the subject of a country life:
" Free from vices, free from care,
Age has no pain, and youth no snare."
But in the middle of all this felicity, one blow from unfore-
seen Providence unhinged me at once; and not only made a
breach upon me inevitable and incurable, but drove me, by its
consequences, into a deep relapse into the wandering dis-
position, which, as I may say, being born in my very blood,
soon recovered its hold of me, and like the returns of a violent
distemper, came on with an irresistible force upon me; so
that nothing could make any more impression upon me. This
blow was the loss of my wife.
My sage counsellor was gone, I was like a ship without a
pilot, that could only run afore the wind. My thoughts ran
all away again into the old affair; my head was quite turned
with the whimseys of foreign adventures ; and all the pleasant
innocent amusements of my farm and my garden, my cattle
and my family, which before entirely possessed me, were
nothing to me, had no relish, and were like music to one that
has no ear, or food to one that has no taste. In a word, I re-
solved to leave off housekeeping, let my farm, and return to
London; and in a few months after I did so.
It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when my nephew,
whom I had brought up to the sea, and had made commander
of a ship, was come home from a short voyage to Bilboa, being
the first he had made. He came to me, and told me that some
merchants of his acquaintance had been proposing to him to
go a voyage for them to the East Indies, and to China, as
private traders. " And now, uncle," says he, " if you will go
to sea with me, I will engage to land you upon your old
habitation in the island; for we are to touch at the Brazils."
I paused awhile at his words, and looking steadily at him,
" What devil," said I, " sent you on this unlucky errand ?"
My nephew stared as if he had been frightened at first; but
perceiving that I was not much displeased with the proposal,
he recovered himself. "I hope it may not be an unlucky pro-
posal, sir," says he. " I dare say you would be pleased to
see your new colony there, where you once reigned with more
felicity than most of your brother monarchs in the world."
In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with my temper, that
isto say, the prepossession I was under, that I told him, in a
few words, if he agreed with the merchants, I would go with
him; but I told him I would not promise to go any further
than my own island. " Why, sir," says he," you don't want to
be left there again, I hope ? " " But," said I," can you not take
me up again on your return ?" He told me it would not be
possible, that the merchants would never allow him to come
that way with a loaded ship of such value, it being a month's
sail out of his way, and might be three or four. " Besides, sir,
if I should miscarry," said he, " and not return at all, then
you would be just reduced to the condition you were in before."
This was very rational; but we both found out a remedy for
it, which was, to carry a framed sloop on board the ship, which
being taken in pieces, and shipped on board the ship, might,
by the help of some carpenters, whom we agreed to carry
with us, be set up again in the island; and finished, fit to go
to sea, in a few days.
My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning of January,
1694-5 J and I, with my man Friday, went on board, in the
Downs, the 8th; having, besides that sloop which 1 mentioned
ANOTHER VOYAGE. 221
above, a very considerable cargo of all kinds of necessary
things for my colony, which, if I did not find in good con-
dition, I resolved to leave so.
I carried with me some servants whom I purposed to place
there as inhabitants, or at least to set on work there upon my
own account, two carpenters, a smith, and a very handy, inge-
nious fellow, who was a cooper by trade, and was also a general
mechanic ; for he was dexterous at making wheels, and hand-
mills to grind corn, was a good turner, and a good pot-maker;
he also made anything that was proper to make of earth or
of wood; in a word, we called him our Jack-of-all-trades.
With these I carried a tailor, who proved a most necessary
handy fellow as could be desired, in many other businesses
besides that of this trade.
My cargo, as near as I can recollect, for I have not kept
account of the particulars, consisted of a sufficient quantity of
linen, and some English thin stuffs, for clothing the Spaniards
that I expected to find there, and enough of them, as by my
calculation, might comfortably supply them for seven years :
if I remember right, the materials I carried for clothing them,
with gloves, hats, shoes, stockings, and all such things as
they could want for wearing, amounted to above two hundred
pounds, including some beds, bedding, and household stuff,
particularly kitchen utensils, with pots, kettles, pewter, brass,
&c; and near a hundred pounds more in iron-work, nails,
tools of every kind, staples, hooks, hinges, and every necessary
thing I could think of.
I carried also a hundred spare arms, muskets, and fusees;
besides some pistols, a considerable quantity of shot of all sizes,
three or four tons of lead, and two pieces of brass cannon;
and, because I knew not what time and what extremities I
was providing for, I carried a hundred barrels of powder, besides
swords, cutlasses, and the iron part of some pikes and halberts ;
so that, in short, we had a large magazine of all sorts of stores ;
and I made my nephew carry two small quarter-deck guns
more than he wanted for his ship, to leave behind if there was
occasion; so that, when we came there, we might build a fort,
and man it against all sorts of enemies.
We set out on the 5th of February from Ireland, and had a
very fair gale of wind for some days. As I remember, it
might be about the 20th of February in the evening late, when
the mate, having the watch, came into the round-house, and
told us he saw a flash of fire, and heard a gun fired ; anJ
17
while he was telling us of it, a boy came in, and told us the
boatswain heard another. This made us all run out upon the
quarter-deck, where for a while we heard nothing; but in a few
minutes we saw a very great light, and found that there was
some very terrible fire at a distance; immediately we had
recourse to our reckonings, in which we all agreed that there
could be no land that way in which the fire showed itself, no,
not for five hundred leagues, for it appeared at W.N.W. Upon
this, we concluded it must be some ship on fire at sea; and as,
by our bearing the noise of guns just before, we concluded that
it could not be far off, we stood directly towards it, and were
presently satisfied we should discover it, because the further
we sailed, the greater the light appeared ; though the weather
being hazy, we could not perceive anything but the light for
a while. In about half an hour's sailing, the wind being fair
for us, though not much of it, and the weather clearing up a
little, we could plainly discern that it was a great ship on fire
in the middle of the sea.
I immediately ordered that five guns should be fired, one
soon after another, that, if possible, we might give notice to
them that there was help for them at hand, and that they
might endeavour to save themselves in their boat; for though
we could see the flames of the ship, yet they, it being night,
could see nothing of us.
We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the burning
ship drove, waiting for daylight; when, on a sudden, to out
great terror, though we had reason to expect it, the ship blew
up in the air ; and in a few minutes all the fire was out, that
is to say, the rest of the ship sunk; this was a terrible, and
indeed an afflicting sight, for the sake of the poor men, who,
I concluded, must be either all destroyed in the ship, or be
in the utmost distress in their boat, in the middle of the ocean ;
which, at present, as it was dark, I could not see; however,
to direct them as well as I could, I caused lights to be hung
out in all parts of the ship where we could, and which we had
lanterns for, and kept firing guns all the night long ; letting
them know by this that there was a ship not far off.
About eight o'clock in the morning we discovered the ship's
boats by the help of our perspective-glasses, and found there
were two of them, both thronged with people, and deep in
the water. We perceived they rowed, the wind being against
them ; that they saw our ship, and did their utmost to make
us see them. We immediately spread our ancient, to let them
THE RESCUED CREW. a83
know we saw them, and hung a waft out, as a signal for them
to come on board, and then made more sail, standing directly
to them. In little more than half an hour, we came up with
them, and, in a word, took them all in, being no less than
sixty-four men, women, and children ; for there were a great
many passengers.
Upon the whole we found it was a French merchant ship of
300 tons, homebound from Quebec, in the river of Canada.
The master gave us a long account of the distress of his ship,
how the fire began in the steerage, by the negligence of the
steersman; which, on his crying out for help, was, as every-
body thought, entirely put out; but they soon found that some
sparks of the first fire had got into some part of the ship so
difficult to come at that they could not effectually quench it;
and afterwards getting in between the timbers, and within the
ceiling of the ship, it proceeded into the hold, and mastered
all the skill and all the application they were able to exert
They had no more to do then but to get into their boats,
which, to their great comfort, were pretty large; being their
long-boat, and a great shallop, besides a small skiff, which
was of no great service to them, other than to get some fresh
water and provisions into her, after they had secured their
lives from the fire. They had, indeed, small hopes of their
lives by getting into these boats at that distance from any
land; only, as they said, that they thus escaped from the fire,
and there was a possibility that some ship might happen to be
at sea, and might take them in.
In the midst of their consultations, every one being hopeless
and ready to despair, the captain, with tears in his eyes, told
me they were on a sudden surprised with the joy of hearing
a gun fire, and after that four more: these were the five guns
which I caused to be fired at first seeing the light: this revived
their hearts, and gave them the notice that there was a ship
at hand for their help. Some time after that again, they were
still more agreeably surprised with seeing our lights, and
hearing the guns; this set them to work with their oars, to
keep their boats ahead, at least, that we might the sooner come
up with them ; and, at last, to their inexpressible joy, they
found we saw them.
There were two priests among them : one an old man, and
the other a young man. The captain and one of these priests
came to me the next day, and desiring to speak with me and
«ny nephew, the commander, began to consult with us what
should be done with them; and, first, they told us we had
saved their lives, so all they had was little enough for a return
to us for that kindness received. The captain said they had
saved some money and some things of value in their boats,
caught hastily out of the flames ; and if we would accept it,
they were ordered to make an offer of it all to us; they only
desired to be set on shore somewhere in our way, where, if
possible, they might get a passage to France. My nephew
was for accepting their money at first word, and to consider
what to do with them afterwards; but I over-ruled him in
that part, for I knew what it was to be set on shore in a strange
country; and if the Portuguese captain that took me up at sea
had served me so, and taken all I had for my deliverance, I
must have starved, or have been as much a slave at the Brazils
as I had been at Barbary.
I therefore told the French captain that we had taken them
up in their distress, it was true, but that it was our duty to do
so; and, therefore, I would not let the least thing be taken
from them. As to setting them on shore, I told them, indeed,
that was an exceeding difficulty to us, for that the ship was
bound to the East Indies; and though we were driven out of
our course to the westward a very great way, and perhaps
were directed by Heaven on purpose for their deliverance,
yet it was impossible for us wilfully to change our voyage on
their particular account; nor could my nephew, the captain,
answer it to the freighters, with whom he was under charter-
party to pursue his voyage by way of Brazil; and all I knew
we could do for them was, to put ourselves in the way of
meeting with other ships homeward bound from the West
Indies, and get them a passage, if possible, to England or
France.
The first part of the proposal was so generous and kind, they
could not but be very thankful for it; but they were in a great
consternation, especially the passengers, at the notion of being
carried away to the East Indies; they then entreated me, that
as I was driven so far to the westward before I met with them,
I would, at least, keep on the same course to the Banks of
Newfoundland, where it was probable I might meet with some
ship or sloop that they might hire to carry them back to
Canada.
I thought this was but a reasonable request on their part,
and therefore I inclined to agree to it; for, indeed, I considered
that to carry this whole company to the East Indies, would
ANOTHER CREW IN DISTRESS. 945
not only be an intolerable severity upon the poor people, but
would be ruining our whole voyage, by devouring all our pro-
visions ; so I thought it no breach of charter-party, but what
an unforeseen accident made absolutely necessary to us, and
in which no one could say we were to blame; so I consented
that we would carry them to Newfoundland, if wind and
weather wquld permit; and if not, that I would carry them to
Martinico, in the West Indies.
It was about a week after this that we made the Banks of
Newfoundland ; where, to shorten my story, we put all our
French people on board a bark, which they hired at sea there,
to put them on shore, and afterwards to carry them to France,
if they could get provisions to victual themselves with. When
I say all the French went on shore, I should remember that
the young priest, hearing we were bound to the East Indies,
desired to go the voyage with us, and to be set on shore on
the coast of Coromandel. I readily agreed to that, for I
wonderfully liked the man ; also four of the seamen entered
themselves on our ship, and proved very useful fellows.
It was in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes north, on
the 19th day of March, 1694-5, when we spied a sail, our
course S.E. and by S. We soon perceived it was a large
vessel, and that she bore up to us, but could not at first know
what to make of her, till, after coming a little nearer, we found
she had lost her maintopmast, foremast, and bowsprit; and
presently she fired a gun as a signal of distress. The weather
was pretty good, wind at N.N.W. a fresh gale, and we soon
came to speak with her. We found her a ship of Bristol,
bound home from Barbadoes, but had been blown out of the
roads at Barbadoes a few days before she was ready to sail,
by a terrible hurricane, while the captain and chief mate were
both gone on shore ; so that, besides the terror of the storm,
they were in an indifferent case for good mariners to bring the
ship home: they had been already nine weeks at sea, and had
met with another terrible storm, after the hurricane was over,
which had blown them quite out of their knowledge to the
westward, and in which they lost their masts ; and having no
sails to work the ship with but a main course, and a kind of
square sail upon a jury foremast, which they had set up, they
could not lie near the wind, but were endeavouring to stand
away for the Canaries.
But that which was worst of all was, that they were almost
starved for want of provisions, besides the fatigues they had
undergone: their bread and flesh were quite gone, they had
not an ounce left in the ship, and had had none for eleven
days; the second mate, who upon this occasion commanded
the ship, came on board our ship; and he told me, indeed,
that they had three passengers in the great cabin, that were
in a deplorable condition. " Nay," says he, " I believe they
are dead, for I have heard nothing of them for above two
days ; and I was afraid to inquire after them," said he, " for I
had nothing to relieve them with." We immediately applied
ourselves to give them what relief we could spare; and, indeed,
I had so far overruled things with my nephew, that I would
have victualled them, though we had gone away to Virginia,
ot any other part of the coast of America, to have supplied
ourselves; but there was no necessity for that
But now they were in a new danger; for they were afraid
of eating too much, even of that little we gave them; the
mate, or commander, brought six men with him in his boat,
but these poor wretches looked like skeletons, and were so
weak that they could hardly sit to their oars ; the mate him-
self was very ill, and half-starved ; for he declared he had
reserved nothing from the men, and went share and share
alike with them in every bit they ate. I cautioned him to
eat sparingly, and set meat before him immediately, but he
had not eaten three mouthfuls before he began to be sick and
out of order; so he stopped awhile, and our surgeon mixed
him up something with some broth, which he said would be
to him both food and physic, and after he had taken it he
grew better.
All the while the mate was relating to me the miserable
condition of the ship's company, I could not put out of my
thought the story he had told me of the three poor creatures
in the great cabin. So I ordered my own boat to go on board
the ship, and, with my mate and twelve men, to carry them a
sack of bread, and four or five pieces of beef to boil. Our
surgeon charged the men to cause the meat to be boiled while
they stayed, and to keep guard in the cook-room, to prevent
the men taking it to eat raw, or taking it out of the pot before
it was well boiled, and then to give every man but a very little
at a time: and by this caution he preserved the men, who would
otherwise have killed themselves with that very food that was
given them on purpose to save their lives. I found the poor
men on board almost in a tumult, to get the victuals out ot
the boiler before it was ready: but my mate observed his
The Poor Maid.
THE PASSENGERS. i>7
orders, and kept a good guard at the cook-room door; and the
man he placed there, after using all possible persuasion to have
patience, kept them off by force; however, he caused some
biscuit cakes to be dipped in the pot, and softened with the
liquor of the meat, which they call brewis, and gave them
every one some, to stay their stomachs, and told them it was
for their own safety that he was obliged to give them but little
at a time. But it was all in vain; and had I not come on
board, and their own commander and officers with me, and
with good words, and some threats also of giving them no
more, I believe they would have broken into the cook-room
by force, and torn the meat out of the furnace; however, we
pacified them, and fed them gradually and cautiously.
But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of
another nature, and far beyond the rest The poor mother,
who, as the men reported, was a woman of sense and good
breeding, had spared all she could so affectionately for her son,
that at last she entirely sunk under it; help came too late,
and she died the same night.
The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most affec-
tionate mother's life, was not so far gone; yet he lay in a cabin
bed, as one stretched out, with hardly any life left in him; he
had a piece of an old glove in his mouth, having eaten up the
rest of it; however, being young, and having more strength
than his mother, the mate got something down his throat,
and he began sensibly to revive.
But the next care was the poor maid : she lay all along upon
the floor, and just like one that had fallen down in a fit of
apoplexy, and struggled for life. The poor creature was not
only starved with hunger, and terrified with the thoughts of
death, but, as the men told us afterwards, was broken-hearted
for her mistress, whom she saw dying for two or three days
before, and whom she loved most tenderly. We knew not
what to do with this poor girl; for when our surgeon, who was
a man of very great knowledge and experience, had with
great application recovered her as to life, he had her upon his
hand as to her senses, for she was little less than distracted
for a considerable time after, as shall appear presently.
Our business was to relieve this distressed ship's crew, but
not lie by for them; and though they were willing to steer
the same course with us for some days, yet we could carry no
sail to keep pace with a ship that had no masts ; however, as
their captain begged of us to help him to set up a main-topmast,
and a kind of a topmast to bis jury-foremast, we did, as it were,
lie by him for three or four days; and then, having given him
five barrels of beef, a barrel of pork, two hogsheads of biscuit,
and a proportion of peas, flour, and what other things we could
spare; and taking three casks of sugar, some rum, and some
pieces of eight from them for satisfaction, we left them, taking
on board with us, at their own earnest request, the youth and
the maid, and all their goods.
The young lad was about seventeen years of age, a pretty,
well-bred, modest, and sensible youth, greatly dejected with
the loss of his mother, and also at having lost his father but a
few months before at Barbadoes. He begged of the surgeon
to speak to me to take him out of the ship ; for he said the
cruel fellows had murdered his mother, for they might have
spared a small sustenance to the poor helpless widow. The
surgeon represented the case so affectionately to me that I
yielded, and we took them both on board, with all their goods.
I shall trouble nobody with the little incidents on the rest
of our voyage; but, to shorten my story, shall observe that I
came to my old habitation, the island, on the ioth of April,
1695. As soon as I saw the place, I called for Friday, and
asked him if he knew where he was ? He looked about a little,
and presently clapping his hands, cried, " O yes, O there, O yes,
O there!" pointing to our old habitation, and fell a dancing
and capering like a mad fellow; and I had much ado to
keep him from jumping into the sea, to swim ashore to the
place.
" Well, Friday," said I, " do you think we shall find anybody
here or no ? and what do you think ? shall we see your father?"
The fellow stood, mute as a stock a good while; but, when I
named his father, the poor affectionate creature looked dejected,
and I could see the tears run down his face very plentifully.
" What is the matter, Friday ?" said I, " are you troubled
because you may see your father ?"
"No,no," says he, shaking his head, "no see him more: no,
ever more see again."
" Why so," said I, " Friday ? how do you know that ?"
" O no, O no," says Friday, " he long ago die; long ago, he
much old man."
" Well, well," said I, " Friday, you don't know; but shall we
see any one else then ?"
The fellow, it seems, had better eyes than I, and he points
to the hill just above my old house ; and though we lay half a
THE TST.AT7D AGAIN. 229
league off, he cries out, " Me see, me see, yes, yes, me see much
man there, and there, and there."
I looked, but I saw nobody, no, not with a perspective-glass ;
which was, I suppose, because I could not hit the place; for
the fellow was right, as I found upon inquiry the next day, and
there were five or six men all together, who stood to look at
the ship, not knowing what to think of us.
As soon as Friday told me he saw people, I caused the
English ancient to be spread, and fired three guns, to give them
notice we were friends ; and in about a quarter of an hour after
we perceived a smoke arise from the side of the creek; so I
immediately ordered the boat out, taking Friday with me, and,
hanging out a white flag, or a flag of truce, I went directly on
shore, taking with me the young friar I mentioned, to whom I
had told the whole story of my living there, and of those I left
there. We had, besides, about sixteen men very well armed,
if we had found any new guests there which we did not know
of; but we had no need of weapons.
As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high water,
we rowed directly into the creek; and the first man I fixed my
eye upon was the Spaniard whose life I had saved, and whom
I knew by his face perfectly well. I ordered nobody to go on
shore at first but myself; but there was no keeping Friday in
the boat; for the affectionate creature had spied his father at
a distance, a good way off the Spaniards, where, indeed, I saw
nothing of him; and if they had not let him go ashore, he
would have jumped into the sea. He was no sooner on shore,
but he flew away to his father, like an arrow out of a bow. It
would have made any man shed tears, in spite of the firmest
resolution, to have seen the first transports of this poor fellow's
joy when he came to his father; how he embraced him, kissed
him, stroked his face, took him up in his arms, set him down
upon a tree, and lay down by him; then stood and looked at
him, as any one would look at a strange picture, for a quarter
of an hour together; then lay down on the ground, and stroked
his legs, and kissed them, and then got up again, and stared
at him—one would have thought the fellow bewitched. But
it would have made a dog laugh to see how the next day his
passion ran out another way: in the morning, he walked along
the shore with his father several hours, always leading him by
the hand, as if he had been a lady; and every now and then
he would come to the boat to fetch something or other for
him, either a lump of sugar, a dram, a biscuit or something or
other that was good. In the afternoon his frolics ran another
way; for then he would set the old man down upon the
ground, and dance about him, and make a thousand antic
postures and gestures; and all the while he did this, he would
be talking to him, and telling him one story or another of his
travels, and of what had happened to him abroad, to divert
him. In short, if the same filial affection was to be found in
Christians to their parents, in our part of the world, one would
be tempted to say there would hardly have been any need of
the fifth commandment
But this is a digression : I return to my landing. It would
be needless to take notice of all the ceremonies and civilities
that the Spaniards received me with. The first Spaniard,
whom, as I said, I knew very well, was he whose life I had
saved. He came towards the boat, attended by one more,
carrying a flag of truce also ; and he not only did not know
me at first, but he had no thoughts, no notion of its being
me that was come, till I spoke to him. " Seignior," said I,
in Portuguese, " do you not know me ?" At which he spoke
not a word, but, giving his musket to the man that was with
him, threw his arms abroad, and saying something in Spanish
that I did not perfectly hear, came forward and embraced
me, telling me he was inexcusable not to know that face again
that he had once seen, as of an angel from Heaven, sent to
save his life. He said abundance of very handsome things, as
a well-bred Spaniard always knows how ; and then, beckoning,
to the person that attended him, bade him go and call out his
comrades. He then asked me if I would walk to my old
habitation, where he would give me possession of my own
house again, and where I should see they had made but mean
improvements. So I walked along with him; but alas! I
could no more find the place than if I had never been there;
for they had planted so many trees, and placed them in such
a position, so thick and close to one another, in ten years'
time they were grown so big, that, in short, the place was
inaccessible, except by such windings and blind ways as only
they themselves, who made them, could find.
I asked them what put them upon all these fortifications.
He told me I should say there was need enough of it, when
they had given me an account how they had passed their time
since their arriving in the island, especially after they had the
misfortune to find that I was gone. He told me he could not
but have some satisfaction in my good fortune, when he heard
that I was gone in a good ship ; and that he had oftentimes a
strong persuasion that one time or other he should see me
again ; but nothing that ever befell him in his life, he said, was
so surprising and afflicting to him at first, as the disappoint-
ment he was under when he came back to the island, and found
I was not there.
As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that were left
behind, and of whom, he said, he had a long story to tell me,
the Spaniards all thought themselves much better among the
savages, only that their number was so small; " and," says he,
" had they been strong enough, we had been all long ago in
purgatory ;" and with that he crossed himself on the breast
" But, sir," says he, " I hope you will not be displeased when
I shall tell you how, forced by necessity, we were obliged,
for our own preservation, to disarm them, and make them our
subjects, who would not be content with being moderately
our masters, but would be our murderers." I answered, I
was afraid of it when I left them there, and nothing troubled
me at my parting from the island but that they were not
come back, that I might have put them in possession of every-
thing first, and left the others in a state of subjection, as they
deserved ; but if they had reduced them to it I was very glad,
and should be very far from finding any fault with it: for I
knew they were a parcel of refractory, ungovernable villains,
and were fit for any manner of mischief.
While I was thus saying this, came the man whom he had
sent back, and with him eleven more : in the dress they were
in, it was impossible to guess what nation they were of; but
he made all clear, both to them and to me. First he turned
to me, and pointing to them, said, " These, sir, are some of the
gentlemen who owe their lives to you;" and then turning
to them, and pointing to me, he let them know who I was ;
upon which they all came up one by one, not as if they had
been sailors, and ordinary fellows, and the like, but really as
if they had been ambassadors or noblemen, and I a monarch
or great conqueror: their behaviour was, to the last degree,
obliging and courteous, and yet mixed with a manly, majestic
gravity, which very well became them; and, in short, they had
so much more manners than I, that I scarce knew how to
receive their civilities, much less how to return them in kind.
I desired the Spaniard would give me a particular account
of his voyage back to his countrymen with the boat, when I
sent him to fetch them over. He told me there was little
variety in that part, for nothing remarkable happened to them
on the way, having had very calm weather, and a smooth sea.
As for his countrymen, it could not be doubted, he said, but
that they were overjoyed to see him (it seems he was the
principal man among them, the captain of the vessel they had
been shipwrecked in having been dead some time): they were,
he said, the more surprised to see him, because they knew
that he had fallen into the hands of the savages, who, they
were satisfied, would devour him, as they did all the rest of
their prisoners ; that when he told them the story of his de-
liverance, and in what manner he was furnished for carrying
them away, it was like a dream to them, and their astonish-
ment was somewhat like that of Joseph's brethren when he
told them who he was, and the story of his exaltation in
Pharaoh's court. But when he showed them the arms, the
powder, the ball, the provisions, that he brought them for their
journey or voyage, they were restored to themselves, took a
just share of the joy of their deliverance, and immediately
prepared to come away with him.
Their first business was to get canoes; and in this they were
obliged not to stick so much upon the honest part of it, but
to trespass upon their friendly savages, and to borrow two
large canoes, or periaguas, on pretence of going out a-fishing,
or for pleasure. In these they came away the next morning :
it seems they wanted no time to get themselves ready; for
they had neither clothes, nor provisions, nor anything in the
world but what they had on them, and a few roots to eat, of
which they used to make their bread. They were in all three
weeks absent; and in that time, unluckily for them, I had
the occasion offered for my escape, as I mentioned in the
other part, and to get off from the island ; leaving three of the
most impudent, hardened, ungoverned, disagreeable villains
behind me that any man could desire to meet with, to the
poor Spaniards' great grief and disappointment
The only just thing the rogues did was that, when the
Spaniards came on shore, they gave my letter to them, and
gave them provisions, and other relief, as I had ordered them
to do; also they gave them the long paper of directions which
I had left with them, containing the particular methods which
I took for managing every part of my life there ; the way I
baked my bread, bred up tame goats, and planted my corn ;
how I cured my grapes, made my pots, and, in a word, every-
thing I did: all this being written down, they gave to the
THE HISTORY OF THE COLONY. a33
Spaniards (two of whom understood English well enough):
nor did they refuse to accommodate the Spaniards with any-
thing else, for they agreed very well for some time: they gave
them an equal admission into the house, or cave, and they
began to live very sociably ; and the head Spaniard, who had
seen pretty much of my methods, together with Friday's father,
managed all their affairs; but as for the Englishmen, they did
nothing but ramble about the island, shoot parrots, and catch
tortoises ; and when they came home at night, the Spaniards
provided their suppers for them.
The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, had the
others but left them alone, which, however, they could not
find in their hearts to do long; but, like the dog in the
manger, they would not eat themselves, neither would they
let the others eat; the differences, nevertheless, were at first
but trivial, and such as are not worth relating, but at last it
broke out into open war, and it began with all the rudeness
and insolence that can be imagined, without reason, without
provocation, contrary to nature, and, indeed, to common
sense ; and though, it is true, the first relation of it came from
the Spaniards themselves, whom I may call the accusers, yet
when I came to examine the fellows, they could not deny a
word of it
But before I come to the particulars of this part, I must
supply a defect in my former relation ; and this was, I forgot
to set down among the rest, that just as we were weighing the
anchor to set sail, there happened a little quarrel on board of
our ship, which I was once afraid would have turned to a second
mutiny; nor was it appeased till the captain, rousing up his
courage, and taking us all to his assistance, parted them by
force, and making two of the most refractory fellows pri-
soners, he laid them in irons : and as they had been active in
the former disorders, and let fall some ugly, dangerous words
the second time, he threatened to carry them in irons to
England, and have them hanged there for mutiny, and running
away with the ship. This, it seems, though the captain did
not intend to do it, frightened some other men in the ship;
and some of them had put it into the head of the rest, that
the captain only gave them good words for the present, till
they should come to some English port, and that then they
should be all nut into gaol, and tried for their lives. The
mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted us with it, upon
which it was desired that I. who still passed for a great man
among them, should go down with the mate, and satisfy the
men, and tell them that they might be assured, if they
behaved well the rest of the voyage, all they had done for
the time past should be pardoned. So I went, and after
passing my honour's word to them, they appeared easy, and
the more so when I caused the two men that were in irons to
be released and forgiven.
But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night;
the wind also falling calm next morning, we found that our
two men, who had been laid in irons, had stolen each of them
a musket, and some other weapons (what powder or shot
they had we knew not), and had taken the ship's pinnace,
which was not yet hauled up, and run away with her to their
companions in roguery on shore. As soon as we found this,
I ordered the long-boat on shore with twelve men and tne
mate, and away they went to seek the rogues; but they could
neither find them nor any of the rest, for they all fled into the
woods when they saw the boat coming on shore. The mate
having no orders, left everything as he found it, and, bringing
the pinnace away, came on board without them. These two
men made their number five ; but the other three villains were
so much more wicked than they, that after they had been two
or three days together, they turned the two new-comers out
of doors to shift for themselves, and would have nothing to
do with them ; nor could they, for a good while, be persuaded
to give them any food : as for the Spaniards, they were not
yet come.
The Spaniards would have persuaded the three English
brutes to have taken in their countrymen again, that, as they
said, they might be all one family ; but they would not hear
of it, so the two poor fellows lived by themselves ; and finding
nothing but industry and application would make them live
comfortably, they pitched their tents on the north shore of the
island, but a little more to the west, to be out of danger of
the savages, who always landed on the east parts of the island.
Here they built two huts, one to lodge in, and the other to lay
up their magazines and stores in; and the Spaniards having
given them some corn for seed, and some of the peas which I
had left them, they dug, planted, and enclosed, after the pattern
I had set for them all, and began to live pretty well. Their
first crop of corn was on the ground, and though it was but a
little bit of land which they had dug up at first, having had
but a little time, yet it was enough to relieve them, and find
1HE DESERTERS. 135
them with bread and other eatables ; and one of the fellow*
being the cook's mate of the ship, was very ready at making
soup, puddings, and such other preparations as the rice and
the milk, and such little flesh as they got, furnished him to do.
They were going on in this little thriving posture when the
three unnatural rogues, their own countrymen too, in mere
humour, and to insult them, came and bullied them, and told
them the island was theirs : that the Governor, meaning me,
had given them the possession of it, and nobody else had any
right to it; and that they should build no houses upon their
ground, unless they would pay rent for them. The two men
thought they had jested, at first, and asked them to come in
and sit down, and see what fine houses they were that they
had built, and to tell them what rent they demanded; and
one of them merrily told them, if they were the ground land-
lords, he hoped, if they built tenements upon their land, and
made improvements, they would, according to the custom of
landlords, grant a long lease; and desired they would get a
scrivener to draw the writings. One of the three, cursing and
raging, told them they should see they were not in jest; and
going to a little place at a distance, where the honest men
had made a fire to dress their victuals, he takes a firebrand,
and claps it to the outside of their hut, and very fairly set it
on fire : indeed, it would have been all burned down in a few
minutes, if one of the two had not run to the fellow, thrust
him away, and trod the fire out with his feet, and that not
without some difficulty too.
The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man's thrusting
him away, that he returned upon him, with a pole he had in
his hand, and had not the man avoided the blow very nimbly,
and run into the hut, he had ended his days at once. His
comrade, seeing the danger they were both in, ran in after
him, and immediately they came both out with their muskets,
and the man that was first struck at with the pole knocked
the fellow down that began the quarrel, with the stock of
his musket, and that before the other two could come to help
him; and then, seeing the rest come at them, they stood
togetner, and presenting the other ends of their pieces to
them, bade them stand off.
The others had fire-arms with them too; but one of the
two honest men, bolder than his comrade, and made desperate
by his danger, told them, if they offered to move hand or
foot, they were dead men, and boldly commanded them to lay
18
down their arms. They did not, indeed, lay down their arms,
but seeing him so resolute, it brought them to a parley, and
they consented to take their wounded man with them and
begone: and, indeed, it seems the fellow was wounded suffi-
ciently with the blow ; however, they were much in the wrong,
since they had the advantage, that they did not disarm them
effectually, as they might have done, and have gone immediately
to the Spaniards, and given them an account how the rogues
had treated them ; for the three villains studied nothing but
revenge, and every day gave them some intimation that they
did so.
But not to crowd this part with an account of the lesser part
of the rogueries with which they plagued them continually
night and day, it forced the two men to such a desperation,
that they resolved to fight them all three, the first time they
had a fair opportunity. In order to do this, they resolved to
go to the castle (as they called my old dwelling), where the
three rogues and the Spaniards all lived together at that time,
intending to have a fair battle, and the Spaniards should stand
by to see fair play. So they got up in the morning before
day, and came to the place, and called the Englishmen by
their names, telling a Spaniard that answered, that they wanted
to speak with them.
It happened that the day before, two of the Spaniards, having
been in the woods, had seen one of the two Englishmen, whom,
for distinction, I called the honest men, and he had made a sad
complaint to the Spaniards of the barbarous usage they had
met with from their three countrymen, and how they had ruined
their plantation, and destroyed their corn that they had laboured
so hard to bring forward, and killed the milch-goat, and their
three kids, which was all they had provided for their suste-
nance ; and that if he and his friends, meaning the Spaniards,
did not assist them again, they should be starved. When the
Spaniards came home at night, and they were all at supper,
one of them took the freedom to reprove the three Englishmen,
though in very gentle and mannerly terms, and asked them
how they could be so cruel, they being harmless, inoffensive
fellows: that they were putting themselves in a way to subsist
by their labour, and that it had cost them a great deal of pains
to bring things to such perfection as they were then in.
One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, " What had
they to do there ? that they came on shore without leave; and
that they should not plant <* build upon the island ; it was
THE UNJUST ENGLISHMEN. 137
none of their ground."—" Why," says the Spaniard very calmly,
" Seignior Inglese, they must not starve." The Englishman
replied, like a rough-hewn tarpauling, " They might starve;
they should not plant nor build in that place."—" But what
must they do then, seignior ?" said the Spaniard. Another of
the brutes returned, " Do ? they should be servants, and work
for them."—" But how can you expect that of them ?" says
the Spaniard ; " they are not bought with your money; you
have no right to make them servants." The Englishman
answered, " The island was theirs ; the Governor had given it
to them, and no man had anything to do there but them-
selves ;" and with that he swore that he would go and burn all
their new huts; they should build none upon their land. " Why,
seignior," says the Spaniard, " by the same rule, we must be
your servants too."—" Ay," returned the bold dog, " and so
you shall, too, before we have done with you ;" mixing two
or three oaths in the proper intervals of his speech. The
Spaniard only smiled at that, and made him no answer. How-
ever, this little discourse had heated them ; and starting up,
one says tp the other (I think it was he they called Will
Atkins), " Come, Jack, let's go, and have t'other brush with
them ; we'll demolish their castle, I'll warrant you ; they shall
plant no colony in our dominions."
Upon this they were all trooping away, with every man a
gun, a pistol, and a sword, and muttered some insolent things
among themselves, of what they would do to the Spaniards too,
when opportunity offered ; but the Spaniards, it seems, did
not so perfectly understand them as to know all the particulars,
only that, in general, they threatened them hard for taking the
two Englishmen's part Whither they went, or how they be-
stowed their time that evening, the Spaniards said they did
not know ; but it seems they wandered about the country part
of the night, and then lying down in the place which I used
to call my bower, they were weary and overslept themselves.
The case was this: they had resolved to stay till midnight, and
so to take the two poor men when they were asleep, and as
they acknowledged afterwards, intended to set fire to their
huts while they were in them, and either burn them there, or
murder them as they came out: and as malice seldom sleeps
very sound, it was very strange they should not have been
kept waking. However, as the two men had also a design
upon them, as I have said, though a much fairer one than
that of burning and murdering, it happened and very luckily
for them all, that they were up and gone abroad, before the
bloody-minded rogues came to their huts.
When they came there, and found the men gone, Atkins,
who, it seems, was the forwardest man, called out to his com-
rade, " Ha, Jack, here's the nest, but the birds are flown."
They mused awhile, to think what should be the occasion of
their being gone abroad so soon, ajid suggested presently that
the Spaniards had given them notice of it; and with that they
shook hands, and swore to one another that they would be
revenged of the Spaniards. As soon as they had made this
bloody bargain, they fell to work with the poor men's habita-
tion ; they did not set fire, indeed, to anything, but they pulled
down both their houses, not leaving the least stick standing, or
scarce any sign on the ground where they stood ; they tore all
their little household stuff in pieces, and threw everything
about in such a manner, that the poor men afterwards found
some of their things a mile off from their habitation. When
they had done this, they pulled up all the young trees which
the poor men had planted ; broke down the inclosure they
had made to secure their cattle and their corn ; and, in a word,
sacked and plundered everything as completely as a horde
of Tartars would have done.
The two men were, at this juncture, gone to find them out,
and had resolved to fight them wherever they had been, though
they were but two or three ; so that, had they met, there
certainly would have been bloodshed among them, for they
were all very stout, resolute fellows, to give them their due.
When the three came back like furious creatures, flushed
with the rage which the work they had been about had put
them into, they came up to the Spaniards, and told them what
they had done, by way of scoff and bravado ; and one of them
stepping up to one of the Spaniards, as if they had been a
couple of boys at play, takes hold of his hat as it was upon
his head, and giving it a twirl about, fleering in his face, says
he to him, " And you, Seignior Jack Spaniard, shall have the
same sauce, if you do not mend your manners." The Spaniard,
who, though a quiet civil man, was as brave as a man could be
desired to be, and, withal, a strong, well-made man, looked
steadily at him for a good while, and then, having no weapon
in his hand, stepped gravely up to him, and, with one blow of
the fist, knocked him down, as an ox is felled with a pole-axe,
at which one of the rogues, as insolent as the first, fired his
pistol at the Spaniard immediately: he missed his body, indeed,
^ *WN^j|.
fid&fjjg' )
7'A<rj' Z^/i «o/ *A* /^«.rf .SV/Vi Standing.
THE BULLIES DISARMED. 239
for the bullets went through his hair, but one of them touched
the tip of his ear, and he bled pretty much. The blood made
the Spaniard believe he was more hurt than he really was, and
that put him into some heat, for before he acted all in a perfect
calm; but now resolving to go through with his work, he
stooped, and taking the fellow's musket whom he had knocked
down, was just going to shoot the man who fired at him, when
the rest of the Spaniards, being in the cave, came out, and
calling to him not to shoot, they stepped in, secured the other
two, and took their arms from them.
When they were thus disarmed, and found that they had
made all the Spaniards their enemies, as "well as their own
countrymen, they began to cool; and, giving the Spaniards
better words, would have had their arms again ; but the
Spaniards, considering the feud that was between them and
the other two Englishmen, and that it would be the best method
they could take to keep them from killing one another, told
them they would do them no harm ; and if they would live
peaceably, they would be very willing to assist and associate
with them as they did before ; but that they could not think
of giving them their arms again, while they appeared so re-
solved to do mischief with them to their own countrymen, and
had even threatened them all to make them their servants.
The rogues were now no more capable to hear reason than
to act reason ; and being refused their arms, they went raving
away and raging like madmen, threatening what they would
do, though they had no fire-arms ; but the Spaniards, despis-
ing their threatening, told them they should take care how
they offered any injury to their plantation or cattle ; for if
they did, they would shoot them as they would ravenous
beasts, wherever they found them ; and if they fell into their
hands alive, they should certainly be hanged. However, this
was far from cooling them, but away they went, raging and
swearing like furies. As soon as they were gone, came back
the two men, in passion and rage enough also, though of
another kind; for having been at their plantation, and
finding it all demolished and destroyed, as above mentioned,
it will easily be supposed they had provocation enough ; they
could scarce have room to tell their tale, the Spaniards were
so eager to tell them theirs ; and it was strange enough to find
that three men should thus bully nineteen, and receive no
punishment at all.
The Spaniards, indeed, despised them, and especially,
having thus disarmed them, made light of their threatenings ;
but the two Englishmen resolved to have their remedy against
them, what pains soever it cost to find them out But the
Spaniards interposed here too, and told them, that as they
had disarmed them, they could not consent that they (the two)
should pursue them with fire-arms, and perhaps kill them.
" But," said the grave Spaniard, who was their Governor, " we
will endeavour to make them do you justice, if you will leave
it to us : for there is no doubt but they will come to us again,
when their passion is over, being not able to subsist without
our assistance; we promise you to make no peace with them
without having a full satisfaction for you; and, upon this
condition, we hope you will promise to use no violence with
them, other than in your defence." The two Englishmen
yielded to this very awkwardly, and with great reluctance;
but the Spaniards protested that they did it only to keep them
from bloodshed, and to make them all easy at last
In about five days' time the vagrants, tired with wander-
ing, and almost starved with hunger, having chiefly lived on
turtles' eggs all that while, came back to the grove; and,
finding my Spaniard, who, as I have said, was the Governor,
and two more with him, walking by the side of the creek,
they came up in a very submissive, humble manner, and
begged to be received again into the family. The Spaniards
used them civilly, but told them they had acted so unnaturally
by their countrymen, and so very grossly by them (the Span-
iards), that they could not come to any conclusion without
consulting the two Englishmen and the rest; but, however,
they would go to them and discourse about it, and they should
know in half an hour. It may be guessed that they were very
hard put to it; for, as they were to wait this half-hour for an
answer, they begged they would send them out some bread
in the meantime, which they did, and sent them, at the same
time, a large piece of goat's flesh, and a boiled parrot, which
they ate very eagerly, for they were hungry indeed.
After half an hour's consultation they were called in, and
a long debate ensued, their two countrymen charging them
with the ruin of all their labour, and a design to murder them;
all which they owned before, and therefore could not deny
now. Upon the whole, the Spaniards acted the moderators
between them ; and as they had obliged the two Englishmen
not to hurt the three while they were naked and unarmed, so
they now obliged the three to go and rebuild their fellows'
FOREBODINGS OF DANGER. 141
two huts, one to be of the same and the other of larger dimen-
sions than they were before; also to fence their ground again,
plant trees in the room of those pulled up, dig up the land
again for planting corn, and, in a word, to restore everything
to the same state as they found it, that is, as near as they
could.
Well, they submitted to all this ; and as they had plenty of
provisions given them all the while, they grew very orderly,
and the whole society began to Mve pleasantly and agreeably
together again ; only that these three fellows could never
be persuaded to work, I mean, not for themselves, except
now and then a little, just as they pleased : however, the
Spaniards told them plainly, that if they would but live
sociably and friendly together, and study the good of the
whole plantation, they would be content to work for them,
and let them walk about and be as idle as they pleased ; and
thus, having lived pretty well together for a month or two,
the Spaniards let them have arms again, and gave them liberty
to go abroad with them as before.
It was not above a week after they had these arms, and
went abroad, before the ungrateful creatures began to be as
insolent and troublesome as before: however, an accident
happened presently upon this, which endangered the safety
of them all, and they were obliged to lay by all private
resentments, and look to the preservation of their lives.
It happened one night that the Governor, the Spaniard
. whose life I had saved, who was now the Governor of the
rest, found himself very uneasy in the night, and could by no
means get any sleep : he was perfectly well in body, as he told
me the story, only found his thoughts tumultuous ; his mind
ran upon men fighting and killing one another, but was broad
awake; and could not by any means get any sleep; he re-
solved to rise. Being got up, he looked out; but, being dark,
he could see little or nothing, but that it was a clear starlight
night; and, hearing no noise, he returned and lay down
again; but it was all one, he could not sleep ; his thoughts
were to the last degree uneasy, and he knew not for what
Having made some noise with rising and walking about, going
out and coming in, another of them waked, and asked who it
was that was up. The Governor told him how it had been
with him. "Say you so?" says the other Spaniard; "such
things are not to be slighted, I assure you; there is certainly
some mischief working near us ;" and presently he asked
him, " Where are the Englishmen ?"—" They are all in their
huts," says he, " safe enough." It seems the Spaniards had
kept possession of the main apartment, and had made a place
for the three Englishmen, who, since their last mutiny, were
always quartered by themselves, and could not come at the rest
" Well," says the Spaniard, " there is something in it; I am
persuaded, from my own experience; I am satisfied our
spirits embodied have a converse with, and receive intelli-
gence from, the spirits unembodied, and inhabiting the invisi-
ble world ; and this friendly notice is given for our advantage,
if we know how to make use of it Come," says he, " let us
go and look abroad; and if we find nothing at all in it to
justify the trouble, I'll tell you a story to the purpose, that
shall convince you of the justice of my proposing it"
In a word, they went out to go to the top of the hill, where
I used to go, when they were surprised with seeing a light as
of fire, a very little way off from them, and hearing the voices
of men, not of one or two, but of a great number.
We need not doubt but that the Governor and the man with
him, surprised with this sight, ran back immediately and
raised their fellows giving them an account of the imminent
danger they were all in, and they again as readily took the
alarm, but it was impossible to persuade them to stay close
within where they were, but they must all run out to see how
things stood. While it was dark, indeed, they were safe, and
they had opportunity enough, for some hours to view the
savages, for it was they, by the light of three fires, they had
made at a distance from one another.
The Spaniards were in no small consternation ; and, as they
found that the fellows went straggling all over the shore, they
made no doubt but, first or last, some of them would chop in
upon their habitation, or upon some other place where they
would see the tokens of inhabitants; and they were in great
perplexity also for fear of their flock of goats, which would
nave been little less than starving them, if they should be
destroyed; so the first thing they resolved upon was to
despatch three men away before it was light—viz., two
Spaniards and one Englishman—to drive all the goats away
to the great valley where the cave was, and, if need were, to
drive them into the very cave itself. Could they have seen
the savages altogether in one body, and at a distance from
their canoes, they resolved, if there had been a hundred of
them, to have attacked them; but that could not be obtained
A SAVAGE BATTLE. 243
for they were some of them two miles off from the other; and,
as it appeared afterwards, were of two different nations.
After having mused a great while on the course they should
take, they resolved, at last, while it was dark, to send the old
savage, Friday's father, out as a spy, to learn, if possible, some-
thing concerning them, as what they came for, what they
intended to do, and the like; the old man readily undertook
it; and stripping himself quite naked, as most of the savages
were, away he went; after he had been gone an hour or two, he
brings word that he had been among them undiscovered, that
he found they were two parties, and of two several nations, who
had war with one another, and had had a great battle in their
own country; and that both sides having had several prisoners
taken in the fight, they were, by mere chance, landed all on
the same island, for the devouring their prisoners and making
merry; but their coming so by chance to the same place had
spoiled all their mirth; that they were in a great rage at one
another, and were so near, that he believed they would fight
again as soon as daylight began to appear; but he did not
perceive that they had any notion of anybody being on the
island but themselves. He had hardly made an end of telling
his story, when they could perceive, by the unusual noise they
made, that the two little armies were engaged in a bloody
fight Friday's father used all the arguments he could to
persuade our people to lie close, and not be seen; he told
them their safety consisted in it, and that they had nothing to
do but lie still, and the savages would kill one another to their
hands, and then the rest would go away; and it was so to
a tittle. But it was impossible to prevail, especially upon
the Englishmen ; their curiosity was so importunate, that they
must run out and see the battle; however, they used some
caution—vis., they did not go openly, just by their own
dwelling, but went farther into the woods, and placed them-
selves to advantage, where they might securely see them
manage the fight, and, as they thought, not be seen by them ;
but the savages did see them, as we shall find hereafter.
The battle was very fierce; and, if I might believe the
Englishmen, one of them said he could perceive that some of
them were men of great bravery, of invincible spirits, and of
great policy in guiding the fight The battle, they said, held
two hours before they could guess which party would be
beaten ; but then that party which was nearest our people's
habitation began to appear weakest, and after some time more,
some of them began to fly; and this put our men again into
a great consternation, lest any one of those that fled should
run into the grove before their dwelling for shelter, and thereby
involuntarily discover the place; and that, by consequence,
the pursuers would also do the like in search of them. Upon
this, they resolved that they would stand armed within the
wall, and whoever came into the grove, they resolved to sally
out over the wall and kill them, so that, if possible, not one
should return to give an account of it; they ordered also
that it should be done with their swords, or by knocking them
down with the stocks of their muskets, but not by shooting
them, for fear of raising an alarm by the noise.
As they expected, it fell out; three of the routed army fled
for life, and crossing the creek, ran directly into the place,
not in the least knowing whither they went, but running as
into a thick wood for shelter; the scout they kept to look
abroad gave notice of this within, with this satisfactory
addition, that the conquerors had not pursued them, or seen
which way they were gone. Upon this, the Spanish Governor,
a man of humanity, would not suffer them to kill the three
fugitives, but sending three men out by the top of the hill,
ordered them to go round, come in behind them, and surprise
and take them prisoners, which was done ; the residue of the
conquered people fled to their canoes, and got off to sea ; the
victors retired, made no pursuit, or very little; but drawing
themselves into a body together, gave two great screaming
shouts, which they supposed were by way of triumph, and so
the fight ended : the same day, about three o'clock in the
afternoon, they also marched to their canoes.
After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of their
den, and viewing the field of battle, they found about two and
thirty men dead on the spot; some were killed with long
arrows, which were found sticking in their bodies ; but most
of them were killed with great wooden swords, sixteen or
seventeen of which they found in the field of battle, and as
many bows, with a great many arrows; these swords were
strange, unwieldy things, and they must be very strong men
that used them; most of those that were killed with them had
their heads smashed to pieces, as we may say, or, as we call it
in English, their brains knocked out, and several their arms
and legs broken; so that it is evident they fight with inex-
pressible rage and fury; they found not one wounded man
that was not stone dead; for either they stay by the enemy
THE THREE PRISONERS. 245
till they have quite killed him, or they carry all the wounded
men that are not quite dead away with them.
This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great while ;
the sight had fiUed them with horror, and the consequences
appeared terrible to the last degree, especially upon supposing
that some time or other they should fall into the hands of
those creatures, who would not only kill them as enemies, but
for food, as we kill our cattle ; and they professed to me that
the thoughts of being eaten up like beef and mutton, though
it was supposed it was not to be till they were dead, had some-
thing in it so horrible that it nauseated their very stomachs,
made them sick when they thought of it, and filled their
minds with unusual terror, that they were not themselves
for some weeks after. For a great while after they were
tractable, and went about the common business of the whole
society well enough. But some time after this they fell into
such measures again, as brought them into a great deal of
trouble,
They had taken three prisoners; and these three being
lusty stout young fellows, they made them servants, and
taught them to work for them ; and as slaves they did well
enough ; but they did not take measures as I did by my man
Friday, to begin with them upon the principle of having saved
their lives, and then instruct them in the rational principles
of life, much less of religion—civilizing and reducing them
by kind usage and affectionate arguings ; but as they gave
them their food every day, so they gave them their work
too, and kept them fully employed in drudgery enough ; but
they failed in this, that they never had them to assist them
and fight for them as I had my man Friday, who was as true
to me as the very flesh upon my bones.
Being all now good friends (for common danger had
effectually reconciled them) they began to consider their
general circumstances; and the first thing that came under
their consideration was whether, seeing the savages particu-
larly haunted that side of the island, and that there were more
remote and retired parts of it equally adapted to their way
of living, and manifestly to their advantage, they should not
rather move their habitation, and plant in some more proper
place for their safety, and especially for the security of their
cattle and corn. After long debate, it was conceived that
they should not remove their habitation ; because some time
or other, they thought they might hear from their Governor
again, meaning me ; and if I should send any one to seek
them, I should be sure to direct them to that side, where, if
they should find the place demolished, they would conclude
the savages had killed us all, and we were gone, and so our
supply would go too.
But, as to their corn and cattle, they agreed to remove them
into the valley where my cave was, where the land was as
proper for both, and where, indeed, there was land enough.
However, upon second thoughts, they altered one part of their
resolution too, and resolved only to remove part of their cattle
thither, and plant part of their corn there ; so that if one part
was destroyed, the other might be saved. And one part of
prudence they luckily used; they never trusted those three
savages which they had taken prisoners, with knowing any-
thing of the plantation they had made in that valley, or of
any cattle they had there; much less of the cave at that
place, which they kept, in case of necessity, as a safe retreat;
and thither they carried also the two barrels of powder, which
I had left them at my coming away. However, they resolved
not to change their habitation ; yet, as I had carefully covered
it first with a wall or fortification, and then with a grove of
trees, and as they were now fully convinced their safety
consisted entirely in their being concealed, they set to work
to cover and conceal the place yet more effectually than
before: to this purpose, as I had planted trees (or rather
thrust in stakes, which in time all grew up to be trees), for
some good distance before the entrance into my apartments,
they went on in the same manner, and filled up the rest of
that whole space of ground from the trees I had set quite down
to the side of the creek, where I landed my floats, and even
into the very ooze where the tide flowed, not so much as
leaving any place to land, or any sign that there had been
any landing thereabout; these stakes also being of a wood
very forward to grow, they took care to have them generally
much larger and taller than those which I had planted.
And now they had another broil with the three Englishmen;
one of whom a most turbulent fellow, being in a rage at one
of the three captive slavesj-because the fellow had not done
something right which he bid him do, and seemed a little
untractable in his showing him, drew a hatchet out of a frog-
belt, in which he wore it by his side, and fell upon the poor
savage, not to correct him, but to kill him. One of the
Spaniards, who was by, seeing him give the fellow a barbarous
He fell upon the poor Savage to kill him.
THE SPANIARD'S CLEMENCY. 447
jut with the hatchet, which he aimed at his head, but struck
into his shoulder, so that he thought he had cut the poor
creature's arm off, ran to him, and, entreating him not to
murder the poor man, placed himself between him and the
savage, to prevent the mischief. The fellow, being enraged
the more at this, struck at the Spaniard with his hatchet, and
swore he would serve him as he intended to serve the savage:
which the Spaniard perceiving, avoided the blow, and with a
shovel which he had in his hand (for they were all working
in the field about their corn land) knocked the brute down :
another of the Englishmen, running up at the same time to
help his comrade, knocked the Spaniard down ; and then two
Spaniards more came in to help their man, and a third English-
man fell in upon them. They had none of them any fire-arms
or any other weapons but hatchets and other tools, except this
third Englishman ; he had one of my rusty cutlasses, with
which he made at the two last Spaniards, and wounded them
both: this fray set the whole family in an uproar, and more
help coming in, they took the three Englishmen prisoners.
The next question was, what should be done with them ?
They had been so often mutinous, and were so very furious,
so desperate, and so idle withal, they knew not what course
to take with them, for, in short, it was not safe to live with
them.
The Spaniard who was Governor told them, that if they had
been of his own country, he would have hanged them ; for all
laws and all governors were to preserve society, and those
who were dangerous to the society ought to be expelled out
of it; but as they were Englishmen, and that it was to the
generous kindness of an Englishman that they all owed their
preservation and deliverance, he would use them with all
possible lenity, and would leave them to the judgment of the
other two Englishmen, who were their countrymen. One of
the two honest Englishmen stood up, and said they desired
it might not be left to them : " For," says he, " I am sure we
ought to sentence them to the gallows ;" and with that gives
an account how Will Atkins, one of the three, had proposed
to have all the five Englishmen join together, and murder all
the Spaniards when they were in their sleep.
When the Spanish Governor heard this, he calls to Will
Atkins, " How, Seignior Atkins," says he, " will you murder
us all ? What have you to say to that ?" That hardened
villain was so far from denying it, that he said it was true,
TO
and swore they would do it still before they had done with
them. "Well, but, Seignior Atkins," says the Spaniard,
" what have we done to you, that you will kill us ? And
what would you get by killing us ? And what must we do
to prevent your killing us ? Must we kill you, or you kill
us ? Why will you put us to the necessity of this, Seignior
Atkins ?" says the Spaniard very calmly, and smiling. Seig-
nior Atkins was in such a rage at the Spaniard's making a
jest of it, that, had he not been held by three men, and withal
had no weapons with him, it was thought he would have
attempted to have killed the Spaniard in the middle of all the
company. This hair-brain carriage obliged them to consider
seriously what was to be done. The two Englishmen, and
the Spaniard who saved the poor savage, were of the opinion
that they should hang one of the three, for an example to the
rest; and that particularly it should be he that had twice
attempted to commit murder with his hatchet; and indeed,
there was some reason to believe he had done it, for the poor
savage was in such a miserable condition with the wound
he had received, that it was thought he could not live. But
the Spanish Governor still said no; it was an Englishman
that had saved all their lives, and he would never consent to
put an Englishman to death, though he had murdered half of
them ; nay, he said if he had been killed himself by an
Englishman, and had time left to speak, it should be that they
should pardon him.
This was so positively insisted on by the Spanish Governor,
that there was no gainsaying it; and as merciful counsels are
most apt to prevail where they are so earnestly pressed, so
they all came into it After a long debate, it was agreed that
they should be disarmed, and not permitted to have either
gun, powder, shot, sword, or any weapon, and should be turned
out of the society and left to live where they would, and how
they could, by themselves; but that none of the rest, either
Spaniards or English, should hold any kind of converse with
them, or have anything to do with them: that they should
be forbid to come within a certain distance of the place where
the rest dwelt; and if they offered to commit any disorder, so
as to spoil, burn, kill, or destroy any of the corn, plantings,
buildings, fences, or cattle belonging to the society, that they
should die without mercy, and should be shot wherever they
were found.
The Governor, a man of great humanity, musing upon the
THE BULLIES CAST OFF. 249
sentence, considered a little upon it; and turning to the two
honest Englishmen, said, " Hold ; you must reflect that it will
be long ere they can raise corn and cattle of their own, and
they must not starve; we must therefore allow them provisions."
So he caused to be added, that they should have a proportion
of corn given them to last them eight months, and for seed to
sow, by which time they might be supposed to raise some of
their own ; that they should have six milch-goats, four he-
goats, and six kids given them, as well for present subsistence
as for a store ; and that they should have tools given them for
their work in the fields, but they should have none of these
tools or provisions, unless they would swear solemnly that
they would not hurt or injure any of the Spaniards with them,
or their fellow Englishmen.
Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned them out
to shift for themselves. They went away sullen and refractory,
as neither content to go away nor to stay ; but, as there was
no remedy, they went, pretending to go and choose a place
where they would settle themselves; and some provisions were
given them, but no weapons. About four or five days after,
they came again for some victuals, and gave the Governor an
account where they had pitched their tents, and marked
themselves out a habitation and plantation; and it was a
very convenient place indeed, on the remotest part of the
island, N.E., much about the place where I providentially
landed in my first voyage, when I was driven out to sea, in
my foolish attempt to sail round the island.
Here they built themselves two handsome huts, and contrived
them in a manner like my first habitation, being close under
the side of a hill, having some trees growing already on three
sides of it, so that by planting others, it would be very easily
covered from the sight, unless narrowly searched for; they
desired some dried goat-skins for beds and covering, which
were given them ; and upon giving their words that they would
not disturb the rest, or injure any of their plantations, they
gave them hatchets, and what other tools they could spare;
some peas, barley, and rice, for sowing; and, in a word, any-
thing they wanted, except arms and ammunition.
'1 hey lived in this separate condition about six months, and
had got in their harvest, though the quantity was but small,
the parcel of land they had planted being but little; for,
indeed, having all their plantation to form, they had a great
deal of work upon their hands ; and when they came to make
boards and pots, and such things, they were quite out of their
element, and could make nothing of it; and when the rainy
season came on, for want of a cave in tks earth they could
not keep their grain dry, and it was in great danger of
spoiling; and this humbled them much: so they came and
begged the Spaniards to help them, which they very readily
did ; and in four days worked a great hole in the side of the
hill for them, big enough to secure their corn and other things
from the rain: but it was a poor place at best compared to
mine, and especially as mine was then, for the Spaniards had
greatly enlarged it, and made several new apartments in it.
About three-quarters of a year after this separation, a new
frolic took these rogues, which, together with the former
villainy they had committed, brought mischief enough upon
them, and had very near been the ruin of the whole colony ;
the three new associates began, it seems, to be weary of the
laborious life they led, and that without hope of bettering
their circumstances: and a whim took them that they would
make a voyage to the continent from whence the savages
came, and would try if they could seize upon some prisoners
among the natives there, and bring them home, so as to make
them do the laborious part of the work for them.
The project was not so preposterous, if they had gone no
further. But they did nothing, and proposed nothing, but
had either mischief in the design, or mischief in the event
The three fellows came down to the Spaniards one morning,
and in very humble terms desired to be admitted to speak
with them. The Spaniards very readily heard what they
had to say, which was this:—that they were tired of living
in the manner they did, and that they were not handy enough
to make the necessaries they wanted ; and that having no
help, they found they should be starved ; but if the Spaniards
would give them leave to take one of the canoes which they
came over in, and give them arms and ammunition propor-
tioned to their defence, they would go over to the main, and
seek their fortunes, and so deliver them from the trouble of
supplying them with any other provisions.
The Spaniards were glad enough to get rid of them ; but
yet very honestly represented to them the certain destruction
they were running into ; told them they had suffered such
hardships upon that very spot, that they could, without any
spirit of prophecy, tell them they would be starved or
murdered, and bade them consider of it The men replied
*5>
audaciously, they should be starved if they stayed here, for
they could not work, and would not work.
The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that if they
were resolved to go, they should not go like naked men, and
be in no condition to defend themselves; and that though
they could ill spare fire-arms, not having enough for them-
selves, yet they would let them have two muskets, a pistol,
and a cutlass, and each man a hatchet, which they thought
was sufficient for them. In a word, they accepted the offer ;
and, having baked bread enough to serve them a month given
them, and as much goat's flesh as they could eat while it was
sweet, with a great basket of dried grapes, a pot of fresh
water, and a young kid alive, they boldly set out in the canoe
for a voyage over the sea, where it was at least forty miles
broad. The boat, indeed, was a large one, and would have
very well carried fifteen or twenty men, and therefore was
rather too big for them to manage: but as they had a fair
breeze and flood-tide with them, they did well enough : they
had made a mast of a long pole, and a sail of four large
goat-skins dried, which they had sewed or laced together;
and away they went merrily enough: the Spaniards called
after them, "Bon veyajo;" and no man ever thought of seeing
them any more.
The Spaniards would often say to one another, and to
the two honest Englishmen who remained behind, how
quietly and comfortably they lived, now these three turbulent
fellows were gone: as for their ever coming again, that was
the remotest thing from their thoughts that could be imagined ;
when, behold, after two and twenty days' absence, one of
the Englishmen, being abroad upon his planting-work, sees
three strange men coming towards him at a distance, two of
them with guns upon their shoulders.
Away runs the Englishman, as if he was bewitched, frighted
and amazed, to the Spanish Governor, and tells him they were
all undone, for there were strangers upon the island, but he
could not tell who. The Spaniard, pausing awhile, says to
him, " How do you mean—you cannot tell who ? They are
the savages, to be sure."—" No, no," says the Englishmen;
" they are men in clothes, with arms."—" Nay, then," says
the Spaniard, " why are you so concerned ? If they are
not savages, they must be friends ; for there is no Christian
nation upon earth but will do us good rather than harm."
While they were debating thus, came up the three Englishmen.
and, standing without the wood, which was new planted,
hallooed to them. They presently knew their voices, and so
all the wonder ceased. But now the admiration was turned
upon another question—what could be the matter, and what
made them come back again ?
It was not long before they brought the men in, and inquir-
ing where they had been, and what they had been doing, they
gave them a full account of their voyage in a few words, viz.:
that they reached the tend in less than two days, but finding
the people alarmed at their coming, and preparing with bows
and arrows to fight them, they durst not go on shore, but
sailed on to the northward six or seven hours, till they came
to a great opening, by which they perceived that the land
they saw from our island was not the main, but an island;
that entering that opening of the sea, they saw another island
on the right hand north, and several more west; and being
resolved to land somewhere, they put over to one of the
islands which lay west, and went boldly on shore ; that they
found the people here courteous and friendly to them ; and
they gave them several roots and some dried fish, and ap-
peared very sociable ; and that the women, as well as the men,
were very forward to supply them with anything they could
get for them to eat, and brought it to them a great way upon
their heads. They continued here four days, and inquired,
as well as they could of them by signs, what nations were this
way, and that way, and were told of several fierce and terrible
people, who used to eat men ; but, as for themselves, they said,
they never ate men or women, except only such as they took
in the wars; and then they owned they made a great feast, and
ate their prisoners.
The Englishmen inquired when they had a feast of that
kind ; and they told them about two moons ago, pointing to
the moon and to two fingers ; and that their great king had
two hundred prisoners now, which he had taken in his war,
and they were feeding them to make them fat for the next
feast The Englishmen seemed mighty desirous of seeing
those prisoners; but the others mistaking them, thought they
were desirous to have some of them to carry away for their
own eating ; and, accordingly, the next morning, they brought
down five women and eleven men, and gave them to the
Englishmen, to carry with them on their voyage.
As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home,
their stomachs turned at this sight, and they did not know
what to do; however, upon some debate, they resolved to
accept of them ; and, in return, they gave the savages that
brought them one of their hatchets, an old key, a knife, and
six or seven of their bullets, which, though they did not
understand, they seemed particularly pleased with : and then
tying the poor creatures' hands behind them, they (the people
dragged the prisoners into the boat for our men.
The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as they
had them, or else they that gave them this noble present
would certainly have expected that they should have gone
to work with them, have killed two or three of them the
next morning, and, perhaps, have invited the donors to dinner.
But having taken their leave, with all the respects and thanks
that could well pass between people, where, on either side,
they understood not one word they could say, they put off
with their boat, and came back towards the first island, where,
when they arrived, they set eight of their prisoners at liberty,
there being too many of them for their occasion. In their
voyage, they endeavoured to have some communication with
their prisoners: but it was impossible to make them under-
stand anything; nothing they could say to them, or give
them, or do for them, but was looked upon as going to
murder them. They first of all unbound them ; but the poor
creatures screamed at that, especially the women, as if they
had just felt the knife at their throats; for they immediately
concluded they were unbound on purpose to be killed. If
they gave them anything to eat, it was the same thing; they
then concluded it was for fear they should sink in flesh, and
so not be fat enough to kill; if they looked at one of them
more particularly, the party presently concluded it was to see
whether he or she was fattest, and fittest to kill first; nay,
after they had brought them quite over, and began to use
them kindly, and treat them well, still they expected every
day to make a dinner or supper for their new masters.
When the three wanderers had given this unaccountable
history, the Spaniard asked them where their new family
was ; and being told that they had brought them on shore,
and put them into one of their huts, and were come up to
beg some victuals for them, the whole colony resolved to go
down to the place and see them. When they came into the
hut, there they sat, all bound; for when they had brought
them on shore, they bound their hands, that they might not
take the boat and make their escape ; first, there were three
'54
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
comely fellows, well shaped, with straight limbs, about thirty
to thirty-five years of age ; and five women, whereof two might
be from thirty to forty, two more about four or five and twenty;
and the fifth, a tall, comely maiden, about seventeen ; the
women were well-favoured, agreeable persons, both in shape
and features, only tawny; and two of them, had they been
perfect white, would have passed for handsome women, even
in London itself.
The first thing they did was to cause the old Indian,
Friday's father, to go in, and see first if he knew any of
them, and then if he understood any of their speech. As
soon as the old man came in, he looked seriously at them, but
knew none of them : neither could any of them understand
a word he said, or a sign he could make, except one of the
women. However, this was enough to answer the end, which
was to satisfy them that the men into whose hands they were
fallen were Christians; that they abhorred eating men or
women ; and that they might be sure they would not be
killed ; as soon as they were assured of this, they discovered
such a joy, and by such awkward gestures, as is hard to
describe. The woman, who was their interpreter, was bid,
in the next place, to ask them if they were willing to be
servants, and to work for the men who had brought them
away, to save their lives ; at which they all fell a dancing;
and presently one fell to taking up this, and another that,
anything that lay next, to carry on their shoulders, to inti-
mate they were willing to work.
The Governor asked the men what they intended to do
with these women, and how they intended to use them,
whether as servants or wives. One of the Englishmen
answered, very boldly and readily, that they would use them
as both.
Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if they designed
to take any of them ? But every one of them answered
" No." Some of them said they had wives in Spain, and the
others did not like women that were not Christians. On the
other hand, the five Englishmen took them every one a wife,
and set up a new form of living.
Early one morning, there came on shore five or six canoes
of Indians or savages, call them which you please, upon the
old errand of feeding upon their slaves.
After the canoes with the savages were gone off, the
Spaniards peeped abroad again ; and some of them had the
SA VAGES LEFT BEHIND. a$S
curiosity to go to the place where they had been, to see what
they had been doing. Here, to their great surprise, they found
Ihree savages left behind, and lying fast asleep upon the
ground ; it was supposed they had either been so gorged with
their inhuman feast, that they were fallen asleep, and would
not stir when the others went, or they had wandered into the
woods, and did not come back in time to be taken in.
The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and
perfectly at a loss what to do ; as for slaves, they had enough
already; and as to killing them, there were none of them
inclined to do that: the Spanish Governor told me they
could not think of shedding innocent blood ; for as to them,
the poor creatures had done them no wrong, invaded none of
their property, and they thought they had no just quarrel
against them, to take away their lives. So they resolved to
awaken them, and take them prisoners ; and they did so.
The poor fellows were strangely frighted when they were
seized upon and bound ; and afraid, like the women, that
they should be murdered and eaten : but they were soon made
easy as to that, and away they were carried.
It was very happy for them that they did not carry them
home to the castle, I mean to my palace under the hill ; but
they carried them first to the bower, and afterwards to the
habitation of the two Englishmen. Here they were set to
work, though it was not much they had for them to do;
and whether it was by negligence in guarding them, or that
they thought the fellows could not mend themselves, I know
not, but one of them ran away, and taking to the woods, they
could never hear of him any more. They had good reason to
believe he got home again soon after in some other boats or
canoes of savages who came on shore three or four weeks
afterwards ; this thought terrified them exceedingly ; for they
concluded, and that not without good cause indeed, that if this
fellow came home safe among his comrades, he would certainly
give them an account that there were people in the island,
and also how few and weak they were.
The first testimony they had that this fellow had given
intelligence of them was, that about two months after this, six
canoes of savages, with about seven, eight, or ten men in a
canoe, came rowing along the north side of the island, where
they never used to come before, and landed, an hour after
sunrise, at a convenient place, about a mile from the habita-
tion of the two Englishmen, where this escaped man had been
kept The two men had the happiness to discover them
about a league off, so that it was above an hour before they
landed; and as they landed a mile from their huts, it was
some time before they could come at them. Now, having
great reason to believe that they were betrayed, the first
thing they did was to bind the two slaves which were left, and
cause two of the three men whom they brought with the
women (who, it seems, proved very faithful to them), to lead
them, with their two wives, and whatever they could carry
away with them, to their retired places in the woods, and
there to bind the two fellows hand and foot
When the two poor frighted men had secured their wives
and goods, they sent the other slave they had of the three,
who came with the women, and who was at their place by
accident , away to the Spaniards with all speed, to give them
the alarm, and desire speedy help ; and, in the meantime, they
took their arms, and what ammunition they had, and retreated
towards the place in the wood where their wives were sent;
keeping at a distance, yet so that they might see, if possible,
which way the savages took. They had not gone far, but
that from a rising ground they could see the little army of
their enemies come on directly to their habitation, and, In a
moment more, could see all their huts and household stuff
flaming up together, to their great grief and mortification ; for
this was a great loss to them, irretrievable, indeed, for some
time. They kept their station for a while, till they found
the savages, like wild beasts, spread themselves all over the
place, rummaging every way, and every place they could
think of, in search for the people, of whom they had in-
telligence.
The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves not
secure where they stood, as it was likely some of the wild
people might come that way, so they might come too many
together, thought it proper to make another retreat about half
a mile further. The next halt was at the entrance into a very
thick-grown part of the woods, and where an old trunk of a
tree stood, which was hollow and very large ; and in this tree
they both took their standing, resolving to see there what
might offer. They had not stood there long before two of the
savages appeared running directly that way, as if they already
had noticed where they stood, and were coming up to attack
them ; and a little way further they espied three more coming
after them, and five more beyond them, all coming the same
THE SAVAGE INVASION. 957
way; besides which, they saw seven or eight more at a dis-
tance, running another way.
The poor men were now in great perplexity whether they
should stand and keep their posture, or fly ; but, after a very
short debate with themselves, they considered that if the
savages ranged the country thus before help came, they might
perhaps find out their retreat in the woods, and then all would
be lost; so they resolved to stand them there, and if they
were too many to deal with, then they would get up to the
top of the tree, from whence they doubted not to defend
themselves, fire excepted, as long as their ammunition lasted,
though all the savages that were landed, which was near fifty,
were to attack them.
While they were thus waiting, and the savages came on,
they plainly saw that one of the three was the runaway
savage that had escaped from them ; and they both knew him
distinctly, and resolved that, if possible, he should not escape,
though they should both fire: so the other stood ready with
his piece, that if he did not drop at the first shot, he should
be sure to have a second. But the first was too good a
marksman to miss his aim ; for as the savages kept near one
another, a little behind in a line, he fired, and hit two of them
directly; the foremost was killed outright, being shot in the
head ; the second, which was the runaway Indian, was shot
through the body, and fell, but was not quite dead ; and the
third had a little scratch in the shoulder, perhaps by the same
ball that went through the body of the second; and being
dreadfully frighted, though not so much hurt, sat down upon
the ground, screaming and yelling in a hideous manner.
The five that were behind, more frighted with the noise
than sensible of the danger, stood still at first; however, all
being silent again, and they not knowing what the matter
was, came on unconcerned, till they came to the place where
their companions lay in a condition miserable enough; and
here the poor ignorant creatures, not sensible that they were
within reach of the same mischief, stood altogether over the
wounded man, talking, and, as may be supposed, inquiring of
him, how he came to be hurt: and he, it is very rational to
believe, told them, that a flash of fire first, and immediately
after that thunder from their gods, had killed those two and
wounded him.
Our two men, though as they confessed to me, it grieved
them to be obliged to kill so many poor creatures, who had
no notion of their danger ; yet, having them all thus in their
power, and the first having loaded his piece again, resolved to
let fly both together among them ; and singling out, by agree-
ment, which to aim at, they shot together, and killed, or very
much wounded, four of them ; the fifth, frighted even to
death, though not hurt, fell with the rest; so that our men,
seeing them all fall together, thought they had killed them all.
The belief that the savages were all killed made our two
men come boldly out from the tree before they had charged
their guns, which was a wrong step; and they were under
some surprise when they came to the place, and found no less
than four of them alive, and of them two very little hurt, and
one not at all. This obliged them to fall upon them with the
stocks of their muskets; and first they made sure of the run-
away savage, that had been the cause of all the mischief, and
of another that was hurt in the knee, and put them out of
their pain ; then the man that was not hurt at all, came and
kneeled down to them, with his two hands held up, and made
piteous moans to them, by gestures and signs, for his life, but
could not say one word to them that they could understand.
However, they made signs for him to sit down at the foot of
a tree thereby ; and one of the Englishmen, with a piece of
rope-yarn, which he had by great chance in his pocket, tied
his feet fast together and his hands behind him, and there
they left him.
They were now in as great concern as before, not knowing
what course to take, or how near the enemy might be, or in
what number; so they resolved to go away to the place where
their wives were, to see if all was well there, and to make them
easy. They found everything very safe, only the women in a
terrible fright; while they were here, they had the comfort to
have seven of the Spaniards coming to their assistance ; the
other ten, with their servants, and Friday's father, were gone
in a body to defend their bower, and the corn and cattle that
were kept there, in case the savages should have roved over to
that side of the country. With the seven Spaniards came one
of the three savages, who, as I said, were their prisoners
formerly; and with them also came the savage whom the
Englishman had left bound hand and foot at the tree; for it
seems they came that way, saw the slaughter of the seven
men, and unbound the eighth, and brought him along with
them ; where, however, they were obliged to bind him again, as
they had the two others who were left when the third ran away
THE SA VAGES DEPART. 859
The prisoners began now to be a burden to them; and
they were so afraid of their escaping, that they were once
resolving to kill them all, believing they were under an abso-
lute necessity to do so for their own preservation; however,
the Spanish Governor would not consent to it, but ordered,
for the present that they should be sent out of the way, to my
old cave in the valley.
When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen were so
encouraged, that they could not satisfy themselves to stay
any longer there; but taking five of the Spaniards, and them-
selves, with four muskets and a pistol among them, and two
stout quarter-staves, away they went in quest of the savages.
The party resolved, though with all possible caution, to go
forward towards their ruined plantation ; but, a little before
they came thither, coming in sight of the sea-shore, they saw
plainly the savages all embarked again in their canoes, in
order to be gone. They seemed sorry at first, that there was
no way to come at them, to give them a parting blow; but,
upon the whole, they were very well satisfied to be rid of
them.
The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined, and all their
improvements destroyed, the rest all agreed to come and help
them to rebuild, and assist them with needful supplies. Their
three countrymen, who were not yet noted for having the
least inclination to do any good, yet as soon as they heard
of it (for they, living remote eastward, knew nothing of the
matter till all was over), came and offered their help and
assistance, and did very friendly work for several days to
restore their habitation, and make necessaries for them. And
thus in a little time they were set upon their legs again.
It was five or six months after this before they heard any
more of the savages, in which time our men were in hopes
they had either forgot their former bad luck, or had given
over hopes of better ; when, on a sudden, they were invaded
with a most formidable fleet of no less than eight and twenty
canoes, full of savages, armed with bows and arrows, great
clubs, wooden swords, and such like engines of war ; and
they brought such numbers with them, that, in short, it put all
our people into the utmost consternation.
They resolved, first of all, to take down the huts which were
built for the two Englishmen, and drive away their goats to
the old cave; because they supposed the savages would go
directly thither, as soon as it was day, to play the old game
over again, though they did not now land within two leagues
of it In the next place they drove away all the flocks of
goats they had at the old bovver, as I called it, which belonged
to the Spaniards; and, in short, left as little appearance of
inhabitants anywhere as was possible. As they guessed, so
it happened: these new invaders came ranging along the shore
directly towards the place, to the number of two hundred and
fifty, as near as our men could judge. Our army was but
small indeed ; but, that which was worse, they had not arms
for all their number.
The Spanish Governor commanded the whole; and Will
Atkins, who, though a dreadful fellow for wickedness, was a
most daring, bold fellow, commanded under him. The savages
came forward like lions; and our men, which was the worst
of their fate, had no advantage in their situation ; only that
Will Atkins, who now proved a most useful fellow, with six
men, was planted just behind a small thicket of bushes, as
an advanced guard, with orders to let the first of them pass
by, and then fire into the middle of them, and, as soon as he
had fired, to make his retreat as nimbly as he could round a
part of the wood, and so come in behind the Spaniards, where
they stood, having a thicket of trees before them.
When the savages came on, they ran straggling about every
way in heaps, out of all manner of order, and Will Atkins let
about fifty of them pass by him; then seeing the rest come
in a very thick throng, he orders three of his men to fire,
having loaded their muskets with six or seven bullets apiece,
about as big as large pistol bullets. How many they killed
or wounded they knew not, but the consternation and surprise
was inexpressible among the savages. In the middle of their
fright, Will Atkins and his other three let fly again among the
thickest of them; and in less than a minute, the first three
being loaded again, gave them a third volley.
Had Will Atkins and his men retired immediately, as soon
as they had fired, as they were ordered to do, or had the rest
of the body been at hand, to have poured in their shot con-
tinually, the savages had been effectually routed; for the terror
that was among them came principally from this, viz., that
they were killed by the gods with thunder and lightning; but
Will Atkins, staying to load again, discovered the cheat
some of the savages who were at a distance spying them,
came upon them behind; and though Atkins and his men
fired at them also, two or three times, and killed above twenty,
- Iff j^L, [, .-
'"-!>
p. w&i/ii/tr
How many they killed or wounded they knew not.
A GREAT BATTLE. a6i
retiring as fast as they could, yet they wounded Atkins himself,
and killed one of his fellow Englishmen with their arrows, as
they did afterwards one Spaniard, and one of the Indian slaves
who came with the women.
Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded, and
two other men killed, retreated to a rising ground in the
wood ; and the Spaniards, after firing three volleys upon them,
retreated also.
When our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and the
Englishman that were killed behind them : and the savages,
when they came up to them, killed them over again in a
wretched manner, breaking their arms, legs, and heads, with
their clubs and wooden swords, like true savages. But finding
our men were gone, they did not seem inclined to pursue
them, but drew themselves up in a kind of ring, which is, it
seems, their custom, and shouted twice, in token of their
victory.
The Spanish Governor having drawn his little body up
together upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he was wounded,
would have had them march and charge again all together at
once ; but the Spaniard replied—" Seignior Atkins, you see
how their wounded men fight: let them alone till morning ;
all these wounded men will be stiff and sore with their wounds,
and faint with the loss of blood; and so we shall have the fewer
to engage." So they waited.
But as it was a clear moonlight night, and they found the
savages in great disorder about their dead and wounded men,
and a great noise and hurry among them where they lay,
they afterwards resolved to fall upon them in the night This
they had a fair opportunity to do; for one of the two English-
men whose quarter it was wherein the fight began, led them
round between the woods and the sea-side westward, and then
turning short south, they came so near where the thickest of
them lay, that, before they were seen or heard, eight of them
fired in among them, and did dreadful execution upon them ;
in half a minute more, eight others fired after them, pouring
in their small shot in such a quantity that abundance were
killed and wounded : and all this while they were not able to
see who hurt them, or which way to fly.
The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition,
and then divided themselves into three bodies and resolved to
fall in among them all together. They would have had the
women keep back, but they said they were resolved to die
20
with their husbands. Having thus formed their little army,
they marched out from among the trees, and came up to the
teeth of the enemy, shouting and hallooing as loud as they
could ; the savages stood all together, but were in the utmost
confusion, hearing the noise of our men shouting from three
quarters together : they would have fought if they had seen
us; for as soon as we came near enough to be seen, some
arrows were shot, and poor old Friday was wounded, though
not dangerously. But our men gave them no time, but run-
ning up to them, fired among them three ways, and then fell in
with the butt ends of their muskets, their swords, armed staves,
and hatchets, and laid about them so well, that, in a word, they
set up a dismal screaming and howling, flying to save their lives.
Our men were tireb" with the execution, and killed or
mortally wounded in the two fights about one hundred and
eighty of them; the rest, being frighted out of their wits,
scoured through the woods and over the hills, with all the
speed that fear and nimble feet could help them to ; and as
we did not trouble ourselves much to pursue them, they got
all together to the sea-side, where they landed, and where
their canoes lay. But their disaster was not at an end yet;
for it blew a terrible storm of wind that evening from the sea,
so that it was impossible for them to go off. Our men, though
glad of their victory, yet got little rest that night; butliaving
refreshed themselves as well as they could, they resolved to
march to that part of the island where the savages were fled,
and see what posture they were in.
At length they came in view of the place where the more
considerable remains of the savages' army lay, where there
appeared about ioo still; their posture was generally sitting
upon the ground, with their knees up towards their mouth,
and the head put between the two hands, leaning down upon
their knees. When our men came within two musket shots
of them, the Spanish Governor ordered two muskets to be
fired, without ball, to alarm them ; this he did, that by their
countenance he might know what to expect, whether they
were still in heart to fight This stratagem took : for as soon
as the savages heard the first gun, and saw the flash of
the second, they started up upon their feet in the greatest
consternation imaginable; and as our men advanced swiftly
towards them, they all ran screaming and yelling away up
the hills into the country, with a kind of howling noist
At first our men had much rather *he weather ha a been
THE SAVAGES CONQUERED. s63
calm, and they had all gone away to sea; but they did not
then consider that this might probably have been the occasion
of their coming again in such multitudes as not to be resisted,
or, at least, to come so many and so often, as would quite
desolate the island, and starve them. Will Atkins, therefore,
who, notwithstanding his wound, kept always with them,
proved the best counsellor in this case: his advice was, to
take the advantage that offered, and step in between them
and their boats, and so deprive them of the capacity of ever
returning any more to plague the island.
Will Atkins told them they had better have to do with a
hundred men than with a hundred nations: that as they must
destroy their boats, so they must destroy the men, or be all of
them destroyed themselves. In a word, he showed them the
necessity of it so plainly, that they all came into it; so they
went to work immediately with the boats, and getting some
dry wood together from a dead tree, they tried to set some of
them on fire, but they were so wet that they would not burn ;
however, the fire so burned the upper part, that it soon made
them unfit for swimming in the sea as boats.
When the Indians saw what they were about, some of them
came running out of the woods, and coming as near as they
could to our men, kneeled down and cried, " Oa, Oa, Waro-
mokoa," and some other words of their language, which none
of the others understood anything of; but as they made pitiful
gestures and strange noises, it was easy to understand they
begged to have their boats spared, and that they would be
gone, and never come there again. But our men were now
satisfied that they had no way to preserve themselves, or to
save their colony, but effectually to prevent any of these people
from ever going home again ; so they fell to work with their
canoes, and destroyed every one that the storm had not de-
stroyed before; at the sight of which, the savages raised a
hideous cry in the woods, after which they ran about the
island like distracted men, so that, in a word, our men did
not really know at first what to do with them. They found
out my plantation at the bower, and pulled it all to pieces, and
all the fences and planting about it; trod all the corn under
foot, tore up the vines and grapes, being just then almost ripe,
and did our men an inestimable damage, though to themselves
not one farthing's worth of service.
It was some while before any of them could be taken ; but
being weak and half-starved, one of them was at last surprised
and made a prisoner. He was sullen at first, and would
neither eat nor drink; but finding himself kindly used, and
victuals given to him, and no violence offered him, he at last
grew tractable, and came to himself. They often brought old
Friday to him, who talked often with him, and told him how
kind the others would be to them all; that they would not
only save their lives, but give them part of the island to live
in, provided they would give satisfaction that they should keep
in their own bounds, and not come beyond it to injure or
prejudice others ; and old Friday bade the fellow go and talk
with the rest of his countrymen, and hear what they said to
it; assuring them that, if they did not agree immediately,
they should be all destroyed.
The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and reduced in
number to about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal at the
first offer, and begged to have some food given them. They
were the most faithful fellows to their words that could be
thought of; for, except when they came to beg victuals and
directions, they never came out of their bounds: and there
they lived when I came to the island, and I went to see them.
After this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquility, with
respect to the savages, till I came to revisit them, which was
about two years after.
Having thus given a view of the state of things as I found
them, I must relate the heads of what 1 did for these people,
and the condition in which I left them.
We appointed a day to dine all together; and, indeed, we
made a splendid feast After this feast, at which we were
very innocently merry, I brought my cargo of goods ; wherein,
that there might be no dispute about dividing, I showed them
that there was a sufficiency for them all, desiring that they
might all take an equal quantity, when made up, of the goods
that were for wearing.
Then I presented to them the people I had brought with
me, particularly the tailor, the smith, and the two carpenters,
all of them most necessary people ; but, above all, my general
artificer, than whom they could not name anything that was
more useful to them ; and the tailor, to show his concern for
them, went to work immediately, and, with my leave, made
them every one a shirt, the first thing he did ; and, what was
still more, he taught the women not only how to sew and
stitch, and use the needle, but made them assist to make the
shirts for their husbands, and for all the rest.
GIFTS TO THE COLONISTS. a6j
Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and gave
every man a digging-spade, a shovel, and a rake, for we had
no harrows or plough ; and to every separate place a pickaxe,
a crow, a broad axe, and a saw; always appointing, that as
often as any were broken or worn out, they should be supplied
without grudging, out of the general stores that I left behind.
Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chisels, knives, scissors, and
all sorts of iron-work, they had without reserve, as they re-
quired ; for no man would take more than he wanted, and he
must be a fool that would waste or spoil them on any account
whatever ; and for the use of the smith, I left two tons of un-
wrought iron for a supply. My magazine of powder and arms
which I brought them was such, even to profusion, that they
could not but rejoice at them ; for now they could march as I
used to do, with a musket upon each shoulder, if there was
occasion ; and were able to fight a thousand savages, if they
had but some little advantages of situation, which also they
could not miss, if they had occasion.
I carried on shore with me the young man from the wreck
and the maid also: she was a sober, well educated, religious
young woman, and behaved so inoffensively that every one
gave her a good word ; she had, indeed, an unhappy life with
us, there being no woman in the ship but herself, but she bore
it with patience. After a while, seeing things so well ordered,
and in so fine a way of thriving upon my island, and consider-
ing that they had neither business nor acquaintance in the
East Indies, or reason for taking so long a voyage, both of
them came to me, and desired I would give them leave to
remain on the island, and be entered among my family. I
agreed to this readily ; and they had a little plot of ground
allotted to them, where they had three tents or houses set up,
surrounded with a basket-work, palisadoed like Atkins's,
adjoining to his plantation.
For the maid, we made a wife of her before we went away.
There were besides the two carpenters and the tailor, my other
man, whom I called Jack-of-all-trades, who was in himself as
good almost as twenty men ; for he was not only a very
ingenious fellow, but a very merry fellow, and before I went
away we married him to the honest maid that came with the
youth in the ship.
Amongst all the needful things I had to leave with them,
I had not left them a Bible, in which I showed myself less
considering for them than my good friend the widow was for
me when she sent me the cargo of ioo pounds from Lisbon,
where she packed up three Bibles and a Prayer-book. How-
ever, the good woman's charity had a greater extent than ever
she imagined, for they were reserved for the comfort and
instruction of those that made much better use of them than
I had done, for I gave them to the colonists before I left
I have now done with the Island. I left them all in good
circumstances and in a flourishing condition, and went on
board my ship again on the 6th of May, having been about
twenty-five days among them : and as they were all resolved
to stay upon the island till I came to remove them, I promised
to send them further relief from the Brazils, if I could possibly
find an opportunity.
The next day, giving them a salute of five guns at parting,
we set sail, and arrived at the bay of All Saints, in the
Brazils, in about twenty-two days, meeting nothing remark-
able in our passage but this : that about three days after we
had sailed, being becalmed, we saw the sea, as it were,
covered towards the land with something very black; not being
able to discover what it was till after some time, our chief
mate, going up the main-shrouds a little way, and looking at
them with a perspective, cried out it was an army. I could
not imagine what he meant by an army, and spoke a little
hastily, calling the fellow a fool, or some such word. " Nay,
sir," said he, " do not be angry, for 'tis an army, and a fleet
too ; for I believe there are a thousand canoes, and you may
see them paddle along, for they are coming towards us
apace."
I bade him not be afraid, but bring the ship to an anchor
as soon as we came so near as to know that we must engage
them. In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little
while they came up with us. Though my mate was much
mistaken in his calculation of their number, yet when they
came up we reckoned about a hundred and twenty-six canoes ;
some of them had sixteen or seventeen men in them, and
some more, and the least six or seven. When they came
nearer to us, they seemed to be struck with wonder and
astonishment, as at a sight which doubtless they had never
seen before; nor could they at first, as we afterwards under-
stood, know what to make of us. They came boldly up,
however, very near to us, and seemed to go about to row
round us; but we called to our men in the boats not to let
them come too near them. This very order brought us to
DEA TH OF FRIDA Y. 26;
an engagement with them, without our designing it; for five
or six of the large canoes came so near our long-boat, that
our men beckoned with their hands to keep them back, which
they understood very well, and went back: but at their
retreat about fifty arrows came on board us from those boats,
and one of our men in the long-boat was very much wounded.
However, I called to them not to fire by any means ; but we
handed down some deal boards into the boat, and the
carpenter presently set up a kind of fence, like waste boards,
to cover them from the arrows of the savages, if they should
shoot again.
In a little time more they rowed further out to sea, till
they came directly broadside with us, and then rowed down
straight upon us, till they came so near that they could hear
us speak. Upon this I ordered all my men to keep close, lest
they should shoot any more arrows, and made all our guns
ready; but being so near as to be within hearing, I made
Friday go out upon the deck, and call out aloud to them in
his language, to know what they meant, which accordingly
he did. Whether they understood him or not, that I know
not; but as soon as he had called to them, six of them, who
were in the foremost or nighest boat to us, turned their canoes
from us, and, stooping down, showed us their naked backs ;
immediately Friday cried out that they were going to shoot,
and, unhappily for him, poor fellow, they let fly about 300 of
their arrows, and, to my inexpressible grief, killed poor Friday,
no other man being in their sight. The poor fellow was
shot with no less than three arrows, and about three more
fell very near him ; such unlucky marksmen they were.
I was so annoyed at the loss of my old servant, the com-
panion of all my sorrows and solitudes, that I immediately
ordered five guns to be loaded with small shot, and four with
great, and gave them such a broadside as they had never
heard in their lives before. They were not above half a
dozen cables' length off when we fired, and our gunners took
their aim so well, that three or four of their canoes were
overset, as we had reason to believe, by one shot only.
I can neither tell how many we killed nor how many we
wounded at this broadside, but sure such a' fright and hurry
never were seen among such a multitude ; there were thirteen
or fourteen of their canoes split and overset iu all, and the
men all set a-swimming: the rest, frightened out of their
wits, scoured away as fast as they could, taking but little care
to save those whose boats were split or spoiled with out
shot; so I suppose that many of them were lost; and our
men took up one poor fellow swimming for his life, above an
hour after they were all gone. A breeze of wind springing
up the same evening, we weighed, and set sail for the Brazils.
I was the most disconsolate creature alive for want of my
man Friday, and would have been very glad to have gone
back to the island, to have taken one of the rest from thence
for my occasion, but it could not be: so we went on.
And now I name the poor fellow once more, I must take
my last leave of him. Poor honest Friday! We buried
him with all the decency and solemnity possible, by putting
him into a coffin, and throwing him into the sea; and I
caused them to fire eleven guns for him. So ended the life
of the most grateful, faithful, honest, and most affectionate
servant that ever man had.
We went now away with a fair wind for Brazil; and in
about twelve days' time we made land, in the latitude of five
degrees south of the line, being the north-easternmost land
of all that part of America. In three days we came to an
anchor off the bay of All Saints, the old place of my deliver-
ance, from whence came both my good and evil fate. Never
ship came to this port that had less business than I had, and
yet it was with great difficulty that we were admitted to hold
the least correspondence on shore. My partner, however,
remembering that I had given five hundred moidores to
the Prior of the Monastery of the Augustines, and two
hundred and seventy-two to the poor, went to the monastery,
and obliged the Prior that then was to go to the Governor,
and get leave for me personally, with the captain and one
more, besides eight seamen, to come on shore, and no more ;
and this upon condition, absolutely capitulated for, that we
should not offer to land any goods out of the ship, or to carry
any person away without license. They were so strict with
us, as to landing any goods, that it was with extreme diffi-
culty that I got on shore three bales of English goods, such
as fine broadcloths, stuffs, and some linen, which I had brought
for a present to my partner.
He was a very generous, broad-hearted man, though (like
me) he came from little at first; and I easily obliged him to
set up the sloop, which I had brought with me from England,
as I have said, for the use of my colony, in order to send the
refreshments I intended to my plantation.
ANCIENT MADAGASCAR. *69
I have now done with the island, and all manner of dis-
course about it: and whoever reads the rest of my memo-
randa would do well to turn his thoughts entirely from it, and
expect to read of the follies of an old man, not warned by his
own harms, much less by those of other men, to beware; not
cooled by almost forty years' miseries and disappointments
—not satisfied with prosperity beyond expectation, nor made
cautious by afflictions and distress beyond imitation.
From the Brazils we made directly over the Atlantic Sea
to the Cape of Good Hope, and had a tolerably good voyage,
our course generally south-east, now and then a storm, and
some contrary winds : but my disasters at sea were at an end
—my future rubs and cross events were to befall me on shore.
We stayed at the Cape no longer than was needful to take
in fresh water, but made the best of our way for the coast of
Coromandel.
We touched first at the island of Madagascar, where, though
the people are fierce and treacherous, and very well armed
with lances and bows, which they use with inconceivable
dexterity, yet we fared very well with them awhile; they
treated us very civilly; and for some trifles which we gave
them, such as knives, scissors, &c, they brought us eleven
good fat bullocks, of a middling size.
We were obliged to stay here some time after we had
furnished ourselves with provisions; and I, who was always
too curious to look into every nook of the world wherever I
came, went on shore as often as I could.
It happened one evening, when we went on shore, that a
greater number of their people came down than usual, but all
very friendly and civil. We made a little tent to lie on shore
all night, but I was not so well satisfied to lie on shore as the
rest; and the boat riding at an anchor at about a stone's
cast from the land, with two men in her to take care of her, I
made one of them come on shore ; and getting some boughs
of trees to cover us also in the boat, I spread the sail on the
bottom of the boat, and lay under the cover of the branches
of the trees all night in the boat
About two o'clock in the morning we heard one of our men
make a terrible noise on the shore, calling out, for God's sake,
to bring the boat in and come and help them, for they were
all like to be murdered; at the same time, I heard the fire
of five muskets, which was the number of guns they had.
Rousing immediately from sleep with the noise. I caused the
boat to be thrust in, and resolved, with three fusees we had
on board, to land and assist our men. We took up seven of
our men, and with difficulty enough too, three of them being
very ill wounded; and that which was still worse, was, that
while we stood in the boat to take our men in, we were in as
much danger as they were in on shore; for they poured their
arrows in upon us so thick that we were glad to barricade
the side of the boat up with the benches, and two or three
loose boards, which, to our great satisfaction, we had by mere
accident in the boat. They stood in battle array on the shore
till break of day, which we supposed was that they might see
the better to take their aim at us.
We made signals of distress to the ship, and my nephew,
the captain, weighing anchor with all speed, stood as near the
shore as he durst with the ship, and then sent another boat,
with ten hands in her, to assist us. Being thus aided we got
safely on board, and the ship gave the natives a broadside.
When we were got out of danger, we had time to examine
into the occasion of this fray ; our supercargo said he was sure
the inhabitants would not have touched us if we had not done
something to provoke them to it At length it came out that
an old woman, who had come to sell us some milk, had
brought a young woman with her, and while the old woman
was selling us the milk, one of our men offered some rudeness
to the girl that was with her. The old woman made a great
noise; and, as we may suppose, made an outcry among the
people she came from ; who, upon notice, raised this great
army upon us in three or four hours, and it was great odds
but we had all been destroyed. The fellow who was the
occasion of all the mischief paid dear enough for his brutality,
for we could not hear what became of him for a great while.
We lay upon the shore two days after, though the wind
presented, and made signals for him, and made our boat sail
up shore and down shore several leagues, but in vain. I
could not satisfy myself, however, without venturing on shore
once more, to try if I could learn anything of him or them. I
was careful to do it in the dark, lest we should be attacked
again : but I ought, indeed, to have been sure that the men I
went with had been under my command, before I engaged in
a thing so hazardous and mischievous.
We took twenty as stout fellows with us as any in the
ship, besides the supercargo and myself, and we landed two
hours before midnight, at the same place where the Indians
Tom Jeffery's End.
QUARREL WITH THE NATIVES. 171
stood drawn up in the evening before. We landed without
any noise, and divided our men into two bodies, whereof the
boatswain commanded one, and I the other. At first we could
see nothing, it being very dark. I was for going on board
again; but the boatswain and his party sent me word that
they were resolved to make a visit to the Indian town, where
these dogs, as they called them, dwelt, and asked me to go
along with them ; and if they could find them, as they still
fancied they should, they did not doubt of gettihg a good
booty; and it might be they might find Tom Jeffery there:
that was the man's name we had lost
Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well enough
what answer to have given them ; but as they sent me word
they were resolved to go, and only asked me and my company
to go along with them, I positively refused it They would
go; all left me but one, whom I persuaded to stay; so the
supercargo and I, with one man, went back to the boat, where
I told them we would stay for them, and take care to take in
as many of them as should be left.
When they came to the few Indian houses which they
thought had been the town, which was not above half a mile
off, they were under great disappointment, for there were not
above twelve or thirteen houses. Just as they had discovered
these houses, three of them who were a little before the rest,
called out aloud to them, and told them that they had found
Tom Jeffery: they all ran up to the place, where they found
the poor fellow hanging up naked by one arm, and his throat
cut The sight of their poor mangled comrade so enraged
them, that they swore to one another that they would be
revenged, and that not an Indian that came into their hands
should have any quarter; and to work they went immediately.
In a quarter of an hour they set the houses on fire in four or
five places.
While this was doing, I must confess I was very uneasy,
and especially when I saw the flames, which, it being night;
seemed to be close by me. My nephew, the captain, who was
roused by his men, seeing such a fire, was very uneasy, not
knowing what the matter was, or what danger I was in,
especially hearing the guns too, for by this time they began
to use their fire-arms ; at last, though he could ill spare any
more men, yet not knowing what exigence we might be in,
he took another boat, and with thirteen men and himself
came ashore to m«.
He was surprised to see me and the supercargo in the boat
with no more than two men ; and though he was glad that
we were well, yet he was in the same impatience with us to
know what was doing; for the noise continued and the flame
increased.
I was no more able to stay behind now, than I was to
persuade them not to go; so the captain ordered two men to
row back the pinnace, and fetch twelve men more ;. and that,
when they came back, six men should keep the two boats, and
six more come after us ; so that he left only sixteen men in
the ship.
Being guided by the fire, we kept no path, but went directly
to the place of the flame. If the noise of the guns was sur-
prising to us before, the cries of the poor people were now
quite of another nature, and filled us with horror. We ad-
vanced a little way further, and behold, to our astonishment,
three naked women, and crying in a most dreadful manner,
came flying as if they had wings, and after them sixteen or
seventeen men, natives, in the same terror and consternation,
with three of our English butchers in the rear, who, when they
could not overtake them, fired in among them, and one who
was killed by their shot fell down in our sight When the
rest saw us, believing us to be their enemies, and that we
would murder them as well as those that pursued them, they
set up a most dreadful shriek, especially the women ; and two
of them fell down, as if already dead, with the fright
My very soul shrunk within me, and my blood ran chill in
my veins, when I saw this; and, I believe, had the three
English sailors that pursued them come on, I had made our
men kill them all; however, we took some means to let the
poor flying creatures know that we would not hurt them ; and
immediately they came up to us, and kneeling down, with
their hands lifted up, made piteous lamentation to us to save
them, which we let them know we would ; whereupon they
crept all together in a huddle close behind us, as for protection.
I could not understand one word they said; but I was so
terrified that I could not stay there, but went back to my
own .men, and resolved to go through the fire, or whatever
might be in the way, and put an end to it, cost what it would.
At the very moment, came four of our men, with the boatswain
at their head.
As soon as the boatswain saw us, he set up a halloo like a
shout of triumph, for having, as he thought, more help come ;
MASSACRING NATIVES 273
and, without waiting to hear me, " Captain," says he, " noble
Captain ! I am glad you are come; we have not half done
yet I'll kill as many of them as poor Tom has hairs upon
his head: we have sworn to spare none of them; we'll root
out the very nation of them from the earth ;" and thus he ran
on, out of breath, too, with action, and would not give us
leave to speak a word. At last, raising my voice, that I
might silence him a little," Barbarous dog!" said I, " what
are you doing? I won't have one creature touched more,
upon pain of death. I charge you upon your life to stop your
hands, and stand still here, or you are a dead man this minute."
—" Why, sir," says he, " do you know what you do, or what
they have done ? If you want a reason for what we have
done, come hither ;" and with that he showed me the poor
fellow hanging, with his throat cut. I confess I was urged
then myself, and at another time would have been forward
enough: but I thought they had carried their rage too far.
But I had now a new task upon my hands; for when the
men I carried with me saw the sight, as I had done, I had as
much to do to restrain them as I should have had with the
others; nay, my nephew himself fell in with them, and told
me, in their hearing, that he was only concerned for fear of
the men being overpowered ; and as to the people, he thought
not one of them ought to live ; for they had all glutted them-
selves with the murder of the poor man, and that they ought
to be used like murderers. Upon these words, away ran eight
of my men with the boatswain and his crew, to complete their
bloody work ; and I, seeing it quite out of my power to restrain
them, came away pensive and sad ; for I could not bear the
sight, much less the horrible noise and cries of the poor
wretches that fell into their hands. I walked back alone to
the boats, immediately took the pinnace, and went aboard,
and sent her back to assist the men who came dropping back
when they had finished their dreadful work.
The next day we set sail; and at last we reached the Roads
at Bengal; being willing to see the place, I went on shore with
the supercargo, in the ship's boat, to divert myself; and to-
wards evening was preparing to go on board, when one of the
men came to me, and told me he would not have me trouble
myself to come down to the boat, for they had orders not to
carry me on board any more. Any one may guess what a
surprise I was in at so insolent a message; and I asked the
man, who bade him deliver that message to me. He told me
the coxswain. I immediately found out the supercargo, told
him the story, and entreated him to go immediately on board
in an Indian boat, and acquaint the captain of it; but I
might have spared this intelligence, for before I had spoken
to him on shore the matter was effected on board. The boat-
swain, and all the inferior officers, as soon as I was gone off
in the boat, came up, and desired to speak with the captain ;
and then the boatswain, making a long harangue, told the
captain that as I was gone peaceably on shore, they were loth
to use any violence with me, which, if I had not gone on
shore, they would otherwise have done, to oblige me to have
gone. They therefore thought fit to tell him, that as they
shipped themselves to serve in the ship under his command,
they would perform it well and faithfully; but if I would not
quit the ship, or the captain oblige me to quit it, they would
all leave the ship, and sail no further with him ; and at that
word " all," he turned his face towards the mainmast, which
was, it seems, a signal agreed on, when the seamen, being got
together there, cried out," One and all! one and all! "
My nephew, the captain, was a man of spirit, and of great
presence of mind; and though he was surprised, he began to
talk smartly to them; told them that I was a very consider-
able owner of the ship, and that if ever they came to England
again, it would cost them very dear; that the ship was mine,
and that he could not put me out of it; and that he would
rather lose the ship, and the voyage too, than disoblige me so
much: so they might do as they pleased. However, he would
go on shore and talk with me, and invited the boatswain to go
with him, and perhaps they might accommodate the matter
with me. But they all rejected the proposal, and said they
would have nothing to do with me any more; and if I came
on board, they would all go on shore. "Well," said the
captain, " if you are all of this mind, let me go on shore and
talk with him." So away he came to me with this account, a
little after the message had been brought to me from the
coxswain.
When he had told me what they had said to him, I told
him he should not be concerned at it at all, for I would stay
on shore. I only desired he would take care and send me all
my necessary things on shore, and leave me a sufficient sum of
money, and I would find my way to England as well as I could.
I had the mortification to see the ship set sail without me ;
however, my nephew left me two servants, or rather one
AT BENGAL. 175
companion and one servant I took a good lodging in the
house of an Englishwoman, where several merchants lodged.
Here I stayed above nine months. I had some English goods
with me of value, and a considerable sum of money. 1
quickly disposed of my goods to advantage; and, as I had
originally intended, I bought here some very good diamonds,
which, of all other things, were the most proper for me in my
present circumstances, because I could always carry my whole
estate about me.
After a long stay here, many proposals were made for my
return to England, but none falling out to my mind, an
English merchant who. lodged with me, and with whom I had
contracted an intimate acquaintance, came to me one morning,
saying: "Countryman, I have a project to communicate.
Here we are posted, you by accident, and I by my own
choice, in a part of the world, where, by us, who understand
trade and business, a great deal of money is to be got If
you will put one thousand pounds to my one thousand pounds,
we will hire a ship here, the first we can get to our minds.
You shall be captain, I'll be merchant , and we'll go a trading
voyage to China."
I liked this proposal very welL It was, however, some time
before we could get a ship to our minds, and when we had
got a vessel, it was not easy to get English sailors. After some
time we got a mate, a boatswain, and a gunner, English; a
Dutch carpenter, and three Portuguese foremast men. We
made several voyages; and I was well satisfied with my
adventure.
A little while after this there came in a Dutch ship from
Batavia; she was a coaster, not a European trader, of about
two hundred tons burden ; the men, as they pretended, having
been so sickly that the captain had not hands enough to go to
sea with, so he lay by at Bengal; and having, it seems, got
money enough, or being willing, for other reasons, to go to
Europe, he gave public notice he would sell his ship. We
bought the ship, and, agreeing with the master, we paid for
her, and took possession. When we had done so we resolved
to engage the men, if we could, to join with those we had, for
the pursuing our business; but on a sudden not one ol them
was to be found.
We picked up some English sailors and some Dutch ; and
resolved on a second voyage to the south-east for cloves,
imong the Philippine and Molucca Isles.
21
In this voyage, being by contrary winds obliged to beat up
and down a great while in the Straits of Malacca, and among
the islands, we were no sooner got clear of those difficult
seas, than we found our ship had sprung a leak, but could not
Jiscover where it was. This forced us to make some port:
and my partner, who knew the country better than I did
directed the captain to put into the river of Cambodia. While
we were here, and going often on shore for refreshment, there
comes to me one day an Englishman, a gunner's mate on board
an English East-India ship, then riding in the same river.
" Sir," says he, addressing me, " you are a stranger to me, and
I to you ; but I have something to tell you that very nearly
concerns you. I am moved by the imminent danger you are
in, and, for aught I see, you have no knowledge of it."—" I
know no danger I am in," said I, " but that my ship is leaky,
and I cannot find it out; but I intend to lay her aground
to-morrow, to see if I can find it"—" But, sir," says he, " leaky
or not leaky, you will be wiser than to lay your ship on shore
to-morrow, when you hear what I have to say to you. Do
you know, sir," said he, " the town of Cambodia lies about
fifteen leagues up the river; and there are two large English
ships about five leagues on this side, and three Dutch?"—
" Well," said I, " and what is that to me ? " I could not conceive
what he meant; and I turned short upon him, and said: " I
wish you would explain yourself."—" I can tell you but part
of the story, sir," says he ; " but the first part of it I suppose
you know well enough—that you were with this ship at
Sumatra; that there your captain was murdered by the
Malays, with three of his men ; and that you, or some of those
that were on board with you, ran away with the ship, and are
since turned pirates. This is the sum of the story, and you
will all be seizec as pirates, I can assure you, and executed with
very little ceremony ; for you know merchant ships show but
little law to pirates if they get them into their power. If you
have any regard for your life, and the lives of your men, put
to sea without fail at high water."—" Well," said I," you have
been very kind in this: what shall I do to make you amends ?"
—" Sir," says he, " you may not be willing to make me any
amends, because you may not be convinced of the truth of it,
I will make an offer to you : I have nineteen months' pay due
to me on board the ship, which I came out of England in ;
and the Dutchman that is with me has seven months' pay
due to him. If you will make good our pay to us, w* will go
TAKEN FOR A PTRATE. 977
along with you ; if you find nothing more in it, we will desire
on more ; but if we do convince you that we have saved your
lives, and the ship, and the lives of all the men in her, we will
leave the rest to you."
I consented to this readily, and went immediately on
board, and the two men with me. As soon as I came to the
ship's side, my partner who was on board, came out on the
quarter-deck, and called to me, with a great deal of joy, " We
have stopped the leak—we have stopped the leak I"—" Say
you so," said I; " thank God ! Ask no questions, and weigh
anchor immediately." As we stood out to sea, before I could
tell the story, a seaman came to the cabin door, and called out
to us that the captain bade him tell us we were chased by
five sloops, or boats, full of men. " Very well," said I, " then
it is apparent there is something in it" I then ordered all
our men to be called up, and told them there was a design to
seize the ship, and to take us for pirates, and asked them if
they would stand by us, and by one another; the men
answered cheerfully, one and all, that they would live and die
with us.
The gunner had, in the meantime, orders to bring two guns
to bear fore and aft, out of the steerage, to clear the deck
and load them with musket-bullets and small pieces of old
iron, and what came next to hand. Thus we made ready for
fight; but all this while we kept out to sea.
Two of those boats (which by our glasses we could see were
English) outsailed the rest, were near two leagues ahead 01
them, and gained upon us considerably, so that we found they
would come up with us. They came on till we were near
enough to call to them with a speaking-trumpet, bidding them
keep off at their peril.
They endeavoured to come under our stern, so as to board
us on our quarter; upon which, seeing they were resolute for
mischief, I ordered to bring the ship to, so that they lay upon
our broadside; when immediately we fired five guns at them,
one of which had been levelled so true as to carry away the
stern of the hindermost boat, and we then forced them to take
down their sail, and to run all to the head of the boat, to keep
her from sinking; so she lay by, and had enough of it; but
seeing the foremost boat crowd on after us, we made ready to
fire at her in particular. While this was doing, one of the
three boats that followed made up to the boat which we had
disabled, to relieve her, and we could see her take out the
men. And now we crowded all the sail we could make, and
stood further out to sea; an J we found that when the other
boats came up to the first, they gave over their chase.
Being delivered from this danger, we stood out to sea east-
ward, quite out of the course of all European ships. After a
long voyage during which we were very much straitened for
provisions, we arrived off the coast of China, and sailed due
north until we came to latitude 30 degrees. We resolved to
put into the first trading port we should come at; and as we
were standing in for the shore, a boat came off two leagues to
us with an old Portuguese pilot on board, who, knowing us to
be a European ship, came to offer his service.
I told him we were gentlemen as well as merchants, and
that we had a mind to go and see the great city of Pekin, and
the famous Court of the monarch of China. " Why, then,"
says the old man, "you should go to Ningpo, where, by the
river which runs into the sea there, you may go up within five
leagues of the great canal. "Well," said I, " Seignior Portu-
guese, but that is not our business now; the great question is,
if you can carry us up to the city of Nankin, from whence we
can travel to Pekin afterwards ? " He said he could do so
very well, and that there was a great Dutch ship gone up that
way just before. This gave me a little shock, for a Dutch
ship was now our terror.
The old man perceived my confusion. " Sir," says he, " I
find you are in some disorder in your thoughts at my talk;
pray be pleased to go which way you think fit, and depend
upon it, I'll do you all the service I can." Upon this we fell
into further discourse, in which, to my alarm and amazement,
he spoke of the villainous doings of a certain pirate ship that
had long been the talk of mariners in those seas; no other, in
a word, than the very ship he was now on board of, and
which we had so unluckily purchased. I presently saw there
was no help for it but to tell him the plain truth, and to
express our earnest wish to be speedily quit of the ship al-
together : for which reason we had resolved to carry her up
to Nankin.
The old man was amazed at this relation, and told us we
were in the right to go away to the north; and that, if he
might advise us, it should be to sell the ship in China, which
we might well do, and buy or build another in the country;
adding, that I should meet with customers enough for the
ship at Nankin ; that a Chinese junk would serve me very
DODGING HIS PURSUERS. 270
well to go back again; and that he would procure me people
both to buy one and sell the other.
In about thirteen days' sail we came to an anchor at tho
south-west point of the great Gulf of Nankin; where I
learned by accident that two Dutch ships were gone tho
length before me, and that I should certainly fall into their
hands. I asked the old pilot if there was no creek or harbour
which I might put into, and be in no danger of the enemy
He told me if I would sail to the southward about forty-two
leagues, there was a little port called Quinchang, where the
Fathers of the Mission usually landed from Macao, on their
progress to teach the Christian religion to the Chinese, and
where no European ships ever put in. As we were unanimous
in our resolution to go to this place, we weighed the next day.
We did not come to the other port (the wind being con-
trary) for five days; but it was very much to our satisfaction,
and I was thankful, when I set my foot on shore, resolving,
and my partner too, that if it was possible to dispose of our-
selves and effects another way, though not profitably, we
would never more set foot on board that unhappy vessel.
The first thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us was to
get us acquainted with three missionary Romish priests who
were in the town, and who had been there some time con-
verting the people to Christianity. One of these was a
Frenchman, whom they called Father Simon ; another was a
Portuguese; and the third a Genoese. Father Simon was
courteous, and very agreeable company. He was appointed,
it seems, by order of the chief of the mission to go up to
Pekin, and waited only for another priest, and we scarce ever
met together but he was inviting me to go that journey with
him; telling me how he would show me all the glorious
things of that mighty empire, and, among the rest, Pekin, the
greatest city in the world.
Our old Portuguese pilot brought a Japan merchant to us,
who bought all our opium, and gave us a very good price for
it, paying us in gold by weight While we were dealing with
him for our opium, it came into my head that he might
perhaps deal for the ship too, and I ordered the interpreter to
propose it to him. The merchant shrunk up his shoulders at
it; but in a few days after he came to me, and told me he had
a proposal to make to me, which was this: he had bought a
great quantity of our goods, when he had no thoughts of buy-
ing the ship ; and that, therefore, he had not money to pay for
the ship; but if I would let the same men who were in the
ship navigate her, he would hire the ship to go to Japan ; and
would send them from thence to the Philippine Islands with
another loading, which he would pay the freight of before they
went from Japan : and at their return he would buy the ship.
The first thing we had to do was to consult with the
captain of the ship, and with his men, and know if they were
willing to go to Japan. While I was doing this, the young
man whom ray nephew had left with me as my companion
came up, and told me that he thought that voyage promised
very fair, and that there was a great prospect of advantage,
and he would be very glad if I undertook it; but that if I
would not, and would give him leave, he would go as a
merchant, that if ever he came to England, and I was there
and alive, he would render me a faithful account of his suc-
cess, which would be as much mine as I pleased. I inclined
to let him go; but I told him I would consult my partner.
My partner made a most generous offer: " You know it has
been an unlucky ship," said he, " and we both resolve not to
go to sea in it again; if your steward (so he called my man)
will venture the voyage, I will leave my share of the vessel to
him, and let him make the best of it; and if we live to meet
in England, and he meets with success abroad, he shall
account for one half of the profits of the ship's freight to us;
the other shall be his own."
If my partner, who was no way concerned with my young
man, made him such an offer, I could not do less than offer
him the same; and all the ship's company being willing to
go with him, we made over half the ship to him in property.
Being now to part with the ship and ship's company, it
came before us, of course, to consider what recompense we
should give to the two men that gave us such timely notice of
the design against us in the river Cambodia. I first ordered
the money to be paid them which they said was due to them
on board their respective ships : over and above that, I gave
each of them a small sum of money in gold, which contented
them very well.
I was now, as near as I can compute, in the heart of China,
about thirty degrees north of the line. I had, indeed, a mind
co see the city of Pekin, which I had heard so much of, and
Father Simon importuned me daily to do it
I referred it to my partner, and left it wholly to his choice,
who at length resolved in the affirmative, and we prepared for
-
2'he Stall ht ride in.
A CHINESE MANDARIN. a8i
our journey. We got leave to travel in the retinue of one o»
their Mandarins, a kind of Viceroy or principal magistrate in
the province where they reside, and who take great state upon
them, travelling with great attendance, and great homage
from the people.
We were twenty-five days travelling to Pekin, through a
country exceeding populous, but I think badly cultivated. I
must confess I travelled more pleasantly afterwards in the
deserts and vast wildernesses of Grand Tartary than here;
and yet the roads here are well paved, and well kept, and very
convenient for travellers. But nothing was more awkward to
me than to see such a haughty, imperious, insolent people in
the midst of the grossest simplicity and ignorance,—for all
their famed ingenuity is no more. For example, coming by
the house of a country gentleman, as Father Simon called
him, about ten leagues off of the city of Nankin, we had first
of all the honour to ride with the master of the house about
two miles. The state he rode in was a perfect Don Quixo-
tism, being a mixture of pomp and poverty. The habit of
this greasy Don was very proper for a Scaramouch or Merry
Andrew, being a dirty calico, with all the tawdry and trapping
of a Fool's coat, such as hanging sleeves, tassels, and cuts and
slashes almost on every side. It covered a taffety vest, as
greasy as a butcher's, which testified that his honour must
needs be a most exquisite sloven. His horse was a poor, lean,
starved, hobbling creature, such as in England might sell for
about thirty or forty shillings; and he had two slaves follow-
ing him on foot to drive the poor creature along. He had a
whip in his hand, and he belaboured the beast as fast about
the head as his slaves did about the tail; and thus he rode by
us with about ten or twelve servants; and we were told he
was going from the city to his country seat, about half a
league before us. We travelled on gently, but this figure of a
gentleman rode away before us, and we stopped at a village
about an hour to refresh us. When we came by the country
seat of this great man, we saw him in a little place before his
door eating his repast. It was a kind of a garden, but he
was easy to be seen, and we were given to understand that
the more we looked at him the better he would be pleased.
He sat under a tree something like the palmetto tree, which
effectually shaded him over the head, and on the south side,
but under the tree also, was placed a large umbrella. He sat
lolling back in his great elbow chair, being a heavy corpulen*
man, and his meat being brought him by two women slaves.
He had two more ; one fed the squire with a spoon, and the
other held the dish with one hand and scraped off what he let
fall upon his worship's beard and taffety vest, while the great
fat brute thought it below him to employ his own hands in
any of those familiar offices which kings and monarchs would
rather do than be troubled with the clumsy fingers of their
servants.
At length we arrived at Pekin. As for the Portuguese
pilot, he being desirous to see the Court, we bore his charges
for his company, and for our use of him as an interpreter, for
he understood the language of the country, and spoke good
French and a little English. Indeed, this old man was most
useful to us everywhere; for we had not been above a week
at Pekin, when he came laughing. "Ah, Seignior Inglese,"
says he, " I have something to tell will make your heart
glad."—" My heart glad," says I; " what can that be ? I
don't know anything in this country can either give me joy or
grief to any great degree."—" Yes, yes," said the old man in
broken English, "make you glad, me sorry." In short, he
told us there was a great caravan of Muscovite and Polish
merchants in the city, preparing to set out on their journey by
land to Muscovy, within four or five weeks ; and he was sure
we would take the opportunity to go with them, and leave
him behind, to go back alone.
I confess I was greatly surprised with this good news. We
went to consult together what was to be done; and I asked
my partner what he thought of the pilot's news, and whether
it would suit with his affairs. He told me he would do just
as I would ; for if he could invest in China silks, wrought
and raw, he would be content to go to England.
Having resolved upon this, we agreed that if our Portu-
guese pilot would go with us, we would bear his charges to
Moscow, or to England, if he pleased. We agreed besides to
give him a quantity of coined gold, which, as I computed it,
was worth one hundred and seventy-five pounds sterling be-
tween us, and to bear all his charges, both for himself and
horse, except only a horse to carry his goods. Having settled
this between ourselves, we called him to let him know what
we had resolved. He shook his head and said it was a long
journey, and that he had no pecune to carry him thither, or to
subsist himself when he came there. We told him we had
resolved to do something for him that should let him see how
TRA VELLING IN GRAND TARTARY. 283
sensible we were of the service he had done us, and also how
agreeable he was to us. He received the proposal like a man
transported, and told us he would go with us over the whole
world ; and so we all prepared for our journey.
It was the beginning of February, New Style, when we set
out from Pekin. The company was very great, and, as near
as I can remember, made between three and four hundred
hcrse, and upwards of one hundred and twenty men, very
well armed, and provided for all events; for as the eastern
caravans are subject to be attacked by the Arabs, so are these
by the Tartars.
In a few days we passed the great China Wall, made for
a fortification against the Tartars : and a very great work it
is, going over hills and mountains in an endless track, where
the rocks are impassable, and the precipices such as no enemy
could possibly enter, or indeed climb up, or where, if they
did, no wall could hinder them.
In about five days we entered a vast wild desert, which
held us three days and nights' march : and we were obliged
to carry our water with us in great leathern bottles, and to
encamp all night, just as I have heard they do in the desert
of Arabia. I asked our guides whose dominion this was in :
and they told me this was a kind of border, that might be
called no man's land, being a part of Great Karakathy, or
Grand Tartary : that, however, it was all reckoned as belong-
ing to China, but that there was no care taken here to
preserve it from the inroads of thieves, and therefore it was
reckoned the worst desert of the whole march, though we were
to go over some much larger.
In passing this frightful wilderness, we saw two or three
times little parties of the Tartars, but they seemed to be upon
their own affairs, and to have no design upon us. Once,
however, a party of them came so near as to stand and gaze
at us. After a while they marched off, but they saluted us
with five arrows at parting, which wounded a horse so that it
disabled him, and we left him the next day, poor creature, in
great need of a good farrier.
As we were approaching the city of Naum, a frontier of the
Chinese Empire, fortified in their fashion, messengers were
sent express to every part of the road to tell all travellers
and caravans to halt till they had a guard sent for them ; for
that an unusual body of Tartars making ten thousand in all
had appeared in the way, about thirty miles beyond the city
Accordingly, two days after, we had two hundred soldiers sent
us from a garrison of the Chinese on our left, and three hundred
more from the city of Naum, and with these we advanced
boldly. When we were entered upon a desert of about fifteen or
sixteen miles over, we knew, by a cloud of dust they raised, that
theeneniywasathand.and presently they cameon upon the spur.
An innumerable company they were ; how many we could
not tell, but ten thousand, we thought, at the least; a party
of them came on first, and viewed our posture, traversing the
ground in the front of our line; and, as we found them within
gunshot, our leader ordered the two wings to advance swiftly,
and give them a salvo on each wing with their shot, which
was done; that salute cloyed their stomachs, for they im-
mediately halted, stood awhile to consider of it, and wheeling
off to the left, they gave over their design.
We now advanced from the River Arguna by easy and
moderate journeys. Wherever we came the garrisons and
governors were Russians and professed Christians, yet the
inhabitants of the country were mere Pagans sacrificing to
idols, and worshipping the sun, moon, and stars, or all the
host of heaven ; and not only so, but were of all the heathens
and pagans that ever I met with the most barbarous, except
only that they did not eat man's flesh, as our savages of
America did. Some instances of this we met with in the
country between Arguna, where we enter the Muscovite
dominions, and a city of Tartars and Russians together, called
Nertzinskoy, in which is a continued desert or forest, which
cost us twenty days to travel over it In a village near the
last of those places I had the curiosity to go and see their
way of living. They had, I suppose, a great sacrifice that day,
for there stood out upon an old stump of a tree an idol made
of wood, frightful as the devil, at least as anything we can
think of to represent the devil, can be made ; it had a head
certainly not so much as resembling any creature that the
world ever saw; ears as big as goat's horns and as high; eyes
as big as a crown-piece; a nose like a crooked ram's horn,
and a mouth extended four cornered like that of a lion, with
horrible teeth, hooked like a parrot's under bill; it was dressed
up in the filthiest manner that you could suppose; its uppei
garment was of sheep-skins, with the wool outward, a greal
Tartar bonnet on the head, with two horns growing through
it; it was about eight feet high, yet had no feet or legs, or any
other proportion of parts.
/(ltJ(lt/>, It-
7? fourth »*//
An Idol made of Wood.
A DESIGN UPON THE IDOL. »»$
This scarecrow was set up at the outer side of the village,
and when I came near to it there was sixteen or seventeen
creatures, whether men or women I could not tell, for they
make no distinction by their habits, either of body or head
These lay all flat on the ground, round this formidable block
of shapeless wood. I saw no motion among them any more
than if they had been all logs of wood like the idol, and at
first really thought they had been so; but when I came a
little nearer, they started up upon their feet and raised a
howling cry as if it had been so many deep-mouthed hounds,
and walked away as if they were displeased at our disturbing
them. A little way off from the idol, and at the door of that
tent or hut, made all of sheep-skins and cow-skins, dried, stood
three butchers. I thought they were such; when I came
nearer to them, I found they had long knives in their hands,
and in the middle of the tent appeared three sheep killed, and
one young bullock or steer. These, it seems, were sacrifices
to that senseless log of an idol, and these three men, priests
belonging' to it; and the seventeen prostrated wretches
were the people who brought the offering, and were making
their prayers to that stock. I confess I was more moved at
their stupidity and brutish worship of a hobgoblin than ever
I was at anything in my life. I spoke to a Scotch fellow-
traveller about it, and told him I was resolved, if I could but
get four or five men well armed to go with me, to destroy
that vile, abominable idol, and let the Tartars see that it had
no power to help itself, and consequently could not be an
object of worship, or to be prayed to, much less help them
that offered sacrifices to it
Finding me resolute, he liked the design, and told me I
should not go alone, but he would go with me and bring a
stout man, his own countryman, to go with us. We spent
the evening in mixing combustible matter with gunpowder;
and carrying a good quantity of tar in a little pot, we set out
for the idoL We came to the place at eleven o'clock at
night, and found the people at rest; only that in the great
hut we saw a light and heard people talking. We concluded
therefore that if we set the wild-fire to the idol, these men
would come out immediately, and run up to the place to
rescue it from the destruction that we intended for it "Well
then," said the Scotch merchant, "I'll tell you what we will
do ; we will try to take them prisoners, tie their hands behind
them, and make them stand still, and see their idol destroyed."
As it happened, we had twine or packthread enough about
us, which was used to tie our fireworks together with ; so we
resolved to attack the people first, and with as little noise as
we could. The first thing we did we knocked at the door,
which issued just as we desired it; for one of their idol priests
tame to the door. We immediately seized upon him, stopped
his mouth, and tied his hands behind him, and led him to
the idol, where we gagged him that he - might not make a
noise ; tied his feet also together, and left him on the ground.
Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that another
would come out to see what the matter was, but we waited
so long till the third man came back to us; and then
nobody coming out we knocked again gently, and imme-
diately out came two more, and we served them just in
the same manner, but were obliged to go all with them,
and lay them down by the idol at some distance from one
another. In a word, we took them, bound them as we had
the other, and all without any noise. When we had done
this, we carried them altogether to the idol. When we
came there we fell to work with him ; and first we daubed
him all over, and his robes also, with tar and such other
stuff as we had, which was tallow mixed with brimstone ;
then we stopped his eyes, ears, and mouth full of gunpowder,
and then we wrapped up a great piece of wild-fire in his
bonnet, and then sticking all the combustibles we had brought
with us upon him, we looked about to see if we could find
anything else to help to burn him, when my man remembered
that by the tent or hut, where the men were there lay a heap
of dry forage, whether straw or rushes I do not remember;
away he and one of the Scotchmen ran, and fetched their
arms full of that When we had done this, we took all our
prisoners and brought them, and having untied their feet, and
ungagged their mouths, and made them stand up, set them
just before their monstrous idol, and there set fire to the
whole. We stayed by it a quarter of an hour, or thereabouts,
till the powder in the eyes and mouth and ears of the idol
blew up, and we could perceive had split and deformed
the shape ; and, in a word, until we saw it burn into a mere
block or log of wood ; and then setting the dry forage to it,
we found it would be quite consumed, when we began to think
of going away. But we might not go, for these poor deluded
wretches would all throw themselves into the fire, and burn
themselves with the idoL So we resolved to stay until the
SIBERIAN WINTER. 287
forage was burnt down too, and then we came away and left
them. In the morning we appeared among our fellow travel-
lers exceeding busy in getting ready for our journey; nor could
any man suggest that we had been anywhere but in our beds.
So enraged were the people that they threatened war upon
the Russian Governor, who told them of our caravan, and
warned our people to make all the haste forward possible.
Nobody knew that we had done this thing, but our leader
hurried forward. Still it had been serious fdr us, for the
people pursued us in a great army, and we escaped only
by a feint. A cunning fellow, a Cossack, calling to the leader
of the caravan, said to him, "I'll go send all these people away
to Siheilka;" this was a city, four or five days' journey at
least to the south, and rather behind us. So he takes his bow
and arrows, and getting on horseback, he rides away from
our rear directly, as it were back to Nertzinskoy. After this,
he takes a great circuit about, and comes to the army of the
Tartars, as if he had been sent express to tell them a long
story; that the people who had burnt the Cham-Chi-Thaungu,
were gone to Siheilka, with a caravan of miscreants, as he
called them, that is to say Christians; and that they had
resolved to burn the God Schal-Isar, belonging to the
Tongueses. As this fellow was himself a mere Tartar, and
perfectly spoke their language, he counterfeited so well that
they all took it from him, and away they drove in a most
violent hurry to Siheilka, which it seems was five days' journey
to the north, and in less than three hours they were entirely
out of our sight, and we never heard any more of them ; and
we never knew whether they went to that other place called
Siheilka or no.
I have nothing material to say of my particular affairs
till I came to Tobolski, the capital of Siberia, where I con-
tinued some time. We had now been almost seven months
on our journey, and winter began to come on apace; where-
upon my partner and I called a council about our particular
affairs. They told us of sledges and reindeer, to carry us
over the snow in the winter time, by which means, indeed,
the Russians travel more in winter than they can in summer,
as in these sledges they are able to run night and day : the
snow, being frozen, is one universal covering to nature, by
which the hills, vales, rivers, and lakes are all smooth and
hard as a stone, and they run upon the surface without any
regard to what is underneath.
22
But I had no occasion to urge a winter journey of this kind.
I thought it better to winter where I was. It is true I was
now in quite a different climate from my beloved island, where
I never felt cold, except when I had my ague. Now I had
three good vests, with large robes or gowns over them, to
hang down to the feet, and button close to the wrists; and
all these lined with furs to make them sufficiently warm. As
to a warm house, I must confess I greatly dislike our way
in England of making fires in every room in the house in open
chimneys, which, when the fire is out, always keeps the air
in the room cold as the climate. So I took an apartment
in a good house in the town, and ordered a chimney to be
built like a furnace, in the centre of six several rooms, like
a stove; the funnel to carry smoke went up one way, the door
to come at the fire went in another, and all the rooms were
kept equally warm, but no fire seen, just as they heat baths
in England.
I had been here eight months, and a dark, dreadful winter
I thought it; the cold so intense that I could not so much
as look abroad without being wrapped in furs, and a kind of
mask of fur before my face, with only a hole for breath, and
two for sight: the little daylight we had was for three months
not above five hours a day, and six at most; only that the
snow lying on the ground continually, and the weather being
clear, it was never quite dark. Our horses were kept, or
rather starved, underground ; and as for our servants, whom
we hired here to look after ourselves and horses, we had, every
now and then, their fingers and toes to thaw and take care of
lest they should mortify and fall off.
Our food was chiefly the flesh of deer, dried and cured in
the season; bread good enough, but baked as biscuits ; dried
fish of several sorts, and some flesh of mutton, and of buffaloes,
which is pretty good meat All the stores of provisions for
the winter are laid up in the summer, and well cured, our drink
was water, mixed with aqua-vitae instead of brandy; and for
a treat, mead instead of wine, which, however, they have
very good. The hunters, who venture abroad all weathers,
frequently brought us in fine venison, and sometimes bear's
flesh, but we did not much care for the last. We had a good
stock of tea, with which we treated our friends, and we lived
cheerfully and well, all things considered.
It was now March, the days grown considerably longer, and
the weather at least tolerable ; so the other travellers began to
s'.farr^jfe
Preparing for a longer Journey
PREPARING FOR A LONGER JOURNEY. 389
prepare sledges to carry them over the snow, and to get
things ready to be going ; but my measures being fixed, as I
have said, for Archangel, and not for Muscovy or the Baltic,
I made no motion.
It was not until the beginning of June that I left this remote
place. We were now reduced to a very small caravan, having
only thirty-two horses and camels in all. We had here the
worst and the largest desert to pass over that we met with in
our whole journey; the best we had to say for it was, that we
thought we had no troops of Tartars or robbers to fear, as they
never came on this side of the river Oby, or at least very
seldom.
We at length entered Europe, having passed the river
Kama, which in these parts is the boundary between Europe
and Asia, and the first city on the European side was called
Soloy Kamaskoy, that is, the great city on the river Kama;
and here we thought to see some evident alteration in the
people; but we were mistaken ; for we found very little
difference between that country and Mogul Tartary.
We came at last to Veussima upon the river Witzogda,
and running into the Dwina: we were there, very happily,
near the end of our travels by land, that river being navigable,
in seven days' passage, to Archangel. From hence, we came
to Lawrenskoy, the 3rd of July ; and, providing ourselves
with two luggage boats, and a barge for our own convenience,
we embarked on the 7th, and arrived all safe at Archangel
the 18th; having been a year, five months, and three days
on the journey, including our stay of about eight months at
Tobolski.
We set sail from Archangel the 20th of August the same
year ; and, after no extraordinary bad voyage, arrived safe in
the Elbe the 18th of September. Here my partner and I
found a very good sale for our goods, as well those of China,
as the sables, &c, of Siberia; and, dividing the produce, my
share amounted to 3475/. 17s. 3*/., including about six hundred
pounds' worth of diamonds, which I purchased at Bengal.
To conclude: I arrived in London the 10th of January, 1705,
having been absent from England ten years and nine months.
And here, resolving to harass myself no more, I am preparing
for a longer journey than all these, having lived seventy-two
years a life of infinite variety, and learned sufficiently to
know the value of retirement and the blessing of ending our
days in peace.
EDINBURGH
COLSTON AND COY. LIMITED
PRINTERS
U The Literary Pen is the Best. U
" Mr. Fisher Unwin has beguiled nil
leisure moments with experimenting in
pens, and now "The Literary Pen'Is
issued In a nice little booklet box for
the benefit of authors. It is guaran-
teed to write anything from a sonnet
to an epic and it certainly runs very
easily and quickly. ' U' Is the letter
It bears, and 'O' '•<. will, doubtless,
remain to a grateful posterity."—Black
and Wkitt.
" Certainly the new nibs are excel-
lent — a great Im-
provement on the
average 'J.'"—JOHN
Ouvbr Hordes.
" For writing easily,
legibly, and without
excessive use of ink—
which Is a saving
of time in dipping
— the 'Literary U
Pen' which Mr.
Fisher Unwin has
brought out cannot
be excelled. Its ac-
tion is smooth, and
very like that of a
quill."—
Leeds Mercury.
The
Literary
Pen.
N
T.FisherTjfrVln.
1 Paternoster So.
One Shilling
• We like the way
It writes. It is an improvement on the
best pen we have used, and will
speedily become popular with those
who appreciate an easy pen to write
with."—Shi/field Daily Independent.
ft
"A new pen, the merits of which
are undoubted. We have been using
one of these 'D' nibs for the past
week, and it still writes as well as
when we first Inserted it In the holder.
There is certainly a successful future In
store for the ' Literary U.' "—Bookseller.
" Proves to be an easy running but
not too soft pen. with which one may
write at great speed."—Newsagent.
*
" Anyone who loves the smooth
action of the quill and the distinctness
of the finest-pointed steel nib com-
bined, should get a box of ' U' Pens at
once."— Weekly Times and Echo.
«
"We can recommend It for the
smoothness with which It passes over
paper."—East
Anglian DailyTimes.
ft
" We have tried the
-U" and Uke It."—
Academy.
ft
i» is a pleasant,
smooth-running pen,
and altogether very
agreeable to work
with. It ought to be
a boon to those who
write much."—
Dublin Daily
Express.
*
"Writes »ery
smoothly, and all
who write much
know that that is the
first quality desired
in a pen."—Reynolds' Newspaper.
*
"Altogether very agreeable to work
with. It ought to be a boon to those
who write much."— Warder.
ft
"It It a good pen and Justifies Its
title."—People.
ft
" Literary workers will find the Lite-
rary Pen well worth their attention."—
Publishers' Circular.
m
z
U Smooth Running, with a Quill-like Action. U
T. FISHER UNWIN, Publisher,
THE MERMAID SERIES
The Best Plays of the Old Dramatists.
Literal Reproductions of the Old Text.
Post 8vo, each Volume containing about 500 pages, and an etched
Frontispiece, cloth, 3s. 6d. each.
1. The Best Plays of Christopher
MarlOWe. Edited, by Haveloce
Ellis, and containing a General
Introduction to the Series by John
Addington Symonds.
2. The Best Flays of Thomas ot-
way Introduction by the Hon.
Roden Noel.
3. The Best Hays of John Ford.
Edited by Haveloce Ellis.
4 and 5. The Best Flays of Thomas
Massinger. Essay and Notes by
Arthur Svmons.
6 The Best Plays of Thomas Hey-
WOOd. Edited by A. W. Verity.
Introduction by J. A. Symonds.
7. The Complete Flays of William
Wycherley. Edited by w. c.
Ward.
8. Nero, and other Plays. Edited
by H. P. Horne, Arthur Symons,
A. W. Verity, and H. Ellis.
9 and 10. The Best Plays of Beau-
mont and Fletcher. Introduction
by J. St. Loe Strachey.
11. The Complete Flays of William
Congreve. Edited by Alex. C
E\VAld.
12. The Best Plays of Webster and
Toumeur. Introduction by John
Addington SYitondS.
13 and 14. The Best Plays of
Thomas Middleton. Introduction
by Algernon Charles Swinburne.
15. The Best Flays of James
Shirley. Introduction by Edmund
Gosse.
16. The Best Plays of Thomas
Dekker. Notes by Ernest Rhys.
17. 19 and 20. The Best Plays of
Ben Jonson. Vol. I. edited, with
Introduction and Notes, by Brinsley
Nicholson and C. H. Herford.
iS. The Complete Plays of Richard
Steele. Edited, with Introduction
and Notes, by G. A. Aiteen.
21. The Best Plays of George Chap-
man. Edited by William Lyon
Phelps, Instructor of English Litera-
ture at Yale College.
22. The Select Plays of Sir John
Vanbrilgh. Edited, with an Intro-
duction and Notes, by A. E. H.
Swaen.
PRESS OPINIONS.
" Even the professed scholar with a good library at his command will find some
texts here not otherwise easily accessible; while the humbler student of slender
resources, who knows the bitterness of not being able to possess himself of the treasure
stored in expensive folios or quartos long out of print, will assuredly rise up and thank
Mr Unwin."—St. /anus's Gazette.
" Resumed under good auspices."—Saturday Review.
" The issue is as good as it could be."—British Weekly.
"At once scholarly and interesting,"—Leeds Mercury.
11 Paternoster Buildings, London, E.C.
THE GREY MAN
1Y
S. R. CROCKETT
Crown %vo., cloth, 6s.
Also em Edition d* Luxe, with 26 Drawings if
Skyhook Ldcas, R.A., limited to 2$o copies, signed
if Author. Crown ^to., cloth gilt, 21a. nett.
<$?
' It has nearly all the qualities which go to make a book
of the first-class. Before you have read twenty pages you
know that you are reading a classic'—Literary World.
'All of that vast and increasing host of readers who
prefer the novel of action to any other form of fiction
should, nay, indeed, must, make a point of reading this
exceedingly fine example of its class.'—Daily Chronicle.
' With such passages as these [referring to quotations],
glowing with tender passion, or murky with horror, even
the most insatiate lover of romance may feel that Mr Crockett
has given him good measure, well pressed down and running
over.'—Daily Telegraph.
11 Paternoster Buildings, London, B.C.
CLARA HOPGOOD
MARK RUTHERFORD
EDITED BT
REUBEN SHAPCOTT
Second Edition. Crown Svo., cloth, 6b.
(The Third and Cheaper Edition is now ready. Crown Svor
doth, 3a. 6d.)
" The writer who goes by the name of Mark Rutherford
is not the most popular novelist of his time by any means.
There are writers with names which that recluse genius
has never heard of, probably, whose stories give palpita-
tions to thousands of gentle souls, while his own are
quietly read by no more than as many hundreds. Yet his
publisher never announces a new story by the Author of
' Mark Rutherford's Autobiography,' and ' The Revolution
in Tanner's Lane,'—which we believe to be one of the
most remarkable bits of writing that these times can boast
of—without strongly exciting the interest of many who
know books as precious stones are known in Hatton
Garden 'Clara Hopgood' is entirely out of the
way of all existing schools of novel-writing Had
we to select a good illustration of ' Mark's way' as dis-
tinguished from the way of modern storytellers in general,
we should point to the chapter in which Baruch visits his
son Benjamin in this narration. Nothing could be more
simple, nothing more perfect"—Pall Mall Gazette.
11, Paternoster Buildings, London, K.C /
SIX-SHILLING NOVELS
In uniform green cloth, large crown %vo., gill tops, 6b>
*$
Effle Hetherington. By Robert Buchanan. Second Edition.
An Outcast of the Islands. By Joseph Conrad. Second Edition.
Almayer's Folly. By Joseph Conrad. Second Edition.
The Ebbing of the Tide. By Louis Becke. Second Edition.
A First Fleet Family. By Louis Bbckb and Walter Jeffery.
Paddy's Woman, and Other Stories. By Humphrey James.
Clara Hopgood. By Mark Rutherford. Second Edition.
The Tales of John Oliver Hobbes. Portrait of the Author. Second
Edition.
The Stlcklt Minister. By S. R. Crockett. Eleventh Edition.
The Lilac Sunbonnet. By S. R. Crockett. Sixth Edition.
The Raiders. By S. R Crockett. Eighth Edition.
The Qrey Man. By S. R. Crockett.
In a Man's Mind. By J. R. Watson.
A Daughter of the Fen. By J. T. Bealby. Second Edition.
The Herb-Moon. By John Oliver Hobbes. Third Edition.
Nancy Noon. By Benjamin Swift. Second Edition. With New
Preface
Mr Magnus. By F. Reginald Statham. Second Edition.
Trooper Peter Halket of Mashonaland. By Olive Shreinbr.
Frontispiece.
Pacific Tales. By Louis Becke. With Frontispiece Portrait of
The Author. Second Edition.
Mrs Keith's Crime. By Mri W. K. Clifford. Sixth Edition.
With Portrait of Mrs Keith by the [Hon. John Collier, aid a New Preface by
the Author.
Hugh Wynne. By Dr S. Weir Mitchell. With Frontispiece
Illustration.
The Tormentor. By Benjamin Swift, Author of'Nancy Noon.'
Prisoners of Conscience. By Amelia E. Barr, Author of ' Jan
Vender's Wife.' With n Illustrations.
The Oods, some Mortals and Lord Wlckenham. New Edition.
By John Oliver Hobbes.
The Outlaws of the Marches. By Lord Ernest Hamilton.
Fully Illustrated.
The School for Saints : Part of the History of the Right Honourable
Robert Orange, M.P. By John Olivee Hobbes, Author of ' Sinner's Comedy,'
' Some Emotions and a Moral,' ' The Herb-Moon,' &c
The People of Clopton. By George Bartram.
ii Paternoster Buildings, London, E.C.
WORKS BY JOSEPH CONRAD
i.
AN OUTCAST OF THE
ISLANDS
Crown Svo„ cloth, 6a.
" Subject to the qualifications thus disposed of {vide first part of notice),
' An Outcast of the Islands' is perhaps the finest piece of fiction that has been
published this year, as ' Almayer's Folly' was one of the finest that was pub-
lished in 189s . . . Surely this is real romance—the romance that is real.
Space forbids anything but the merest recapitulation of the other living
.ealities of Mr. Conrad's invention—of Lingard, of the inimitable Almayer,
the one-eyed Babalatchi, the Naturalist, of the pious Abdulla—all novel, all
authentic. Enough has been written to show Mr. Conrad's quality. He
imagines his scenes and their sequence like a master; he knows his individu-
alities and their hearts; he has a new and wonderful field in this East Indian
Novel of his. . . . Greatness is deliberately written ; the present writer has
read and re-read his two books, and after putting this review aside for soma
days to consider the discretion of it, the word still stands."—Saturday Rtvitw
II.
ALMAYER'S FOLLY
Second Edition. Crown Svo., cloth, 6s.
"This startling, unique, splendid book."
Mr. T. P. O'Connor, MJ\
"This Is a decidely powerful story of an uncommon type, and breaks fresh
ground in fiction. ... All the leading characters in the book—Almayer, his
wife, his daughter, and Dain, the daughter's native lover—are well drawn, and
the parting between father and daughter has a pathetic naturalness about It,
unspoiled by straining after effect There are, too, some admirably graphic
passages in the book, rhe approach of a monsoon is most effectively
described. . . . The name of Mr. Joseph Conrad is new to us, but it appears
to us as if he might become the Kipling of the Malay Archipelago."—Spectator
11, Paternoster Buildings, London, E.G. «
THE RAIDERS
BT
S. R. CROCKETT
MightA Edition. Crown «>•;>., cloth, 6a.
W
"A thoroughly enjoyable novel, full of fresh, original, and
accurate pictures of life long gone by."—Daily Noes.
" A strikingly realistic romance."—Morning Post.
" A stirring story. . . . Mr. Crockett's style is charming. My
Baronite never knew how musical and picturesque is Scottish-
English till he read this book."—Punck.
" The youngsters have their Stevenson, their Barrie, and new
a third writer has entered the circle, S. R. Crockett, with a lively
and jolly book of adventures, which the paterfamilias pretend*
to buy for his eldest son, but reads greedily himself and won't
let go till he has turned over the last page. . . . Out of such
historical elements and numberless local traditions the author
has put together an exciting tale of adventures on land and sea."
Frankfurttt Zeitung.
SOME SCOTCH NOTICES.
"Galloway folk should be proud to rank 'The Raiders' among
the classics of the district."—Scotsman.
"Mr. Crockett's 'The Raiders' is one of the great literary
successes of the season."—Dundee Advertiser.
" Mr. Crockett has achieved the distinction of having produced
the book of the season."—Dumfries and Galloway Standard.
" The story told in it is, as a story, nearly perfect"
Aberdeen Daily Free Press
"' The Raiders' is one of the most brilliant efforts of recent
fiction."—Kirkcudbrightshire Advertiser. ,
11, Paternoster Buildings, London, E.G.
A DAUGHTER OF THE
FEN
J. T. BEALBY
Second Edition. Crown Svo., cloth, 6s.
"It will deserve notice at the hands ol such as are interested in the
ways and manner of living of a curious race that has ceased to be."
Daily Chronicle.
" For a first book ' A Daughter of the Fen' is full of promise."—Academy.
" This book deserves to be read for its extremely interesting account ot
life in the Fens and for its splendid character study of Mine. Dykereave."
" Deserves high praise."—Scotsman. [Star.
"It is an able, interesting .... an exciting book, and is well worth
reading. And when once taken up it will be difficult to lay it down."
Westminster Gazette.
IN A MAN'S MIND
JOHN REAY WATSON
Crown &vo, cloth, 6s.
"We regard the book as well worth the effort of reading."—British
"The book is clever, very clever."—Dundee Advertiser. [Review.
" The power and pathos of the book are undeniable."—Liverpool Post.
" It is a book of some promise."—Newsagent.
"Mr. Watson has hardly a rival among Australian writers, past or
present. There is real power in the book—power of insight, power of
reflection, power of analysis, power of presentation. . . . "Tis a very
well made book—not a set of independent episodes strung on the
thread of a name or two, but closely interwoven to the climax."
Sydney Bulletin.
"There is behind it all a power of drawing human nature that in
time arrests the attention."—Alhenaum.
ii, Paternoster Buildings, London, EX. k m
EFFIE HETHERINGTON
BY
ROBERT BUCHANAN
Second Edition. Crown Svo., cloth, 2s. 6£.
" Mr. Robert Buchanan has written several
novels but among those which we know,
there is not one so nearly redeemed by its
ability and interest. . . . The girl is simply
odious ; but Mr. Buchanan is a poet—it would
seem sometimes malgrd lui, in this instance it is
quand mhne — and he dowers the worthless
Effie with a rugged, half-misanthropic, steadfast
lover, whose love, never rewarded, is proved by
as great a sacrifice as fact or fiction has ever
known, and who is almost as striking a figure as
Heathcliff in ' Wuthering Heights.' "—World.
11, Paternoster Buildings, London, E.G. o
The CHILDREN'S LIBRARY
• • •
Illustrated. Post £W, pinafore cloth binding, floral edges,
2s 6d. each.
I. The Brown Owl. By Ford H.
Hceffer. Illustrated by Madox
Brown.
i. The China Cup. By Feux
Volehovsey. Illustrated by
Malischeff.
3. Stories from Fairyland. By
Georges Drosines. Illustrated by
Thos. Riley.
4. The Story of a Puppet. By
C. Cullodi. Translated from the
Italian by M. A. Murray. Illus-
trated by C. Mazzanti.
5. The Little Princess. By Lina
Eceenstein. Illustrated by Dudley
Heath.
6. Tales from the Mabinogion.
By Meta Williams.
Irish Fairy Tales. Edited by
W. B. Yeats. Illustrated by Jacr B.
Yeats.
An Enchanted Garden. By
Mrs. Molesworth. Illustrated by
J. \V. Henessfy.
La Belle Mvernalse. By
Alphonse Dauijkt. Illustrated by
Monteout.
The Feather. By Ford H.
7-
8.
10.
Hubffer. Frontispiece by Madox
Brown.
11. Finn and His Companions. By
Standish CVGrady, Author of
"Red Hugh's Captivity," 8k. IUus-
traied by J. B. Yeats.
12. Nutcracker and Mouse King
and other Stories. By E. T. A.
Hoffmann. Translated from the
German by Ascott R. HOPS.
13. Once upon a Time : Fairy
Tales. Translated from the Italian
by Luioi Capuana. With Illus-
trations by C. Mazzanti.
14. The Pentamerone ; or, The
Story of Stories. By Giambattista
Basile. Translated from the Nea-
politan by Iohn Edward Taylor.
New Edition, revised and edited by
Helen Zimmerk. Illustrated by
George Cruikshane.
15 Finnish Legends. Adapted by
R. ErviNd. Illustrated from the
Finnish Text
16. The Pope's Mule, and other
Slories. By ALPHONSE DAUdET.
Translated by A. D. Beavington-
Atejnson and D. Havers. Illus-
trated by Ethel K. Martyn.
17. The Little Glass Man, and
other Stories. Translated from the
German of Wilhelm Hauff.
Illustrated by James Pryde.
18. Robinson Crusoe. By Daniel
Defoe.
19. The Magic Oak Tree, and
other Fairy Stories. By Knatchbull
Hugessen (Lord Brabourne),
Author of "Prince Marigold,"
" Queer Folk," &c.
20. Pax and Carllno. By Ernest
Becrman.
SOME PKESS NOTICES.
" Happy children who are to own books as pretty and portable as this is."
"The delightful 'Children's Library.'"—National Observer. [Saturday Review.
"The binding and printing are simply exquisite."—Vanity Fair,
"What a dainty little blue book {"—Whitehall Review.
" Prettily got up."— Times.
" Fascinating in appearance."—Athenmum,
"Very daintily printed and bound."—Daily Chronicle.
" One of the prettiest books ever trusted to a child's hand."— Queen.
•' Altogether agreeable to the eye."—Glebe.
" Exquisite and dainty."—British Weekly.
"Very dainty and unique."—Review 0/Reviews.
" A'l the books are delightfully illustrated."—Bookseller.
" With every advantage that a dainty binding, excellent paper, and admirable printing
can bestow."— Guardian,
11, Paternoster Buildings, London, E.C.
