 
 
 
/sis
 
R OJHN S ON Cur S OE
PRESERVES THE LIFE, op a SAV&GE.
PuHuhtd byXMc Govern & Scrt CkWukAtu-U Strati
TH8
AND HOSt
SURPRISING ADVENTURES
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
WHO LIVED EIGHT AND TWENTY YEABS
05 AV
UNINHABITED ISLAND.
H v> k b a v-*i
: V ;PREFACE.
If ever the story aft any private man s adventures
in the world werfc Worth making public, and were
acceptable when published, the Editor of this ac-
count thinks this will be so.
The wonders of this man's life exceed all that
(he thinks) is to be found extant; the life of one
man being scarce capable of a greater variety.
The story is told with modesty, with seriousness,
and with a religious application of events, to the
uses to which wise men always apply them, viz, to
the instruction of others by this example, and to
justify and honour the wisdom of Providence in ah
the variety of our circumstances, let them happen
how they will.
The Editor believes this narrative to be a just
history of fact; neither is there any appearance of
fiction in it; and though he is well aware there aw
 
many, who, on account of the very singular preser
vations the Author met with, will give it the name
of a romance; yet, in which ever of these lights it
shall be viewed, he imagines, that the improvement
of it, as well as the diversion, as to the instruction
of the reader, will be the same, and as such, he
thinks, without further compliment to the world, he
does them great service in the publication.
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
09
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
I WAS bom at York, in the year 1632, of a reputable fa-
mily. My father was a native of Bremen, who by mer-
chandizing at Hull for some time, gained a very plentiful
fortune. He married my mother at York, who received
her first breath in that county; and as her maiden name
was Robinson, I was called Robinson Kreutznaer; which
not being easily pronounced in the English tongue, we am
commonly known by the name of Crusoe.
1 was the youngest of three brothers. The eldest was a
lieutenant-colonel m Lockhart's regiment, but slain by the
Spaniards: what became of the other I could never learn.
S&o charge or paias were wanting in my education.—
My father designed me for the law, yet nothing would
serve me but 1 must go to sea, both against the will of my
father, the tears of my mother, and the entreaties of friends.
One morning my father expostulated very warmly with vat:
What reasons, says he, have you to leave your native coun-
try, where there must be a more certain prospect of con-
tent and happiness, to enter into, a wandering condition of
uneasiness and uncertainty? He recommended to me
Augur's wish, "Neither to desire poverty nor riches ;**
that a middle state of life was the most happy, and that
the high towering thoughts of raising our condition by wan-
dering abroad, were surrounded with misery and danger,
and often ended with confusion and disappointment. I
entreat you, nay, 1 command you, (says he,) to desist from
these intentions. Consider your elder brother, Who laid
down bis life for his honour, or rather lost it for his disobe-
dience to my will. If vou will go, (added he,) my prayers
shall however be offered for your preservation; but a time
may come, when desolate, oppressed, or forsake**, yon
 
 
6
LIFE AND ADVExNTURES
may wish you had taken your poor despised father's counsel.
He pronounced these words with such a moving and pater-
nal eloquence, while floods of tears ran down h is aged cheeks,
that it seemed to stem the torrent of my resolutions. But
this soon wore off, and a little after 1 informed my mother
that I could not settle to any business, my resolutions were
so strong to see the world; and begged she would gain my
father's consent only to go one voyage; which if it did not
prove prosperous, I would never attempt a second. But my
desire was as vain as my folly in asking. My mother pas-
sionately expressed her dislike of this proposal, telling me
"That as she saw I was bent upon my own destruction, con-
"trary to their will and my duty, slie would say no more,
"but leave me to myself to do whatever I pleased/'
1 was then, I think, nineteen years old, when one time be-
ing at Hull, I met a school fellow of mine going along with
his father, who was a master of a ship, to London; and ac-
quainting him with my wandering desires* he assured me of
a free passage, and a plentiful share of what was necessary.
Thus, without imploring a blessing, or taking farewell jof my
parents, I took shipping on the first of September, 1651. We
set sail soon after, and our ship had scarce left the Humber
a-stern, when there arose so violent a storm, that being ex-
tremely sea-sick, I concluded the judgment of God deserv-
edly followed me for my disobedience to my dear parents.
It was then I called to mind the good advice of my father;
how easy and comfortable was a middle state of life: and
I firmly resolved, if it pleased God to set me on dry land
once more, I would return to my parents, implore their for-
giveness, and bid a final adieu to my wandering inclinations.
Such were my thoughts while the storm continued; hut
these good resolutions decreased with the danger; more
especially when my companion came to me, clapping me on
the shoulder: " What, Bob f said he, 46 sure you was not
* frightened last night with scarce a capful of wind ?"—
,s And do you," cried I, "call such a violent storm a capful
"of wind?" ** A storm, you fool you !" said he, "this is no-
"thing: a good ship and sea-room always baffles such a
€t foolish squall of wind as that: But yoifre a fresh-water
*' sailor: Come, boy, turn out, see what fine weather we have
"now, and a good bowl of punch will drown ail your past
<e sorrows." In short, the punch was made, I was drunk, and
in one night's time drowned both mv repentance and my
 
good resolutions* forgetting entirely the vows and promises
I made in my distress: and whenever any reflections would
return on me, what by company, and what by drinking, I
soon mastered those fits, as I deridingjly called them. But
this only made way for another trial, whereby I could not
but see now much I was beholden to kind Providence.
Upon the sixth day we came to an anchor in Harwich
road, where we lay wind-bound with some Newcastle ships;
and there being good anchorage, and our cables sound, the
seamen forgot their late toil and danger, and spent the time
as merry as if they had been on shore. But on the eighth
day there arose a brisk gale of wind, which prevented our
tiding it up the river; and still increasing, our ship rode
forecastle in, and shipped several large seas.
It was not long before horror seized the seamen them-
selves and I heard the master express this melancholy
ejaculation, "Lord have mercy upon us, we shall be all lost
and undone!" For my part, sick unto death, I kept my cabin,
till the universal and terribly dreadful apprehensions of our
speedy fate made me get upon deck; and there I was af-
frighted indeed. The sea went mountains high; I could
see nothing but distress around us; two ships had jcxit their
masts on board, and another was foundered; two more that
had lost their anchors, were forced out to the mercy of the
ocean: and to save our lives we were obliged to cut our
foremast and mainmast quite away.
Who is there so ignorant as not to judge of my dreadful
condition? I was but a fresh water-sailor, and therefore it
seamed more terrible. Our ship was very good, but over-
loaded; which made the sailors often cry out, "She would
** founder!" Words I then was ignorant of. All this while
the storm continuing, and rather increasing, the master and
the most sober part of his men went to prayers, expecting
death every moment. In the middle of the night one crieq
out, " We had sprung a leak 1" another, "That there were
"four feet water in the hold!" I was just ready to -expire
with fear, when immediately all hands were called to the
pump; and the men forced me also in that extremity to
share* wLfch them in their labour. While thus employed, the
master espying some light colliers, fired a gun as a signal of
distress; and I, not understanding what it meant, and .think-
ing that either the ship broke, or some dreadful thing hap-
pened, fell into a swoon. Even in that common conditio*
 
of woe, nobody minded me, excepting to thrust me aside
with their feet, thinking me dead, ana it was a great while
before I recovered.
Happy it was for us, when upon the signal given, they
ventured out their boats to save our lives. AH our pumping
had been in vain, and vain had all our attempts been, nad they
not come to our ship^s side, and our men cast them a rope over
the stern with a buoy to it, which after great labour they got
hold of, and we hauling diem up to us, got into their boat,
and left our ship, which we perceived sink within less than a
quarter of an hour: and thus I learned what was meant by
foundering at sea. And now the men incessantly laboured to
recover their own ship j but the sea ran so high and the wind
blew so hard, that they thought it convenient to hale within
shore; which, with great difficulty and danger, at Last we
happily effected, landing at a place called Cromer, not far
from Winterton light-house, from whence we all walked to
Yarmouth, where as objects of pity, many good people fur-
nished us with necessariesHo carry us either to Hull or London.
Strange, after all this, like the prodigal son, I did not re-
turn to my father; who hearing of the ship's calamity, for a
Jong time thought me entombed in the deep. No doubt
but I should have shared on his fatted calf, as die Scripture
expresseth it; but my ill fate still pushed me on, in spite of
the powerful convictions of reason and conscience.
When we bad been at Yarmouth three days, I met my
old companion, who had given me the invitation to go on
hoard along with his father. His behaviour and speech
were altered, and in a melancholy manner he asked me how I
did, telling his father who I was, and how I had made this
voyage, only for a trial to proceed further abroad. Upon,
which the old gentleman turning to me gravely, said,
44 Young man, you ought never to go to sea any more, but to
44 take this for a certain sign that you never will prosper in
44 a seafaring condition.*' 44 Sir," answered I, 44 will you
44 take the same resolution P 44 It is a different case," said
he; 44 it is my calling, and consequently my duty; but as
44 you have made this voyage for a trial, you see what ill
44 success Heaven has set before your eyes; and perhaps
44 our miseries have been on your account, like Jonah in the
44 ship of Tarshish. But pray what are you? and on what
44 account did you go to sea?" Upon which I very freely
t declared my whole story; at the end of which he made this
exclamation, "Ye sacred Powers, what had I committed,
"that such a wretch should enter into my ship to heap upon
w me such a deluge of miseries!" But soon recollecting
his passion, " Young man/1* said he, "if you do not go back,
"depend upon it, wherever you go, you shall meet with dis-
"asters and disappointments till your father's words are
"fulfilled upon you." And so we parted.
I thought at first to return home; but shame opposed that
good motion, as thinking 1 should be laughed at by my neigh-
bours and aquaintance. So strange is the nature of youth,
who are not ashamed to sin, but yet ashamed to repent; and
so far from being ashamed of those actions for which they
may be accounted fools, they think it folly to return to their
duty, which is the principal mark of wisdom. In short, I
travelled up to London, resolving upon a voyage; and a
voyage I soon heard of, by my aquaintance with a Captain
who took a fancy to me, to go to the coast of Guinea. Hav-
ing some money, and appearing like a gentleman, I went
on board not as a common sailor or a foremast man; nay,
the eommander agreed I should g6 the voyage with him
without any ex pence; that I should be his messmate and
companion, and I was very welcome to carry any thing
with me, and make the best merchandise I could.
i blessed my happy fortune, and humbly thanked my cap-
tain for his offer; and acquainting my friends in Yorkshire,
forty pounds were sent me, the greatest part of which my
dear father and mother contributed to, with which I bought
toys and trifles, as the captain directed me. My captain
also taught me navigation, how to keep an account ot the
ship's course, take an observation, and led me into the know-
ledge of several useful branches of the mathematics. And
indeed this voyage made me both a sailor and a merchant;
for I brought home five pounds nine ounces of gold dust for
my adventure, which produced at my return to London,
almost three hundred pounds. But in this voyage I was ex-
tremely sick, being thrown into a violent calenture through
the excessive heat, trading upon the coast from the latitude
of fifteen degrees north, even to the line itself.
But alas I my dear friend, the captain, soon departed this
life after his arrival. This was a sensible grief to me: yet
I resolved to go another voyage with his mate, who had
now got command of the ship. This proved a very unsuc-
cessful one; for though I did not carry quite a hundred
10
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
pounds of my late acquired wealth, (so that I had two hum.
dred pounds left, which I reposed with the Captain's widow,
who was an honest gentlewoman,) yet my misfortunes in
this unhappy voyage were very great. For our ship sailing
towards trie Canary islands, we were chased by a Sake
rover; and in spite of all the haste we could make, by crowd-
ing as much canvas as our yards could spread, or our masts
carry, the pirate gained upon us, so that we prepared our-
selves to fight. They had eighteen guns, and we had btvt
twelve. About three in the afteroon there was a desperate
engagement, wherein many were killed and wounded on
both sides; but- finding ourselves overpowered with num-
bers, our ship disabled, and ourselves too impotent to have
the least hopes of success, we were forced to surrender; and
accordingly were all.carried prisoners into the port of §alee.
Our men were sent to the Emperor's court to be sold there;
but, the pirate captain taking notice of me, kept me to be
his own slave.
In this condition, I thought myself the mosfr niiserabie
creature on earth, and the prophecy of my father can>e afresh
into my thoughts. However, my condition was better than
I thought it to be, as will soon appear. Some hopes indeed
} had that my new patron would go to sea again, where he
might be taken by a Spanish or Portuguese man of war, and
then I should be set at liberty. But in this I was mistaken;
for he nfcver took me with him, but left me to look after h s
little garden, and do the drudgery of his house; and when he
returned from sea, would make me lie in the cabin, and
look after the ship. I had no one that I could communicate
my thoughts to, which were continually meditating my
escape; no Englishman, Irishman or Scotchman here, but
myself; and for two years I could see nothing practicable,
but only pleased mvself with the imagination. #
After some length of time, my patron, as I found, grew so
poor that he could not fit out his ship as usual; and then jie
used constantly, once or twice a wWk, if the weather was
fair, to go out a fishing, taking me and a young Moresco boy
to row the boat; and so much pleased was he with me for
my dexterity in catching the fish, that he would often send
me with a Moor, who was one of his kinsmen, and the Mo-
resco youth, to catch a dish of fish for him.
One morning as we were at the sport, there arose such
a thick fog that we lost sight of the shore; and rowing we
knew not which way, we laboured all the night, and in the
morning found ourselves in the ocean, two leagues from
land. However, we attained there at length, and made-the
greater haste, because our stomachs were exceedingly sharp
and hungry. In order to prevent such disasters for the
ftiture, my patron ordered a carpenter to build a little state
room or cabin in the middle or the long-boat, with a place
behind it to steer and hale home the mam sheet, with other
conveniences to keep in from the weather; as also lockers to
t in all manner of provisions, with a handsome shoulder
mutton sail, gibing over the cabirk
$h this he frequently took us out a fishing; and one time
inviting two or three persons of distinction to go with him,
made provisions extraordinary, providing also three fusees,
with powder and shot, that they might have some sport at
fowling along the sea-coast The next morning the boat
was made clean, her ancient and pendants out, and every
thing ready; but their minds altering, my patron ordered
us to-go a fishing, for that his guests would certainly sup
with him that night
And now I began to think of my deliverance indeed. In
order to this I persuaded the Moor to get some provision*
on board as not daring to meddle with our patron's; and
he- taking my advice, we stored ourselves with rusk biscuit,
and three jars of water. Besides, I privately conveyed
.into the boat a bottle of brandy, some twine, thread, a ham-
mer, hatchet, and a saw; apd, in particular, some bees-wax,
wjjicji was a great comfort to me, and served to make can-
dies. I then persuaded Muiey (for so was the Moor called)
to procure some powder and shot, pretending to kill sea cur-
lews, which he innocently and readily agreed to. In short,
being provided with all things necessary, we sailed out, re-
giving for my own part to make my escape, though it should
cost me my life.
.When we had passed the castle, we fell a fishing; but
though I knew there was a bite, I dissembled the matter, in
order to put out further to sea. Accordingly we ran a league
further; when giving the boy the helm, and pretending to
stoop for something, I seized Muley by surprise and threw
him overboard. As he was an excellent swimmer, he soon
arose, and made towards the boat; upon which, I took out
a fusee, and presented at him; "Muley" said I, "I never
"yet designed to do you any harm, and seek nothing now
 
+> but my redemption. I know you are able enough to swim
*fc to shore, and save your life; but if you are resolved to
u follow me, to the endangering of mine, the very moment
"you proceed, I will shoot you through the head/' Tlie
harmless creature at these words, turned himself from me,
and I make no doubt got safe to land. Then turning to the
boy Xury, I perceived he trembled at the action; but 1 put
him out of all fear, telling him, that if he would be true and
faithful to me, I would do well by him, '* And therefore,"
said 1 " you must stroke your face to be faithful; and as the
"Turks have learned you, swear by Mahomet, and the beard
u of your father, or else I will throw you into the sea also/'
So innocent did the child then look, and with such an oblig-
ing smile consented, that I readily believed him, and from
that day forward began to love him entirely.
We then pursued our voyage; and lest they should think
me gone to the straits' mouth, I kept to the southward to
the truly Barbarian coast,* but in the dusk of the evening, I
changed ray course, and steering directly S. and by E. that I
might keep near the shore; and having a fresh gale of wind,
with a pleasant smooth sea, by three o*clock next day, I was
one hundred and fifty miles beyond the Emperor of Morocco's
dominions. Yet still having the dreadful apprehension of
being retaken, I continued sailing for five days successively,
till such time as the wind shifting to the southward, made me
conclude, that if any vessel was in chase of me, they would
proceed no farther. After so much fatigue and thought, I
anchored at the mouth of a little river, I knew not what or
where; neither did I then see any people. What I principally
wanted was fresh water; and I was resolved about dusk to
swim ashore. But no sooner did the gloomy clouds of night
begin to succeed the declining day, when we heard such
barking, roaring, and howling of wild creatures, that one
might have thought the very strongest monster of nature, or
infernal spirits had their residence there. Poor Xury, almost
dead with fear, entreated me not to go on shore that night.
"Supposing I don't Xury," said I " and in the morning we
44 should see men who are worse than those we fear, what
u then?" "O den we may give dem the shoot gun," replied
Xury, laughing, *« and de-gun make dem all run away.* The
wit and broken English, which the boy had learned among the
captives of our nation, pleased me entirely; and to add to his
cheerfulness, I gave him a dram of the bottle. We could get
but little sleep all the night for those terrible howlings, they'
made; and indeed, we were both very much affrighted, when,
by the rolling of the water, and other tokens, we justly con- <
eluded one of those monsters made towards our boat, I could
not see, till it came within two oars length, when taking my
fusee, I let fly at him. Whether I hit nim or no 1 cannot
tell; but he made towards the shore, and the noise of my
gun increased the stupendous noise of the monsters.
The next morning I was resolved to go on shore to get
fresh water, and venture my life among the beasts or savages,
should either attack me. Xury said, he would take one of
the jars and bring me some. I asked him* why he would
go, and not I? The poor boy answered, "if wild mans come,
they eat me, you go away," A mind scarcely now to be
imitated, so contrary to self-preservation, the most powerful
law of Nature. This indeea, increased my affections to the
child. "Well, dear Xury," said I " we will both go ashore*
both kill wild mans, and they shall eat neither of ua." So
giving Xury a piece of rusk-bread to eat, and a dram, we
waded ashore, carrying nothing with us but our arms, and
two jars of water. I did not go out of sight of the boat, as
dreading the savages coming down the river in their canoes;
but the boy seeing a low descent or vale about a mile in the
country, he wandered to it: and then running back to me
with great precipitation* 1 thought he was pursued by some
savage or wild beast; upon which I approached, resolving
to perish or protect him from danger. A s he came nearer
to me, I saw something hanging over his shoulders, which
was a creature he had shot like a hare, but different in colour,
and longer legs.; however we were glad of it, for it proved
wholesome and nourishing meat: but what added to our joy
was, my boy assured me there was plenty of water, and that
he see no wild maris. And greater still was our comfort when
the tide was out, without going so far up in the country.
In tills place I began to consider that the Canary and Cape
de Verde islands lay not far off; but having no instrument,
I knew not what latitude, or when to stand off to sea, for
them; yet my hopes were I should meet some of the Eng-
lish trading vessels, who would relieve and take us in.
The place I was in was no doubt that wild country, in-
habited only by a few, that lies between the Emperor of
Morocco's dominions and the Negroes. It is filled with
wild beasts, and the Moors use it for hunting chiefly. From
14
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
this place I thought I saw the top of the mountain Teneriffe
in the Canaries; which made me try twice to attain it;
bat as often was I drove back, and so "forced tQ pursue my
fortune along shore. ^ *
Early one morning we came to an anchor under a little
point of land, but pretty high: and the tide beginning to
flow, we lay jeady to go further in. But Xury, whose
youthful and penetrating eyes were sharper than mine, in a
soft tone* desired me to keep far from land, lest we should
be devoured,u For look yonder, master,1' said he, " and see
"de dreadful monster fast asleep on de side of de hill/'— <
Accordingly looking where he pointed, I espied a fearful
monster indeed. It was a terrible great lion that lay on
shore covered as it were by the shade of a piece of the" hill.
«« Xury," said I, " you shall go on shore and kill him.,\ But
the boy looking amazed: *« Me kill him !,; says he, u he eat
me at one mouth meaning one mouthfuL Upon which I
bid him lie still, and charging my biggest gun with two
and a good charge of powder, i took the best aim I
could to shoot him through the head, but his leg lying over
his nose, the slug broke his knee bone. . The Hon awaking
with the pain, got up, but soon fell down, giving the most
hideous groan I ever heard: but taking my second piece, |
1 shot him through the head, and then he lay struggling for >
Mfe. Upon this Xury took heart, and desired my leave to
go on. shore. "Go then," said I. Upon which taking a
Ettle gun in one hand, he swam to shore with the other, and
coming close to the lion, put a period to his life by shooting
him again through the head.
But this was spending, our ammunition in vain, the flesh
not being good to eat, Xury was like a champion, and
comes on board for a hatchet, to cut. off the head of his ent-
my; bat not having strength to perform it» he cut oft' and
brought me a foot. 1 bethought me, however that his skin
would be of use. This work cost Xury and me a whole
day; When spreading it on the top of our cabin, t.hs hot
beams.of the sun effectually dried it in two days' time., and
it afterwards served me for a bed to lie on.
An<} now we sailed southerly% living sparingly on our pro-
visbns, and went no oftener on shore tnan we were obliged
Hm ftaab <water. My design was to make the river Gambia
or Senegal, or any where about the Ca^e de Verde, in hopes
to me£t some European ship. If providence did not so fa-
IS
vour me, my next course was to seek for the islands, °r Jose
ray life amongst the Negroes. And, in a word, I put ray
whole stress upon this, "Either that I must meet w$fi
some ship, or certainly perish."
One day as we were sailing along, we saw people stand
on the shore looking at us; we could also perceive they
were black and stark naked. 1 was inclined to go on shore,
but Xury cried, "No noV however, I approached nearer,
and I found they run along the shore by me a good wav.
They had no weapons in their hands, except one, wljo held
a long stick, which Xury told me was a lance, with which
they could kill at a great distance. I talked to them by
signs, and made them sensible I wanted something to *at;
they beckoned me to stop my boat, while two- of them' ran
up into the country, and in less than half an hour came, back,
and brought with them two pieces of dried flesh and some
corn, which we kindly accepted; and to prevent any fears
on either side, they brought the food to the shore, laid it
down, then went and stood a great way off till we fetched
it on board, and then came close to us again*
But while we were returning thanks to them, being all we
could afford, two mighty creatures came from the mountains;
one as it were pursuing the other with great fury, which we
were the rather inclined to believe, as they seldom appear
but in the night ; and both these swiftly passing by the Ne-
groes, jumped into the sea, wantonly swimming about, as
though the diversion of the waters had put a stop to their fierce*
ness. At last one of them coming nearer to my boat than I
expected or desired, I shot him directly through the head;
upon which he sunk immediately, yet rising again, would
have willingly made the shore; but between the wound and
the strangling of the water he died before he could reach it.
It is impossible to express the consternation the poor Ne-
groes were in at the firing of my gun; much less can I men-
tion their surprise, when they perceived the creature tb be
slain by it. 1 made signs to them to draw near it with a
rope, and then gave it them to hale on shore. It was a beau-
tiful leopard which made me desire its skin, and the Ne-
groes seeming to covet the carcase, I freely gave it to them.
As for the other leopard, it made to shore, and ran with pro-
digious swiftness out of sight. The Negroes having kindly
furnished me with water, and with what roots and grains
their country afforded, I took my leave* and after eleven
 
days sail, came in sight of the Cape de Verde, and those
islands called by its name. But the great distance I was from
it, and fearing contrary winds would prevent my reaching
them, I began to grow melancholy and dejected, when, upon
a sudden, Xury cried out, •« Master! Master! a ship with a
sail r and looking as affrighted as if it was his Master's ship
aent in search of us. But I soon discovered she was a Por-
tuguese ship, as 1 thought bound to the coast of Guinea for
Negroes. Upon which I strove for life to come up to them.
But vain had it been, if through their perspective glasses they
bad not perceived me and shortened their sail to let me come
up. Encouraged at this, I set up my patron's ancient and
fired a. gun, both as signals of distress; upon which they
very kindly lay to, so that in three hours time I came up
with tbem. rlhey spoke to me in Portuguese, Spanish, and
French, but none of these did I understand; till at length
a Scot's tailor called, and then I told him I was an English-
man, who had escaped from the Moors at Salee; upon
which they took me kindly on board, with all my effects.
Surely none can express the inconceivable joy 1 felt at
this happy deliverance i who from being a late miserable
md forlorn creature, was not only relieved but in favour
with the master of the ship, to whom, in return for my de-
liverance, I offered all I had. 44 God forbid," said he,
u that I should take any thing from you. Every thing shall
*' be delivered to you when you come to Brazil. If I have
"saved your Efe, it is no more than 1 should expect to re-
44 oeive myself from any other, when in the same circum-
44 stances 1 should happen to meet with the like deliverance.—
** And should I take from you what you have, and leave you
"at Brazil, why, this would be only taking away a life I
44 had given* My charity teaches me better. Those effects
44 you have will support you there, and provide you a pas-
\4 sage home again.** And, indeed, he acted with the strict-
est justice in what he did* taking my things into his posses-
sion, and giving me an exact inventory, even to my earthen
jars. He bought my boat of me for the ship^s use, giving
toe a note of eighty pieces of eight, payable at Brazil; and
if any body offered more he would make it up. He also
gave roe sixty pieces for my boy Xury. It was with great
reluctance I was prevailed upon to sell the child's liberty,
wb0> bad served me so faithfully; but the boy was willing
himself; and it was agreed, that after ten years he should
 
17
he made free, upon his renouncing Mahometatiism, and
embracing Christianity.
Having a pleasant voyage to the Brazils, we arrived in
the Bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints Bay, in twenty-
two days after. And here I cannot forget the generous
treatment of the captain. He would take nothing for my
passage, gave me twenty ducats for the leopard's skin, and
thirty for the lion's. Every thing he caused to be delivered
and what I would sell he bought. In short I made about
220 pieces of my cargo; and with this stock I entered
once more, as 1 may say, into the scene of life.
Being recommended to an honest planter, I lived with
him till such time as I was informed of the manner of their
planting and making sugar; and seeing how well they
lived, and how suddenly they grew rich, 1 was filled with, a
desire to settle among them, and resolved to get my money
remitted to me, and to purchase a plantation.
To be brief, I bought a settlement next door to an honest
and kind neighbour, born at Lisbon, of English parents,
whose plantation joining to mine, we improved it very ami-
cably together. Both our stocks were low, and for two
years we planted only for food: but the third year we
planted some tobacca, and each of us dressed a large piece
of ground the ensuing year for planting canes. But now
I found how much I wanted assistance, and repented the
loss of my dear boy Xury.
Having none to assist me, my father's words came into
my mind; and I used to ask myself, if what 1 sought was
only a middle station of life, why could it not as well be ob-
tained in England as here? When I pondered on this with
regret, the thoughts of my late deliverance forsook me. I
had none to converse with but my neighbour, no work to be
done but by my own hands; it often made me sayy my con-
dition was like to that of a man cast upon a desolate island.
So unhappy are we in our reflections, so forgetful of what
good things we receive ourselves, and so unthankful for
our deliverance from those calamities that others endure.
I was in some measure settled, before the captain who
took me up departed from the Brazils* One day I went to
him, and told him what stock I had in London, desiring his
a3sistance in getting it remitted; to which the good gentle-
man readily consented, but would only have me send for
half my money, lest it should miscarry; which if it did I
might still have the remainder to support me: and so tak-
ing letters of procuration of me, bid me trouble myself no
further about it,
And indeed wonderful was his kindness towards me; for
he not only procured the money I had drawn for upon my
captain's widow, but sent me over a servant with a cargo
proportionable to my condition. He also sent me over
tools of all sorts, iron-work, and utensils necessary for my
plantation, which proved to be of the greatest use to me
in my business.
"W ealth now accumulating on me, and uncommon success
crowning my prosperous labours, 1 might have rested happy
in that middle state of life my father had so often recom-
mended; yet nothing would content me, such was my evil
genius, but I must leave this happy station, for a foolish am-
bition in rising; and thus, once more, I cast myself into the
greatest gulf of misery that ever a poor creature fell into.
Having lived four years in Brazil, I had not ouly learned
the language, but contracted acquaintance with the most
eminent planters, and even the merchants of St. Saivadot;
to whom, once, by way of discourse, having given an account
of my two voyages to the coast of Guinea, and the manner
of trading there for mere trifles, by which we furnish our
plantations with Negroes, they gave such attention to what 1
said, that three of them came one morning to me, and told
me they had a secret proposal to make* Alter enjoining me
to secrecy* (it being an infringement on the powers of the
kings of Portugal and Spain,) they told me they had a mind
to fit out a ship to go to Guinea, in order to stock the plan-
tation with Negroes, which as they could not be publicly
sold, they would divide among them; and if I would go
their super-cargo in the ship to manage the trading part, I
should have an equal share of the Negroes, without provid-
ing any stock. The thing indeed was fair enough, had I
been in another condition,1^ But I was born to be my own
destroyer, I could rtot resist the proposal, but accepted the
offer upon condition of their looking after my plantation, So
making a formal will, I bequeathed my effects to my good
friend the captain, as my universal heir; but obliged him
to dispose of my effects as directed, one half of the produce
to himself, and the other to be shipped to England.
";The ship being fitted out, and all things ready, we set
sail the first of September, 16£9* being the same day eigh^
 
19
years I left my father and mother in Yorkshire. _ tW« sailed
northward upon the coast, in order to gain. Africa, till we
made Cape Augustine; from whenee going farther into the*
ocean out of sight of land* we steered as though we were
bound for the Isle Fernand de Norenba, leaving the islands
on the east; and then it was that we met with a terrible
tempest, which continued for twelve days successively, so
that the winds carried us wheresoever they pleased, in this
perplexity one of our men died, and one man and a boy
were washed overboard. When the weather cleared up a
little, we found ourselves in eleven degrees north latitude,
upon the coast of Guinea. Upon this the captain gave rea-
sons for returning; which I opposed, counselling him to stand
away for Barbadoes, which, as I supposed, might be attained
in fifteen days. So altering our course, we sailed north-
west and by west, in order to reach the Leeward islands;
but a second storm succeeding, drove us to the westward;
so that we were justly afraid of falling into the hands of
cruel savages, or the paws of devouring beasts of prey.
In this great distress, one of our men, early in the morn-
ing, cried out, "Land, land !v which he had no sooner said,
but our ship struck upon a sand-bank, and in a moment
the sea broke over her in such a manner, that we expected
we should all have perished immediately. We knew no-
thing where we were, or upon what land we were driven;
whether an island or the main, inhabited or not inhabited;
and we could not so much as hope that the ship would hoid out
many minutes, without breaking in pieces, except the wind,
by a miracle, should turn about immediately. While we
stood looking at one another, expecting death every moment,
the mate lays hold of the boat, and with the help of the rest
ot her flung over the ship's side, and getting all into her,
eing eleven of us, committed ourselves to God's mercy and
the wild sea. And now we saw that this last effort would
not be sufficient protection from death; so high did the sea
rise, that. it was impossible the boat should live. As tq
making a sail, we had none; neither if we had, could we
make use of any. So that when we had rowed, or rather^
were driven about a league and a half, a raging wave, like^
a Jofty mountain, came rolling a-stern of us, and took, us
with such fury, that at once it overset the boat. Thus being
swallowed up in a moment, we had hardly time to call u|K$a y
the tremendous name of God; much less to implore, ill (Jying
ejaculations^ his infinite mercv t' > receive our departing souls.
 
 
Men dre generally: counted insensible when struggling in
the pangs of death; but while I was overwhelmed with
water, 1 had the most dreadful apprehensions imaginable.
For the joys of heaven and the torments of hell, seemed to
present themselves before me in these dying agonies, and
even small space of time, as it were, between life and death.
I was going I thought I knew not whither, into a dismal
gulf unknown, and as yet unperceived, never to behold
my friends nor the light of this world any more! Could I
even have thought ot annihilation, or a total dissolution of
soul as well as body, the gloomy thoughts of having no far-
ther being, no knowledge of what we hoped for, but an
eternal quietus, without life or sense: even that, I say,
would have been enough to strike me with horror and con*
fusion! I strove, however, to the last extremity, while all
my companions were overpowered and entombed in the
deep: and it was with great difficulty I kept my breath till
the wave spent itself, and retiring back, left me on the shore
half dead with the water I had taken in. As soon as I got
on my feet, 1 ran as fast as I could, lest another wave
should pursue me, and carry me back again. But for all
the haste 1 made, I could not avoid it; for the sea came
after me like a high mountain, or furious enemy; so that
my business was to hold my breath, arid by raising myself
on the water, preserve it by swimming. The next dread-
ful wave buried me at once twenty or thirty feet deep, but at
the same time carried me with a mighty force and swiftness
towards the shore; when raising myself, I held out as well
as possible, till at length the wata* having spent itself, be-
gan to return, at which I struck forward, and feeling ground
with my feet I took to my heels again. Thus being served
twice more, I was at length dashed against a piece of rock,
in such a manner as left me senseless; but recovering a
little before the return of the wave* which no doubt would
then have overwhelmed me, I held fast by the rock till those
succeeding waves abated; and then fetching another run,
was overtaken by a small wave, which was soon conquered.
But before any more could overtake me, I reached the main
land, when clambering up the clifts of the shore, tired and
almost spent, I sat down on the grass, free from the dangers
of the foaming ocean.
No tongue can express the ecstacies and transports that
my soul felt at this happy deliverance. It was like a reprieve
21
to a dying malefactor, with a halter about his neck, and
ready to be turned off. I was wrapt up in contemplation*
and often lifted up my hands, with the profoundest humility,
to the Divine powers, for saving my life, when the rest of
my companions were all drowned. And now I began to
cast my eyes around, to behold what place 1 was in, and
what 1 had next to do. I could see no house nor people; I
was wet, yet had no clothes to shift nie; hungry and tnirsty,
yet had nothing to eat or drink; no weapon to destroy any
creatures for my sustenance, nor defend myself against de-
vouring beasts; in short, I had nothing but a knife, a
tobacco pipe, and a box half filled with tobacco. The
darksome night coming upon me, increased my fears of
being devoured by wild creatures; my mind was plunged
in despair, and having no prospect, as I thought, of life be-
fore me, 1 prepared for another kind of death than what I had
lately escaped. I walked about a furlong to see if I could
find any fresh water, which I did to my great joy; and
taking a quid of tobacco to prevent hunger, I got up into a
thick bushy tree, and seating myself so that I could not fall,
a deep sleep overtook me, and for that night buried my sor-
rows in a quiet repose.
It was broad day the next morning before I awaked;
when I not only perceived the tempest was ceased, but saw
the ship driven almost as far as yie rock before-mentioned,
which the waves had dashed me against, and which was
about a mile from the place where 1 was. When I came
down from niy apartment in the tree, I perceived the ship's
boat two miles distant on my right-hand, lying on shore, as
the waves had cast her. I thought to have got to her; but
there being an inlet of water of ahout half a mile's breadth
between it and me, I returned again towards the ship, as
hoping to find something for my more immediate subsist-
ence. About noon, when the sea was calm, that I could come
within a quarter of a mile of her, it was to my grief that I
perceived, that if we had kept on board all our lives harf
been saved. These .thoughts, and my solitude, drew tears
from my eyes, though all in vain. So resolving to get to
the ship, I stripped and ieapt irfto the water; when swim-
ming round her, I was afraid I should not get any thiog to
lay hold of; but it was my good fortune to espy a small
piece of rope hang down by the fore-chains, so low tfaat by
the -help of it, though with great difficulty, I got into the
forecastle of the ship. Here I found that the ship war
bulged, and had a great deal of water in her hold; her stern
was lifted up against a bank, and her head almost to the
water. All her quarters, and what was there, was free and
dry. The provisions I found in good order, with which I
crammed my pockets, and losing no time, eat while I was
doing other things; I also found some rum, of which I took
a hearty dram; and now I wanted for nothing except a
boat, which indeed was all, to carry away what was needful
for me.
Necessity occasions quickness of thought. We had se-
veral spare yards, a spare topmast or two, and two or three
large spars of wood. With these I fell to work, and flung
as many of them overboard as I could manage, tying every
one of them with a rope, that they might not drive away.
This done I went down to the ship's side, and tied four of
them fast together at both ends, in form of a raft, and laying
two or three short pieces of plank upon them crossways, I
found it would bear me, but not any considerable weight.
Upon which I went to work again, cutting a spare topmast
into three lengths, adding them to my raft with a great deal
of labour and pains. I then considered what I should load
it with, it being not able to bear a ponderous burden. And
this I soon thought of, first laying upon it all the planks and
boards I could get; next I lowerea down three of the sea- i
men's chests, after I had filled them with bread, rice, three
Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried goat's flesh, and some
European corn, what little the rats had spared; and for
liquors, 1 found several cases of bottles belonging to our
skipper, in which were some cordial waters, and four or
five gallons of rack, which I stowed by themselves. By
this time the tide beginning to flow, I perceived my coat,
waistcoat, and shirt swim away, which I had left on the
shore; as for my linen-breeches and stockings, I swam with
them to t|ie ship; but I soon found clothes enough, though I
took no more than I wanted for the present My eyes were
chiefly on tools to work with; and, after a long search, I
found out the carpenter's chest, which I got safe down on
my raft. I then looked for arms and ammunition, and in the
great cabin found two good fowling-pieces, two pistols, se-
veral powder-horns filled, a small bag, of, shot, and two old
rusty swords. I likewise found three barrels of powder,
two of which were jjjood* but the third fiad taken water,
 
28
also two or three broken oars, two saws, an axe^and a ham-
mer. I then put to sea, and in getting to shore had three
encouragements. 1. A smooth calm sea. 2. The tide rising
and setting in to shore. 3. The little wind there was
blew towards the land. After I had sailed about a mile, I
found the raft to drive a little distance from the place where
I first landed; and then I perceived a little opening of the
land, with a strong current of the tide running into it; up-
on which I kept the middle of the stream. But great was
my concern, wnen on cr sudden the forepart of my raft ran
aground, so that had I not, with great difficulty, for near
half an hour, kept my back straining against the ehests to
keep my effects in their places, all I had would have gone
into the sea. But after some time, the rising of the water
caused the raft to float again, and coming up a little river
with land on both sides^ I landed in a little cave, as near the
mouth as possible, the better to discover a sail, if any such
providentially passed that way.
Not farof% I espied a hill of stupendous height, surrounded
with lesser hills about it, and thither I was resolved to go
and view the country, that I might see what part was best
to fix my habitation. Accordingly, arming myself with a
pistol, a fowling-piece, powder and ball, I ascended the
mountain. There I perceived I was in an island, encom-
passed by the sea, no distant lands to be seen, but scattering
rocks that toy to the west: that it seemed to be a barren
place, and as I thought, inhabited only by wild beasts. I
perceived abundance of fowls, but ignorant of what kind, or
whether good for nourishment; I shot one of them at. my
return, which occasioned a confused screaming among the
other birds, and I found it; by its colour and beak, to be a
kind of hawk, but its flesh was perfect carrion.
When I came to my raft, I brought my effects on shore,
which work spent that day entirely: and fearing that some
cruel beasts might devour me in the night time wnile I slept,
I made a kind of hut or barricade with the chests and boards ,
I had brought on shore. That night I slept very comfort-
ably; and the next morning my thoughts were employed to *
make a further attempt on the ship, and bring away wfiat .
necessaries I could find, before another storm should break;
her in pieces. Accordingly I got on board as before, and'
prepared a second raft far more nice than the first, upon
wl»<jh I brought away the carpenter's stores, two or three
 
 
bags full of nails, a great jack-screw, a dozen or two of
hatchets, and a grind-stone. 1 also took away several things
that belonged to the gunner, particularly two or three iron
crows, two barrels of musket-bullets, another fowling piece,
a small quantity of powder, and a lage bagful of small shot
Besides these, I took all the men's clothes I could find, a
spare fore top-sail, a hammock, and some bedding; and thus
completing my second cargo, I made all the haste to shore I
could, fearing some wild beast might destroy what I had
there already. But I only found a little wild cat sitting on
one of the chests, which seeming not to fear me or the gun
that I presented at her, I threw her a piece of biscuit, which
she instantly eat and departed.
When I had got these effects on shore, I went to work, in
order to make me a little tent with the sail and some poles
which I had cut for that purpose; and having finished it,
what things might Jbe damaged by the weather I brought in,
friling all the empty chests and casks in a circle, the better to
brtify it against any sudden attempt of man or beast. After
this 1 blocked up the door with some boards, and an empty
chest, turned the long way out. I then charged my gun
and pistol, and laying my Tbed on the ground, slept as com-
fortably, till next morning, as though 1 had been in a Chris-
tian country.
Now, though I had enough to subsist me a long time, yet
despairing of a sudden deliverance, or that both ammunition
and provision might be spent before such thing happened, I
coveted as much as I could; and so long as the ship re-
mained in that condition, 1 daily brought away one necessary
or other; particularly the rigging, sails, and cordage, some
wine, a barrel of wet powder, some sugar, a barrel of meal,
three casks of rum, and, what indeed was most welcome to
me, a whole hogshead of bread.
The next time 1 went I cut the cables in pieces, carried off
a hawser whole, with a gr,eat deal of iron-work,, and made
another raft with the mizen and sprit-sail yard; but this
being so unwieldy, by the too heavy burden I had upon it,
and not being able so dexterously to guide it as the former,
both my cargo and I were overturned. For my part, all the
damage I sustained was a wet skin; and, at low water, after
much labour, in diving, I got most of the cables, and some
pieces of iron.
Thirteen days I had now been in the island, and eleven
 
OP RObiiVSON CKU8UE.
25
times on board, bringing away all that was possible; and I
believe had the weather been calm, 1 should have brought
away the whole ship piece by piece. As I was going the
twelfth time, the wind began to rise; however 1 ventured
at low water, and rummaging the cabin, in a locker I found
several razors, scissors, and some dozens of knives, and -
forks; and in another thirty-six pounds of pieces of eight,
silver and gold. £< Ah! simple vanity," said I, "whom
"this world so much dotes on, where is now thy virtue, thy
u excellency to me? You cannot procure me one thing
"needful, nor remove me from this desolate island to a
« place of plenty. One of these knives, so meanly esteemed,
"is to me more preferable than all this heap. E'en, there-
"fore, remain where thou art, to sink in the deep as unre-
"garded, even as a creature whose life is not worth pre-
"serving." Yet, after all tins exclamation, I wrapt it up in a
piece of canvas, and began to think of making another raft:
but I soon perceived the wind began to rise, a fresh gale
blowing from the shore, and the sky overcast with clouds
and darkness; so thinking a raft to be in vain, IJet myself
into the water, with what things I had about me, and it was
with much difficulty 1 got ashore, when soon after, it blew
a fearful storm.
That night I slept very contentedly in my little tent, sur-
rounded with all my effects; but when I looked out in the
morning, no more ship was to be seen. This much sur-
prised me for the present; yet, when I considered I had lost
no time, abated no pains, and had got every thing useful
out oP her, I comforted myself in the best manner, and
entirely submitted to the will of Providence.
My next thoughts were, how I should defend and secure
myself from savages and wild beasts, if any such were in
the island. At one time I thought of digging a cave; at
another I was for erecting a tent; and, at length I resolved
to do both: The manner or form of which will not, I hope,
be unpleasing to describe.
W hen I considered the ground where I was, that it was
moorish, and had no fresh water near it, my resolutions
were to search for a soil healthy and welJ watered, where I
might not only be sheltered from the sun's scorching heat,
but be more conveniently situated, as well tc% be secured
from wild men and beasts of prey, as more easily to discover
any distant sail, should ft ever so happen.
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
And indeed, it was not long before I had my desire. I
found a little plain near a rising hill, the front towards
which being as steep as a house side, nothing could descend
one me from the top. On the side of this rock was a little
liollow place, resembling the entrance or door of a cave.
Just before this place, on the circle of the green, I resolved
my tent should stand, This plain did not much exceed
a hundred yards broad, and about twice as long* like a de-
lightful green before my door, with a pleasing though an
irregular descent every way to the low grounds by the sea-
side, lying on the N. W. side of the hill; so that it was
sheltered from the excessive heat of the sun. After this, I
drew a semi-circle, containing ten yards in a semi-diameter,
and twenty yards in the whole, driving down two rows of
strong stakes, not six inches from each other. Then with a
piece of cable which I had cut on board, I regularly laid
them in a circle between the piles up to their tops, which
were more than five feet out of the earth, and after drove
another row of piles looking within side against them be-
tween two or three feet high, which made me conclude it a
little impregnable castle against men and beasts. And for
my better security I would have no door, but entered in and
came out by the help of a ladder, which I also made*
Here was my fence and fortress, into which 1 carried all
my riches, ammunition and stores. After which, working
on the rock, what with dirt and stones I dug out, I not
only raised my ground two feet, but made a little cellar to
my mansion-house and this cost me many days labour and
pains. One day, in particular, a shower of rain falling,
thunder and lightning ensued, which put me in terror lest
my powder should take fire, and not only hinder my ne-
cessary subsistence, by killing me food, but even blow up
me and my habitation. To prevent which, I fell to making
boxes and bags, in order to separate it, having by me near
1501b. weight. And thus being established as king of the
island, every day I went out with my gun to see what I
could kill that was fit to eat. I soon perceived numbers of
and seeing I could better shoot off the rocks than when in
the low grounds, 1 happened to shoot a she-goat suckling a
young kid;-which not thinking its dam slain, stood by her
unconcerned; and when I took the dead creature up, the
youpg one followed me even to the inclosure. I lifted the
 
kid over the pales, and would willingly have kept it alive;
but finding it could not bp brought to eat, I was forced to
slav it also for my subsistence.
'Thus entering into as strange a scene of life as ever any
man was in, I had most melancholy apprehensions concern-
would " plentifully run down my face, when I considered
how I was debarred from all communication with human
kind. Yet while these desponding cogitations would seem
to make me accuse Providence, other good thoughts would
interpose and reprove me after this manner: Well, suppos-
ing you are desolate, is it not better to be so than totally
perish? Why were you singled out to be saved, and the rest
destroyed? Why should you complain, when not only your
life is preserved, but the ship driven even into your reach, in
order to take what was necessary out of her for your sub-
sistence? But to proceed. It was by the account I kept,
the 30th of September, when I first landed on this island.
About twelve days after, fearing lest I should lose my
reckoning of time, nay, even orget the Sabbath days, for
want of pen, ink and paper, I carved with a knife upon a
large post, in great letters, and set it up in the similitude of
a cross, on the sea-shore where 1 landed, 1 came on shore,
Sept, 30, 1659. Every day I cut a notch with my knife on
the sides of this square post, and that on the Sabbath was as
long again as the rest; and every first day of the month as
long again as that long one. In this manner I kept my ca-
lendar, weekly, montWy, or yearly reckoning of time. But
had I made a more strict search (as afterwards I did) I
needed not have set up this mark; for among the parcels
belonging to the gunner, carpenter, and captain's mate, I
found those very things I wanted; particularly pens, ink
and paper: also I found two or three compasses, some ma-
thematical instruments, dials, perspective glasses, books of
navigation, three English Bibles, and several other good
books, which I carefully put up.—Here I cannot but call to
mind our having a dog and two cats on board, whom I
made inhabitants with me in my castle. Though one might
think I had all the necessaries that were desirable, yet still
I found several things wanting. My ink was daily wasting;
I wanted needles, pins, and thread, to mend or keep my
clothes together; and particularly a spade, pickaxe, or
shovel* to remove the earth. It was a year before I finished
b 2
ing my deplorable
 
tears
my little bulwark; and having some intervals of relaxation,
after my daily wandering abroad for provision, 1 drew up
this plan, alternately, as creditor and debtor, to remind me
of the miseries and. blessings of my life, under so many
various circumstances.
EVIL. GOOD.
I am cast upon a desolate
island, having no hopes, no
prospect of a welcome deliver
ance.
Hot® miserable am I, sin-
gled out from the enjoyment
or company of mankind.
Like an hermit (rather
should I say a lonely anchor-
ite) am I forced from human
conversation.
 
My clothes after some time]
will be worn out: and then j\
shall have none to cover me.
When my ammunition ts\
wasted, then I shall remain]
without any defence against\
wild men and beasts.
I have no creature, no soul\
to speak to; none to beg as-
sistance from. Some comfort
would it be to resound my\
woes where I am understood,]
and beg assistance where 1
might hope for relief.
And now easing my mind
But yet I am preserved,
while my companions have pe-
rished in the raging ocean.
Yet set apart to be spared
\from death. And he, who has
so preserved me} can deliver
me from this condition.
Hozoever I have food to eat,
and even a happy prospect
of subsistence whilst life en-
dures.
At present I enjoy what is
absolutely needful; and the
climate is so hot, that had I
ever so many, I should hardly
\wear them.
Yet if it does, I see no dan-
ger of any hurt to me, as in
Africa; And what if I had
peencast away upon that coast*
Is there not God to converse
to, and is not he able to relieve
thee? Already has he afforded
thee sustenance, and put it in
thy power to provide for thy-
self till he sends thee a deliver-
ance.
a little by these reflections, I
began to render my life as easy as possible
I must here add, to the description I have given of my
habitation, that having raised a turf-wall against the outside
of it, I thatched it so close, as might keep it from the incle-
mency of the weather; I also improved it within, enlarged
my cave, and made a passage ana door in the rock, which
came out beyond the pale of my fortification. 1 next pro-
ceeded to make a chair and a table, and so began to study
«ich mechanical arts as seemed to me practicable. When J
 
 
*9
wanted a plank or board, I hewed down a tree with my
hatchet, making it as thin with my axe as possible, and thea
smooth enough with an adze to answer my designs: yet
though 1 could make no more this way than one board out of
a tree, in length of time I got boards enough to shelter all my
stores, every thing being regularly placed, and my guns se-
curely hanging against the side of the rock. This made it a
very pleasant sight to me, as being the result of vast labour
and diligence; which leaving for a while, and me to the en-
joyment of it, I shall give the reader an account of my Jour-
nal from the day of my landing, till the fixing and settling of
my habitation, as heretofore shewn.
JOURNAL.
September 30th, 1659, I unhappy Robinson Cruso*
having suffered shipwreck, was driven on this desolate Island,
which 1 named the Desolate Island of Despair, my com-
panions being swallowed up in the tempestuous ocean.
The next day I spent in consideration of my unhappy cir-
cumstances, having, no prospect but of death, either to be
starved with hunger, or devoured with beasts or merciless
savages,
Oct. 1. That morning with great comfort I beheld that
ship drove ashore. Some hopes I had, that when the storm
was abated, I might be able to get some food and neces-
saries out of her, which I conceived were not damaged, be-
cause the ship did stand upright. At this time I lamented the
loss of my companions* and our misfortune in leaving the
vessel. When 1 perceived the ship, as it were, lie dry, I
waded through the sands, then swam aboard, the weather
being very rainy, with scarcely any wind.
To the 14th of this month, my time was employed in mak-
ing voyages every tide, getting what I could out of the ship.
The weather very wet and uncertain.
Oct. 20. My raft and all the goods thereon were overset;
yet I recovered most again at low water.
Oct. 25. It blew hard, and rained night and day, when
the ship went to pieces, so that nothing was seen of her but
the wreck at low water. This day I secured my goods from
the inclemency of the weather.
b S
Oct. 26. I wandered to see where I could find a place
convenient for my abode. 1 fixed upon a rock in the even*
ing, marked out a half moon, intending to erect a wall,
fortified with piles, lined within with pieces of cables, and
covered with turf.
Nov. 1. I erected my tent under a rock, and took up
my lodgings very contentedly in a hammock that night.
Nov. 2. This day I fenced myself in with timber, chests,
and boards.
Nov. 3. I shot two wild fowls, resembling ducks, which
were good to eat, and in the afternoon made me a table.
Nov. 4. I began to live regularly. In the morning, I
allowed myself two or three hours to walk out with my gun;
I then worked till near eleven o'clock, and afterwards re-
freshed myself with what I had to eat. From twelve to
two I would lie down to sleep. Extremely sultry weather.
In the evening go to work again,
Nov. 5. Went out with my gun and dog, shot a wild
cut with a soft skin, but her flesh was good for nothing.
The skins of those 1 killed 1 preserved. In my return, I
perceived many wild birds, and was terrified by some seals,
which made off to sea.
Nov. 6. Completed my table.
Nov. 7. Fair weather. I worked till the 12th, but
omitted the 11th, which, according to my calculation, I sup-
posed to be Sunday.
Nov. 13. Rain in abundance, which, however, much
cooled the air; with thunder and lightning, caused in me a
terrible surprise. The weather clearing, I secured my
powder in separate parcels.
Nov. 14—16. I made little boxes for my powder, lodg-
ing them in several places. 1 also shot a large fowl, which
proved excellent meat*
Nov. 17. 1 began to dig in the rock, yet was obliged to
desist for want of a pickaxe, shovel, and wheelbarrow. Iron
crows I caused to supply the place of the first; but with all
my art I could not make a wheelbarrow.
Nov. 18. It was my fortune to find a tree, resetribling
what the Brazilians call an iron-tree. 1 had like to have
spoiled my axe with cutting it, being very hard and exceed-
ingly heavy; yet, with much labour and industry, I made a
sort of a spade out of it.
Nov. S3. These tools being made, I daily carried on my
business; eighteen days 1 allowed for enlarging my cave,
31
that it might serve me, not only for a warehouse, but kit-
chen, parlour, and cellar. I commonly lay in the tent, un-
less the weather was rainy that I coula not lie dry. So wet
would it be at certain seasons, that 1 was obliged to cover
all within the pale with long poles, in the form of rafters,
leaning against the rock, and loaded them with flags and
large leaves of trees, resembling a thatch.
Dec. 10. No sooner did I think my habitation finished,
but suddenly a great deal of the top broke in, so that it was
a mercy I was not buried in the ruins. This occasioned a
great deal of pains and trouble to me, before I could make
it firm and durable.
Dec. 17. 1 nailed up some shelves, and drove nails and
staples in the wall and posts, to hang things out of the way.
Dec. 20. Every thing I got into its place, then made a
sort of a dresser, and another table.
Dec. 24, Uh. Rain in abundance.
Dec. 26. Very fine weather.
Dec. 27. I chanced to light on some goats, shot one,
and wounded another. I led it home in a string, bound up
its leg, and cured it in a little time; at length it became so
tame and familiar as to feed before the door, and follow
me where I pleased. This put me in mind to bring up
tame creatures, in order to supply me with food after my
ammunition was spent
Dec. 28, 29, 30. The weather being excessively hot,
with little air, obliged me for the most part to keep within
doors.
Jan. 1. Still sultry; however obliged by necessity, I
went out with my gun, and found a great store of goats in
the valleys; they were exceedingly shy, nor could my dog
hunt them down.
Jan. 3—14*. My employment this time was to finish the
wall before described, and search the island. I discovered
a kind of pigeons, like our house pigeons, in a nest among
the rocks. I brought them home, nursed them till they
could fly, and then they left me. After this, 1 shot some,
which proved excellent food. Some time I spent vainly in
contriving to make a cask; I may well say it was vain, be-
cause 1 could neither joint the staves, nor fix the heads, so as
to make it tight: So, leaving that, took some goat's tallow I
had about me, and a little oakum for the wick, and provided
myself with a lamp, which served me instead of candles.
B 4
 But now a very strange event happened. For being In
the height of my search, what should come into my hand,
but a bag, which used to hold corn (as I supposed) for the
fowls; so immediately resolving to put gunpowder in it, I
shook all the husks and dirt upon one side of the rock, little
expecting what the consequence would be. The rain had
fallen plentifully a few clays before; and about a month
after, to my great amazement something began to look out
very green and flourishing; and when I came to view it
more nicely every day as it grew, I found about ten or
twelve ears of green barley, appearing in the very same shape
and make as that in England.
I can scarce express the agitations of my mind at this
sight. Hitherto, 1 had looked upon the actions of this life
Ho otherwise than only as the events of blind chance and
fortune. But now the appearance of this barley, flourishing
in a barren soil, and my ignorance in not conceiving how it
should come there, made me conclude, that miracles were
not yet ceased: nay 1 even thought that God had appointed
it to grow there without any seed, purely for my sustenance
in this miserable and desolate island. And indeed such
great effect this had upon me, that it often made me melt
into tears, through a grateful sen£e of God'k mercies; and
the greater still was my thankfulness, when I perceived
about this little field of barley some rice stalks also, wonder-
fully flourishing.
While thus pleased in mind, I concluded there must be
more corn in the island; and therefore made a diligent
search narrowly among the rocks; but not being able to
find any, on a sudden it came to my mind, how I had shaken
the husks of corn out of the bag, and then my admiration
ceased, with my gratitude to the Divine Being, as thinking
it was but natural^ and not to be conceived a miracle; though
even the manner of its preservation might have made me
own it was a wonderful event of God's kind Providence.
It was about the latter end of June when the ears of
this corn ripened, which 1 laid up very carefully, together
with £0 or 30 stalks of rice, expecting one day I should reap
the fruit of my labour; yet four years were expired before
1 Gould allow myself to "eat any barley bread, and much
longer time before I had any rice. After this, with indefa-
tigable pains and industry, for three or four months, at last
} finished my wall on the 14th of April, having na way to
go into it, but by a ladder against the waJL
 
33
April 17. I finished my ladder and ascended it; after-
wards pulled it up, then let it down on the other side, and
descended into my new habitation, where I had space enough,
and so fortified, that nothing could attack me without scal-
ing the walls.
But what does all human pains and industry avail, if the
blessing of God does not crown our labours? Or who can
stand before the Almighty, when he stretcheth forth his arm?
For one time as I was at the entrance of my cave, there hap-
pened such a dreadful earthquake, that not only the roof of
the cave came tumbling about my ears, but the posts seem-
ed to crack terribly at the same time. This put me in great
amazement; and running to the ladder, and getting over the
wall, I then plainly knew it was an earthquake; the place I *
stood on sustained three terrible shocks in less than three
minutes. But judge of my terror when I saw the top of a
Seat rock roll into the sea! I then expected the island would
k swallowed up every moment: And what made the scene
still more dreadful, was to see the sea thrown in the most
violent agitation and disorder by this tremendous accident.
For my part I stood like a criminal at the place of execu-
tion, ready to expire. At the moving of the earth, I was,
as it were, sea-sick; and very much afraid lest the rock,
under which was my defence and habitation, should over-
whelm it and myself in a lasting tomb..
When the third dreadful shock had spent itself, my spirits
began to revive; yet still I would not venture to ascend
the ladder, but continued sitting, not knowing what I should
do. So little grace had I then, as only to say,Lord have
mercy vpon me! and no sooner was the earthquake over, but
. that pathetic prayer left me.
It was not long after, when a horrible tempest arose, at
the same time attended with a hurricane of wind. The sea
seemed mountains high, and the waves rolled so impetuously,
that nothing could be perceived but froth and foam. Three
hours did this storm continue, and in so violent a manner, as
to tear the very trees up by the roots, which was succeeded
by abundance of rain. When the tempest was over, I went
to my tent: but the rain coming on in a furious manner, I
was obliged to take shelter in the cave, where I was forced \
to cut a channel through my fortification to let the water out.:
It continued raining all that night, and some time the next
day. These accidents made tne resolve, as toon pi t|^e
B 5
 
 
 
weather cleared up, to build me a little hut in some open
place, walled round to defend me from wild creatures and
savages; not doubting but at the next earthquake, the
mountains would fall upon my habitation and me, and swal-
low up all in its bowels.
April 16—20. These day I spent in contriving how
and in what manner I should fix my place of abode. All
this while I was under the most dreadful apprehensions.—
When I looked round my habitation, every thing I found in
its proper place. 1 had several resolutions whether I should
move or not; but at length resolved to stay where I was till
I found out a convenient place where I might pitch my tent.
April £2. .When I began to put my resolutions in prac-
tice, I was stopt for want of tools and instruments to work
with. Most of my axes and hatchets were useless, occa-
sioned by cutting the* hard timber that grew on the island.
It took me up a full week to make my grindstone of use to
me; and at last I found out a way to turn it about with my
foot, by help of a wheel and a string.
April 28, 29. These days was spent in grinding my tools.
A pril SO. My bread falling short, i allowed myself but
one biscuit a day.
May 1. As 1 walked along the sea-shore, I found a barrel
of gun-powder, and several pieces of the wreck, the sea had
flung up. Having secured these, I made, to the ship, whose
•tern was tore off, and washed a great distance ashore ; but
the rest lay in the sands. This I supposed was occasioned
by the earthquake. J now resolved to keep my old place
of abode; and also to go to the ship that day, but then
found it impossible.
May 3. This day I went on board, and with my saw
sawed off one of the beams; which kept the quarter-deck.
1 then cleared the sand till flood.
Mpy 4. I caught some fish, but they were not whole-
*>me. The same day I also catched a young dolphin.
May 5. This day I also repaired to the wreck, and sawed
mother piece of timber, and when the flood came, I made
V floatof three great ptenks, which were driven ashore by
he tide.
May 6—9. These days I brought off the iron bolts,
opened the deck with the iron erow and carried two plank*
to land, having made a way into the very middle of the
week.
 
May 10—14. All this time I spent in bringing off great
quantities of iron and timber.
May 15. Took with me two hatchets on purpose to cut
off some lead from the roll, but all in vain; for it lay too
low under water.
May 16. I omitted going to the wreck this day ; for em-
ploying myself to look for pigeons, I out stayed my time.
May 17. I perceived several pieces of the wreck driven
ashore, which t found belonged to the head of the ship.
May 24. To this day 1 worked on the wreck, and with
great difficulty loosened some things so much with tho crow,
that at the first flowing tide, several casks floated out, and
many of the seamen's chests; yet that day ncfthing came to
land but pieces of timber, and a hogshead which had some
Brazil pork in it* 1 continued working to the 15th of June;
(except necessary time for food or rest;) and, had I known
how to have built a boat, I had timber and phnks enough;
1 had also near 100 weight of sheet lead.
June I(>. As I was wandering towards the sea-side, I
found a large tortoise or turtle, being the first I had seen on
the island though, as 1 afterwards found, there were many
on the other side of it.
June 17. This day 1 spent in cooking it, found in her
threescore eggs, and her flesh the most savoury and pleasant
I ever tasted in my life.
June 18. I staid within this day, there being a continual
rain, and it was somewhat more chilly and cold tnan usual.
June 19. Exceedingly bad, being taken with a trembling
and shivering, %
Jun3 20. Awake all night, my head racked with pain,
and feverish.
June 21. Sick unto death, and terrified with the dismal
apprehensions of my condition. Prayed to God more fre*
quently, but very confusedly,
June 22. Something better, but still uneasy in my mind.
June 28. Again relapsed much as before.
June 24. Mended a second time.
June £5. A violent ague for seven hoars, cold and hot
fits, succeeded with faint sweats
June 26. Better but very weak, yet I scrambled out, shot
a die-goat, brought it home and boiled some of it; I would
willingly have stewed it3 and made some broth, but had no
B 6
June 27. All this day I was afflicted with an ague";
thirsty, yet could not help myself to water: Prayed to God
in these words: <c Lord in pity look upon me Loirl have
Xi mercy upon me: have mercy upon me!" After this f
fell asleep, which I found had much refreshed me, when. I
awaked. I fell fast asleep a second time, and fell into this
strange and terrible sort of a dream.
Methought 1 was sitting on the same spot of ground at the
outside of the wall where I sat when the storm blew after
the earthquake; and that I saw a man descending from a
great black cloud, and alight upon the ground. He was all
over as bright as a flash of fire that a little before surrounded
him; his countenance inconceivably terrible; the earth, as
it were, trembled when hestept upon the ground, and flashes
of fire seemed to fill all the air. No sooner I thought he
landed upon the earth, but with a long spear or other wea-
pon, he made towards me; but first ascending a rising
ground, his voice added to my amazement, when I thought
1 heard him pronounce these dreadful words, *< Unhappy
"wretch! seeing all these things have not brought thee to
"repentance, thou shalt immediately die." In pronouncing
this dreadful sentence, I thought he meant to Kill me with
* the spear that was in his hand.
Any body maj think it impossible for me to express the
horrors of my mind at this vision: and even when I awaked,
this very dream made a deep impression upon my mind.'
The little divine knowledge I had, I received from- my Ci-
ther's instructions, and that was worn out by an uninter-
rupted series of sea-fcaring impiety for eight years spaco.
Except what sickness forced from me, I do not remember I
had one thought of lifting up my heart towards God, but ra-
ther had a certain stupidity of soul, not having the least sense
- or fear of the Omnipotent Being when in distress, nor of gra-
titude to him for his deliverances. Nay, when 1 was on the
desperate expedition on the desert African shore, I cannot
remember I had one thought of what would become of me,
or to beg his consolation and assistance in my sufferings and
distress. When the Portuguese captain took me up, and
honourably used me, nay, farther, when I was even delivered
from being drowned, by escaping to this island, I never look-
ed upon it as a Judgment, but only said I was an unfortunate
* doff, and that's all. Indeed, some secret transports of soul I
haa, which was not through grace, but only a common flight
 
37
of joy, that I was yet alive, when my companions were all
drowned, and no other joy could 1 conceive, but what is
common with the sailors over a bowl of punch, after they
have escaped the greatest dangers.
The likelihood of wanting for neither food nor conveni- -
prices, might have called upon me for a thankful acknow-
ledgment to Providence. Indeed the growth of my corn V.
touched me with some sense; but that soon wore off again r
The terrible earthquake pointed to me, as it were, the fin-
ger of God, but my dreadful amazement continued no longer
than its duration. But now when my spirits began to sink
under the burden of a strong distemper, and I could leisurely
view the miseries of death present themselves before my
eyes, then my awakened conscience began to reproach me
with my past life, in which I so wickedly provoked the
justice of God to pour down his vengeance upon me.
Such reflections as these oppressed me even in the violence
of distemper. Some prayers 1 uttered, which only proceeded
from the fear of deatn. But when I considered' my father's
advice and prophecy, I could not forbear weeping; for he
told me, "T hat if I did persist in my folly, 1 should not only
"be deprived of God's olessing, but have time enough to
"reflect upon my despising his instructions, and this in a
wretched time, when none could help me." And now
concluding it to be fulfilled, having no soul in the island to
administer any comfort to me, I prayed earnestly to the
Lord, that he would help me in this my great calamity.—
And this I think, was the fust time I prayed in sincerity for
many years. But now I must return to my journal,
June h2S. Something refreshed with sleep, and the fit
quite off, I got up. My dream still occasioned in me a great
consternation; and (earing that the ague might return the
succeeding day, 1 concluded it time to get something to com-
fort me, 1 filled a case-bottle with water, and set "it within
reach of my bed; and to make it more nourishing and less
chilly, I put some rum in it. The next thing I did was to
broil me a piece of goat's flesh, of which I eat but little; t
was very weak; however, I walked about, dreading the return
of my distemper; and at night I supped on three of the
turtleV eggs, which I roasted and eat, begging God's bless-
ing therewith.
After I had eaten, I attempted to walk lagain out of doors,
with my gun; but was so weak, that I sal down, and look*
 
fd at the sea, which was smooth and calm. While I con-
tinued here, these thoughts came into my mind.
In what manner is the production of the earth and sea, of
which I have been so much? From whence came myself,
and all other creatures living, and of what are they made?
Our beings were assuredly created by some almighty in-
visible Power, who framed the earth, the sea, the air, and
all therein* But what is that Power?
Certainly it must follow that God has created it all. Yet,
said I, if God has made all this, he must be the Ruler of
them all, and what is relating thereto; for certainly the
Power that makes must indisputably have a power to guide
and direct them. And if this be so, (as certainly it must,)
nothing can happen without his knowledge and appoint-
ment. Then surely, if nothing happens without God's ap-
pointment, certainly God has appointed these my sufferings
to befall me. And here I fixed my firm belief that it was
his will that it should be so; and then proceded to enquire,
why should God deal with me in this manner? Or what
had I done thus to deserve his indignation
Here conscience flew in my face, reprehending me as a
blasphemer; crying with a loud and piercing voice, v Un-
44 worthy wretch? how dare you ask what you have done?
Look on your past life, and see what you have left undone \
"Ask thyself, why thou wert not long ago in the merciless
*; hands of death? Why not drowned in Yarmouth roads,
44 or killed in the fight, when the ship was taken by the
"Salee man of war? Why not entombed in the bowels of
"wild beasts on the African coast, or drowned here when
"all thy companions suffered shipwreck in the ocean f'
Struck dumb with these reflections, I rose up in a pen-
sive manner, being so thoughtful that I coula not go to
sleep; and fearing the dreadful return of my distemper, it
caused me to remember, that the Brazilians use tobacco for
almost all diseases. 1 then went to my chest in order to
find some, where Heaven, no doubt, directed me to find a
cure for both soul and body; for there I found one of the
Bibles, which, till this time I had neither leisure nor incli-
nation to look into. I took both the tobacco and that out
of the chest, and laid them on the table. Several experi-
ments did 1 try with the tobacco: First, I took a pieceot
leaf, and chewed it; but it being very green and strong, al*
most stupefied me. Next I steeped it in some rum an hour
 
 
or two, resolving when I went to bed to take a dose of it;
and, in the third place, I burnt some over a pan of fire^
holding ray nose over it as long as 1 could endure it with-
out suffocation.
In the intervals of this operation, though my head was
giddy and disturbed by the tobacco, I took up the Bible to
read. No sooner did I open it, but there appeared to me
these words, "Gallon me in the day of trouble, and I will
"deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me."
At first, this sentence made a very deep impression on
my heart, but it soon wore off again, when I considered the
word deliver was foreign to me. And as the children of
Israel said, when they were promised flesh to eat, "Can
"God spread a table in the wilderness?" In like manner I
be°an to Fay, "Can God himself deliver me from this deso-
<c late island?" However the words would still return to my
mind, and afterwards made a greater impression upon me.
As it was now very late, and the tobacco had dozed my
head, I was inclined to sleep; but before I would lie down
I fell on my knees, and implored the promise that God had
made me in the Holy Scripture, that " if I called upon him
"in the day of trouble, he would deliver me/* With much
difficulty, 1 afterwards drank the rum, wherein I had steeped
the tobacco, which flying into my head, threw me into such
a profound sleep, that it was three o'clock the next day be-
fore I awoke; er rather I believe, 1 slept two days, having
certainty lost a day in my account, and I could never tell
any other way. When I got up, my spirits were lively and
cheerful; my stomach much better, being very hungry:
and, in short, no fit returned the next day, which was the
29th, but I found myself much altered for the better.
The SOth I went abroad with my gun, but not far, and
killed a sea-fowl or two, resembling a brand goose, which,
however, 1 cared not to eat when I brought them home,
but dined on two more of the turtle^ eggs. In the evening
I renewed my medicine, excepting that I did not take sq
large a quantity, neither did 1 chew the leaf, or hold my,
head over the sraoak: but the next day, which was the first
of July, having a little return of the cold fit, I again tuck
my medicine as I did the first time.
July 3. The fit quite left me, but very weak. In this
condition, I often thought of these words, "I will deliver
theeand while, at some times, I would think of the im~
40
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
possibility of it, other thoughts would reprehend me for dis-
regarding the deliverances 1 had received even from the
most forlorn and distressed condition. I asked myself, what
regard have t had to God for his abundant mercies? Have
I done my part?" He has delivered me, but I have not
glorified him —as if I had said, I had not owned and been
thankful for these as deliverances, and how could 1 expect
greater? So much did this sensibly touch my heart, that I
gave God thanks for my recovery from sickness in the most
humble prostration.
July 4. This morning I began seriously to ponder on what
is written in the New Testament, resolving to read a chap-
ter every morning and night as long as my thoughts would
engage me. As soon as I set about this work seriously, I
found my heart deeply affected with the impiety of my past
life; these words that I thought were spoken to me m my
dfeam revived, "All these things have not brought thee
** to repentance." After this, 1 begged of God to assist me
with his Holy Spirit in returning to my duty. One day, in
jierusing the Scriptures, I came to these words, "Him hath
"God exalted to be a Prince and a Saviour, to give repent-
"ance, and to give remission;" immediately I laid down the
lKX)k, and with uplifted hands to Heaven, loudly cried, "O
blessed Jesus, thou Son of David, Jesus thou exalted Prince
and Saviour, give me repentance!" And now indeed I pray-
ed with a true sense of my condition, and a more certain hope
founded on the word of God. Now I had a different sense
of these words, <c Call on me and I will deliver thee," that
is, from the dreadful load of guilt which oppressed my sin-
ful soul, and not from a solitary life, which might rather be
called a blessing, seeing I neither wanted for food nor rai-
ment, when compared with living among the human race,
surrounded with so much oppression, misery, and affliction:
In a word, I came to this conclusion, that a deliverance
from sin was a much greater blessing than a deliverance
from affliction. But again I proceed to my journal.
Td the 14th of Julv, I walked about with my gun, littfe
and little at a time, having been reduced to the greatest
extremity of weakness. Trie applications and experiments
I used, were perfectly new; neither would I recommend
them to any one's practice, For though it carried off the
fit, it very much weakened me, and I had frequent convul-
sions in my nerves antl limbs for some time. From this, I
41
learned that going abroad in rainy weather, especially when"
it was attended with storms ancf hurricanes of wind, was
most pernicious to health. 1 had now been about ten
months in the island; and, as I never had seen any of the
human kind, I therefore accounted myself as sole monarch;
and as I grew better, having secured my habitation to my
mind, I resolved to make a tour round my kingdom, in or-
der to make new discoveries.
The 15th July, 1 began my journey; I first went to
the creek, where I had brought my rafts on shore; and tra-
velling farther, found that the tide went no higher than two
miles up, where there was a little brook of running water,
on the banks of which were many pleasant savannahs or
meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with grass. On the
rising parts, where I supposed the water did not reach, I
perceived a great deal of tobacco growing to a very strong
stalk. Several other plants I likewise found, the virtues ot
which I did not understand. I searched a long time for the
Cavassa root, which I knew the Indians in that climate
made their bread of, but all in vain. There were several
plants of aloes, though at that time I knew not what they
were; likewise I saw several sugar canes, but imperfect for
want of cultivation. With these few discoveries, I came
back that night and slept contentedly in mv little castle.
The next day, being the ICth, going the same way, but
farther than the day before, I found the country more adorn-
ed with woods and trees. Here 1 perceived different fruits
in great abundance. Melons in plenty lay on the ground, and
clusters of grapes, ripe and very rich, spread over the trees.
"You may imagine I was glad of the discovery, yet eat very
sparingly, lest I should throw myself into a flux or fever.
The grapes 1 found of excellent use; for when I had dried
them in the sun, which preserved them as dried raisins are
kept, they proved very wholesome and nourishing, and
served me in those seasons when no grapes were to be had.
The night drawing on apace, I ascended up a tree, and
slept very comfortably, though it was the first time I had
lain out of my habitation. And when the morning came, a
!>roceeded with great pleasure on my way, traveling about
pur miles, as I imagined, by the length of the valley, di-
recting my course northward, there being a ridge of hills on
the south and north side of me. At the end o£ the valley,
1 came to an opening, where the country seemed to descend
 
to the west: there I found a little spring of fresh water,
proceeding out of the side of the hill, with its crystal streams
running directly east. And indeed, here my senses were
charmed with the most beautiful landscape nature could af-
ford; for the country appeared flourishing, green, and de-
lightful, that to me it seemed like a planted garden. I then
descended on the side of that delicious vale, when I found
abundance of cocoa, orange, lemon, and citron trees, but
very wild and barren at that time. As for the limes, they
were delightful and wholesome, the juice of which I after-
wards used to mix in water, which made it very cooling and
refreshing. And now I was resolved to carry home and lay
up a store of grapes, limes, and lemons, against the approach-
ing wet season. So laying them up in several parcels, and
then taking a few of each with me, I returned to my little
castle, after having spent three days in this journey. JBefore
I got home, the grapes were so bruised that they were
utterly spoiled; the limes, indeed were good; but of those
I could only bring a few.
July 19. Having prepared two bags I returned thither
again, but to my great surprise, found all the grapes spread
about, trod to pieces, and abundance eaten, which made me
conclude there were wild beasts thereabouts. To prevent
this happening again, I gathered a large quantity of the
grapes, and hung them upon the out-branches of the tree,
both to keep them unhurt, and that they might cure and dry
in the sun: and having well loaded myself with limes and
lemons, I returned once more to my old place of resi-
dence.
And now contemplating on the fruitfulness of this valley,
and pleasantness of its situation, its security from storms,
and the dehghtfulness of the adjacent woods, I concluded
I was settled in the worst part of the country, and there-
fore was thinking to remove my habitation.
But when 1 considered again, that, though it was pleasant,
it was off from the sea-side, where there was a possibility,
some time or other, a ship might either be driven or sail by;
and, that to inclose myself among hills and woods must cer-
tainly put an end to my hopes of deliverance; I resolved
to let my castle remain where Providence had first assigned
it. Yet so ravished was I with this place, that I made me
a little kind of bower, surrounding it with a double hedge
as high as I could reach, well staked and filled with btu*
45
rushes: and having spent a great part of the month of July,
I think it was the first of August before I began to enjoy
my labour.
Aug. 8. Perceiving my grapes to be dry,* I took them from
the trees, and they proved excellent good raisins of the sun:
the most of which 1 carried to my cave; and happy for me
I did so; by which I saved the best part of my winter food.
Aug. 14. This day it began to rain; and though 1 had
made me a tent like the other, yet having no shelter of a hill
to keep me from storms, nor a cave behind me to retreat
to, I was obliged to return to my old castle. The rain con-
tinued more or less every day, till the middle of October;
and sometimes so violent, that I could not stir out of my
cave for several days. This season i found my family to
increase; for one of my cats that ran away from me, and
which I thought had been dead, returned about August,
with three kittens at her heels, like herself, which I thought
strange, because both my cats were females, and the wild
cats of the island seemeo: to be of a different kind from our
European cats; but from these cats proceeded such num-
bers, that i was forced to kill and destroy them as 1 would
do wild beasts and vermin.
To the 26th of this month, I could not stir out, it raining
incessantly: when beginning to want food I was compelled
to venture twice; the first of which i shot a goat, and af*
ter wards found a very large tortoise. The manner of my
regulating my food was thus: a bunch of raisins served me
for my breakfast, a piece of goafs flesh, or turtle, boiled,
for my dinner, and two or three turtle^ eggs for my supper.
While the rain lasted, I daily worked two or three hours at
enlarging my cave, and by degrees worked it on towards
one side, till I came to the outside of the hill, and made a
door or way out, which came beyond my fence or wall, and
so I came in and out this way. But after 1 had done this, I
was troubled to see myself thus exposed; though I could
not perceive any thing to fear, a goat being the biggest
creature I had seen upon the island.
Sept. SO. Casting up the notches on my post, which
amounted to 865,1 concluded this to be the anniversary of
my landing; and, therefore, humbly prostrating myself on
the ground, confessing my sins, acknowledging God's righ-
teous judgments upon me, mid praying to Jesus Christ to
have mercy upon me, I fasted for twejve hours till the going
 
down of the sun; and then eating a biscuit and a bunch of
grapes, laid me on the bed, and with great comfort took my
night's repose. Till this time, I never had distinguished
the Sabbath-day; but now 1 made a longer notch than or-
dinary for the days of rest, and divided the week as well as
I could, though I found I had lost a day or two in my ac-
count. My ink failing soon after, I omitted in my daily
memorandum things of an indifferent nature, and contented
myself to write down only the most remarkable events of my
life. The rainy and dry seasons appeared now regular to
me, and experience taught me how to provide for them: yet,
in one thing I am going to relate, my experience very much
failed me. You may call to mind what I have mentioned
of some barley and rice which I had saved, about thirty
stalks of the former, and twenty of the latter; and, at that
time, the sun being in its southern position, going from me,
together with the rains, made me conclude it a very proper
season to sow it. Accordingly I dug up a piece of ground
with my wooden spade, and dividing it into two parts, sow-
ed about two-thirds of my seed, preserving by me about a
handful of each. And happy it was I did so; for no rain
failing, it was choaked up, and never appeared above the
earth till the wet season came again; ana then part of it
grew as if it had been newly sown,
I was resolved still to make another trial; and seeking
for a moister piece of ground near my bower, I there sowed
the rest of my seed in February* a little before the vernal
equinox; which having the rainy months of March and
April to water it, yielded a noble crop, and sprang up very
pleasantly. 1 had still saved part of the seed, not daring to
venture all; and by the time I found out the proper seasons
to sow it in, and that I might expect every year two seed-
times and two harvests, my stock amounted to above half a
peek of each sort of grain.
No sooner were the rains over, but the stakes which 1 had
cut from the trees* shot out like willows, the first year after
lopping their heads. 1 was ignorant of the tree I cut them
from: but they grew so regularly beautiful, that they made
a most lively appearance, and so flourished in three years
time, that I resolved to cut more of them; and these soon
growing, made a glorious fence, as afterwards I shall observe.
And now I perceived that the seasons of the year might
jpoerally be divided. not into summer and winter, as in
Europe, but into wet and dry seasons, as in this manner:
 
r February, 1
HaHv March, r Rainy, sun coming near the Equinox.
( April, J
r April, ^
V May, /
Half < June, )"Dry, sun getting North of the Line.
v August, J
f August, 1
Half < September, >Wet, the sun being then come back.
( October, )
October,
j November,
Half December, ^Dry, sun running south of the Line.
>er, I
er, >Bry,
j. 3
'January
> February.
The wet season would continue longer or shorter as the
winds happened to blow. But having found the ill conse-
quences of being abroad in rain, I took care beforehand
t<> furnish myself with provisions;, and during the wet
months, sat within doors as much as possible. At this time I
contrived to make many things 1 wanted, though it cost
me much labour and pains, before I could accomplish them.
The first 1 tried was to make a basket; but all the twigs I
could get proved so brittle, that I could not then perform it.
It now prove of great advantage to me, that, when a boy, I
took great delight at standing at a basket maker's in the
same town where my father lived, to view them at work;
and like other boys, curious to see the manner of their
working these things, and very officious to assist, I perfectly
learned the method of it, and wanted nothing but the tools.
And, it coming into my mind, that the twigs of that tree of
which 1 made my stakes, might be as tough as a sallow-
willow or osiers, growing in England, 1 resolved to make
an experiment, and went the next day to my country-seal,
and found some fit for my turn; and after cutting down a
quantity with my hatchet, I dried them on my pales, and,
when fit to work with, carried them to my cave, where I
employed myself in making several sorts of baskets, inso-
much that I could put in whatsoever I pleased. It is true,
they were not cleverly made., yet they served my turn upon
all occasions.
 
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
But still I wanted two necessary things, I had no cask
to hold my liquor, except two runlets almost full of rum, a
few bottles of an ordinary size, and some square case bottles;
neither had I a pot to boil any thing in, only a large kettle
unfit to make broth, or stew a bit of meat; I wanted like,
wise at the beginning of this dry season, a tobacco pipe;
but for this I afterwards found an expedient.
I kept myself employed in planting my second row of
stakes. But remembering that when I travelled up to the
brook, I had a mind to see the whole island, I now resumed
my intention; and taking my dog, gun, hatchet, two biscuit
cakes, a great bunch of raisins, with a larger quantity of
powder and shot than usual, I began my journey. Having
passed the vale where my bower stood, 1 came within view
of the sea, lying to the west: when it being a clear day, I
fairly descried land, extending from the W. to the S. W.
about ten or fifteen leagues, as I concluded; but could not
say whether it was an island or a continent. Neither
could I tell what this place might be; only thought it was
part of America, and where I might have been in a miser-
able condition, had I landed. Again, 1 considered that if
this was the Spanish coast, certainly, one time or other, I
should see some ship pass by ; and if it was not, then it
must be the savage coast, between the Spanish country and
the Brazils, which abounds with cannibals or men-eaters.
As I proceeded forward, I found this side of the island
much more pleasant than mine; the fields fragrant, adorned
with sweet flowers and verdant grass, together with several
very fine woods. There were parrots in plenty, which made
me long for one to be my companion; but it was with
great difficulty I could knock one down with my stick; and
I kept him at home some years before I could get him to
call me by my name.
In the low grounds I found various sorts of hares and
foxes, as I took tbem to be, but much different from those
in England. Several of these I killed, but never eat them;
neither indeed, had I any occasion; for abounding with
goats, pigeons, turtle, and grapes, I could defy Leadenhall
market to furnish me a better table. In this journey, I did
not travel above two miles a day, because 1 took several
turns and windings, to see what discoveries I could make,
returning weary enough to the place where I designed to
rest all night, which was either in a tree/ or in a place
 
47
which I surrounded with stakes, that no wild creature might
suddenly surprise me. When I came to the sea-shore, I
was amazed to see the splendour of it. Its strand was
covered with shells of 'the most beautiful fish, and constantly
abounding with innumerable turtles, and fowls of many
kinds, which 1 was ignorant of, except those called penguins.
I might have shot as many as I pleased, but was sparing of
my ammunition, rather choosing to kill a she-goat, which I
did with much difficulty, on account of the flatness of the
country.
Now though this journey produced me the most pleasing
satisfaction, yet my habitation was so much to my liking,
that I did not repine at my being seated on the worst part
of the island. 1 continued my journey, travelling about
twelve miles further towards the east, where I set a great
pile on the shore for a mark, concluding that my next jour-
ney should bring me to the other side of the island, east from
my castle, and so round till £ came to my post again. As I
had a constant view of the country, I thought I could not
miss my way; but scarcely had 1 travelled three miles, when
1 descended into a very large valley, so surrounded with
hills, and covered with wood, that I, having no guide but the
sun, nor even that, unless I knew well its position at that
time of the day; and to add to my misfortune, the weather
proving very hazy, I was obliged to return to my post by
the sea-side, and so backwards the same way I came.—In
this journey my dog surprised a kid, and would have killed
it, had I not prevented him. As I had often been thinking
of getting a kid or two, and so raising a breed of tame goats
to supply me arter my ammunition was spent, I took this
opportunity of beginning; and having made a collar for
this little creature, with a string made of rope-yarn, I
brought it to my bower, and there inclosed and left him;
and having spent a month in this journey, at length I return-
ed to my own habitation.
Nobody can doubt of my satisfaction, when I returned to
my little castle, and reposed myself in my hammock. After
my journey I rested myself a week, which time I employed
in making a cage for my pretty Poll. I now began to
consider my poor kid I had left in the bower* and 1 imme-
diately went to fetch it home. t When I came there* I found
the young creatufee almost starved; I gave if some food, and
tied it as before; but there was no occasion, for it followed
 
48
LIFE AND ADVENTURES.
me like a dog; and as I constantly fed it, it became so lov-
ing, gentle, and fond, that it commenced one of my domes-
tics, and would never leave me.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox being now
come, I kept the 30th of September in the most solemn
manner, as usual: it being the third year of my abode in
the island. I spent the whole day in acknowledging God's
mercies, in giving him thanks for making this solitary life as
agreeable and less sinful, than that of human society; and
for the communications of his grace to my soul, in support-
ing, comforting, and encouraging me to depend upon his
Providence, and hope for his eternal presence in the world
to come.
Indeed, I often did consider how much more happy I was
in this state of life, than in that accursed manner of living I
formerly used; and sometimes when hunting, or viewing
the country, the anguish of my soul would break out upon
me, and my very heart would sink within me, to think of
the woods, the mountains, the deserts I was in; and howl
.was a prisoner locked up within the eternal bars and bolts
of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness, without hopes,
and without redemption. In this condition I would often
wring my hands and weep like a child: And even some-
times in the middle of my work, this fit would take me;
and then 1 would sit down and sigh, looking on the ground
for an hour or two together, till such time as my grief got
vent in a flood of tears.
One morning as I was sadly employed in this manner, I
opened my* Bible, when I immediately fixed my eyes upon
these words, 4S I will never leave thee, nor forsake theef"
Surely, thought I, these words are directed to me, or else why
* should they appear just at a moment whem I am bemoaning
my forlorn condition; and if God does not forsake, what
matter is it, since he can make me more happy in this state
of life, than if I enjoyed the greatest splendour in the world?
But while I was going to return God thanks for my present
state, something seemed to shock my mind, as if it had thus
said: " Unworthy wretch, can you pretend to be thankful
for a condition from which you would pray to be delivered!"
Here 1 stopt;—and though I could not say, I thanked the
Divine Majesty for being there, yet I gave God thanks for
placing to my view my former course of life, and granting
me a true knowledge of repentance. And whenever I opeo-
 
ed or shut the Bible I blessed kin J Providence, that directed
my good Friend in England to send it among my goods with-
out any order, and for assisting me to save it from the power
of the raging ocean.
And now beginning my third year, my several daily em-
ployments were these: First, My duty to Heaven, and di-
ligently reading the Holy Scriptures; which I did twice or
thrice every day: Secondly, Seeking provisions with my gun,
which commonly took me up, when it did not rain, there
hours every morning: Thirdly, The ordering, curing, pre-
serving and cooking what I killed, or catched for my sup-
ply, which took me up great part of the day; for, m the
middle of the day, the sun being at its height, it was so hot,
that I could not stir out; so that i had only but four hours
in the evening to work in: and then the want of tools, o£
assistance, and skill, wasted a great deal of time to little
Eurpose. I was no less than two and forty days making a
ard fit for a Song shelf, which two sawyers, with their
tools and saw-pit would have cut off the same tree in
half a day. It was of a large tree, as my board was to be
broad. I was three days in cutting it down, and two more
in lopping off the bougns, and reducing it to a piece of tim-
ber. This I hacked and hewed off each side, till it became
light to move: and then I turned it, made one side of it
smooth and flat as a board from end to end, then turned it
downwards, cutting the other side, till I brought the plank
to be about three inches thick, and smooth on both sides*
Any body may judge my great labour, and fatigue in such a
piece of work; but this 1 went through with patience, as
also many other things that my circumstances made neces-
sary for me to do.
The harvest months, November and December, were
now at hand, in which I had the pleasing prospect of a very
good crop. But here I met with a new misfortune; for
the goats and hares having tasted of the sweetness of the
blade, kept it so short, that it had not strength to shoot up
into a stalk. To prevent this, I enclosed it with a hedge,
and by day shot Some of its devourers; and my dog, which I
had tied to the field gate, keeping barking all night, so
frightened those creatures, that I got entirely rid of them.
But no sooner did I get rid ofthese, than other enemies
aptjeared, to wit, whole flocks of several sorts of birds, who
cmj waited till my back was turned to ruin me. So n?#ch
 
 
 
did this provoke me, that I let fly, and killed three of the
malefactors; and afterwards served them as they do notori-
ous thieves in England, hung them up in chains, as a terror
to others. And, indeed, so good an effect had this, that
they not only forsook the corn, but all that part of the island,
so long as these criminals hung there.
My corn having ripened apace, the latter end of Decem-
ber, which was my second harvest, I reaped it with a scythe,
made of one of my broad swords. I had no fatigue in cut-
ting down my first crop, it was so slender. The ears I car-
riea home in a basket, rubbing it with my hands, instead of
thrashing it; and when the harvest was over, found my half
peck of seed produced near two bushels of rice, and two
oushels and a half of barley. And now I plainly foresaw,
that, by God's goodness, I should be furnished with bread;
but yet I was concerned, because I knew not how to grind
or make meal of my corn, or bread, neither knew how to
bake it* I would not, however, taste any of the crop, but
resolved to preserve it against next season, and, in the
mean while, use my best endeavours to provide myself with
other food.
But where were my labours to end? The want of a
plough tp turn up the earth, or shovel to dig it, I conquered
oy making me a wooden spade. The want of a harrow 1
supplied myself fcith dragging over the corn a great bough
of a tree. When it was growing I was forced to fence it;
when ripe to mow it, carry it home, thrash it, part it from
the chafl, and save it Ana, after all, 1 wanted a mill to grind
it, sieve to dress it, yeast and salt to make it into bread, and
an oven to bake it. This set my brains to work to find
some expedient for every one of these necessaries against the
next harvest.
And now having more seed, my first care was to prepare
me more land. I pitched upon two large flat pieces of
ground near my castle, for that purpose, in which I sowed
my seed, and fenced it with a good hedge. This took me
up three months; by which time the wet season coming on,
and the rain keeping me within doors, I found several oc-
casions to employ myself; and, while at work, used to di-
vert myself in talking to my parrot, learning him to know
and speak his own name Poll, the first welcome word I evec
heard spoke in the island. I had been a long time con-
triving now to make earthen vessels, which I wanted e%>
 
 
tremely, and when I considered the heat of the climate I did
not doubt but if I could find any such clay, I might patch
up a pot, strong enough when dried in the sun, to bear
handling, and to hold any thing that was dry, as corn, meal,
and other things.
To be short, the clay I found ; but it would occasion the
most serious person to smile, to see what awkward ways I
took, and what ugly misshapen things I made; how many
either fell out or cracked by the violent heat of the sun, and
fell in pieces when they were removed: so that I think it
was two months time before I could perfect any thing; and
even then but two clumsy things in imitation of earthen jars.
These, however, I very gently placed in wicker baskets,
made on purpose for them, and between the pot and the
baskets, stuffed it full of rice and barley-straw, and these I
presumed would hold my dried corn, and perhaps the meal
v/hen the corn was bruised. As for the smaller things, I
made them with better success ; such as little round pots,,
flat dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, the sun baking them very
hard.
Yet still I wanted one thing absolutely necessary, and that
was an earthen pot, not only to hold my liquid, but also tc
bear the fire, which none of these could do. It once hap
pened, that as 1 was putting out my fire, I found therein a
broken piece of one of my vessels, burnt as hard as a rock,
and red as a tile. This made me think of burning some pots,
and having no notion of a kiln, or of glazing them with lead,
I fixed three large pipkins, and two or three pots, in a pile
one upon another. f he fire I piled round the outside, and
dry wood upon the top, till 1 saw the pots in the inside red
hot, and found that they were not cracked at all: and when
I perceived them perfectly red, I let one of them stand in
the fire about five or six hours, till the clay, melted by the
extremity of the heat, would have run to glass had I
suffered it: upon which I slackened my fire by degrees*
till the redness abated; and watching them till mornings I
found I had three very good pipkins, and two earthen pots^
as well burnt and fit for my turn as I could desire.
No joy could be greater tnan mine at this discovery. For
arter this, 1 may say I wanted for no sort of earthen-ware,
I filled one of my pipkins with water to boil me some meat,
which it did admirably well, and with a piece of kid, I.
made me some good broth, as: well as my circumstance*
would afford me at that time.
The next concern I had, was to get me a stone mortar to:
beat some corn in, instead of a mill to grind it. Here in-
deed I was at a great loss, as not being fit for a stone-cutter;
and many days I spent to find out a great stone big enough
to cut hollow and make fit for a mortar, and strong enough
to bear the weight of a pestle, and that would break the corn,
without filling it with sand. But all the stones of the island
being of a moulding nature, rendered my search fruitless;
and then I resolved to look out for a great block of hard
wood, which having found, I formed it with my axe and
hammer, and then with infinite labour, made a hollow in it,
i'ust as the Indians of Brazil make their canoes. When I
lad finished this, I made a great pestle of iron wood, and
then laid them up against my succeeding harvest.
My next business was to make me a sieve to sift my meal,
and part it from the bran and husk. Having no fine thin
canvas to searce the meal through, I could not tell what to
do. What linen I had was reduced to rags; I had goat's
hair enough, but neither tools to work it, nor did 1 know
how to spin it: At length I remembered I had some neck-
cloths of calico or muslin of the sailors, which I had brought
out of the ship, and with these I made three smsll sieves
proper enough for the work.
1 come now to consider the baking part The want of
an oven I supplied by making some earthen pans very broad
but not deep. When I had a mind to bake, 1 made a great
fire upon the hearth, the tiles of which I had made myself;
and when the wood was burnt into live coals, I spread them
over it, till it became very hot: then sweeping them away,
I set down my Joaves, and whelming down the earthen pots
upon them, drew the ashes and coals all round the outsides
of the pot to continue the heat: and in this manner I baked
my barley loaves, as well as if I h&d been a complete pastry-
cook, and also made of the rice several cakes and puddings.
It is no wonder that these things took me up the best
part of a year, since what intermediate time I had was be-
stowed in managing my new harvest and husbandry; for in
the proper season 1 reaped my corn, carried it home, and
laid it upih the ear in my large baskets, till I had time to \,
rub, mjead of thrashing it. And now, indeed, my corn
increased so much, that it produced me twenty bushels of
barleys and as much rice, that I riot only began to use if
freely, but was thinjripg hoir to enlarge my barns, and*
 
 
 
 
4 solved to sow as much at a time as would be sufficient for
me for a whole year.
All this while, the prospect of land, which I had seen
from the other side of the island, ran in my mind. I sti|i
meditated a deliverance from this place, t though the fear
of greater misfortunes might have deterred me from it. For
allowing that I had attained that place, Iran the hazard of
being killed and eaten by the devouring cannibals; and if
thev were not so, yet I might be slain, as other Europeans
had been, who fell into their hands. Notwithstanding all
this, my thoughts ran continually upon that shore. 1 now
wished for my boy Xury, and the long boat with the shoul-
der of mutton sail; I went to the ship's boat that had been
cast a great way on the shore in the late storm. She was
removed but a little; but her bottom being turned up by
the impetuosity and fury of the waves and wind, I fell to
work with all the strength I had, with levers and rollers I
had cut from the wood to turn her, and repair the damage*
she had sustained. This work took me up three or four
weeks, when finding my little strength all in vain, 1 fell to
undermining it by digging away the sand, and so to make
it fall down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and guide it in
the fall. But after this was done, I was still unable to stir it
up, or to get under it, much less to move it forwards towards
the water, and so was forced to give it over.
This disappointment however, did not frighten me. I
began to think whether it was not possible for me to make
a canoe or perigua, such as the Indians make of the trunk
of a tree. But here I lay under particular inconveniences;
want of tools to make it, and want of hands to move it in
the water when it was made. However, to work I went
upon it, stopping all the inquiries I could make, with this
very simple answer 1 made to myself, Let's first make it,
111 warrant Til find some way or other to get it along when
it*is done, a v
1 first cut down a cedar-tree, which was five feet ten
inches diameter at the lower part next the stump, and four
feet elven inches diameter at the end of twenty-two-feet,
after which it lessened for a space, and then parted into
branches. Twenty days was I a hacking and newing this?
tree at the bottom, fourteen more in cutting off the branches
and limbs, and a whole month in shaping it like the bottom
of a boat. As for the inside I was three weeks with &
mallet and chissel, clearing it in such a manner, as that it
was big enough to carry twenty six-men, much bigger than
any canoe 1 ever saw in my life, and consequently sufficient
to transport me and all my effects to that wished-for shore
I so ardently desired.
Nothing remained now, but indeed, the greatest difficulty
to get it into the water, it lying about one hundred yards
from it. To remedy the first inconvenience, which was a
rising hill between the boat and the creek, with wonderful
pains and labour I dug into the bowels of the earth, and
made a declivity. But when this was done, all the strength
J had was as insufficient to remove it, as it was when I at-
tempted to remove the boat. I then proceeded to measure
the distance of ground,, resolving to make a canal in order
to bring the water to the canoe, since 1 could not bring the
canoe to the water. But as this seemed to be impracticable
to myself alone, under the space of elven or twelve years,
it brought me into some sort of consideration; so that I
concluded this also to be impossible, and the attempt alto-
gether vain. I now saw, and not before, what stupidity it
is to begin a work before we reckon its cost, or judge rightly
our own abilities to go through with its performance.
In the height of this work my fourtn year expired, from
the time I was cast on this island. At this time 1 did not
forget my anniversary; but kept it with rather greater de-
votion than before. For now my hopes being frustrated, I
looked upon this world as a thing I had nothing to do with;
and very well might I say, as father Abraham said unto Dives,
Between thee and me there is a gulf fixed/' And in-
deed 1 was separated from its wickedness too, having nei-
ther the lust or the flesh, the lust of the eye, nor the pride
of life; I had nothing to covet, being lord, king, and em-
peror over the whole country 1 had in possession, without
dispute and without controul: I had loadings of corn, plenty
of turtles, timber in abundance, and grapes above measure.
What was all the rest to me? The money I had, lay by me
as despicable dross, which I. would freely have given tor a
gross of tobacco pipes, or hand-mill to grind my corn; in
a word, the nature and experience of these things dictated
to me this just reflection: That the good things of this
"world are no? further good to us, than they are for our use;
and that whatsoever we may heap up to give to others, we
can but enjov as much as we use and no more.
55
These thoughts rendered my mind more easy than usual*
Every time 1 sat down to meat, I did it with thankfulness,
admiring the providential hand of God, who, in this wilder-
ness, had spread a table to me. And now I considered what
I enjoyed, rather than what I wanted; compared my present
condition with what I at first expected it should be; how
I should have done, if I had got nothing out of the ship;
that I must have perished before I had caught fish or turtles;
or lived, had I found them, like a mere savage, by eating
them raw, and pulling them to pieces with my claws, like a
beast. I next compared my station to that which I deserv-
ed; how undutiful I had been to my parents; how destitute
of the fear of God; how void of every thing that was good;
and how ungrateful for those abundant mercies I had re-
ceived from Heaven, being fed as it were, by a miracle*
even as great as Elijah^ being fed by ravens: and cast on
a place where there is no venomous creatures to poison o?
devour me; in short, making God's tender mercies matter
of great consolation, I relinquished all sadness, and gave
way to contentment.
As long as my ink continued, which with water I made,
last as long as I could, I used to minute down the days of the
month on which any remarkable event happened.—And,
First, I observedf, that the same day I forsook my parents
and friends, and ran away to Hull, in order to go to sea; the
same day afterwards in the next year, I was taken and made
a slave by the Salee rovers.
That the very day I escaped out of the wreck of the ship
in Yarmouth roads, a year after on the same day, I made
my escape from Salee in my patron's fishing-boat.
And, on the SOth of September, being the day in the year
I was born on, on that aay twenty-six years after, was I
miraculously saved, and cast ashore on this island.
The next thing that wasted after my ink, was the bis-
cuits which I had brought put of the ship; and though I al-
lowed myself but one cake a day for above a twelvemonth,
yet I was quite out of bread for near a year, before I got
any corn of my own.
In the next place, my clothes began to decay, and my
linen had been gone long before. However, i had pro-
served about three dozen of the sailor's chequered shirts,
whicti proved a great refreshment to me, when the violent
beams of the sun would not suffer me to bear any of the soft*
c4 
 
 
men's heavy watch-coats; which made me turn tailor/and
after a miserable botching manner, convert them to jackets
To preserve my head, I made me a cap of goat's skin, with
the nair outwards to keep out the rain; which indeed served
me so well, that afterwards I made me a waistcoat and open-
kneed breeches of the same: And then I contrived a sort of
an umbrella, covering it with skins, which not only kept out
the heat of the sun, but rain also. 'Thus being easy and
settled in my mind, my chief haopiness was to converse with
God, in most heavenly and comfortable ejaculations.
For five years after this I cannot say any extraordinary
thing occurred to me. My chief employment was to cure
my raisins, and plant my barley and rice, both of which I
liad a year's provision beforehand. But though I was dis-
appointed in my first canoe, I made it at intermediate times,
Imy business to make a second, of much inferior size; and it
Was two years before 1 had finished it. But as I perceived
it would no wise answer my design of sailing to the other
shore, my thoughts were confined to take a tour round the
island, to see what further discoveries J could make. To
this intent, after having moved h^er to the water, and tried
how she would sail, I fitted up a little mast to my boat, and
made a sail of the ship's sail that lay by me. I then made
lockers or boxes at the end of it, to put in necessaries, pro-
vision, and ammunition, which would preserve them dry,
either from rain .or the spray of the sea; and in the inside
of the boat, 1 cut me a long hollow place to lay my gun in;
and to keep it dry, and made a flag to hang over it. My um-
brella I fixed in a step in the stern, like a mast, to keep the
heat of the sun off me. And now resolving to see the cir-
cumference of my little kingdom, I victualled my ship for
th£ voyage, putting in two dozen of my barley-bread loaves,
an earthern pot full of parched rice, a little bottle of rum,
half a goat, powder and shot, and two watch coats. It was
the 6th of November, in the 6th year of my reign, or capti-
vity, that I set out in this voyage; which was much longer
than 1 expected, being obliged to put farther out, by reason
of the rocks that "lay a great way in the sea. Ancl indeed
so much did these rocks surprise me, that I was for putting
back, fearing that if I ventured ferther it would be out of
my power to return. In this uncertainty 1 came to an an-
chor just on shore, to which I waded with my gun ort-my
Moulder and then climbing up a hill, which overlookea
* 
 
that point I saw the full extent of it, and so resolved to run
all hazards.
In this prospect from the hill, I perceived a violent cur-
rent running to the east, coming very clgse to the point;
which I the more carefully observed, thinking it dangerous,
and that when I came to it, I might be drove into the sea
by its force, and not able to return to the island; and cer-
tainly it must have been so, had I not made this observation;
for on the other side was the like current, with this differ-
ence, that it set off at a greater distance; and 1 perceived
there was a strong eddy under the land; so that my chief
business was to work out of the first current, and convent
ently get into the eddy. Two days I staid here, the wind
blowing very briskly E. S. E. which being contrary to the
ciirrent, leaves a great breach of the sea upon the point;
so it was neither fit for me to keep too near the shore, on
account of the breach; nor stand at too great a distance, for
fear of the streams. That night the wind abating, it grew
so calm that I ventured out; and here I may be a monu-
ment to all rash aud ignorant pilots; for I was no sooner
come to the point, and not above the boat's length from
shore, but I was got into deep water, with a current like a
mill, which drove my boat along so violently, that it was im-
possible for me to keep near the edge of it, but forced me
more and more out from the eddy to the left of me; and all
I could do with my paddles were useless, there being no
wind to help me.
Now I oegan to look upon myself as quite lost, since, as
the current ran on both sides of the island, I was very cer-
tain they must join again, and then I had no hopes but of
pmshing for want in the sea, after what provisions I had
were spent, or before, if a storm should happen to arise.
Who can conceive the present anguish of my mind at
this calamity? With longing eyes did I look upon my littl*
kingdom, and thought the island the pleasantest place in
the universe* Happy, thrice happy desert, said I, shall I
never see thee moreF Wretched creature! whither am I
going? Why did I murmur at my lonesome condition, when
now I would give the whole world to be thither again?
While 1 was thus complaining, I found myself to be driven
about two leagues into the sea; however, I laboured till
my strength was far spent, to keep my boat as far north as
possibly 1 could, to that ride rf the current wh§re the eddy
lay on. About noon I perceived a little breeze of wind
spring up from the S. S. E which overjoyed my heart; and
was still more elated, when in about half an hour, it blew a
Kntle fine gale. Had any thick weather sprung up, I had
en lost another way; for having no com pass on ooard, I
should never have found the way to steer towards the island,
if it had once disappeared; but it proving the contrary, I
set up my mast again, spread my sail, and stood away
northward as much as I could, to get rid of the current. And
no sooner did the boat begin to stretch away, but 1 perceiv-
ed, by the clearness of the water, a change of the current
was near; for, where it was strong, the water was foul;
and where it was clear the current abated. To the east, I
soon saw about half a mile, a breach o£ the sea upon some
rocks, which caused it again to separate; and as the main
force of it drove away more southerly, leaving the rocks
to the north east, so the other came back by the repulse of
the rocks, making a sharp eddy, which returned back again
to the north-west with a very swift stream.
They who have experienced what it is to be reprieved
\ipon the ladder, or to be saved from thieves, just going to
take away their lives, or such as have been in the like cala- r
mities with my own, may guess my present excess of joy; M<
how heartily I ran my boat into the stream of this eddy,
and how joyfully I spread my sail to the refreshing wind,
standing cheerfully before it, with a smart tide under foot.
By the assistance of this eddy, I was carried above a league
home again, when being in the wake of the island, betwixt
the two currents, I found the water to be in a sort of a stand.
About four o'clock in the afternoon, I reached within a
league of the island, and perceived the points of the rock,
which caused this disaster, stretching out, as I observed be-
fore, to the southward, wbieh throwing off the currents more
southwardly, had occasioned another eddy to the north. But
having a fair brisk gale, I stretched across this eddy, and in
an hour came witnin a mile of the shore, where I soon
landed to my unspeakable comfort; and alter an humble
Iiiostration, thanking God for my deliverance, with reso-
ution to lay all thoughts of escaping aside, 1 brought my
boat safe to a little cove, and laid me down to take a wel-
come repose. When I awoke, I was considering how I
might get my boat home; and coasting along the sho*e, I
mm to a good bay which ran up to a rivulet or brook*
where finding a good harbour, I stowed her as safe as if §be
had been in a dry dock made on purpose for her.
1 now perceived mysplf not far irom the place where be*
fore 1 had travelled on foot; so taking nothing with me, ex-
cept my gun, and umbrella, I began my journey; and in the
evening came to my bower, where I again laid me down to
rest. 1 had not slept long before I was awakened in great
surprise, by a strange voice that called me several times,
u Robin, Robin, Robinson Crusoe, poor Robin: Where
"are you, Robinson Crusoe? Where are you? Where h^ve
"you been?"
So fast was I asleep at first, that I did not awake thorough-
ly: but half asleep and half awake, I thought I dreamed
that somebody spoke to me. But as the voice repeated
Robinson Crusoe several times, being terribly affrighted, I
started up in the utmost confusion; and no sooner were my
eyes fully open, but I beheld my pretty Poll sitting on the
top of the hedge, and soon knew that it was he that called
me; for just in such bewailing language I used to talfc and
teach him; which he so exactly learned, that he would sit
upon my finger, and lay his bill close to my face, and cry,
** Poor Robinson Crusoe, where are you? where have you
44 been? how came you here?" and suchlike prattle 1 had
constantly taught him. But even though I knew it to be the
parrot, it was a great while before 1 could adjust myself;
being amazed how the creature got thither, and that he
should fix about that place, and no where else. But now
being assured it could be no other than my honest Poll, my
wonder ceased, and reaching out my hand, and calling fami-
liarly Poll, the creature came to me, and perched upon my
thumb as he was wont, constantly prating to me with "Poor
46 Robinson Crusoe, and how did I come here, and where had
"I been P as if the bird was overjoyed to see me; and so I
took him home along with me.
I was now pretty well cured of my rambling to sea; yet I
thought I could get my boat, which had cost me so much
trouble and pains, on this side the island once more, hut
which indeed was impracticable* I therefore began to lead a
very retired life, living near a twelvemonth in a very contented
manner wanting for nothing except conversation. As to
mechanic labours, which my necessities obliged me to> I
fancied I could, upon occasion, make a tolerable carpenier,
were the poor tools 1 had to work with, but jgood. Beside%
as I improved in my earthen-ware, I contrived to make them
v#th a wheel, which I found much easier and better, making
* my work shapely, which before wai rude and ugly. But 1
think, I was never so elated with my own performance or
project, than for being able to make a tobacco-pipe, which,
though it proved an awkward clumsy thing, yet it was very
•ouna, ana carried the smoke perfectly well, to my great
satisfaction.
I also improved my wicker ware, making me abundance of
necessary baskets, which, though not very handsome, were
very handy and convenient to tetch things home in, as also
for holding my stores, barley, rice, and other provisions.
My powder beginning to fail, made me examine after what
manner I should kill the goats or birds to live on after it was
all gone. Upon which 1 contrived many ways to ensnare the
goats, and see if I could catch them alive, particularly a she-
goat with young. At last I had my desire; for, making
pitfalls and traps baited with barley and rice, I found one
morning, in one of them, an old he-goat, and in the other,
three kids, one male, the other two, females.
* So boisterous was the old one, that I could not bring him
away. But 1 forgot the old proverb, "That hunger wili
"tame a lion; for had I kept him three or four days with-
out provisions, and then gave him some water, with a little
corn, he would have been as tame as a young kid. The
other Creatures I bound with strings together; but I had
great difficulty before I could bring them to my habitation.
It was some time before they would feed; but throwing them
sweet corn, it so much tempted them that they began to be
tamer. From thence I concluded, that if I designed to fur-
nish myself with goat's flesh, when my ammunition was
spent, the tamely breeding them up, like a flock of sheep,
about my settlement, was the only method I could take. I
concluded also, I must separate the wild from the tame, or
else they would always run wild as they grew up; and the
best way for this, was to have some inclosed piece of ground
well fenced, either with a hedge or pale, to keep them,so
effectually, that those within might not break out, or those
without break in. Such an undertaking was very great fpr
one pair of hands; but as there was an absolute necessity for
doing it, my first care was to find a convenient piece of ground
where there was likely to be herbage for them to eat, water
•to drink, and cover to keep them from the sun.
 
Here again I gave another instance of my ignorance and
inexperience, pitching upon a piece of meadow land so large,
that had I enclosed it, the iiedge or pale had been at least
two miles about. Indeed, had it been ten miles, I had
time enough to do it in; but then I did not consider that my
goats would be as wild in so much compass, as if they had
the whole island, and consequently as difficult for me to
catch them. This thought came into my head, after I
had carried it on, I believe, about fifty yards, I therefore
altered my scheme and resolved to enclose a piece of ground
about one hundred and fifty yards in length, and one hun-
dred in breadth, sufficient enough for as many as would main-
tain me, till such times as my flock increased, and then I could
add more ground. I now vigorously prosecuted my work,
and it took me about three months in hedging the first piece,
in which time I tethered the three kids in the best part of
it, feeding them as near me as possible, to make them fami-
liar; and indeed 1 very often would carry some ears of bar-
ley or a handful of rice, and feed them out of my hand; by
which they gre* so tame, that when my enclosure was
finished, and I had let them loose, they would run after me
for a handful of corn. This indeed answered my end; and
in a year and a half's time, I had a flock of about twelve
goats, kids and all; and in two years after, they amounted
to forty-three, besides what I had taken and killed for my
sustenance. After which I enclosed five several pieces of
ground to feed them in, with pens to drive them into, that
1 might take them as I had occasion.
In this project I likwise found additional blessings; fop
I not only had plenty of goat's flesh, but milk too, which in
my beginning I did not so much as think of. And indeed,
though I had never milked a cow, much less a goat, or seen
butter and cheese made, yet after some essays and miscarri-
ages, I made me both, and never afterwards wanted.
How mercifully can the omnipotent Power comfort his
creatures, even in the midst of their greatest calamities }
He. can sweeten the bitterest providences* and give us rea-
son to magnify him in dungeons and prisons! what a boun-
teous table was here spread in a wilderness for me where I
expected nothing at first but to perish for hunger 1
Certainly a Stoic would have smiled to see me at dinner.
There sat my royal majesty, an absolute prince and ruler of
mjr kingdom, attended by my dutiful subjects, whom* if I
pleased, I could cither hang, draw, quarter,, give them li-
ocrty, or take it away. When I dined, I seemed a king, eat*
ing alone, none daring to presume to do so till I had done.
Poll, as if he iiad been my principal court favourite, was the
only person permitted to talk with me. My oid» hut faith-
ful* dog, now grown exceedingly crazy, ami who had no spe-
cies to multiply his kind upon, continually sat on my right-
hand; while my two cats sat on each side of the table, ex-
pecting a bit from my hand as a principal mark of my royal
Favour. These were not the cats 1 had brought from the
ship; they had been dead Jong before, and interred near my
habitation by my own hand. But one of them as I suppose,
generating with a wild cat, a couple of their young 1 had
made tame; the rest run wild into the woods, and in time
grew so impudent as to return and plunder me of my stores,
till such time as 1 shot a great many, and the rest left me
without troubling me anymore. In this plentiful manner
did I live, wanting for nothing but conversation. One thing
indeed concerned me, the want of my boat; I knew not
which way to get her round the island. One time I resolved
to go along the shore by land to her; but had any one in
England met with such a figure, it would either have affright-
ed them, or made them burst into laughter; nay, I could
not but smile to myself at my habit, which I think in this
place will be very proper to describe.
The cap I wore on my head, was great, high, and shape-
less, made of a goat's skin, with a flap or pent-house hang-
ing down behind, not only to keep the sun from me, but to
shoot the rain off from running into my neck, nothing being
more pernicious than the rain falling upon the flesh in these
climates. I had a short jacket of goat's skin, whose hair,
hung down such a length on each side, that it reached down
to tne calves of my legs. As for shoes and stockings, I had
none, but made a semblance of some thing, i knew not what
to call them; they were made like buskins, and laced on
the sides like spatterdashes, barbarously shaped like the rest
of my habit* 1 had a broad belt of goat's skin dried, gir«;
round me with a couple of thongs, instead of buckles; en
each of which, to supply the deficiency of sword and dag-
ger, hung my hatchet and saw. I had another belt, not so
broad, yet fastened in the sante manner,, which hung ovei
my shoulder, and at the end of it, under my left arm, hung
two pouches,, made of goat's skin, to hold my powder and
 
shot My basket I carried on my back, and my gun on my
shoulder; and over my head a great clumsy ugly goat*s
skin umbrella, which, however, next to my gun, was the
most necessary thing about me. As for my face, the colour
was not so swarthy as the Mulattoes, as might have been ex-
pected from one who took so little care of it, in a climate
whhin nine or ten degrees of the equinox. At one lime
my beard grew so long that it hung down about a quarter
of a yard; but a& I had both razors and scissors in store, I
cut it all off, and suffered none to grow, except a large pair of
Mahometan whiskers, the like of which I had seen wore by
fpme Turks at Salee, not long enough indeed to hang a hat
upon, but of such a monstrous size, as would have amazed
any in England to have seen.
But all this was of no consequence here, there being none
to observe my behaviour or habit. And so without fear and
without control, I proceeded on my journey, the prosecution
of which took mo up five or six days. I first travelled along
the sea-shore, directly to the place where I first brought my
boat to an anchor, to get upon the rocks; but now having
no boat to take care off, 1 went over land a nearer way to
the same height that I was before upon; when looking for-
ward to the point of the rock, which lay out, and which I
was forced to double with my boat, I was amazed to see the
sea so smooth and quiet, there being no rippling motion, nor
current, any more than in other places. This mad« me
ponder some time to guess the reason of it, when at last I
was convinced that the ebb setting from the west, and joining
with the current of water from some great river on shore,
must be the occasion of these rapid streams; and that con-
sequently, as the winds blew more westwardly or more
southwardly, so the current came the nearer, or went the
farther from the shore. To satisfy my curiosity, 1 waited
there iill evening, when .the time of ebb being made, I
plainly perceived from the rock the current again as before,
with this difference, that it ran farther off, near a half a league*
from the shore, whereas, in my expedition, it set close upon
it, furiously hurrying me and my canoe along with it, which
at another time it would not have done. And now I was
convinced, that by observing the ebbing and flowing of the
tide, 1 might easily bring my boat round the island again.
But when I began to think of putting it in practice the re*
meoibrance of the late danger struck me with such horrxw
that I changed my resolution, and formed another, which
was more safe, though more laborious; and this was to make
another canoe, and to have one for one side of the island,
and one for the other.
I had now two plantations in the island; the first my
little fortification, fort, or castle, with many large and spa-
cious improvements; for by this time I had enlarged the cave
behind me with several little caves, one within another, to
hold my baskets, corn and straw. The piles with which I
made my wall were grown so lofty and great as secured my
habitation. And near this commodious and pleasant settle-
ment, lay my well-cultivated and improved corn-fields, which
kindly yielded me their fruit in the proper season. My se-
cond plantation was that near my country-seat, or little bower,
where my grapes flourished, and where, having planted
many stakes, I made enclosures for my goats, so strongly
fortified by labour and time, that it was much stronger than a
wall, and consequently impossible for them to break through.
As for my bower itself, 1 kept it constantly in repair^ and
cut the trees in such a manner, as made them grow thick
and wild, and form a most delightful shade. In the centre
of this, stood my tent, thus erected; I had driven four piles
in the ground, spreading over it a piece of the ship's sail;
beneath which 1 made a sort of a couch with the skins of
the creatures I had slain, and other things; and having laid
thereon one of the sailor's blankets, which I had saved frort,
the wreck of the ship, and covering myself with a great
watch-coat, I took up this place for my country retreat.
Very frequently from this settlement did I use to visit my
boat, and keep her in very good order. And sometimes f
would venture in her a cast or two from the shore, but no
farther, lest either a strong current, a sudden stormy wind,
or some unlucky accident, should hurry me from the island
c i as before. But now I entreat your attention, whilst I proceed
to inform you of a new, but most surprising scene of life
which here befel me.
You may easily suppose, that after having been here so
lung, nothing could be more amazing than to see a human
creature. One day it happened, that going to my boat, I
saw the print of a mans naked foot on the shore, very evi-
dent on the sand, as the toes, heels, and every part of it.—
Had I seen an apparition of the most frightful shape, I could
not have been more confounded. My willing earn gave
65
the strictest attention, I cast my eyes around, but could
satisfy neither the one nor the other. I proceeded alter-
nately to every part of the shore, but with equal effect;
neither could 1 see any other mark, though the sand about
it wa* as susceptible to take impression, as that which was
*«o plainly stamped. Thus struck with confusion and hor-
ror, I returned to my habitation, frightened at every bush
and tree, taking every thing for men; and possessed with
the wildest ideas: That night my eyes never closed. I
formed nothing but the most dismal imaginations, conclud-
ing it must be the mark of the devil's foot which I had seen.
l?of otherwise how could any mortal come to this island?
where was the ship that transported them ? and what signs
of any other footsteps? Though there seemed very strong
reasons for such a supposition, yet (thought I) why should
the devil make the print of his foot to no purpose, as I can
Fee, when he might nave taken other ways to have terrified
me? /why should he leave his mark on the other side of the
islaitl, and that too on the sands, where the surging waves
of the ocean might soon have erased the impression. Surely
this action is not consistent with the subtlety of Satan, said'
I to myself; but rather must be some dangerous creature,
some wild savage of the main land over against me, that
venturing too far in the ocean, has been driven here, either,
by the violent currents or the contrary winds; and not caring
to stay on this desolate island, has gone back to sea again,
Happy indeed, said I to myself, that none of the savage*
had seen me in that place; yet I was not altogether with-
out fear^ lest, having found my boat, they should return in
numbers and devour me, or at least carry away all my corn,
and destroy my flock of tame goats. In a word, all my re-
ligious hopes vanished, as though I thought God would not
now protect me by his power, who had so wonderfully pre-
served me so long.
What various changes of Providence are there in the life
of man? How changeable are our affections, according to
different circumstances? We love to day, what we hate to-
morrow; we shun one hour what we seek the next. This
was evident in ,me in the most conspicuous manner: For If
who before "had so much lamented my condition, in being;
banished from all human kind, was now even ready to .em-
pire, when I considered that a man had set his foot on that
 
desolate island. But when I considered my station of life,
decreed by the infinitely wise and good providence of God,
that I ought not to dispute my Creators sovereignty, who
has an undoubted right to govern and dispose of his crea-
tures as he thinks convenient; and that his justice and mer-
cy could either punish or deliver me; I say, when I consi
dered all this, I comfortably found it my duty to trust sin-
cerely in him, pray ardently to him, and humbly resign my-
self to his divine will.
One morning lying on my bed, these words of the sacred
writings came into my mind, u Call upon me in the day of
"trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me.1*
Upon this sentence, rising more cheerfully from my bed, I
offered up my prayers in the most heavenlv manner: and
when I had done, taking up my Bible to read, these words
appeared first in my sight:—" Wait on the Lord, and be
** of good cheer, ana he shall strengthen thy heart. Wait,
*f I say, on the Lord." Such divine comfort did this give
me, as to remove all cause of sadness upon that occasion.
Thus, after a world of apprehensions and fears, for three
days and nights, I at last ventured out of my castle and
milked my goats, one of which was almost spoiled for want
of it. 1 next (though in great fear) visited my bower, and
milked my flocks there also; when growing bolder, I went
down to the shore again, and measuring the print of the foot
to mine, to see, perhaps, whether I myself had not occasion-
ed that mark, I found it much superior in largeness: and so
returned home, now absolutely convinced that either some
men had been ashore, or that the island must be inhabited,
and therefore that I might be surprised before 1 was aware.
I now began to think of providing for my security, and
resolved in my mind many different schemes for that pur-
pose. I first proposed to cut down my inclosures, and turn
my tame cattle wild into the woods, that the enemy might
not find them, and frequent the island in hopes of killing
ihe same. Secondly, I was for digging up my corn-fields
for the very same reason. And, lastly, I concluded to de-
molish my bower, lest, seeing a place of human contrivance,
they might come farther and find out, and attack me in my
title castle;
Swell notions did the fear of danger suggest to me: and I
fc*gfc4d, I thought, like the unfortunate king Saul, when not
only oppressed by the Philistines, but also forsaken by God
 
himself. And, it is strange, that a little before, having En-
tirely resigned myself to the will of God, I should now have
little confidence in him, fearing those more who could kill
this fading body, than him who could destroy my immortal
soul.
Sleep was an utter stranger to my eyes that night; yet
nature, .%pent and tired, submitted to a silent repose the next
morning, and then joining reason with fear, I considered
that this delightful and pleasant island might not be so en-
tirely forsaken, as I might think; but tjiat the inhabitants
from the other shore might sail, either with a design or from
necessity, by cross winds; and, if the latter circumstance,
1 had reason to believe they would depart the first oppor-
tunity. However, my fear made me think of a place for re-
treat upon an attack. I now repented that I had made my
door to come out beyond my fortification; to remedy which
1 resolved to make me a second one; I fell to work, there-
fore, and drove betwixt that double rows of trees, which I
planted above twelve years before, several strong piles,
thickening it with pieces of timber and old cables, and
strengthening the foot of it with earth which I dug out of my
cave; I also made me seven holes, wherein I planted my
muskets like cannon, fitting them into frames resembling
carriages. This being finished with indefatigable industry^
far a great way every where, I planted sticks of osiers like a
wood, about twenty thousand of them, leaving a large space
between them and my wall, that I might have room- to see
an enemy, and that they might not be sheltered among the
young trees, if they offered to approach the outer wall.—
And, indeed, scarce two years had passed oyer my headf
when there appeared a lovely shady grove, and in.six years
it became a thick wood, perfectly impassable. For my safe**
ty, 1 left no avenue to go in or out; instead of which' I set
two ladders, one to a part of a rock which was low, and
then broke in, leaving room to place another ladder upon?
that; so that when I took these down it was impossible for
any man to descend without hurting himself; and if they
had, they would still be at the outside of the outer wall.—
But while I took all these measures of human prudence ibt
my own preservation, I was not altogether unmindful of other
affairs. To preserve my stock: of tame goats, \ that the ene-
my should not take all at once, I looked out for the most
 
retired part of the island, which was the place where I har*
lost myself before mentioned, and there finding a clear piece
of land, containing three acres, surrounded with thick woods,
I wrought so hard, that in less than a month's time, I fenced
it so well round, that my flocks were very well secured in
it, and put therein two he-goats and ten she-goats.
AH this labour was occasioned purely by fearful appre-
hensions, on account of seeing the print of a man's foot.—
And not contented yet with what I had done, I searched
for another place lowards the west point of the island,
where I might also retain another flock. Then wandering
on this errand more to the west of the island than ever I had
vet done, and casting my eyes towards the sea, met bought
X perceived a boat at a great distance, but could not possi-
bly tell what it was for want of my perspective glass, I
considered then it was no strange thing to see the print of
a man's foot; and concluding them cannibals, blessed God
for being cast on the other side of the island, wliere none of
the savages, as I thought, ever came. But when I came
down the hill to the shore, which was the S. W. point of
the island, I was soon confirmed in my opinion; nor can
any one describe my horror and amazement, when 1 saw
the ground spread with skulls, hands, feet, and bones of
human bodies; and, particularly I perceived a space like a
circle, in the midst of which had been a fire, about which I
conjectured these wretches sat, and unnaturally sacrificed
mid devoured their fellow creatures.
The horror and loathsomeness of this dreadful spectacle,
both confounded my senses, and made me discharge from
my stomach in an excessive manner. 1 then returned towards
my habitation; and in my way thither, shedding floods of
tears, and falling down on my bended knees, gave God
thanks for making my nature contrary to these wretches,
and delivering me so long out of their hands.
Though reason and my long residence here had assured
me$ that these savages never came up to the thick woody
part of the country, and that I had no reason to be appre-
hensive of a discovery; yet such an abhorrence did I still
retain, that, for two years after, I confined myself only to
my three plantations; I mean my castle, country-seat, and
in closure in the woods. And though in process of time my
dreadful apprehensions began to wear away, yet my eyes
were more vigilant for fear of being surprised, and I was
 
69
very cautious of my firing my gun, lest being heard by those
creatures, they should proceed to attack me. I resolved
however, manfully to lose my life if ihey did, and went
armed with three pistols, stuck to my girdle, which, added
to the description I have given of myself before, made me
look with a very formidable appearance.
Thus my circumstances for some time remained very
calm and undisturbed; and when 1 compared my condition
to others, I found it far from being miserable. And indeed,
would all persons compare their circumstances, not with
those above them, but with those innumerable unhappy ob-
jects beneath them, I am sure we should not hear those
daily murmurings and complainings that are in the world.
For my part I wanted but few things. Indeed, the terror
which the savages had put me in, spoiled some inventions
for my own conveniences. One of my projects was to brew
me some beer; a very whimsical one indeed, when it is con-
sidered that I had neither casks sufficient, nor could I make
any to preserve it in; neither had I hops to make it keep,
yeast to make it work, nor a copper or kettle to make it boil.
Perhaps, indeed, after some years I might bring this to bear,
as I nad done other things. But now my inventions were
placed another way; and day and night I could think of
nothing but how 1 might destroy some of these cannibals,
when proceeding to their bloody entertainments; and so sav-
ing a victim from being sacrificed, that he might after be-
come my servant. Many were my coutrivances after this
purpose, and as many more objections occurred, after I had
tatched them. I once contrived to dig a hole under the
place where they had made their fire, and put therein five or
six pounds of gunpowder, which would consequently blow
up all those that were near it; and then I was loath to spend
so much upon them, lest it should not do that certain execu-
tion I could desire, and but only affright and not kill them.
Having laid this design aside, I again proposed to myself to
lie privately in ambush, in some convenient place, with my
three guns double loaded, and let fly at them in the midst of
their dreadful ceremony: and having killed two or three of
them at every shot, fall upon the rest* suddenly with my
three pistols, and not let one mother's son escape. This
{pagination pleased my fancy so much, that I used to dream
"jg it in the night time. To put my design in execution, I
 
 
was itpt long in seeking for a place convenient fur my pur-
pose, where unseen I might behold every action of the sa*
vages. Here I placed my two muskets, each of which was
loaded with a brace of slugs, and four or five smaller bullets
about the size of pistol bullets; the fowling piece was charg-
ed with near a handful of the largest swan shot; and in every
pistol was about four bullets.—And thus all things being
prepared, no sooner would the welcome light spread over
the element, but, like a giant refreshed zmth wine, as the
Scripture has it, I would issue forth from my castle* and from
a lofty hill, three miles distant, view if I could see any in-
vaders approach unlawfully to my kingdom. But having wait-
ed in vain two or three months, it not only grew very tire-
some to me, but brought me to some consideration, and
made me examine myself, what right had I to kill these crea-
tures in this manner.
If (argued I to myself) this unnatural custom of their's be
a sin offensive to Heaven, it belongs to the Divine Being,
who alone has the vindictive power in his hands, to shower
down his vengeance upon them. And, perhaps he does so
in making them become one another^ executioners. Or, if
not, if God thinks these doings just, according to the know-
ledge they conceive, what authority have I to pretend to
thwart the decrees of Providence, which has permitted these
actions for so many ages, perhaps from almost the beginning
of the creation? They never offended me, what right have!
then to concern myself in their shedding one another's blood?
And, indeed, I have since known that they value no more to
kill and devour a captive taken in war, than we do*to kill an
ox, or eat mutton. 1 then concluded it necessarily follow-
ed, that these people were no more murderers than Christi-
ans, who many times put whole troops to the sword, after
throwing down their arms.—Again, I considered that if I
fell upon ihem, I should be as much in the wrong as the
Spaniards, who had committed the greatest barbarities upon
these people, who had never offended them in their whole
lives; as if the kingdom of Spain was eminent for a race of
men without common compassion to the miserable, a prin-
cipal sign of the most\generous temper: these considera-
tions made me ^ause, and made me think I had taken wrongs
measures in my resolution: I now argued to myself, it was
better for me never to attack, but remain undiscovered aa \
long as I possibly could; thfct an opposite conduct would
 
 
71
certainly prove destructive: for as it was scarcely to be sup-
posed 1 could kill them all, I might either be overpower-
ed by the remaining, or that some escaping, might bring
thousands to my certain destruction. And, indeed, religion
took their part so much as to convince me how contrary it
was to my duty to be guilty of shedding human blood, inno-
cent as to my particular, whatever they are to one another;
that I had nothing to do with it, but leave it to the God of
all power and dominion, as I said before, to do therein what
seemed convenient to his heavenly wisdom. And therefore,
on my knees I thanked the Almighty for delivering me from
blood-guiltiness, and begged his protection that I might
never fall into their hands.
Thus giving over an attempt which I had rashly begun, I
never ascendea the hill on that occasion afterwarcb: I only
removed my boat, which lay on the other side of the island,
and every thing that belonged to her, towards the east, into
a little cove, that there might not be the least shadow of any
boat near, or habitation upon the island.—My castle then
became my cell, keeping always retired in it, except when
I went out to milk my she-goats, and order my little flock in
the wood, which was quite out of danger: for sure I was
that these savages never came here with expectations to
find any thing, and consequently never wandered from the
coast: however, as they might have been several times on
shore, as well before as after my dreadful apprehensions, I
looked back with horror to think in what a state I might have
been, had I suddenly met them slenderly armed, with one
gun only loaded with small shot; and how great would
have been my amazement, if, instead of one man s foot, I
had perceived fifteen or twenty savages, who having once
set their eyes upon me, by the swiftness of their feet would
have left me no possibility of escaping? These thoughts
would sink my very soul, so that I would fall into a deep
melancholy, till such times as the consideration of my grati-
tude to the Divine Being moved it from my heart. I then
fell into a contemplation of the secret springs of Providence,
and how wonderfully we are delivered, when insensible ot
it; and when intricated in uncertain mazes or labyrinths of
doubt or hesitation, what secret hints direct us in the right
<mft when we intended to go out of it; nay, perhaps con*
p$ky to our business, sense, or inclination* Upon which J
fixed this yithin me a* * certain rule, never to disobey tho«p
 
secret impressions of the mind, to the acting or not acting
any thing that offered, for which I could yet assign no rea-
M>n. But let it I>e how it will, the advantage of this con-
duct very eminently appeared in the latter part of my abode
on this island: 1 am a stranger in determining whence these
secret intimations of Providence are derived; yet methinks they
are not only some proof of the converse of spirits, but also
of the secret communications they are supposed to have
with those that have not passed through the gloomy vale of
death.
These anxieties of mind, and the care of my preservation,
put a period to all future inventions and contrivances, either
for accommodation or convenience. I now cared not to
drive a nail, chop a stick, lire a gun, or make a fire, lest
either the noise should be heard, or the smoke discover me.
And on this account I used to burn my ear then-ware private-
ly in a cave, which I found in the wood, and which J made
convenient for that purpose; the principal cause that
brought me here was to make charcoal, so that I might bake
and dress my bread and meat without any danger,* At that
time, a curious accident happened me, which I shall now
relate.
While I was cutting down some wood for making my
charcoal, I perceived a cavity behind a very thick branch
of underwood. Curious to look into it, I attained its mouth,
and perceived it sufficient for me to stand upright in But
when I had entered, and took a further view, two rolling
shining eyes, like flaming stars, seemed to dart themselves
at me; so that I made all the haste out that I could, as not
knowing whether it was a devil or a monster tint had taken
his residence in that place. When J recovered a little from
my surprise, I called myself a thousand fools, for being
afraid to see the devil one moment, who had now lived
almost twenty years in the most retired solitude. And
therefore resuming all the courage 1 had, I took a flaming
firebrand, and in I rushed again. I had not proceeded
above three steps, when 1 was more arflighted than before;
for then I heard a very loud sigh, like that of a human crea-
ture in the greatest agony, succeeded with a broken noise,
resembling words half expressed, and then a broken sigh
again. Stepping back, Lord I (thought I to myself) where
am 1 got, into what enchanted place have I plunged iny-
*eif, such as are reported to contain miserable captives, till
 
death puts an end to their sorrows? And, indeed in such
great aniasement was I, that it struck me into a cold sweat;
and had my hat been on my head, I believe my hair woujd
have moved it off. But again encouraging myself with the
hopes of God's protection, I proceeded forward, and by the
lignt of my firebrand, perceived it to be a monstrous he-goat,
lying on the ground, gasping for life, and dying of mere old,
age. At first I stirred him, thinking to drive nim out, and
the poor ancient creature strove to get upon his feet, but
was not able; so I e'en let him lie still to affright the sava-
ges, should they venture into this cave. I now looked
round me and found the place but small and shapeless. At
the farther side of it, I perceived a sort of an entrance, yet
so low, it must oblige me to creep upon my hands and
knees to it; so, having no candle, I suspended my enter*
pise till the next day, and then I came provided with two
larffg ones of my own making.
Raving crept upon my hands and feet through this strait
I found the roof higher up, I think about twenty feet. But
surely mortal never saw such a glorious sight before! The
roof and walls of this cave reflected a hundred thousand
lights to me, from my two candles, as though they were in*
dented with shining gold, precious stones, or sparkling
diamonds. And indeed* it was the most delightful cavity
or grotto of its kind that could be desired, though entirely
dry. The floor was dry and level, and had a kind of
Savel upon it; no nauseous venomous creatures to be seea
ere, neither any damp or wet about it. I could find no
fault but in the entrance, and I began to think that even
this might be very necessary for my defence, and therefore
» resolved to make it ray most principal magazine. I brought
hither two fowling-pieces, and three muskets, leaving only
6ve pieces at my castle, planted in the nature of cannon*
Of the barrel of gunpowder which I took up out of the sea,
I brought away about sixty pounds of good powder, which
was not damaged; and this, with a great quantity of lead
for bullets, I removed from my castle to this retreat, now
fortified both by art and nature.
I fancied myself now like one of the giants of old, who
were said to live in caves and holes among the rocks, inac-
cessible to any but themselves; or at least a mo^tlSanger-
ous attempt. And now I despised both the cunning and
strength of the savages, either to find me out or to hurt me.
 
 
 
But I must not forget the old goat, which caused my late
dreadful amasement. The poor creature gave up the ghost
the day after my discovery: and it being difficult to drag
him out, I dug his grave, and honourably entombed him in
the same place where he departed, with as much ceremony
as any Welch goat that has been interred about the high
mountain Penraanmawr.
I think I now was in the twenty-third year of my reign,
and my thoughts much easier than formerly, having contri-
ved several pretty amusements and diversions to pass away
the time in a pleasant manner, by this time my pretty Poll
had learned to speak English, and pronounce his words
very articulately and plain; so that for many hours we used
to chat together 'after a familiar manner, and he lived with
me no less than twenty-six years. My dog, which was
nineteen years old, sixteen of which he lived with me, died
some time ago of mere old age. As for my cats they mul-
tiplied so fast, that I was forced to kill or drive them into
the woods, except two or three which became my particular
favourites. Besides these, I continually kept two or three
household kids about me, which 1 learned to feed out of my
hand and two more parrots which could talk indifferently,
and call Robinson Crusoe, but not so excellently as the first,
as not taking that pains with them. I had also several sea-
fowls which I had wounded and cut their wings; and
growing tame, they used to breed among the low trees
about my castle walls, all which made my abode very
agreeable.
But what unforeseen events suddenly destroy the enjoy-
ment of this uncertain state of life, when we least expect
them I It was now the month of Decerilber, in the southern
golstice, and particular time of my harvest, which required
my attendance in the fields; when going out*pretty early
one morning, before it was daylight, there appeared to me
from the sea-shore, a flaming lignt, about two miles from
me at the east end of the island, where I had observed some
savages had been before, not on the other side, but to my
great affliction, it was on my side the island.
Struck with a terrible surprise, and my usual apprehen-
sions, that the savages would perceive my improvements, I
returned directly to my castle, pulled the ladder after me,
making all things look as wild and natural as I possibly
fduldL In the next place I put myself in a posture of de-
 
fence, loaded my muskets and pistols, and commuting* my-
self to God's protection, I resolved to defend myself till my
last breath. Two hours after, impatient for intelligence, t
set my ladder up to the side of the hill, where there was a
flat place, and then pulling the ladder after me, ascended to
the top, where, laying myself on my belly, with my perspec-
tive glass, I perceived no less than nine naked savages, sit-
ting round a small fire, eating, as I supposed, human flesh,
with their two canoes hailed on shore, waiting for the flood
to carry them off again. You cannot easily express the con-
sternation I was in at this sight, especially seeing them near
me; but when I perceived their coming must be always with
the current of the ebb, 1 became more easy in my thoughts,,
being fully convinced that I might go abroad with security
all the time of flood, if they where not before landed. And,
indeed, this proved just as I imagined; for no sooner did
they all take boat and paddle away, but the tide made N.
W. Before they went off, they danced, making ridiculous
ostures and gestures, for about an hour, all stark-naked:
ut whether men or women, or both, I could not perceive*
When I saw them gone, I took two guns upon my shoulders,
and placing a couple of pistols in my belt, with my great
sword hanging by my side I went to the hill, where at
first I made the discovery of these cannibals, and then saw
there had been three canoes more of the savages on shore
at that place, which with the rest were making over to the
main land.
But nothing could be more horrid to me, when going to the
place of sacrifice, the blood, the bones, and other mangled
parts of human bodies appeared in my sight; and so fired
was I with indignation, that I was fully resolved to be re-
venged on the first that came there, though I lost my life in
the execution. It then appeared to me, that the visits which
they make to this island are not nery frequent, it being fif-
teen months before they came again: but still I was very
uneasy, by reason* of the dismal apprehensions of their sur-
prising me unawares; nor dared I offer to fire a gun on that
side of the island where they used to appear, lest, taking the
alarm, the savages might return with many hundred canoes,
and then God knows in what manner I should have made my
end. Thus was I a year or more before I saw any ctf there
devouring cannibals again.
» S
But to wave this, the following accident, which demandg
attention for a while, eluded the force of my thoughts in re-
venging myself on those Heathens.
On the 16th of May (according to my wooden calendar)
the wind blew exceedingly hard, accompanied with abun-
dance of lightning and thunder all day, and succeeded by
a very stormy nignt. The seeming anger of the Heavens
made me have recourse to my Bible. Whilst I was seri-
ously pondering upon it, I was suddenly alarmed with the
noise of a gun, which I conjectured was fired upon the
ocean. Such an unusual surprise made me start up in a
minute, when, with my ladder, ascending the mountain as
before, that very moment a flash of fire presaged the report
of another gun, which I presently heard, and found it was
from that part of the sea where the current drove me away.
I could not but then think, that this must be a ship in dis-
tress, and that these were the melancholy signals for a speedy
deliverance. Great, indeed, was my sorrow upon this occa-
sion; but my labours to assist them must have proved alto*
gether vain and fruitless. However, I brought together all
the dry wood that was at hand, and making a pretty large
pile, set it on fire on the hill. I was certain they plainly
perceived h% by their firing another gun as soon as it began
to blaze, and after that several more from the same quarter.
All night long I kept up my fire : and when the air cleared
up, I perceived semething a great way at sea directly E. but
could not distinguish what it was, even with my glass, by
reason the weather was so very foggy out at sea. However,
keeping my eyes directly fixed upon it, and perceiving it did
not stir, 1 presently concluded it must be a ship at anchor,
and so very hasty I was to be satisfied, that taking the gun,
I went to the S. E. part of the island, to the same rocks
where I had been formely drove away by the current; in
which time the weather *t)eing perfectly cleared up, to my
great sorrow, I perceived the wreck of a ship cast away up-
>n those hidden rocks I found when I was out with my boat;
ind which, by making a kind of an eddy, were the occasion
jf my preservation.
Thus what is one man's safety is another's ruin: for un-
doubtedly this ship had been driven on them in the night,
the wind blowing strong at E. N. E. Had they perceived
the island, as I now guessed they had not, certainly, instead
qf firing their "guns for help, they would rather have ven-
 
 
ttired in their boat, and saved themselves that way. I then
thought, that perhaps they had done so, upon seeing my
fire, and were cast away in the attempt; for I perceived
no boat in the ship. But then 1 again imagined, that, per-
haps, they hnd another vessel in company, which, upon'
signal, saved their lives, and took the boat up: or that the
boat might be driven into the main ocean, where these poor
creatures might be in the most miserable condition. But
as all these conjectures were very uncertain, 1 could do no
more than commiserate their distress, and thank God for
delivering me, in particular, when so many perished in the
raging ocean.
When 1 considered seriously every thing concerning this
wreck, and could perceive no room to suppose any of them
saved, L cannot explain, by any possible force of words, what
longings my soul felt at this occasion, often breaking out in
this manner: "O that there had been but two or three, nay,
** even one person saved, that we might have lived together,
u conversed with, and comforted one another I" and so much
were my desires moved, that when I repeated these words,
'* Oh! that there had been but one!" my hands Would
clench together, and my fingers press the palms of my hands
so close, that, had any soft thing been between, it would
have crushed it involuntarily, while my teeth would strike
together, ancj set against each other so strong, that it requir-
ed some time for me to part them.
Till the last year of my being on this island, I never knew
whether or not any had been saved out of this ship. I had
the affliction some time after, to see the corpse of a drowned
boy come on shore, at the end of the islana which was next
the shipwreck; there was nothing on him but a seaman's
waistcoat, a pair of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue
linen shirt, but no particular mark to guess what nation he
was of. In his pocket were two pieces of eight, and a to-
bacco-pipe, the last of which 1 preferred much more than I
did the first* And now the calmness of the sea tempted me
to venture out in my boat to this wreck, not only to get
something necessary out of the ship, but perhaps some liv-
ing creature may be on board, whose life I might preserve.
This had such an influence upon my mind, that immediately
I went home, and prepared every thing necessary for tn&
voyage, carrying on board my boat provisions of all sorts,
with a good quantity of rum, fresh water, and a compass:
so putting off, I paddled the canoe along the shore, till I
came at last to the north-east part of the island, from whence
I was to launch into the ocean; but here the currents ran so
violently, and appeared so terrible, that my heart began to
fail me; foreseeing that if I was driven into any of these
currents, I might be carried not only out of reach or sight
of the island, but even inevitably lost in the boiling* surges
of the ocean.
So oppressed was I at these troubles, that I gave over my
enterprise, sailing to a little creek on the shore, where step-
ping out, I set me down on a rising hill, very pensive and
thoughtful. I then perceived that the tide was turned, and
the flood came on, which made it impracticable for me to
go out for so many hours. To be more certain how the sets
of the tides or currents lay when the flood came in, I ascend-
ed a higher piece of ground, which overlooked the sea both
ways; and here I found, that as the current of the ebb set
out close by the south point of the island, so the current of
the Hood set in close by the shore of the north side; and
all that I had to do, was to keep to the north of the island
in my return.
That night I reposed myself in my canoe, covered with
my watch-coat, instead of a blanket, the heavens being my
tester. I set out with the first of the tide fijll north, till I
felt the benefit of the current, which carried me at a great
rate eastward, yet not with such impetuosity as before, as
to take from me all government of my canoe; so that in two
hours time I came up to the wreck, which appeared to me
a most melancholy sight. It seemed to be a Spanish vessel
by its building, stuck fast between two rocks; her stern and
* quarter beaten to pieces by the sea; her mainmast and fore-
mast were brought off by the board, that is, broken off short.
As I approached near, I perceived a dog on board, who,
; seeing me coming, yelped and cried, and no sooner did I
call him, but the poor creature jumped into the sea, out of
. which I took him up, almost famished with hunger and
thirst; so that when 1 gave him a cake of bread, no ravens
ous wolf could devour it more greedily; and he drank to
that degree of fresh water, that he would have burst himself
\ had I suffered him.
* The first sight I met with in the ship were two men drown7
ed in the cook-room or forecastle, inclosed in one another's
firms: hence I very probably supposed, that when the ves-
sel struck in the storm, so high and incessantly did the wa-
ters break in and over her, that the men not being able to
bear it, were strangled by the constant rushing in of the
waves. There were several casks of liquor, whether wine
or brandy I could not be positive, which lay in the lower
hold, as were plainly perceptible by the ebbing out of the
water, yet were too large for me to pretend to meddle with;
likewise I perceived several chests, which I supposed to be*
long to the seamen, two of which I got into my boat, with-
out examining what was in them. Had the stern of the ship
been fixed, and the forepart broken off, I should have made
a very prosperous voyage; since, by what I after found in
these two chests, I could no otherwise conclude, but that
the ship must have abundance of wealth on board; nay, if
I must guess by the course she steered, she must have been
hoi
vannah, in the guii of Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain.
"VVliat became of the rest of tlie sailors, I could not certainly
tell; and all her riches signified nothing at that time to any
body.
Searching further, I found a cask, containing about twen*
ty gallons, full of liquor, which, with some labour, I got in-
to my boat; in her cabin were several muskets, which I let
remain there, but took away with me a great powder-horn,
with about four* pounds of powder in it. I took also a fire-
(fhovel and tongs, two brass kettles, a copper pot to make
chocolate, and a gridiron, all which were extremely necessary
to me, especially the fire-shovel and tongs. And so with
this cargo, accompanied with my dog, I came away, the tide
serving for that purpose: and the same evening, about an
hour within night, I attained the island after the greatest toil
and fatigue imaginable.
That night I reposed my weary limbs in the boat, re-
solving the next morning to harbour what I had gotten in
my new-found subterraneous grotto; and not to carry my
cargo home to my ancient castle. Having refreshed myselJ,
and got all my effects on shore, I next proceeded to ex-
amine the particulars; and so tapping the cask, I found
the liquor to be a kind of rum, but not .like what we had at
the Brazils, nor indeed near so good. At the opening of
I>4
the chest several things appeared very useful to me, for in-
stance 1 found in one a very fine ease of bottles, contain,
ifig the finest and best sorts of cordial waters; each bottle
held about three pints, curiously tipt with silver. I found
also two pots full of the choicest sweetmeats, and two
more which the water had utterly spoiled. There were
likewise several good shirts, exceedingly welcome to me-
and about one dozen and a half of white linen handkerchiefs
and coloured neckcloths, the former of which was absolute-
y neceesary for wiping my face in a hot day; and, in the
nil, I found three bags of pieces of eight, about eleven hun-
dred in all, in one of which, decently wrapped up in a piece
of paper, were six doublons of gold, and some small bars
and wedges of the same metal, whieU I believe might weigh
near a pound. In the other chest Wh I guessed to be-
long to the gunner's mate, by the mean circumstances which
flasks, kept, as I believe, for charging the fowling-pieces on
any occasion; so that in the whole, I had no great advan-
tage by this voyage. The money was indeed as mere dirt
tome, useless and unprofitable, ail which I would have free-
ly parted with for two or three pair of English shoes and
stockings; things that for many years I had not worn, ex-
cept lately those which I had taken off the feet of those un-
fortunate men 1 found drowned in the wreck, yet not so
good as English shoes, either for ease or service. I also
found in the seaman's chest about fifty pieces of eight in
royals, but no gold; so concluded that what I took from
the first belonged to an officer, the latter appearing to have
a much inferior person for its owner. However, as despi-
cable as the money seemed, I likewise lugged it to my oave,
laying it utiiecurely as I did the rest of my cargo; and af-
ter i had done all this, I returned back to my boat, rowing
and paddling her along till I came to my old harbour, where
I carefully laid her up, and so made the best of my way to
my castle. When I arrived there every thing seemed safe
and quiet: so that now my only business was to repose
myself after mv wonted manner, and take care of my do-
mestic affairs. "But though 1 might have lived very easy,
as wanting nothing absolutely needful; yet still I was more
vigilant than usual upon account of the savages, never going
much abroad j or, if 1 did, it was to the east part of the
island, where I was well assured the savages nevei came,
and where 1 might not be troubled to carry that heavy load
of weapons for my defence, as 1 was obliged to do if I went
the other way.
Two years did I live in this anxious condition, in all which
time, contrary to my former resolutions, my head was filled
with nothing but projects and designs, hows! might escape
from this island; and so much were my wand^ng thoughts
bent upon a rambling disposition, that had I nau the same
boat that I went from Salee in, I should have venture^, once
more to the uncertainty of the raging ocean.
I cannot, however, but consider myself as one of the un-
happy persons, who make themselves wretched by their dis-
satisfaction with the station which God has placed them in;
for not to take a review of my primitive condition, and my
father's excellent advice, the going contrary to which was,
<>s I may say, my original sin, the following mistakes of the
same nature certainly had being the means of my present
unhappy station. What business had 1 to leave a settled
fortune and well stocked plantation, improving and increas-
ing, where by this time, I might have been worth a hun-
dred thousand moidores, to turn super-cargo to Guinea, to
fetch Negroes, when time and patience would so much en-
large my stock at home, as to be able to employ thoae
whose more immediate business it was to fetch them home
even to my door.
But as this is commonly the fate of young heads, so a se-
rious reflection upon the folly of it ordinarily attends the
exercise of future years, when the dear bought experience
of time teaches us repentance. Thus was it with me; but,
notwithstanding, the thoughts of my deliverance ran so
strongly in my mind, that it seemed to check all the dictates
of reason and philosophy. And now to usher in my kind
reader with great pleasure to the remaining part of ray
relation, I flatter myself it will not be taken amiss, to give
him an account of my first conceptions of the manner of
escaping, and upon what foundation 1 laid my foolish
schemes.
Having retired to my castle, after my late voyage to the
ahip, my frigate laid up and secured, as usual, and my con-
dition the same as before, except being richer, though 1 had
as little occasion for riches as the Indians of Peru had for
gold before the cruel Spaniards/ came among thcmj orjt
night in March, being the rainy season, in the four and
twentieth year of my solitude, I lay down to sleep, very
well in health, without distemper, pain, or uncommon un-
easiness either of body or mind; yet, notwithstanding, I
could not compose myself to sleep all the night long. All
this tedious while, it is impossible to express what innumer-
able thoughts came into my head. I traced quite over the
whole history of my life in miniature, from my utmost re-
membrance of things till I came to this island, and then
proceeded to examine every action and passage that had
occurred since I had taken possession of my kingdom, in
my reflections upon the latter, I was comparing the happy
posture of my affairs in the beginning of my reign, to this
life of anxiety, fear, and concern, since I had discovered a
print of a foot in the sand; that while 1 continued without
apprehensions I was incapable of feeling the dread and ter-
ror I now suffered. How thankful rather ought 1 to have
been for the knowledge of my danger, since the „ greatest
happiness one can be possessed of is to have sufficient time
to provide against it? How stupendous is the goodness of
Providence, which sets such narrow bounds to the sight and
knowledge of human nature, that while men walk in the
midst of so many dangers they are kept serene and calm, by
having the event of things hid from their eyes, and knowing
nothing of those many dangers that surround them, till per-
haps they are dissipated and vanish away.
When I came more particularly to consider of the real
danger I had for so many years escaped; how 1 had walked
about in the greatest security and tranquillity, at a time
perhaps, when even nothing but the brow of a hill, a great
tree, or the common approach of night, had interposed be-
tween me and the destructive hands of the cannibals, who
would devour me with as good an appetite, as I would a
pigeon or curlew; surely all this, I say, could not but make
me sincerely thankful to my great Preserver, whose singular
protection I acknowledge with the greatest humility, and
without which- I must inevitably have fallen into the cruel
hands of those devourers.
Having thus discussed my thoughts in the clearest manner,
according to my weak understanding, I next proceeded to
consider the wretched nature of those destroying savages,
by seeming, though with great reverence, to inquire, why
God should give up any of nis creatures to such inhumanity.
83
even to brutality itself, to devour its own kind? but as this
was rather matter of abstruse speculation, and as my miser-
able situation made me think this of mine the most uncom-
fortable situation in the world, I then began rather to inquire
what part of the world these wretches lived in; how far off
the coast was from whence they came; why they ventured
over so far from home; what kind of boats conveyed them
hither; and why I could not order myself and my business
so, that 1 might be as able to attain their country, as they
were to come to my kingdom?
But then, thought J, how shall I manage myself when I
hands of the savages? or how shall I escape from them, if
they make an attempt upon me? and supposing I should not
fall into their power, what shall I do for provisions, or which
way shall I bend my course? These counter-thoughts threw
me into the greatest horror and confusion imaginable; but
then I still looked upon my present condition to be the most
miserable that possibly could be; and that nothing could be
worse, except death. For (thought 1) could I but attain
the shore of the main, I might perhaps meet with some re-
lief, or coast it along, as I did with my boy Xury, on the
African shore, till 1 came to some inhabited country, where
I might meet with some relief, or fall in with some Christian
ship that might take me in; and if I failed, why then I could
but meet with death, which would put an end to all my mi-
series. These thoughts I must confess, were the fruit of a
distempered mind, and impatient temper, made desperate, as
it were, by long continuance of the troubles and disappoint-
ments I had met with in the wreck, where I hoped to have
found some living persons to speak to, by whom I might
have known in what place I was, and of the probable means
of my deliverance. Thus, while my thoughts were agitated,
my resignation to the will of Heaven was entirely suspend-
ed, so that I had no power to fix my mind to any thing, but
to the project of a voyage to the main land. And, indeed,
so much was I inflamed upon this account, that it set my
blood into a ferment, and my pulse beat high, as though 1
had been in a fever; till nature being, as it were, fatigued
and exhausted with the thoughts of it, made me submit my-
self to a silent repose.
In such a situation, it is very strange, that I did not
dream of what I was so intent upon; but instead of it, my
come thither? what will become
 
iriind roved on a quite different thing, altogether foreign.
I dreamed, that as 1 was issuing from my castle one morn-
ing, as customary, when I perceived upon the shore two ca-
noes, and eleven savages coming to land, who had brought
with them another Indian, whom they designed to make a
sacrifice of, in order to devour; but just as they were going
to give the fatal blow, methought the poor designed victim
jumped away, and ran directly into my little thick grove
before my fortification, to abscond from his enemies, when
perceiving that the others did not follow him that way, I
appeared ta him; that he humbly kneeled down before
me, seemed to pray for my assistance; upon which I show-
ed him my ladder, made him ascend, carried him to my cave,
and he became my servant; and when I had gotten this
man, 1 said to myself, now surely I may have some hopes
to attain the main land; for this fellow will serve me as a
pilot, tell me what to do, and where I must go for provisi-
ons, what places to shun, what to venture to, and what to
escape. But when I waked, and found all these inexpres-
sible impressions of joy entirely vanished, I fell into the
greatest dejection of spirit imaginable.
Yet this dream brought me to reflect, that one sure way
of escaping was to get a savage; that after I had ventured
my life to deliver him from the bloody jaws of his devourers,
the natural sense he might have of such a preservation,
might inspire him with a lasting gratitude and most sincere
affection, But then this objection reasonably interposed:
how can I effect this, thought I, without I attack a whole
company of them, and kill them all? why should I proceed
on such a desperate attempt, which my scruples before had
suggested to be unlawful? and indeed my heart trembled
at the thoughts of so much blood, though it were a means
to procure my deliverance. 'Tis true, I might reasonably
enough suppose these men to be real enemies to my life,
men who would devour me, was it in their power; so that
it was self-preservation in the highest degree to free myself,
by attacking them in my own defence, as lawfully as if
they were actually assaulting me; though all these things,
I say, seemed to me to be of the greatest weight, yet, as £
just said before, the dreadful thoughts of shedding human
blood, struck such a terror to my soul that it wf| a long
time before I could reconcile myself to it.
But hw for will the ^rdency of desire prompt us on? Fa?
85
notwithstanding the many disputes and perplexities I had
with myself, I at length resolved, right or wrong, to get one
of these savages into my hands, cost what it would, or even
though L should lose my life in the attempt. Inspired with
this firm resolution, 1 set all my wits to work, to find out
what methods I should take to answer my design: this in-
deed was so difficult a task, that I could not pitch upon any
probable means to execute it: 1 therefore resolved continu-
ally to be in a vigilant posture, to perceive when the savages
came on shore, and to leave the rest to the event, let the
opportunities offer as they would.
Such was my fixed resolutions; and accordingly I set my
self upon the scout, as often as I could, till such times as I
was heartily tired of it. 1 waited for above a year and a half,
the greatest part of which I went out to the west and south-
west corner of the island, almost every day, to look for ca-
noes, but none appeared. This was a very great discourage-
ment; yet though I was very much concerned, the edge of
my design was as keen as ever, and the longer it seemed to
be delayed the more eager was I for it; in a word, I never
before was so careful to shun the loathing sight of these sa-
vages, as I was now eager to be with them; and I thought
myself sufficiently able to manage one, two, or three savages,
if I had them so as to make them my entire slaves, to do
whatsoever I should direct them, and prevent their being
able at any time to do me a mischief. Many times did I use
to please myself with these thoughts, with long and ardent
expectations; but nothing presenting^ all my deep project-
ed schemes and numerous fancies vanished away, as though
while I retained s»uch thoughts, the decress of Providence
were such that no savages were to come near me.
About a year and a half after, when 1 was seriously mu-
sing of sundry other ways how I should attain my end, one
morning early I was very much surprised by seeing no less
than five canoes all on shore together, on my side the island,
stid the savages that belonged to them all landed, and out
of my sight. Such a number of them disconcerted all my
measures; for seeing so many boats, each of which would
contain six and sometimes more, I could not tell what to
think of it, or how to order my measures, to attack twenty
or thirty men single-handed; upon which much dispirited,
aad perplexed, 1 Jay still in my castle; which, however, I
'put in a proper posture for an attack; and having formerly
provided all that was necessary, was soon ready to ente$
upon an engagement, should they attempt it. Having waited
for some time my impatient temper would let me bear it no
longer; I set my guns at the foot of the ladder, and, as
usual, ascended up to the top of the hill at two stages, stand-
ing, however, in such a manner, that my head did not ap-
pear above the hill, so that they could not easily perceive
me; and here, by the assistance of my perspective glass, I
observed no less than thirty in number around a fire, feast-
ing upon what meat they had dressed; how they cooked it,
or what it was, I could not then perfectly tell; but they were
all dancing and capering about the flames, using many
frightful and barbarous gestures
But while with a curious eye, I was beholding these
wretches, my spirits sunk within me, when 1 perceived
them drag two miserable creatures from the boats, to act
afresh the dreadful tragedy, as I supposed they had done
before, it was not long before one of them fell upon the
ground, knocked down, as I suppose, with a club or wood-
en sword, for that was their manner; while two or three
others went immediately to work, cutting him open for their
cookery, and then fell to devour him as they had done the
former, while the last unhappy captive was left by himself
till such time as they were ready for him. The poor creature
looked around him with a wishful eye,, trembling at the
thoughts of death; yet seeing himself a little at liberty, na-
ture that very moment, as it were, inspired him with hopes
of life: He started away from them, and ran, with incredi-
, ble swiftness, along the sands, directly to that part of the
v coast where my ancient and venerable castle stood.
You may well imagine I was dreadfully affrighted upon
I this occasion, when, as I thought, they pursued him in a
V whole body, all running towards my palace. And now in-
deed, I expected that part of my dream was going to be ful-
filled, and that he would certainly fly to my grove for pro-
tection; but, for the rest of my oieam, I could depend no-
thing on it, that the savages would pursue him thither, and
find nim there. However, my spirits beginning to recover,
I still kept upon my guard; and I now plainly perceived
there were but three men out of the numoer that pursued
him. I was infinitely pleased with what swiftness tne poor
creature ran from his pursuers, gaining so much ground up-
on them, that 1 plainly perceived could he thus hold out for
half an hour, there was not the least doubt but he would
save his life from the power of his enemies
Between them and my castle there was a creek, that
very same which I sailed into with all my effects from the
wreck of the ship, on the steep banks of which I very
much feared the poor victim would be taken, if he coultl
not swim for his escape: But soon was I out of pain for
him, when I perceived he made nothing of it, though at
full tide, but with an intrepid courage, spurred on by the
v sense of danger, he plunged into the flood, swimming over
in about thirty strokes, and then landing, ran with the
same incredible strength and swiftness as before. When
the three pursuers came to the creek, one of them, who I
v perceived could not swim, happily for his part, returned
to his company, while the others with equal courage, but
much less swiitness, attained the other side, as though they
were resolved never to give over the pursuit. And now
or never I thought was the time for me to procure me a
servant, companion, or assistant; and that I was decreed
by Providence to be the instrument to save this poor crea-
ture's life. I immediately descended my two ladders with
the greatest expedition; I took up my two guns, which, as I
said before, were at the bottom of them, and getting up
again with the same haste towards the hill, 1 made nearer
the sea. In a word taking a short cut down the hill, I
interposed between the pursuers and pursued; hallowing
aloud to the latter, who, venturing to look back, was, no
doubt, as much terrified at me as I at them. I beckoned
to him with my hand, to return back; in the mean time
advancing towards the pursuers, and rushing on the fore-
most, I knocked him down with the stock of my piece,
and laid him flat on the ground. I was very unwilling h.
fire, lest the rest should hear, though, at a distance, I ques-
tioned whether they could or no: and being out of sight of
the smoke, they could not easily have known what to make
of it. The other savage seeing his fellow fall, stopped as
if he had been amazed; when advancing towards him, I
could perceive him take his bow from his back, and, fix-
ing an arrow to it, was preparing to shoot at me, and with-*
out dispute, might have lodged the arrow in my breast ,
but, in this absolutely necessary case of self-preservation, 1
immediately fired at . him, and "shot him dead, just as hit
hand was going, to draw the fatal string. All this while,
the savage who had fled before, stood still, and had the sa-
< tisfaction to see his enemies killed, as he thought, who d$»
signed to take away his life; so affrighted was he with the
fire and noise of my piece,, that lie stood, as it were, like
Lot's wife, fixed and immoveable, without either sense or
motion. This obliged me to halloo to him again, making
the plainest signs I could to him to draw nearer. I per-
ceived he understood those tokens by his approaching to
me a little way, when, as if afraid 1 should kill him too,
he stopped again. Several times did he advance, and as
often stop in this manner, till coming more to my view, I
perceived him trembling as if he was to undergo the same
late. Upon which I looked upon him with a smiling coun-
tenance, and still beckoning to him, at length he came close
to me and kneeled down, kissing the ground, laid his head
upon it, and taking me by the foot, set it upon his head;
and this, as I understood afterwards, was a token of swear-
ing to be my slave for ever. I took him up, and making
much of him, encouraged him in the best manner I could.
But my work was not yet finished; for I perceived the sa-
vage whom I had knocked down, was not killed but stun-
ned with the blow, and began to come to himself. Upon
which I pointed to my new servant, and showed him that his
enemy was not yet expired; he spoke some words to me,
but which I could not understand; yet being the first sound
of a man's voice 1 had heard for above twenty-five years,
they were very pleasing to me. But there was no time for
reflection now, the wounded savape recovering himself so
far as to sit upon the ground, which made my poor prisoner
as much afraid as beibre; to put him out of fear, I pre-
sented my other gun at the man, with an intent to shoot
him; but my savage, for so 1 must now call him, prevented
my firing, by making a motion to me to lend him a sword
winch hung naked in my belt by my side. No sooner did I
grant his request but away he runs to his enemy, and at
one blow cut off his head as dexterously as the most accom-
plished executioner in Germany could have done; for it
seems these creatures make use of wooden swords made of
hard wood, which will bear edge enough to cut off heads
and arms at one blow. When this valorous exploit was
done, he comes to me laughing, as a token of triumph de-
livered me my sword again, with abundance of surprising
gestures, laying it, along with the bleeding and ghastly head
uf the Indian* at my feet.
The greatest astonishment that my new servant conceived,
was thegmanner of killing the savage at such a distance,
Sfh«? a bow and arrow; and such was his longing desire
S know it, that he first pointed to the dead carcase, and
!? to me to crant him leave to go to him
then made signs to me to grant him leave to go 10 .-iw.
Upon which I bade him go, and, as well as I could, made
him sensible I granted his request. But when he came
there, how wonderfully was he struck with amazement?
First he turned him on one side, then on another, wonder-
ing he could perceive no quantity of blood, he bleeding
inwardly; and after sufficiently admiring the wound the
bullets had maii^n his breast, he took up his bow and ar-
rows, and came back again: upon which 1 turned to go
away, making my signs to him to follow, lest the rest ims-
sino- their companions, might come in pursuit of them, and
this I found he understood Tcry Weil; by in* making uTe
understand that his design was to bury them, that they might
made nim sensible 1 very much approved of. Immediately
he fell to work, and never was a grave-digger more dexterous
in the world than he was: for in an instant, as- 1 might say,
he scraped a large hole in the sand with his hands, sufficient
to bury the first in; there he dragged him, and without any
ceremony he covered him over; in like manner he served
the other; so that I am sure no undertaker could be more
expert in his business; for all this was done in less than a
quarter of an hour. I then called him away, and instead
of carrying him directly to my castle at first, 1* conveyed him
to my cave on the farther part of the island: and so my
dream was now fulfilled in that particular, that my grove
should prove an asylum or sanctuary to him.
Weary and faint, hungry and thirsty, undoubtedly must
this poor creature be, supported chiefly by the vivacity of
spirit, anil uncommon transports of joy that his deliverance
occasioned. Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins
to eat, and water to drink, on which he fed very cheerfully,
to his exceeding refreshment. I then made him a conveni-
ent bed with a parcel of rice straw, and a blanket upon it,
(a bed which 1 used myself sometimes,) and then pointing
to it, made signs for him to lie down to sleep, upon whicn
the poor creature went to take a welcome repose.
Indeed he was a very comely, handsome young fellow, ex
tremeJy well-made, with straight long limbs, not too large.
but tall an* well shaped, and, as near as I could reckon,
•bout twenty-six years of age. His countenance had no-
thing in it fierce or surly, but rather a sort of majesty in his
race; and yet, especially when he smiled, he had all the
sweetness and softness of an European. His hair was not
curled like wool, as many of the blacks are, but long and
black, with the most beautiful yet careless tresses spreading
over his shoulders. He had a very high and large forehead!
with a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes.
His skin was not so tawney as the Virginian Brazilians, or
«tfher Americans, but rather of a bright dun olive colour,
that had something agreeable in it, though not very easy to
give a description of. His face was round and plump, with
a small nose, very different from the flatness of the Negroes,
a pretty small mouth, thin lips, fine teeth, very well set,'
and white as the driven snow. In a word, such handsome
features, and exact symmetry in every part, made me con-
sider,, that I k—I » v* •*«.-'«.r~.-.z. -r ....
^ graceful and accomplished than the great Oroonoko, whose
memorable behaviour, and unhappy contingencies of life,
have charmed the world, both to admiration of his person,
and compassion to his sufferings.
But let him be either prince or peasant, all my happiness
centered in this, that I had now got a good servant or com-
panion, to whom, as he deserved, I was resolved to prove a
kind master and a lasting friend. He had not, 1 think, slept
above an hour, when he awaked again, and while 1 was
milking my goats hard by, out he runs from the cave to-
wards me in my inclosure, and laying himself down on the
ground, in the lowest prostration, made ail the antic gestures
imaginable, to express his thankfulness to me, for being his
deliverer. 1 confess, though* the manner of his behaviour
seemed to me ludicrous enough to occasion laughter, yet I
was very much moved at his affection, so that my heart
melted within me, fearing he might die away in excess of joy,
like reprieved malefactors: especially as I was incapable
either to let him blood, or administer physic. It were to
l>e wished that Christians would take example by this Hea-
then, to have a lasting remembrance of the benefits and de-
liverances they have received, by the kind mediation and
powerful interposition of their benefactors and deliverers:
and it would be likewise happy for mankind, were there no
occasion to blame many, who, instead of thankfully acknov*
SI
fedging favours and benefits, rather abuse and condemn
those who have been the instruments to save them from de-
struction.
But. leaving these reflections, I returned to the object
that occasioned them; for my man, to conclude the last ce-
remony of obedience, laid down his head again on the ground
close to my foot, and set my other foot upon his head, as he
had done before, making all the signs of subjection, servi-
tude, and submission imaginable, and let me understand he
would serve me as long as his life endured. As I under-
stood him in many things, I made him sensible I was very
well pleased with him; and, in a little time, I began to speak
to him, and learn him to talk to me again. In the first place
1 made him understand his name wa3 to be Friday, because
it was upon that day I saved his life; then I taught him to
say Master, which I made him sensible was to be my name.
1 likewise taught him to say Yes and No, and to know what
they meant. I gave him some milk in an earthen pot, mak-
ing him view me while I drank it before him, and soaked my
bread in it; 1 gave him a cake of bread, and caused him to
soak it likewise, to which he readily consented, making signs
of the greatest satisfaction imaginable.
All that night did I keep him there: but no sooner did
the morning light appear, when I ordered him to arise, and
come along with me, with certain tokens that I would give
him some clothes like mine, at which he seemed very g lad.
being stark naked, without the least covering whatever.—
As we passed by the place where the two men had been in-
terred, my man pointed directly to their graves, showing me
the marks he had made to find them again, giving me to un-
derstand, by signs, that we should dig them up and devour
them. At this i appeared extremely displeased, expressed
my utmost abhorence, as if 1 would vomit at the apprehen-
sion of it, beckoning with my hand to come away, which he
did with the greatest reverence and submission. After this
I conducted him to the top of the hill, to view if the rest of
the savages were yet remaining there; but when I looked
through my perspective glass, I could see no appearance of
them, nor of their canoes; so that it was very evident they
never minded their deceased companions whom we had slain;
which if they had, they would surely have searched for, or
left one boat behind for them to follow, after they returned
from their pursuit
Curiosity, and a desire of satisfaction, animating me with
courage to see this scene of barbarity, I took my man Fri-
day with me, putting a sword into his hand, with the bow
and arrows at his back, which I perceived he could use
very dexterously* causing him to carry one gun for me, arid
I two for myself; and thus equipped against all < attack^
away we marched directly to the place ot their bloody en-
tertainment. But when I came there, I was struck with the
utmost horror at so dreadful a spectacle, whilst Friday was
no way concerned about it, being no doubt in his turn one
of these devourers. Here lay several human bones, there se-
veral pieces of mangled flesh, half eaten, mangled and scorch-
ed; whilst streams of blood ran promiscuously as waters
from a fountain. As I was musing on this dreadful sight,
Friday took all the pains he could, by particular signs, to
make me understand, that they had brought over four pri-
soners to feast upon, three of whom they had eaten up, and
that he was the fourth, pointing to himeolf; that there hat-
ing been a Bloody battle between them and his great king,
in the just defence of whom he was taken prisoner, with
many others, all of these were carried off to different places
to be devoured by their conquerors; and that it was his mis-
fortune to be brought thither by these wretches for the same
purpose*
After I was made sensible of these things, I caused Fri-
day to gather these horrid remains, and lay them together
upon a heap, which I ordered to be set on fire, and burnt
them to ashes. My man, however, still retained the nature
of a cannibal, having a hankering stomach after some of the
flesh; but such an extreme abhorrence did I express at the
least appearance of it, that he durst not but conceal it; for
i made him very sensible, that if he offered any such thing,
i would certainly shoot him.
This being done, 1 carried my man with me to my castle,
and gave him a pair of linen drawers, which I had taken
wit of the poor gunner's chest before mentioned, and which,
with a little alteration, fitted him very well: in the next
place 1 made him a jerkin of goat's skin, such as my skill
was able to manage, and indeed i thought myself then a to-
lerable good tailor. I gave him also a cap which I made of
a hare's skin, very convenient and fashionable.—Thus being
clothed tolerably well, my man was no less proud of his
habit, than I was at seeing him in it. Indeed he went very
93
awkwardly at first, the drawers being too heavy on his
thighs, not used to bear any weight, and the sleeves of the
waistcoat galled his shoulders and the inside of his arms;
but by a little easing where he complained they hurt him,
and by using himself to them, at length he took to them
very well.
My next concern was, where I should lodge him; and
that I might do weil by him, and yet be perfectly easy my-
self, I erected a tent for him in the vacant place between
my two fortifications, in the inside of the last, and the out-
side of the first; and, as there was an entrance or door in-
to my cave, I made a formal framed door-case, anS a door
to open on the inside; I barred it up in the night time, tak-
ing in my ladders too, so that, was my man to prove treach-
erous, there could be no way to come at me in the inside of
my innermost wall, without making so much noise in get-
ting over, that it must needs waken me; for my first wajl
had now a complete roof over it of long poles, spreading
over my tent, and leading up to the side of the mountain,
which was again laid across with smaller sticks instead of
laths, and thatched over a great thickness with the rice straw,
which was as strong as reeds: and at the hole of the place,
left on purpose to go in and out by the ladder, had placed a
kind of trap-door, which, if it had been attempted on the
outside, would not have opened at all, but have fallen down,
and made a great noise; and as to my weapons, every night
I took them all to my bedside.
But there was no occasion for this precaution • for surely
a master never had a more sincere, faithful, and loving ser-
vant than Friday proved to me. Without passion, sullen-
ness, or design, perfectly obliging and engaging, his affec*
tior\s were as much tied to me, as those of a child to its pa-
rents; and I might venture to say, he would have sacrificed
his life for the saving of mine, upon any occasion whatso-
ever. And, indeed, the many testimonies he ^ave me of
this, sufficiently convinced me that I had no occasion to use
these precautions. And here 1 could not but reflect with
great wonder, that however it hath pleased the Almighty
in his providence, and in the government of the creation, to
take from so great a partt of the world of his creatures, the
noblest uses to which their faculties, ancj the powers of their
souls are adapted; yet that he has bestowed upon them tfa$
94
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
same reason, affections, sentiments of kindness and obliga-
tion, passions of resentment, sincerity, fidelity, and all the
capacities of doing and receiving goocl that he has given us;
and that when he is graciously pleased to offer them occa-
sions of exerting these, they are as ready, nay, more ready
to apply them to the proper uses for which they were be-
stowed, than we often are. These thoughts would make
me melancholy, especially when I considered how mean a
use we make of all these, even though we have these pow-
ers enlightened by the Holy Spirit of God, and by the
knowledge of this world, as an addition to our understand-
ing; and why it has pleased the heavenly wisdom to con-
ceal the like saving knowledge from so many millions of
souls, who would certainly make a much better use of it
than generally mankind do at this time. These reflections
would sometimes lead me so far as to inveigh the sovereign-
ty of Providence, and, as it were, arraign the justice of such
an arbitrary disposition of things, that should obscure that
light from some, and reveal it to others, and yet expect a
like duty from all. But I closed it up, checking my thoughts
with this conclusion; first, That we were ignorant of that
right and law by which those should be condemned; but as
the Almighty was necessarily, and by the nature of his es-
sence, infinitely just and holy; so it could not be otherwise,
but that if these creatures were all destined to absence from
himself, it was on account of sinning against that light,
which, as the Scripture says, was a law to themselves, and
by such a rule as their consciences would acknowledge to
be just, though the first foundation was not discovered to
us. And, secondly, That still as we were the clay in the
hand of the potter, no vessel could say thus to him, '* Why
"hast thou fashioned me after this manner.'"
I had not been above two or three days returned to my
castle, but my chief design was, how I should bring Friday
off from his horrid way of feeding; and to take from him
that inhuman relish he by nature had been accustomed to,
I thought it my duty to let him taste other flesh, which
might the rather tempt him to the same abhorrence I so
often expressed against their accursed way of living. Upon
which, one morning I took him out with me, with an inten-
tion to kill a kid out of the flock and bring it home, and
dress it. As I was going, I perceived a she-goat lying down
9fi
in the shade, and two young kids sitting by her.—Immedi-
ately I catched hold of my man Friday, and bidding him
stand still, and not stir, I presented my piece, and shot one
of the kids. My poor servant, who at a distance perceived
me kill his adversary, and yet did not know by what means,
or how it was done, stood trembling and surprised, and
looked so amazed, that I thought he would have sunk into
the earth. He did not see the kid I aimed at, or beheld I
had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat to see if he was
rot wounded, thinking my resolution was to kill him; for
coming to me, he fell on his knees, earnestly pronouncing
many things which 1 did not understand the meaning of;
which at length I perceived was, that I would not take away
his life.
Indeed I was much concerned to see him in that con-
dition, where nature is upon the severest trial, when the
immediate hand of death is ready to put for ever a period
to this mortal life; and, indeed, so much compassion nad I
to this creature, that it was with difficulty I refrained from
tears. But, however, as another sort of countenance was
necessary, and to convince him that I would do him no
harm, I took him smiling by the hand, then laughing at
him, and pointing to the kid which I had slain, made signs
to him to fetch it, which accordingly he did. No' less
curious was he in viewing how the creature was killed, than
he had been before in beholding the Indian; which, while
he was admiring at, I charged my gun again, and presently
perceived a great fowl, like an hawk, perched upon a tree
within shot: and therefore to let Friday understand what
I was going to do, I called him to me again, pointing at the
fowl, which I found to be a parrot. I made him under-
stand that I would ghoot and kill that bird; accordingly I
fired, and bade him look, when immediately he saw the
parrot fall down. Again he stood like one amazed, not-
withstanding all I had said to him : and the more confound-
ed he was, because he did not perceive me put any thing
into my gun. Undoubtedly a thing so utterly strange,
carrying death along with it, far or near, either to man or
beast, must certainly create the greatest astonishment to one
who had never heard of such a thing in his whole life; and
really his amazement continued so long, that had I allowed
it he would have prostrated himself before me and my gun,
with the greatest worship and adoration. As for the gun,
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
in particular, he would not so much as touch it for several
days after, but would come and communicate his thoughts
to it, and talk to it, as if the senseless piece had understood
and answered him; ail this i could perceive him do, when
he thought my back was turned, the chief intent of which
was, to desire it not to kill him, as I afterwards came to
understand.
I never strove to prevent his admiration, nor hinder him
from those comical gestures he used on such occasions; but
when his astonishment was a little over, 1 made tokens to
him to run and fetch the parrot that I had shot; which ac-
cordingly he did, staying some time longer than usual, by
reason the bird not being quite dead, had fluttered some way
further from the place where he fell. In the mean time,
while he was looking for her, I took the advantage of charg-
ing my gun again, so that I might be ready for any other
mark that offered; but nothing more occurred at that*time.
So I brought home the kid, and the same evening took off
the skin, and divided the carcase as well as I could. Part of
the flesh 1 stewed and boiled in a pot I had for this purpose.
«And then spreading my table, 1 sat down, giving my man
tome of it to eat, who was wonderfully pleased, and seemed
to like, it very well: but what was the most surprising to
him was to see me eat salt with it: upon which he made me
understand, that the salt was very bad for me: when put-
ting a little into his mouth he seemed to nauseate it in such
a manner as to spit and splutter at it, and then washed his
mouth with fresh water: but to show him how contrary hia
opinion was to mine, I put some meat in my mouth without
salt, and feigned to spit and splutter as much for the want
of it, as he had done at it; yet all this proved of no signi-
fication to Friday; and it was a long while before he could
endure 6alt in his meat or broth, and even then but a small
quantity.
Thus having fed him sufficiently with boiled meat and
broth at that time, the next day I was resolved to feast him
with a roasted piece of the kid. And having no spit to
fasten it, nor jack to turn it, I made use of that common
artifice which many of the common people of England have,
that is to set two poles upon each side of the fire, and
one across on the top, hanging the meat thereon with &
string, and so turning round continually, roast it, in the
same manner as we read bloody tyrants of old cruelly roast*
97
ed 4he holy martyrs. This practice caused great admiration
in my man Friday, being quite another way than that to
which the savages were accustomed. But when he came to
taste the sweetness and tenderness of the flesh, he express-
ed his entire satisfaction above a thousand different ways.
And as I could not but understand his meaning, you may be
sure I was as wonderfully pleased, especially when he made it
also very plain to me, that he would never, while he lived,
eat man's flesh more.
It was now high time I should set my servant to work;
so next day I set him to beat out some corn, and sift it in
the same manner as I had done before. And really the fel-
low was very quick and handy in the execution of any thing
I ordered him to go about. I made him understand that it
was to make bread for us to eat, and afterwards let him see
me make it. In short he did every thing as I ordered him,
and in a little time as well as I could perform it myself.
But now considering that I had two mouths to feed in-
stead of one, it was necessary that I must provide more
ground for my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn,
than I commonly used to do; upon which 1 marked out a
larger piece of land, fencing it in, in the same manner as
1 had done before; in the execution of which I must give
Friday this good word, that no man could work more hardy,
or with better will than he did; and when I made him sen-
sible that it was for bread to serve him as well as me, he
then very passionately made me understand, that he thought
I had much more labour on his account, than 1 had for my-
self; and that no pains or diligence should be wanting,in
him, if I.would but direct him in those works wherein he
might proceed.
I must certainly own, that this was the most pleasant year
I ever had in the island; for after some time, Friday began
to talk pretty well, and understood the names of those things
which 1 was wont to call for, and the places where I used
to send him. So that my long silent tongue, which had been
useless so many years, except in an exclamatory manner,
either for deliverance or blessings., now began to be occu-
pied in teaching and talking to my man Friday; for indeed
1 had such a singular satisfaction in the fellow himself, so
innocent did his simple and unfeigned honesty appear more
and more to me every day, that I really began entirely to
love him; and for his part, I believe there was no love lost,
E
and that his nature had been more charmed by this exceeding
kindness, and his affection tnore placed upon me, than any
other object whatsoever among his own countrymen. I once
had a great mind to try if he had an hankering inclination
to his own country again; and by this time having learned
the English so well, that he could give me tolerable answers
to any question which I demanded; I asked I rim whether
that nation to which he belonged, ever conquered in battle?
The question caused Friday to smile, and to which he an-
swered, "Yes, yes, we always fight the better;" as much
as to say they always got the better in fight. Upon which
we proceeded on the following discourse: You say, said I,
that you always fight the better; why, then, Friday, how
came you to be taken prisoner?
Friday. But for all that, my nation beat much.
Master. How say you, beat? if your nation beat them,
how came you to be taken prisoner?
Friday. They more many mans than my nation in the
place where me was; they take one, two, three, and me:
my nation much over beat them in the yonder place where
we no was, there my nations man beat orte, two, three great
tousand.
Master. Then why did not your nation recover you from
the hands of your enemies?
Friday. They run one, two, or three, and me: they make
all go into the canoe; my nation have no canoe that time.
Master. Tis very well, Friday; but what does your na-
tion do with the prisoners they take? Do they carry them
away and eat them, as these have done?
Friday* Yes, yes, my nation eats mans too, eat up all.
Master. To what place do they carry them to be devoured?
Friday. Go to other nations where they think.
Master. Do they bring them hither?
Friday. Yes, come over hither, come over other place.
Master. And have you been with them here, Friday?
Friday. Yes, me been here (pointing to the north-west
of ike island being the side where they used to land.)
Thus having gotten what account I could from my man,
I plainly understood, that he had been as bad as any of the
rest of the cannibals, having been formerly among the sa-
vages who used to come on shore on the farthest part of the
island, upon the same bloody occasion as he was brought
hither for; and some time after I carried him to that place
99
where lie pointed; and no sooner did he come there, but
he presently knew the ground, signifying to me that he was
once there when they eat up twenty men, two women, and
a young child: but as he could not explain the number in
English he did it by so many stones in a row, making a
sign for me to count them.
This passage I had the rather mentioned, because it led
to things more important and useful for me to know; for
after I had the satisfactory discourse with him, my next
question was, how far it was from the island to the shore,
and whether the canoes were not often lost in the ocean? to
which he answered there was no danger; that no canoes
were ever lost; but that, after a little way out to the sea,
there was a strong current, and a wind always one way in
the afternoon. This I thought at first to be no more than
the sets of the tide, of going out or coming in; but I after-
wards understood it was occasioned by the great draught
and reflux of the mighty river Oroonoko, in the mouth or
gulf of which I imagined my kingdom lay; and that the
land which I perceived to the W. or N. W. must be the
great island Trinidad, on the north of the river. A thou-
sand questions (if that would satisfy me) did I ask Friday,
about the nature of the country, the sea, the coasts, the in-
habitants, and what nations were nearest them; to which
questions the poor fellow declared all he knew with the
greatest openness, and utmost sincerity. When I demand-
ed of him the particular names of the various nations of his
sort of people, he could only answer me in general, that
they were called Carribbee. Hence it was I considered that
these must be the Caribbees, so much taken notice of by
our maps, to be on that part of America, which reaches
from the mouth of the river Oroonoko to Guinea, and so
on to St. Martha. Then Friday proceeded to tell me, that
up a great way beyond the moon, as much as to say, be-
yond the setting of the moon, which must be W. from their
country, there dwelt white-bearded men, such as I was,
pointing to my whiskers, and that they kill much mans. I
was not ignorant with what barbarity the Spaniards treated
these creatures; so that I presently concluded it must be
them, whose cruelties had spread throughout America, to
be remembered even to succeeding generations.
Well, you may be sure, this knowledge, which the im-
perfect knowledge of my man had led me to, was very
e 2
comfortable to me, and made Die so curious as to ask him
how I might depart from this island, and get amongst those
white men f He told me, " Yes, yes, JL might go in two ca-
noes." In two canoes, thought J, what does my man mean?
surely he means one for himself, and another for me; and
if not, how must two canoes hold me without being joined,
or one part of my body being put in one, and another in
another? And indeed it was a long time before I understood
his meaning, which was, that it must be a large boat as big
as two canoes, able to bear with the waves, and not so lia-
ble to be overwhelmed as a small one must be.
I believe there is no state of life but what may be happy,
if people would but endeavour for their part to make it so.
He is not the happiest man that has the most riches; but he
that is content with what he has. Before I had my servant,
1 thought myself miserable till I had him; and now that I
had enjoyed the happy benefits of him, I still complained,
and begged a deliverance from a place of retirement, ease,
and plenty, where Providence had sufficiently blessed me.
In a word, -from this time I entertained some hopes, that
one time or other I might find an opportunity to make my
escape from this island, and that this poor savage might be
a great furtherance thereto.
All this time since my man became so intelligent as to un-
derstand and speak to me, I spared no pains or diligence
to instruct him, according to my poor share of knowledge,
in the principles of religion, and the adoration that he ought
to pay to the true God. One time, as I very well remem-
ber, I asked him who made him.? At first the innocent
•reature did not understand what I meant, but rather thought
,1 asked him who was his father? Upon which I took ano-
ther way to make him sensible, by demanding from him an
answer to this question. Friday, said I, who is it that made
he sea, this ground whereon we walk, and all these hills
and woods which we behold? and here indeed I did not miss
my intention; for he told me it was Old Benamuckee (the
God whom 1 suppose these savages adored) who Jived a great
way beyond all. But as to his attributes, poor Friday was
an utter stranger. He could describe nothing of this great
person; and all that he could say was, that he was very old,
much older than the sea and land, the moon, or the stars,
Friday, said I again, if this great and old person has made
all tilings in the world, how comes \t to pass, that all things
101
as vou in particular, do not adore and worship him? Upon
this^ looking very grave, with a perfect sweet look of inno-
cence he replied, "Master of all things say O to him," by
which it may be reasonably supposed he meant adoration.
And where, said I, do the people of your country go when
they die? He answered to Benamuckee. What, and those
people that are eaten up, do they go there ?" Benamuckee"
said he, u love 'em dearly; me pray to Benamuckee in de
"canoe, and Benamuckee would love me when they eat me
"all up."
Such discourses as these had I with my man, and such
made me sensible, that the true God is worshipped, though
under imperfect similitudes ; and that the false adoration
which the Heathens give to their imaginary Diety, is as great
an argument of the divine essence, as the most learned Athe-
ists (falsely so called) can bring against it; for God will be
glorified in his works, let their denomination be what it will;
and I cannot be of that opinion which some conceive, that
God should decree man to be damned for want of a right no-
tion of faith, in a place where the wisdom of the Almighty
has not permitted it to be preached; and therefore cannot
but conclude, that since obedience is the best sacrifice, these
poor creatures, acting by that light and knowledge which
they are possessed of, may, undoubtedly, obtain a happy sal-
vation, though not that enjoyment with Christ, as his saints^
confessors, and martyrs must enjoy.
But laying these determinations aside, more fit for divines
than me to discuss, I began to instruct my servant in the sav-
ing knowledge of the true Deity, in which the directions of
God's Holy Spirit assisted me. I lifted up my hands to Hea-
ven, and pointing thereto, told him, that the great Maker
of Heaven and Earth lived there; that, as his infinite power
fashioned this world out of a confused chaos, and made
it in that beautiful frame which we behold, so he governs
and preserves it by his unbounded knowledge, sovereign
greatness, and peculiar providence; that he was omnipo-
tent, could do every thing for us, give every thing to us,
and take every thing away from us; that he was the rewarder
and punisher of good and evil actions; that there was no-
thing but what he knew, no thoughts so secret but what he
could bring to light: and thus by degrees I opened his eyes,
and described to him the manner of the creation of the
k3
world, the situation of paradise, the transgression of our
first parents, the wickedness of God's peculiar people, and
the universal sins and abominations of the whole earth.—
When these things were implanted in his mind, I told him,
that as God's justice was equal to his mercy, he resolved to
destroy this world, till his Son Jesus Christ interposed in
our behalf; and to procure our redemption, obtained leave
of his heavenly Father to come down from heaven into the
world, where he took human nature upon him, instructed us
in our way to eternal life, and died as a sacrifice for our sins;
that he was now ascended into Heaven, mediating for our
pardon, delivering our petitions, and obtaining all those good
, benefits which we ask in his name, by humble and hearty
prayers, all which were heard at the throne of Heaven.—
As very frequently I used to inculcate things into his mind,
Friday one day told me, that if our great God could hear
us beyond the sun, he must surely be a greater God than
their Benamuckee, who lived but a little way off, and yet
could not hear them till they ascended the great mountains,
where he dwelt, to speak to him. What, said I, Friday, did
you go thither to speak to him too? He answered, "No,
"they never went that were young men, none but old men,
« called their Oowq/wkee" meaning the Indian priests, " who
a went to say O, (so he called saying their prayers,) and they
"returned back, and told them what Benamuckee said."
From hence I could not but observe how happy we Chris-
tians are, who have God's immediate revelation for our cer-
tain guide; and that our faith is neither misled, nor our
reason imposed upon, by any set of men, such as these Indi-
an impostors.
But, to clear up this palpable cheat to my man Friday, I
told him, that the pretence of their ancient men going up to
the mountain to say O to their God Benamuckee, was an im-
posture, and that their bringing back an answer was all a
sham, if not worse; for that, if there was any such thing
spoken to them, surely it must proceed from an infernal
spirit. And here I thought it necessary to enter into a long
discourse with him, which I did after this manner:
Friday, said I, you must know, that before this world was
jmade, there was an Almighty power existing, by whose power
all things were made, and whose Majesty shall have no
end. To be glorified and adored by beings of a heavenly
nature, he created angels and archangels, that is, glorified
109
spirits resembling himself, to encompass bis throne, eter-
nally singing forth his praise in his most heavenly sounds
and divine harmony. And, among this heavenly choir, Lu-
cifer bore a great sway, as being then one of the peculiar fa-
vourites of these celestial abodes; but he, contrary to that
duty he owed his heavenly Sovereign, with unbounded ingra-
titude to his Divine Creator, not only envied him that ado-
ration which was his due, but thought to usurp that throne,
which he had neither power to keep, fior title to pretend to.
He raised a dissension and civil war in Heaven, and had a
number of angels to take his part. Unbounded folly! stu-
pendous pride! to hope for victory, and aspire above his
powerful Creator! The Deity, not fearful of such an enemy,
yet justly provoked at his rebellion, commissioned his arch-
angel Michael to lead forth the heavenly host, and give him
battle; the advantage of which was quickly perceived by Sa-
tan's being overthrown, and the prince of -the air, for so the
devil is called, with aU his fallen angels, driven headlong in-
to a dismal place which is called Hell.
The recital of this truth made my man give the greatest
attention, and he expressed a great satisfaction by his ges-
tures, that God had sent the devil into the deep hole.—And
then 1 desired him to give great heed to what I had further
to say.
No sooner, proceeded I, was God freed from, and the
Heaven clear of this arch traitor, but the Father speaks to
the Son and Holy Spirit, who belonged to his essence, and
were equal to him in power and glory, Come let us make man,
said he, in our own image, after our oxen likeness, Gen. i. 26.
to have dominion over the creatures of the world which we
have created. And these he intended should glorify him in
Heaven,, according to their obedience in this state of proba*
tion .on earth, which was, as it were, to be the school to
.train them up for these heavenly mansions. Now, Satan see-
ing himself foiled, yet that God had not taken the power
from him as prince of the air, which power Heaven design-
ed he should retain, whereby his creatures might be tried;
in revenge for the disgrace he had received, he tempts
Adam's wife, Eve, to taste of the tree of knowledge of good
and evil, which God had forbidden. He appears to her in
the shape of a serpent, then a most beautiful creature, and
tells her that it was no better than an imposition which God
had put upon her and her husband, not to eat of that fair
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
fruit which he had created: that the taste thereof would
make them immortal like God himself; and consequently
as great and powerful as he. Upon which she not only eat
thereof herself, but made her husband eat also, which
brought them both under heavenly displeasure.
Here Friday expressed a great concern: u Ah, poor
• mans V9 cried he, " naughty womans! naughty devil! make
"God not love de mans, make mans like devil himself.'"
Friday, said J, God still loved mankind; and though the
devil tempted human nature so far, he would not suffer him
to have an absolute power over them. 1 have told you be-
fore of his tender love to his people, till they, like Lucifer,
disobeyed his commands and rebelled against him; and even
then, how Jesus Christ, his only Son, came to save sinners.
But still every man that lives in the world is under tempta-
tion and trial. The devil has yet a power, as prince of the
air, to suggest evil cogitations in our minds^ and prompt us
on to wicked actions, that he might glory in our destruction.
Whatever evil thoughts we have, proceed from him; so that
God, in this our distress, expects we should apply onrselves
to him by fervent prayer for speedy redress. He is not like
jBenamuckee, to let none come near him but Oowakakee,
but suffers the people, as well as the priests, to offer them-
selves at his feet, thereby to be delivered from the power
and temptation of the devil.
But though at first my man Friday expressed some con-
cern at the wickedness of Lucifer, I found it not so easy to
imprint the right notions of him in his mind, as it was about
the divine essence of God; for there nature assisted me in
all my arguments, to shew to him plainly the necessity of a
Great First Cause, an overruling, governing Power; of a
secret directing Providence, and of the equity and reason-
ableness of paying adoration to our Creator; whereas there
appeared nothing of all this in the notion of an evil spirit,
of his first beginning, his nature, and, above all, of his incli-
nation to evil actions, and his power to tempt us to the like.
And indeed this unlearned Indian, by the mere force of na-
ture, puzzled me with one particular question, more than
ever I could have expected.
I had, it seems, one dayy been talking to him of the om-
nipotent power of God, and his infinite abhorrence of sin,
insomuch that the Scriptures styled him a consuming Jire to
till the workers of iniquity; and that it was in his power,
105
whenever he pleased, to destroy all the world in a moment,
the greater part of which are continually offending him.
When, with a serious attention, he had listened a great
while to what 1 said, after 1 had been telling him how the
devil was God's enemy in the hearts of men, and used all
his malice and skill to defeat the good designs of Providence,
and destroy the kingdom of Christ in the world, and so
forth: "Very well, Master," said Friday, " you say God is
"so strong, so great, is he not much strong, much mightier
"than the naughty devil !" To be sure, Friday, said 1, God
is more wise and stronger than the serpent: he is above the
devil, which makes us pray to him that he would tread down
Satan under his feet, enable us to resist the violent temp-
tations, and quench his fiery darts. "Why, then,1' answered
Friday quick I j, <6 if God, as you say, has much strong, much
** might as the devil, why God not kill devil, make no more
"tempt, no more do wicked.v>
You may be certain I was strangely surprised at the ques-
tion of my man's: and, though an old man, I was but a
young doctor, and consequently very ill qualified for a ca-
suist, or a resolver of intricate doubts of religion; and as k
required some time for me to study for an answer, I pre-
tended not to hear him, nor to ask him what he said; but,
so earnest was he for an answer, as not to forget his question,
which he repeated in the very same broken words as above*
When I had recovered myself a little: Friday, said 1, God
will at last punish him severely, being, reserved for judg-
ment, and is to be cast into the bottomless pit, to remain m
fire everlasting. But aU this did not satisfy Friday; for
returning upon me, he repeated my words. "keservk at
64 last, me no understand , but, why not kill devil now,
« not kill devil great, great while ago ?** Friday, said I, you
may as well ask me why God does not kill you and me,
when, by our wicked actions, we so much offend his divine
Majesty? He gives us time to repent of our sins, that there-
by we may obtain pardon* At these words obtain pardon,
Friday mused a great while : and at last, looking me stead-
fastly in the face, *« Well, well," saici he, " that's very well;
*6 so you, I, devil, all wicked mans, all preserve, repent*
« God pardon all."
Indeed, here I was run down to the last extremity, whea
it became very evident to me, how mere natural notion*
*. $
will guide reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a Deity,
and to the homage due to the Supreme Being of God; but
however, nothing but divine revelation can form the know-
ledge of Jesus Christ, and of a redemption purchased for
us, of the mediator of the new covenant, and of an inter-
cessor at the footstool of God's throne; and therefore, the
Gospel of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, that is, the
word and Spirit of God, promised for the guide and sancti-
fier of his people, are his most necessary instructors of the
souls of men, in the saving knowledge of the Almighty, and
the means to attain eternal happiness.
And now I found it necessary to put an end to this dis-
course between my man and me; for which purpose I rose
up hastily, and made as if I had some occasion to go out,
sending Friday for something that was a good way off, I
then fell on iny knees, and beseeched God that he would
inspire me so far as to guide this poor savage in the know-
ledge of Christ, to answer his questions more c learly, that his
conscience might be convinced, his eyes opened, and his
soul saved. When he returned again, I entered into a very
long discourse with him, upon the subject of the world's
redemption by the Saviour of it, and the doctrine of repent*
ance preached from lieaveil, together with an holy faith of
our blessed Redeemer Jesus Christ; and then 1 proceeded
to explain to him, according to my weak capacity, the rea-
son why our Saviour took not on him the nature of angels,
but rather the seed of Abraham : and how the fallen angels
had no benefit by that redemption 4 and lastly, that he came
only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, and the like.—
God knows 1 had more sincerity than knowledge in all the
ways 1 took for the poor Indian's instruction; and 1 must
acknowledge, what I believe every body that acts upon the
same principle will find, that in laying heavenly truths open
before him, I informed and instructed myself, in many things
that either I did not know, or had not perfectly considered
before; so that, however, this poor creature might be im-
proved by my instructions, certain it is, that I myself had
great reason to be thankful to Providence for sending him
toltte. IJis company allayed my grief, and made my habi-
tation comfortable; and when 1 reflected that the solitary*
life to which I had been so long confined, had made me to
look farther towards Heaven, by making me the instrument,.
Wider Providence, to save the life, and for ought I know.
107
the soul of this poor savage, by bringing him to the know-
ledge of Jesus Christ, it caused a secret joy to spread through
every part of my soul; and I frequently rejoiced* that ever
I was brought to this place, which I once thought the most
miserable part of the world.
In this thankful frame of mind did I afterwards continue
while I abode on the island, and for three years did my man
and I live in the greatest enjoyment of happiness. Indeed,
1 believe the savage was as good a Christian as I; and I
hope we were equally penitent; and such penitents as wer«
comforted and restored by God's Holy Spirit; for now we
had the word of the Lord, to instruct us in the right way, as
much as if we had been on the English shore.
By the constant application I made to the Scriptures* as
I read them to my man Friday, I earnestly endeavoured to
make him understand every part of them, as much as lay in my
power. He also, on the other hand, by his very serious
questions and inquiries, made me a much better proficient
in Scripture knowledge, than I should have been by my
own private reading and study. I must not omit another
thing, proceeding from the experience I had in my retire-
ment: It was that infinite and inexpressible blessing, the
knowledge of God through Jesus Christ, which was so plain
and easy to be understood, as immediately to direct me to
carry on the great work of sincere repentance for my sins,
and laying hold of a Saviour for eternal life, to a practical
stated reformation, and obedience to all God's institutions,
without the assistance of a reverend and orthodox divine;
and especially by this same instruction, so to enlighten this
savage creature, as to make him so good a Christian^ as very
few could exceed him. And there was only this great thing
wanting* that I had no authority to administer the Holy Sa-
crament, that heavenly participation of Christ's body and
blood; yet, however, we rested ourselves content, that God;
would accept our desires, and according to our faith, have
mercy upon us.
But what we wanted one way, was made up in another,
and that was universal peace in pur little church. We had
po disputes and wranglings about the nature and equalitji^of
the holy, blessed, and undivided Trinity^ no niceties l\n
doctrine, or schemes of church government; no sour -or
morose dissenters to impose more sublimated notiofts ^pon.
 
mysteries but instead of all this* we enjoyed the most cer-
tain guide to Heaven; that is, the word of God; besides
which, we had the comfortable views of his Spirit leading
lis to the truth, and making us both willing and obedient to
the instruction of his word. As the knowledge and prac-
tice of this are the principal means of salvation, I cannot see
what it avails any Christian church, or man in the world, to
amuse himself with speculations and opinions, except it be
to display their particular vanity and affectation.
You may well suppose, that by the frequent discourse we
had together, my man and I became most intimately ac-
quainted, and that there was but very little that I could say
but what Friday understood; and indeed, he spoke very
fluently, though it was but broken English. I now took a
particular pleasure in relating all my adventures, especially
those that occurred since my being cast on this island. I
made him understand that wonderful mystery, as he con-
ceived, of gunpowder and bullet, and taught him how to
shoot. I also presented to him a knife, which pleased him
exceedingly making him a belt, with a frog hanging there-
to, like those in which we wear hangers in England; and,
instead of a hanger to put in the frog, I gave him a hatchet,
which was not only as good, but even a better weapon upon
many occasions. In a word, my man thus accoutred, look-
ed upon himself as great as Don Quixote, when that cele-
brated champion went to combat the windmill.
I next gave him a very particular description of the ter-
ritories of Europe, and in a particular manner of Old Eng-
land, the place of my nativity. I laid before him the man-
ner of our worshipping God, our behaviour one to another*
and how we trade in ships to every part of the universe.—
1 then told him my misfortunes in being shipwrecked, show-
ing, as near as I could, the place where the ship lay, which
bad been gone long before; but I brought him to the ruins
pf my boat, which before my whole strength could not move,
but now was almost rotten and fallen to pieces. 1 observed
my man Friday to view this boat with an uncommon curi-
osity; which vfhen he tiad done, he stood pondering a
great while and said nothing. At last, said I, Friday, what
makes you ponder so much f He replied, "O master, me
see like boat come to place at my nation."
It was some time indeed, before I understood what my
mf^q meant; but examining strictly into it, 1 plainly found,
that such another boat resembling mine, had come upon the
country where he dwelt; that is to say, by his farther expla-
nation, that the boat was driven there tnrough stress of weatner.
It then came into my mind that some European ship having
been cast away, the poor distressed creatures were forced to
have recourse to the boat to save their lives; and being all, as
I thought, drowned, I never concerned myself to ask any thing
.concerning them, but my only enquiry was about the boat,,
and what description my man could give of it.
indeed, Friday answered my demands very well, making
every thing very plain to my understanding; but beyond mea-
sure was I satisfied, when he told me with great warmth and
ardour, <c O master, we save white mans from drown.-';" upon
which I immediately asked him, if there were any white mans,
as he called them, in the boat? "Yes, yes," said he,. u the
boat full, very full of white mans." How many, Friday?
sfcid 1. Hereupon he numbered his fingers, and counted seven-
teen. And when I asked him what became of them all, and
whether they lived or not? "Yes, master, they all live, they
be live among my nation." This information put fresh
thoughts into my head, that these must be those very men
who before I concluded had been swallowed up in. the ocean,
after tftey had left the ship that had struck upon the rocks of
my kingdom, and after escaping the fury of the deep, landed
upon the wild shore, and committed themselves to the fury of
the devouring Indians..
The manner of their- cruelties to one another, which con-
sequently,, as I thought, must be acted with great barbarity
to strangers, created in me a great anxiety, and made me
still more curious'to ask Friday concerning them* He told
me, he was sure they still lived there, having resided among
them above four years, and that the savages gave them vie*
tuals to live upon. But pray, Friday, said 1, whence pro-
ceeded all this good, nature and generosity? How came it to
pass that they did not kill and eat them* to please their de-
vouring- appetites* and occasion so splendid an entertainment
among them?" No, no," said Friday,. "they not kill 'em*
they make brothers with Vm;." by which I understood
there was a truce between them. And then I had a more
favourable opinion of the Indians,, upon Friday uttering
these words:; u my nation*,, t'other nation no eat mans, but
when mans make war fightas though he had said, that
neither those of his kingdom,, nor any other nations that hb>
knew of ever eat their fellow creatures, but such as their
law of arms allowed to be devoured; that is those misera-
ble captives, whose misfortune it should be to be made pri-
soners of war.
Some considerable time after, upon a very pleasant day,
in most serene weather, my man and I stood upon the top
of a hill, on the east side of the island, whence I had once
-before beheld the continent of America. I could not tell im-
mediately what was the matter; for suddenly Friday fell a
jumping and dancing as if he had been mad; and upon my
demanding the reason of his behaviour, "O joy," said he,
<cOglad! there see my country, there my nation, there live
white mans gether." And indeed such a rapturous sense of
pleasure appeared in his countenance, that his eyes had an
uncommon sparkling and brightness, and such a strange
.eagerness, as if he had a longing desire to be in his country
again. This made me not so well satisfied with my man
Jfriday as before; for by this appearance I made no dispute
but that if he could get back thither again, he would not
only be unmindful of what religion I had taught him, but
likewise of the great obligation he owed me for his wonder-
ful deliverance; nay, that he would not only inform his
countrymen of me, but accompany hundreds of them to my
kingdom, and make me a miserable sacrifice, like those un-
happy wretches taken in battle.
Indeed I was very much to blame to have these cruel and
unjust suspicions, and must freely own I wronged the poor
creature very much, who was of a quite contrary temper.
And had he had that discerning acuteness which many Eu-
ropeans have, he would certainly have perceived my cold-
nees and indifference, and also nave been very much con*
cerned upon that account: as I was now more circumspect,
I had much lessened my kindness and familiarity with him,
and while this jealousy continued, 1 used that artful way
fnow too much in fashon, the occasion of strife and dissen-
sion) of pumping him daily, thereby to discover whether he
was deceitful in his thoughts and inclinations; but certainly
fee had nothing in him but what was consistent with the best
principles, both as a religious Christian and a grateful friend;
aiid, indeed, 1 found every thing he said was ingenuous and
innoeent, that I had no room for suspicion, and in spito of
ftH'UneadinesV he not only made me entirely his own agairi„
but also caused me much to lament that I ever conceived
one ill thought of him*
 
As we were walking up the same hill another day, when
the weather was so hazy at sea, that I could not perceive
the continent, Friday, said I, don't you wish yourself to be
in your own country, your nation, among your old friends
and acquaintances?" Yes," saith he, "me much O glad to
be at my own nation?' And what would you do there,
Friday? Would you turn wild again, eat man's flesh, and
be as savage as you were formerly? ** No, no," (answered
he full of concern, and shaking his head ) " Friday now tell
them to live good, tell them pray God,, tell them to eat corn,
bread, cattle, flesh, milk, no eat man again." But surely,
replied I, if you should offer to do all this, they will kill
you; and to manifest their contempt of such instruction
eat you up when they have done. He then put on a grave,,
yet innocent and smooth countenance, saying, " No, they
no kill me, they willing love learn that is that they
would be very willing to learn: adding withal, a that they
had learned much of the bearded mans that came in the
boat." Will you, said I, go back again, Friday? He smil-
ed at that, and told me, that he could not swim so far. Bur,
said.l, I will make a canoe for you. "Yes, master,*' said
he "me go if you go; me no go, if ydu stay." I go, Fri-
day! why would you have them the eat me up, and devour
your kind master? '* No, no,,vsaid he, "me make them not
eat master, and me make them much love you that is, ho
would tell them how I had skAn his enemies, and thereby
saved his life, for which reason he would make them love
me : and then he related to nie» as well as he was able, how
exceedingly kind those of his nation were to the white, or
bearded men, as he called them, who, in their great calami-
ty, were driven into their country.
it was from this time, indeed, I had strong inclinations to
venture over, and use my utmost efforts, if possible to join
these white bearded men, who, undoubtedly, were Spaniards
or Portuguese; for, thought I, it must certainly be a better
and safer way to escape,, when there is a good company, than
forme alone, from an island forty miles off the shore, and
without any assistance. Some days after, Friday aftd .1 be*
ing at work, as usual, at the same time diverting ourselvesr
with various discourses, I told him 1 had a boat which I
would bestow upon him, whenever he pleased to return to*
his own nation; and to convince him of -the truth of tvhdt 1*
said, I took him with me to the other side of the island, vfher&
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
my frigate lay, and then taking it from under the water, (for
1 always kept it sunk for fear of a discovery,) we went both
into it to see how it would manage on such au expedition.
And really never could any one be more dexterous in rowing
than my faithful servant, making the boat go as fast again as
I could. Well now, Friday, said I, shall we now go to
your so much admired nation? But instead of meeting with
that cheerfulness I expected, he looked very dull and me-
lancholy at my saying so; which indeed at first surprised me,
till he made me sensible that his concern was about the
boat being too small to go so far a voyage. Upon which
I let him understand I had a much bigger; and, accordingly,
the next day went to the place where the first boat lay,
which I had made, when all the strength I had, or art I
could use, failed me in my attempt to get it into the water;
but now it having lain in the sun two and twenty years,
and no care being taken of it all that while, it became in a
manner rotten. My man told me, that such a boat would
do very well for that purpose, sufficient to carry enough vit-
ilk\, drinks bread, for that was his manner of talking. In
short, my mind being strongly fixed upon my designs of go-
ing over with him to the Continent, I very plainly told him
that we would both go and make a boat full as big, and
more proportionable* than that, wherein he might safely re-
turn to his own nation.
These words made Frid&y look so very pensive* that I
thought he would have fallen at my feet. It was some time
before he could speak a word, whicn made me ask him what
was the matter with him? He replied in a very soft and
moving tone, u What has poor Friday done? why are you
angry, mad with poor servant? What me done, O what me
done?" Friday, said I, you never yet have offended me,
what makes you think I am angry with you, when I am not
angry at all. "You no angry,, no angry," said he, several
times; " if you be no, angry, why den send Friday over
great water to my own nation ?f Why surely, Friday, answer-
ed I, did not you wish to be there, when from a mountain
you beheld the place where you was born; and is it not
to satisfy your desires that I am willing to give you leave-
to return thither? «* Yes, yes>" said Friday* " me wish U>
be there, sure enough,, but then me wish master there too:
no wish Friday there, no master there.!' In* short, he could
Wt endure the thoughts of going there without me* I go*
m
there! Friday, said I, what should I do there? He answered
very quickly, "O master, you do great deal much good, you
teach all de wild mans to be good tame mans: you learn
dem to be sober, live good life, to know God, and pray
God," Alas! poor Friday, said I, what can I do against
their priests of Benamuckee, or indeed what good can I
make your nation sensible of, when I myself am but a poor
ignorant man?" No, no, master/' said he, "you be no ig-
norant, you teachee me good, you teachee dem good." You
shall go without me, Friday, said I, for I don't care to ac-
company you thither: I woulcf rather live in this solitude
than venture among such inhuman savages* Go your way
since you desire it, and leave me alone by myself, as I was
before I saved your life.
Never was any creature more thunderstruck than Friday
was at these words. "Go me away, leave master away,"
said he, after a long silence, "no, no, Friday die, Friday live
not master gone/' as though he had said, 1 neither can nor
will live, if my master sends me from him. And here I can-
not but take notice of the strong ties of friendship, which
many times surpass those of consanguinity: For often we
find a great disagreement among kindred; and1 when there
is any seeming regard for each other, it is very seldom true,
and scarce everlasting, if powerful interest does not bear
the sway; and that alone is often the occasion of the great-
est hatred in the world, which is to desire the death of pa-
rents and relations, for the sake of acquiring their fortunes.
But there was no such thing between my servant and me;
instead of which there was the greatest gratitude and the
most sincere love; he found me not only his deliverer, but
his preserver and comforter; not a severe and cruel tyrant,
but a kind, loving, and affable friend. He wanted for no
manner of sustenance; and when he was ill or out of order,
I was his physician, not only for his body but his soul; and
therefore no wonder was it, that such an innocent creature,
long since divested of his former natural cruelty, should have
an uncommon concern at so cruel, a separation from me,
which pierced him to the very soul, and made him desire
even to die, rather than live without me.
After I had told Friday in a very careless manner, that
he should be at liberty as soon as the boat was made, the
language of his eyes expressed all imaginable confusion;
when, immediately running to one of his hatchets, which he
fised to w«ar as a defensive weapon, he gives it into nvj
hand, with a heart so full, that ne could scarcely speak.—?.
Friday, said I, what is it you mean? What must 1 do with
this? "Only kill Friday," said he, "Friday care not live
long." "But what must I kill you for?" replied I again.
"Ah! dear master, what made you Friday save from eat a
me up, so keep long Friday, make Friday love God, and
love not Benamuckee, and now Friday send away: never
see Friday more.*' As though the poor creature had said,
Alas! my dearest kind master, how comes it to pass, that
after having ventured your precious life to save me from the
jaws of devouring cannibals, like myself, after such a tender
regard to provide for me such comfortable nourishment,
and continuing so long a kind master, and a most sincere
friend; and after making me forsake the false notion of an
Indian deity, and worship the true God in spirit and in
truth; and after all this, how comes it now, that you are
willing to send me away to my former course of living, by
which means undoubtedly we shall be dead to each other;
but greater must be my misfortune, that I shall never behold
rny best friend I have in the world any more. And this un-
doubtedly, though he could not express himself so clearly,
must be his sentiments; for the tears ran down his cheeks
in such a plentiful manner, that I had much ado to refrain from
Weeping also, when I beheld the poor creature's affection;
so that i was forced to comfort him in the best manner I
could, which 1 did by telling him, if he was content to abide
\dth me, 1 should be ever willing to keep him.
After Friday's grief was somewhat abated, more fully to
convince me of his affection, he said, "O master, me not
care to be in my nation, leave you here: Me desire nation
learn good, that's allmeaning, that his desire was for the
conversion of that barbarous people. But as I had no apos-
tolic mission, nor any concern about their salvation, so I
had not the least intention or desire of undertaking it; and
the strength of my inclination, in order to escape, proceed-
ed chiefly from my late discourse with Friday, about these
seventeen white bearded men, that had been driven upon
the barbarian coast, whom I designed to join as the only
means to further our escape. To which intent my man
md I went to search for £ proper tree to fell, whereof we
might make a large perigua or canoe, to undertake the voy-
age; and indeed, we were not long in finding one fit lor
115
our purpose, there being enough wood in the island to have
built a fleet of large vessels; but the thing we principally
wanted, was to get one so near the water, that we might
launch it after it was finished, arid not commit so ho ilia a
mistake as I had done once before.
Well, after a great search for what was best and most
convenient, Friday, at last, whose judgment in such affairs
was much superior to mine, pitches qpon a kind of wood
the most fitting for it. To this day 1 cannot tell the name
of the tree, nor describe it any other way, than only by say-
ing, that is very much like what we call fustic, or between
that and the Niacaragua wood, being much of the same co-
lour and smell. But though my man exceeded me in his
knowledge of the most proper tree, yet I showed him a much
better and clearer way to make a canoe than ever he knew
before; for he was for burning the hollow or cavity of the
tree, in order to make this boat; but I then told him how he
might do it with tools, learning him at the same time how to
use them, which indeed he did very dexterously; so that in
a month's time we finished it, mating it very handsome by
cutting the outside in the true shape of a boat. After this
it took us a full fortnight before we could get her into the
water, which we did as it were inch by inch, upon great rol-
lers; but when she was in, she would have carried twenty
men, with all the ease imaginable*
As I was very well pleased, you may be sure, at the
launching of this man of war of mine, I was no less amazed
to behold with what dexterity my"man would manage her,
turn her, and paddle her along. Well, Friday, said I, what
do you think of it now? Do you think this will carry us
over?" Yes, master," said he, "me venture over well,
though great blow wind." But my design was yet far-
ther, which he was insensible of; and that was to make a
mast and a sail, and to provide her with an anchor and
cable. As to a mast, that was no difficult thing at all to
procure: so I fixed upon a straight young cedar-tree* which
I found near the place, great plenty of it abounding in the
island; and setting Friday to cut it down, 1 gave him par-
ticular directions how to shape and order it; but as to the
sail, that I managed myself. I very well knew I had some
old ones, or pieces of sails enough, which had lain six and
twenty years by me; but not being careful to preserve therot
as thinking I should have no occasion to use them any more,
 
when I came to overlook them, I found them almost all
rotten except two; and with these I went to work, and
after a great deal of pains and awkward tedious stitching
for want of needles, at length I finished a three cornered
ugly thing, like what we call in England a shoulder of mut-
ton sail, to go with a boom at bottom, and a little small sprit
at the top, like those which our long-boats use, and which
I very well knew how to manage, especially since it was
like that which I had in my patron's fishing boat, when,
with my boy Xury, I tnade my escape from the barbarian
shore.
It was near two months, I think, before I completed this
work, that is, the rigging and fitting my mast and sails;
and indeed they Were nicely done, having made a small stay
and a sail 01* a foresail to it, to assist, if we should turn to
the westward; and, what is still more, I fixed a rudder to
the stern of her, to steer" with; and though I was but a very
indifferent shipwright, yet, as I was sensible of the great
usefulness ana absolute necessity of a thing like this, 1 ap-
plied myself to it with such constant application, that I at
last accomplished my design; but what with the many dull
contrivances I had about it, and the failure of many things,
hi cosi me as mtich pains in ordering as in making the boat.
Besides, when aff this was done, 1 had my man to teach
what belonged to its navigation; for though he very well
Understood now to paddle a canoe along, he was an utter
stranger to a sail and a rudcjef, and was amazed when he
saw me work the Boat to and again in the sea, by them, and
bow the1 Mil gibbed and filled this way or that way, as the
course' we saileef cnanged'. After some time and a little use,
I made* all these things very familiar to him, so that he be-
came an expert sailor, except in relation to the compass, and
that I coald niake him understand but little of. But as it
happened, there was seldom occasion for it, there being but
little cloudy weather, and scarce any fog in those parts; the
stars were always visible in the night, and the shore perspi-
cuous by dayf except m the rainy season which confined
every one to his habitation. Thus entered in the seven and
twentieth year of iny feign* dr captivity, which you please,
(the last three of whichy Messed with the company of my
man Friday, ought not to b6 reckoned,) I kept the anniver-
sary of my landing here, with the same thankfulness to God.
for his tender mercies, as I did before; and certainly as I
117
had great cause for thankful acknowledgment for my de-
liverance at first, L had a much greater now for such singu-
lar and additional testimonies of the care of Providence over
me, in all my distresses of both body and mind, and the
great hopes I had of being effectually and speedily deliver-
ed; for I had a strong impression upon my mind, that I
should not be another year in this island. But however, I
still continued on with my husbandry, digging, planting, and
fencing, as usual; gathering and curing my grapes, and do-
ing all other things that were necessary.
And now the rainy season beginning to come on, obliged
me to keep the longer within,doors; but before this, I brought
my new vessel into the creek, where I had landed my rafts
from the ship, and hailing her up to the shone, I ordered my
man Friday to dig a dock sufficient to hold her in, and deep
enough to give her water, wherein she might float; and then
wh«n the tide was out, we made a strong dam across the end
of it, to keep out the water; by which means she lay dry,
as to the tide frqm the sea; and to keep the rain from her,
we thatched her over as it were, with boughs of trees, like
a house, so we waited for the months of November and De-
cember, in which I designed to venture over the ocean.
No sooner did the seasonable weather begin to draw
near, but so .much was JL elevated with this new designed
adventure, that 1 daily prepared for the voyage. The first
tiling I thought on was, to lay by a certain quantity of pro-
visions, as a sufficient store for such an expedition, intend-
ing in a week or fortnight's time to open the dock, and to
launch out the boat for that purpose. But one morning as
I was very lousy upon something necessary for this occasion,
I called Friday to me, and bid him go to the sea-shore, and
see if he could find a turtle or tortoise, a thing which we
commonly had once a week, as much upon account of the
eggs, as for the sake of the flesh. He had not been long
gone, but he came running back, as though he was pursued
for life, and, as it were, flew over my outer wall, or fence,
like one that felt not the ground, or had steps to set his feet
on, and before I had time to enquire the reason of his preci-
pitation, he cries out, " O dear master, O sorrow, O sorrow!
Bad! O bad!" Why whafs the matter, Friday, said I.
"O yonder, yonder!" said he, "there be one, two, or three
canoes! two three P Surely thought I, there must be ebi,
by my mjia's way of reckoning but on a stricter jnquiry,
 
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
I found there were but three. Well, Friday, said I, don't
be terrified, I warrant you we will not only defend our-
selves against them, but Kill the most of these cruel savages.
But though I comforted him in the best manner I could,
the poor creature trembled so, that I scarce knew what t<?
do with him: u O master," said he, "they come look Fri-
day, cut pieces Friday, cut a me up." Why, Friday, said
I, tiiey will eat me up as well as you, and my danger is as
great as yours. But since it is so, we must resolve to fight
for our lives. What say you? Can you fight, Friday? ** Yes,"
paid he, very faintly, <c me shoot, me kill what 1 can, but
there come a great many number. That's no matter, said
1 again, our guns will terrify those we do not kill; I am
very willing to stand by you to the last drop of my blood.
Now tell me if you will do the like by me, and obey my or-
ders in whatsoever I command? Friday then answered, <c O
master, me lose life for you, me die when you bid die."
Thus concluding all questions concerning his fidelity, imme-
diately I fetched him a good dram of rum, (of which I had
been a very good husband,) arid gave it him to comfort his
heart. After he had drank it, 1 ordered him to take the two
fowling-pieces, which we always carried, and loaded them
with large swan shot, as big as small pistol bullets; then I
took four muskets, and loaded them with two slugs and
five small bullets each, charging my two pistols each with a
brace; I hung my great sword, as customary, naked to my
side, and gave Friday his hatchet, as a most excellent wea-
pon for defence.
Thus prepared, I thought as well of myself as any knight-
errant that ever handled a sword and spear. I took my per-
spective glass, and went up to the side of the hill, to see
what I could discover; and 1 perceived very soon, by my
glass, that there were one and twenty savages, three prison-
ers, and three canoes, and that their chief concern seemed
to be the triumphant banquet upon the three poor human bo-
dies, a thing which by this time I had observed was very
common with them. I also remarked, that they did not
land at that place from whence Friday made his escape, but
nearer to the creek, where the shore was low, and where a
thick wood came very close to the sea. My soul was then
filled with indignation and abhorrence at such inhuman
wretches, which put a period to all my former thoughts in
their vindication, neither would I give myself ttae to con*-
 
110
sider their right of conquest, as I had done before: but de*
scending from the mountain, I came down to Friday, and
told him I was resolved to go spedily to them, and kill
them all; asking him again, in the same breath, if he would
stand by me: when by this time being recovered from his
fright, and his spirits much cheered with the dram I had
given him, he was very pleasant, yet seriously telling me,
as he did before, " When L bid die, he would die."
And now it was having fixed my resolution in so strong
a manner, that nothing could divest my breast of its uncom-
mon fury, I immediately divided the loaded arms betwixt us.
with three guns upon his shoulder, a weight too great I con-
fess to bear: but what must a poor king do, who had but
one soldier in the world? But to show 1 made him bear no
more than what I would lay on myself!, I stuck the other pis-
tol in my girdle, and the other three guns upon my shoul-
ders; nay, something more, but that was like iEsop's burden,
a small bottle of rum, which was soon lightened to our ex-
ceeding refreshment. Thus we marched out, under a pon-
derous load of armour, like two invincible champions, with a
quantity of powder and bullets to stand our battle, and load
again when the pieces were discharged. And now my or-
ders being to be obeyed, I charged Friday to keep close be-
hind me, and not to stir, or shoot, or attempt any thing till
I commanded him; and in the interim, not to speak so much
as one word. It was in this order I fetched a compass to
the right hand, of near a mile, as well to get over the creek,
as to attain the wood; and by this I thought to come with-
in shot of them before I could be discerned, as I found, by
my glass, would not be difficult to accomplish.
But how fickle and wavering is the mind of men, even in
our greatest fury and strongest inclinations I For while I was
taking this march, my resolution began to abate, not through
fear of their numbers, who were a parcel of naked unarmed
wretches, but those reflections occurred to my thoughts;
what power was I commissioned with, or what occasion or
necessity had I to go and imbrue my hands in human blood,
and* murder people that had neither done, nor intended to
do me any wrong? They were innocent in particular as to
me; and their barbarous custom was not only their misfor-
tune, but a sign that God had left them in the most immense
stupidity; but yet did not warrant me to be a judge of their
To my man Friday, I
 
istol to stick in his girdle*
actions much less an executioner of his righteous judgments.
That, on the contrary, whenever he thought fit, he would
take vengeance on them himself, and punish them in a nati-
onal way, according to their national crimes; but this was
nothing at all to me, who had no concern with them. In-
deed my man Friday might justify himself, because they were
his declared enemies, of that very same nation that went to
sacrifice him before; and, indeed, it was lawful for him to
attack them, which I could not say was so with respect to me.
So warmly did these things press upon my thoughts all the
way I went, that 1 only resolved to place myself so as to be-
hold their bloody entertainment without failing upon them,
except something more than ordinary, by God's special di-
rection, should oblige me thereto.
Thus fixed in my resolution, I entered into the thick wood,
(my man Friday following me close behind,) when with all
possible weariness and silence I marched till I came to the
skirt of it, on that side which was the nearest to them : for
only one end of the wood interposed between me and them.
Upon which I called very softly to Friday, and showing him
a great tree, that was just at the corner of the wood, I or-
dered him to repair thither, and bring me word if he could
plainly perceive their actions; accordingly he did as I com*
manded him, and came back with this melancholy story,
that they were all about their fire, eating the flesh of one of
their prisoners ; and that another lay bound upon the sand,
at a little distance from them, which they designed for the
next sacrifice, and this he told me was not one of their na-
tion, but one of those very bearded men, who were driven
by a storm into their country, and of whom he had so often
talked to me about. You may be sure that upon hearing this
my soul was ready to sink within me: when, ascending into
a tree I saw plainly by my glass, a white man who lay upon
the beach of the sea, with his hands and feet tied with flags,
ox things resembling rushes, being covered with clothes,
and seemed to be an European. From the tree where I took
this prospect, I perceived another tree and a thicket beyond
it, about fifty yards nearer to them than where I was, which
by taking a small citcle round, I might come at undiscovered,
and then I should be within half a shot of these devourers.
And this consideration alone, to be more perfectly revenged
upon them, made me withhold my passion, though I was
encaged tp the highest degree imaginable; when going
back about twenty pacee, I got behind some bushes, which
held a]l the way till I came to the other tree; and then I
ascended to a little rising ground, not, above eighteen yards
distance, and there I had a full view of these creatures, and
I could perceive all their actions.
Such a sight did then appear as obliged me not to lose
a moment's time.. No less than nineteen of these dreadful
wretches sat upon the ground, close huddled together, ex-
pressing all the deiight imaginable at so barbarous an en
tertainment ; and they had just sent the other two to murder
jhis poor unhappy Christian, and bring him limb by limb to
their fire; for they were then just going to untie the bands
from his feet in order for death, as fetters are knocked off
the feet of malefactors before they go to the place of exe-
cution, Hereupon, immediately turning to my man, now,
Friday, said I, mind what I say, fail in nothing, but do ex-
actly as you see me do. All which he promising he would
perform, I set down one of my muskets and fowling-piece
upon the ground,, and Friday did the same by his; and
.with the other musket I took my aim at the savages, bidding
him do the like; Are you ready? said I: "Yes, master,"
said he; why then fire at them, said I; and that very mo-
ment I gave §re likewise.
I onlv killed one and wounded two; but my man Friday,
taking his aim much better than I, killed two and wounded
tfyree. You may be sure they were in a dreadful consterna-
tion at such an unexpected disaster, and those who had yet
escaped our penetrating shot, immediately jumped upon
their feet, but were in such a confusion, that they knew not
which way to run pr look, not knowing from whence their
destruction came. jVe threw down our pieces and took fup
others, giving a second dreadful volley ; but as they were
loaded only with ^wan shot, or small pistol bullets, we per-
ceived only two of them fall; though many were wounded,
who ran yelling and screaming about like mad creatures.
Now, Friday, said 1, lay down your piece, and take up the
Hiusket, ana follow me. tie did sof with great courage;
when, showing ourselves to the savages, we gave a great
shout, and made directly to the poor victim, who. would
Vve been sacrificed, had not our first fire obliged the butch-
ers, with three others, to jump into a canoe. By my order
Friday fired at them, at which shot I thought he had kHJed
them all, by reason of their falling to the bottom of the boat j
 
 
however, he killed two, and mortally wounded a third. In
the mean time, I cut the flags that tied the hands and feet
of" the |>oor creature, and lifting him up, asking him in the
Portuguese tongue, What he was f He answered me in Latin,
Christianus; but so very weak and faint, that he could scarce
stand or speak. Immediately I gave him a dram and a
piece of bread to cherish him, and asked him what country-
man he was? He said Hispaniola, and then uttered all the
thankfulness imaginable for his deliverance. Seignior, said I,
with as much Spanish as I was master of, let us talk after-
wards, but fight now: here take this sword and pistol, and
do what you can. And, indeed, he did so with such cou-
rage and intrepidity, that he cut two of them in pieces in
an instant, the savages not having the power to fly for their
lives, 1 ordered Friday to run for those pieces we had left
at the tree, which he brought me with great swiftness, and
than I gave him my musket, while I loaded the rest. But
now there happened a fierce encounter between the Spani-
ard and one of the savages who had made at him with one of
their wooden swords; and though the former was as brave
as could be expected, having twice wounded his enemy in
the head, yet being weak and faint, the Indian had thrown
him upon the ground, and was wresting my sword out of his
hands, which the Spaniard very wisely quitting, drew out
his pistol and shot him through the body before I could come
near him, though I was running to his assistance. As for Fri-
day he pursued the flying wretches with his hatchet, dispatch-
ing three, but the rest were too nimble for him. The Spani-
ard taking one of the fowling-pieces wounded two, who run-
ning into the wood Friday pursued and killed; but the other,
notwithstanding his wounds, plunged himself into the sea*
and swam to those who were left in the canoe, which, with
one wounded, were all that escaped out of one and twenty.
The account is n.% follows*
Killed at first shot from the tree, . . 3
At the second shot, . . 2
'By Friday hi the boat, £
Ditto, of those first wounded, 2
Ditto, in the wood, . . . . 1
By the Spaniard, 8
Killed, or died of their wounds, 4
Escaped in the boat, whereof one was wounded if not slain, 4
Totals
 
 
 
The savages in the canoe worked very hard to get out
of our reach, and Friday was as eager in pursuing them;
and indeed I was no less anxious about their escape, lest,
after the news had been carried to their people, they should
return in multitudes and destroy us. So being resolved to
pursue them, I jumped into one of their canoes, and bid
Friday follow me; but no sooner was I in, than, to my sur-
prise. I found another poor creature bound hand and foot
for the slaughter, just as the Spaniard had been, with ver
little life in him. Immediately i unbound him, and woulc
have helped him up, but he could neither stand nor speak,
but groaned so piteously, as thinking he was only unboun;.
in order to be slain. Hereupon I bid Friday to speak to him
and tell him of his deliverance; when pulling out m
bottle, I made the poor wretch drink a dram, which, wit
the joyful news he had received, so revived his heart, tlu,
he sat up in the boat. As soon as Friday began to hear hir
speak, and look more fully in his face, it would have move,
any one to tears to perceive his uncommon transports c
joy; for he kissed, embraced him, hugged him, cried
laughed, halloed, jumped about, danced, sung, then crie .
again, wrung his hands, beat his face and head, then sun/
and jumped about again, like a distracted creature; so tha
it was a great while before I could make him speak to nn
or tell me what was the matter with him; but when h
came to the liberty of his speech, at the last he told me L
was his father.
Here indeed I was infinitely moved to see that dutifu;
and tender affection this poor savage had to his aged parent
He would sit down by him in the boat, open his breast, and
hold his father's head close to his bosom, half an hour toge-
ther, to cherish him; then he took his arms and ancles,
which were stiff and numbed with binding, and chafed am
rubbed them with his hands; by which means, perceiving
what the case was, I gave him some rum, which proved o;
great benefit to him.
While we were busy in this action, the savages had got
ten almost out of sight; and happy it was we did not pur-
sue them: For there arose from the north-west, which con-
tinued all night long, such a violent storm, that I could no
suppose otherwise but that they were all drowned. Aftei
this I called Friday to me, ancf asked him if he had giv^
his father any bread? He shook his head and said, "None,
jr 2
 
not one bit, me eat a up all ;rt so L gave him a cake of bread
out of a little pouch I carried for this end, I likewise gave
him a dram for himself, and two or three bunches of raisins
for his father. Both these he carried to him, for he would
make him drink the dram to comfort him.
Away then he runs out of the boat as if he was bewitched,
with such an extraordinary swiftness, that he wis ou|; of
sight as it were in an instant; but at his return I perceived
him slacken his pace, because he had something in his hand.
And this 1 found to be, as he approached nearer, an earthen
jug with some water for his father, with two more cakes of
bread, which he delivered into my hands. Being very
thirsty myself, I drunk some of the water, of which when his
father had drank sufficiently, it more revived his spirits than
all the rum I had given him.
I then called Friday to me, and ordered him to carry the
Spaniard one of the cakes, and some water, who was repos-
ing himself on a green place under the shade of a tree, but
so weak, that though he exerted himself, he could not stand
upon his feet. Upon which I ordered Friday to rub and
bathe his ancles with rum., as he did his father's.—But every
minute he was employed in this, he would cast a wishful eye
towards the boat where he left his father sitting; who sud-
denly disappearing he flew like lightning to him, and find-
ing he had only laid himself down to ease his limbs, he re-
turned back to me presently, and then I spoke to the Spa-
niard to let Friday help him, and lead him to the boat, in
order to be conveyed to my dwelling, where 1 would take
care of him. Upon which I'riday took him upon his back,
and so carried him to the canoe, setting him close by his fa-
ther; and presently stepping out again, launched the boat
off and paddled it along the shore faster than I could walk,
though the wind blew very hard too, and having brought
them safe to the creek, away he runs to fetch the other ca-
noe, which he brought to the creek almost as soon as I got
to it by land, wiien wafting me over, he took our new guests
out of the boat; but so weak were they that 1 was forced to
make a kind of a hand-barrow; and when I came to my cas-
tle, not being willing to make an entrance into my wall, we
made them a handsome tent, covered with old sails, and
boughs of trees, making two good beds of rice straw, with
blankets to lie upon and cover them. Thus, like an abso-
lute king over subjects who owed their lives to me, 1 thought
 
 
its
myself very considerable, especially as I had now three re-
ligions in my kingdom, my man Friday being a Protestant,
his father a Pagan, and the Spaniard a Papist; but 1 gave
liberty of conscience to them all.
To get provisions for my poor weak subjects, I ordered
Friday to kill me a yearling goat; which when he had done,
I cut off the hinder quarters, and chopping it into small,
pieces, boiled and stewed it, putting barley and rice into
the broth. This I carried into their tent, set a table, dined
with them myself, and encouraged them. Friday was my
interpreter to his father, and indeed to the Spaniard too,
who spoke the language of the savages pretty well. After
dinner 1 ordered Friday to fetch home all our arms from the
field of battle," and the next day, to bury the dead bodies,
which he did accordingly.
And now I made Friday enquire of his father, whether
he thought these savages had escaped the late storm in their
canoe? and if so, whether they would not return with a
power too great for us to resist? lie answered, that he
thought it impossible they could outlive the storm; or, if
they were driven southwardly, they would come to a land
where they would be as certainly devoured, as if they were
drowned in the sea. And suppose they had attained their
own country, the strangeness of their fatal and bloody at-
tack, would make them tell their people, that the rest of
them were killed by thunder and lightning, not by the
hand of man, but by two heavenly spirits, (meaning Friday
and me,) who were sent from above to destroy them. And
this, he said, he knew, because he had heard them say the
same to one another. And indeed he was in the right on't;
for I have heard since, that these four men gave out that
whoever went to that enchanted island, would be destroyed
by fire from the gods.
No canoes appearing soon aftef, as I expected, my ap-
prehensions ceased: Instead of which my former thoughts
of a voyage took place, especially when Fridays father as-
sured me, I should have good usage in his nation. As to
the Spaniard, he told me, that sixteen more of'his country-
men and Portuguese, who had been shipwrecked, made
their escape thither; that though they were in union with
the savages, yet they were very miserable for want of pro-
visions and other necessaries. When 1 asked him about the
particulars of his voyage, he answered that their ship was
f S
 
J £6
LIFE AND ADVENTURES.
bound from Rio de la Plata to the Havannah; that when the
ship was lost, only five men perished in the ocean; the rest,
having saved themselves in the boat, were now landed on
the main continent. And what do they intend to do there?
said I. He replied, they have concerted measures to escape,
by building a vessel, but they had neither tools nor provi-
sions, so that all their designs came to nothing. Suppos-
ing, said I, L should make a proposal, and invite thern here,
would they not carry me prisoner to New Spain? lie an-
swered no; for he knew them to be such honest men, as
would scorn to act such inhuman baseness to their deliverer:
That, if I pleased, he and the old savage would go over to
them, talk with them about it, and bring me an answer:
That they should all swear fidelity to me as their leader, up-
on the Holy Sacrament; and, for his part, he would not
only do the some, but stand to the Jast drop of his blood,
should there be occasion.
These solemn assurances made me resolve to grant them
relief, and to send these two over for that purpose; but.
when every thing was ready, the Spaniard raised an objec-
tion, which earned a great deal of weight in it: "You
know Sir," said he, cc that having been sum-' time with you,
I cannot but be sensible of your stock of rice and corn,
sufficient, perhaps for us at present, but not for them,
should they come over presently, much less to victual a ves-
sel for an intended voyage. Want might be as great an oc-
casion for them to disagree and rebel, as the children of Is-
rael did against God himself, when they wanted bread in
the wilderness. And, therefore, my advice is, to wait ano-
ther harvest, and in the mean time cultivate and improve
some more land, whereby we may have plenty of provisions,
in order to execute our design."
This advice of the Spaniard's I approved extremely, and
so satisfied was I of his fidelity, that 1 esteemed him ever
after. And thus we all four went to work upon some more
land, and against seed-time we had gotten so much cured
and trimmed up, as was sufficient to sow twenty-two bushels
of barley on, and sixteen jars of rice, which was, in short,
all the seed We had to spare. As we were four in number,
and by this time all in good health, we feared not a hun-
dred Indians, should they venture to attack us; and while
the corn was growing, I pitched upon some trees, fit to
build us a large vessel, in case the Spaniards Came over;
 
i
127
which being marked, I ordered Friday and hts father to cut
them down, appointing the Spaniard, who was now my
privy counsellor, to oversee and direct the whole. I like-
wise increased my flocks of goats, by shooting the wild
dams, and bringing home their kids, to my inelosure. Nor
did 1 neglect the grape season, but cured them as usual,
though I had such a quantity now, as would have filled
eighty barrels with raisins. And thus all of us being em-
ployed, they in working, and I in providing for them, till
harvest came, God Almighty blessed the increase of it m
much, that out of twenty-two barrels of barley, we thrashed
out two hundred and twenty, arid the like quantity of rice,
sufficient to vitual a ship fit to carry me and all the Spani-
ards to any part of America.
Thus the principal objection being answered by a suffi-
cient stock of provisions, 1 sent my two ambassadors over
to the main land, with a regal authority to administer the
oaths of allegiance and fidelity, and have an instrument sign-
ed under their hands, though 1 never asked whether they had
pen, ink, or paper; when giving each of them a musket,
eight charges of powder and ball, and provisions enough for
eight days, they sailed away with a fair gale, on a day when
the moon was at full.
Scarce a fortnight had passed over my head, but impa-
tient for their return, 1 laid me down to sleep one morning,
when a strange accident happened, which was ushered in
by Friday^s come running to me, and calling aloud, " Mas-
ter, master, they are come, they are come." Upon which,
not dreaming of any danger, out I jumped from my bed, put
on my clothes, and hurried through my little grove; when
looking towards the sea, 1 perceived a boat about a league
and a half distant, standing in for the shore with the wind
fair. 1 beheld they did not come from the side where the
land lay on, but from the southermost end of the island:
So these being none of the people we wanted,* I ordered
Friday to lie still, till such time as I came down from the
mountain, which with my ladder I now ascended, in order
to discover more fully what they were; and now with the
hrfp of my perspective glass, 1 plainly perceived an Eng-
lish ship, which 1 concluded it to be, by the fashion ©f its
long boat; and which filled me with such uncommon trims*
ports of joy that 1 cannot tell how to describe; and yet
some secret doubts hung about me, proceeding from I know
 
f 4s
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
not what cause, as though I had reason to be upon my
guard. And, indeed, I would have no man contemn the
secret hints and intimations of danger, which very often are
given, when we may imagine there is no possibility of its
being real; for had I not been warned by this silent admo-
nition, I had been in a worse situation than before, and
perhaps inevitably ruined.
Not long it was, before I perceived the boat to approach
the shore, as though they looked for a place where they
might conveniently land; and at last they ran their boat on
shore upon the beach, about half a mile's distance; which
proved so much the happier for me; since, had they come
into the creek, they had landed just at my door, and might
not only have forced me out of my castle, but plundered me
of all 1 had in the world. Now I was fully convinced they
were all Englishmen, three of which were unarmed and
Jbound; when immediately the first four or five leaped on
shore, and took those three out of the boat as prisoners;
one of whom I could perceive used the most passionate ges-
tures of entreaty, affliction, and despair, while the others, in
a lesser degree, showed abundance of concern.
Not knowing the meaning of this, I was very much as*
funished, and 1 beckoned to Friday, who was below, to as-
cend the mountain, and likewise to view this sight. "O
master," said he to me, "you see English mans eat prison-
ers as well as savage mans." And do you think they will
tat them, Friday? said I, " Yes," said Friday, "they eat a
all up." No, no, said 1, Friday, I am much more concern-
ed lest they murder them, but as for eating them up, that 1
urn sure they will never do.
And now I not only lamented my misfortune in not hav-
ing the Spaniard and the savage with me, but also that I
could not come within shot of them unperceived, (they hav-
ing no fire-arms among them,) and save these three men,
whom I thought they were going to kill with their swords.
But some comfort it was to me, that I perceived they were
set at liberty to go where they pleased, the rascally seamen
scattering* about as though they had a mind to see the place;
and so long did they negligently ramble, that the tide had
ebbed so low as to leave the boat aground. Nor were the
two men who were in her more circumspect; for having
drunk a Ettle too much liquor, they fell fast asleep; but one
of them waking, before the other and perceiving the bpat
 
too fast aground for his strength to move it, he hallooed out
to the rest, who made ail possible expedition to come to
him; but, as Providence ordered it, all their force was in-
effectual to launch her, when 1 could hear them speak to
one another, "Why let her alone Jack, cant ye, shell
float next tide by which- words I was fully convinced they
were my own countrymen. I all this while lay very quiet,
as being fully sensible it could be mo less than ten hours be-
fore the boat could be afloat,- and then it wouJki be so dark,
that they could not easily perceive me, by which me an 3 I
should be more at liberty to hear their talk, and observe all
their motions; not but that 1 prepared for my defence; yet
as I had another sort of an enemy U> combat with, 1 acted
with more caution. 1 took two fusees on my shoulder, and
gave Friday three muskets; besides my formidable goat-skin
coat and monstrous cap made me look as fierce and terrible
as Hercules of old, especially when two pistols were stuck
in my belt, and my naked sword hanging by my side.
It was my design at first not to make any attempt till it
was dark; and it being now two o'clock, in the very heat of
the day, the sailors were all straggling in the woods, and un-
doubtedly were lain down to sleep. The three poor distress-
ed creatures, too anxious to get any repose, were however
seated under the shade of a great tree, about a quarter of a
mile from me. Upon which, without any more ado, I ap-
proached towards them, with my man following behind me,
and* before I was perceived, I called aloud to them in Spa-
nish, <£ What are ye, Gentlemen?"
At these words, they started up in great confusion, when
they beheld the strange figure 1 made; they returned no
answer, but seemed as if they would fly from me. "Gen-
tlemen," paid 1, in English, " don't be afraid; perhaps you
have a friend nearer than you expect" "He must be from
Heaven," said one of them, gravely, pulling off his hat, " for
we are past all help in this world/' "All help is froni
Heaven," said I; <€ but, Sir, as I have perceived every ac-
tion between you and these brutes since your landing, only
inform me how to assist you, and I will do it to the utmost
of my power.1'
** Am I talking with God or man," said he, in melting
teate "Are you of human kind or an angel?" ** Sir,"
Said* I, "my poor habit will tell you I am a man, and an
Englishman* willing to assist you, having but this servant
M 5
 
LIFE AND ADVENTCHES
only: Here are arms and ammunition; tell freely your*
condition; Can we save you?" i6 i he story," said he,
"is too Jong to relate, since our butchers are so near; but,
Sir, I was master of that ship, my men have mutinied,
and it is a favour they have put my mate, this passenger,
and me, on shore without murdering us, though we ex-
pect nothing but perishing here.'" "Are your enemies
^one ?'* said I. "No," replied he, pointing to a thicket,
46 there they lie, while my heart trembles, lest having seen
and heard us, they should murder us all." "Have they
fire arms?" said I. *' They have but two pieces," said he,
4i one of which is left in the boat." He also told me there
were two enormous villains among them, that were the au-
thors of this mutiny, who, if they were killed or seized,
might induce the rest to return to their obedience, —" Weil,
well," said f, « let us retire farther under the covering of
the woods and there it was I made these conditions with
him:
I. That while they staid in the island, they should not
pretend to any authority; but should entirely conform to
my orders, and return me the arms which I should put in
their hands.
II. That, if the ship was recovered, they should afford
Friday and myself a passage gratk to England.
When he had given me all the satisfaction I could desire,
I gave him and his two companions each of them a gun,
with powder and bail sufficient, advising them to fire upon
them as they lay sleeping. The Captain modestly said, that
he was sorry to kill them; though, on the other hand, to
let these villains es<-ape, who were the authors of his misery,
might be the run of us all. "Well," said he, "do as you
think fit;" and so accordingly I fired, and killed one of the
Captain's chief enemies, and wounded the others, who eager-
ly called for assistance: but the captain, who had reserved
his piece, coming up to him, "Sirrah," said he, "'tis too
late to call for assistance, you should rather cry to God to
pardon your villainy and so knocked him down with
the slock of his gun; three others were also slightly wounded,
who at my approach cried out for help. This the Cap-
tain granted, upon condition that they would swear to be
true to him in recovering the ship, which they solemnly did;
hovr&ttTi i obliged the Captain ta keep th«oa: bound. * After
which I sent Friday and the captain's mate to secure the
 
131
 
boat, and bring away the oars and sails; when, at their re-
turn, three men coming hack, and seeing their late distressed
Captain now their conqueror, submitted to be bound also.
And then it was, that having more liberty, I related the ad-
ventures of my own life; which he heard with a serious
and wonderful attention. A ft er this, I canied him and his
two companions into my little fortified castle: showed them
all my conveniences, and refreshed them with such provi-
sions as I could afford. When this was over we began to
consider about regaining the .ship. lie said that, there were
twentv-six hands on hoard, who knowing their lives were
forfeited by the law for conspiracy and mutiny, were so very
hardened, that it would be dangerous for our small company
to attack them. This was a reasonable inference indeed;
but something we must resolve on, and immediately put in
execution. We therefore heaved the boat upon the beach
so high that she could not shoot off" at high-water mark, and
broke a hole in her not easily to be stopped; so that all the
signals they gave for the boat to come on board were in
vain. This obliged them to send another boat ashore, with
ten men armed, whose faces the Captain plainly described,
the boatswain being the chief officer; but he said there
wc>re three honest lads among them, who were forced
into the conspiracy. Hereupon I gave him fresh courage,
(for 1 had perceived he was in concern,) in the mean while
securing our prisoners except two, whom we took to our
assistance, we thought ourselve able enough to adventure
a battle. When the sailors landed, and beheld their boat
in that condition, they not only hallooed, but fired for their
companions to hear, yet they received no answer. This
struck them with horror and amazement; and thinking their
companions were murdered, they made as if they would re-
turn to the ship, I could perceive the Captain's counte
nance change at this, tiii of a sudden, three men were or*
dered to look after the boat, while the other seven leapt on
shore in order to search for their companions; and, indeed,
they came to the brow of the hill, near my ancient castle,
from whence they could see to a great distance in the woods,
and there shouting and hallooing till tired and weary, they,
at length, seated themselves under a spreading tree. My
opinion was, that nothing could be done till night, when J
might use some artifice to get them all out of the boat; but
of a sudden they started up, and made to the sea-side
 
 
* 6
 
hereupon I ordered Friday and the Captain's mate to go/
over the creek, and halloo as loud as they could, and so de-^
coying them into the woods, come round io me again* A nek
this, indeed, had good effect; for they followed the noise,
till coming westward to the creek, they called for their boat
to carry them over, and taking one of the men out of her?,
left two to look after her, having fastened her to the stump
of a little tree on shore. Hereupon immediately the Cap-
tain and our party passing the creek, out of their sight, we
surprised thein both, by the Captain's knocking down oruy
and ordering the other to surrender upon pain of death,
and who being the honestest of them ail, sincerely joined
with us. By this time it was pretty late; when the rest
returning to their I o it, which they found aground in the
creek, the tide out, and the men gone, they ran about wring-
ing their hands, crying it was an enchanted island, and that
they should be all murdered by spirits or devils. My men
would willingly have fallen upon them, but I would not
agree to hazard any of our party. But to be more certain.*
Friday and the Captain crawled upon their hands and feet,
as near as possible; and when the boatswain approached
in sight, so eager va* the Captain, that he fired and killed
him on the spot; Fridav wounded the next man, and a third
ran away. Hereupon I advanced with my whole army;
and it being dark, 1 ordered the men we had surprised in
the boat, to call them by their names, and to parley with
them. Accordingly he called out aloud, "Tom Smith,
Tom Smith !" He answered, « Whose that ?" " Robinson
answered the other. "For God's sake, Tom, surrender
immediately, or you're all dead men," *< Who must we
surrender to P says Smith. "To our Captain and fifty men
here, who have taken me prisoner, wounded Will Fryer,
and killed the boatswain." "Shall we have quarters,
then P" said he. Hereupon the Captain calls out, 4< You,
Smith, you know my voice, surrender immediately, and
you shall have all your lives granted, except Will Atkins/'
'-Hereupon Atkins cried out, "What have 1 ckMi@y Captain,
more than the rest, who have been as bad as me?" But
that was a lie, for he was the person that laid hold of him,
and .bound him. However, he was ordered to submit to the
SbVernor's mercy, for such was I called. And so, laying
own their arms, we bound them all, and seized on their
 
188
 
After this, the Captain expostulated with them, telling
them that the governor was an Englishman, who might exe-
cute them here; but he thought they would all be sent to
England, except Will Atkins, who was ordered to prepare
for death the next morning. Hereupon Atkins implored the
Captain to intercede for his life, and the rest begged they
might not be sent to England. This answered our project
for seizing the ship. For after sending Atkins and two of
the worst fast bound to the cave, and the rest being com-
mitted to my boner, I sent the Captain to treat?with them
in the governor's name, offering them pardon1, if they would
assist in recovering the ship. Upon which they all promised
to stand by him to the last drop of their blood . and who-
ever acted treacherously, should be hanged in chians upon
the beach. They were all released on these assurances;
and then the Captain repaired to the other boat, making his
passenger Captain of her, and gave him four men well arn>
ed; while himself, his mate, and five more went in the
other boat. By midnight they came within call of the ship,
when the Captain ordered Robinson to hail her, and tell
thern that with great difficulty they had found the men at
last. But while they were discoursing, the Captain, his
mate, and the rest entered and knocking down the second
mate and carpenter, secured those that were upon deck,
by putting them under hatches, while the other boats crew
entered and secured the forecastle; they then broke into
the round-house, where the matey after some resistance, shot
the pirate captain through the head, upon which all the rest
yielded themselves prisoners. And thus the ship being re-
covered, the joyful signal was fired, which 1 heard with
the greatest joy imaginable * nor was it long, before he
brought the ship to an anchor at the creek's mouth, where
coming to me unawares^ "There,'' says he, "my dearest
friend and deliverer, there is your ship, and we are your ser-
vants a comfort so unspeakable, as made me swoon in his
arms, while, with gratitude to heaven,- we were tenderly en>
farackig each .other.? „
Nothing now remained, but to consult what we should
do with the prisoners, whom we thought it was not safe t©
take on board. Hereupon concerting with the Captain, 1
Iressed myself in one of his suits, and sending for them, told
hem, that I was going to leave the island with all ray peo*
 
LI IT. AXf) ADVKNTUHRS
 
pie, if they would tarry there their lives should be spared;
if not, they should be hanged at the first port they came to.
They agreed to stay. Hereupon I told them my whole story,
charging them to be kind to the Spaniards, that were ex-
peeled, giving them all my arms, and informing them of every
thing necessary for their subsistence, after which, I and my
man Friday went on board. But the next morning, two of the
men came swimming to the ship's side, desiring the Captain
to take them on board, though he banged them afterward?,
complainulg mightily how barbarously the others used them.
Upon which I prevailed with the Captain to take them in;
and being severely whipt and pickled, they proved more
honest for the future. And so 1 bid farewel to this island,
carrying along with me my money, my parrot, umbrella, and
goatVskin cap; setting sail December 12. 1686, after twen-
ty-eight years, two months, and nineteen clays residence,
that same day and month that I escaped from Salee, landing
in England June 11. 1687, after five and thirty years ab-
sence from my own country, which rendered me altogether
a stranger there.
Here I found my first Captain's widow alive, who had
buried a second husband, but in very mean circumstances,
and' whom I made easy upon his account. Soon after, i
went down to Yorkshire, where all my family was expired,
except two sisters, and as many of one of my brother's
children. !found no provision had been made for me,
they conceding I had been long since dead; so that I was
but in a very slender station. Indeed the Captain did me
a great kindness, by his report to the owners, how I had
delivered their ship on the Desolate Island, upon which they
made me a present of 2001. sterling. 1 next went to Lis-
bon,* taking my man Friday with me, and there arriving in
April, I met the Portuguese Captain, who had taken me on
board on the African coast; but being ancient, he had left
off the sea, and resigned all his business to his son, who
followed the Brazil trade. So altered both of us were, that
we did not know each other at first, till I discovered myself
more fully to him. After a fe* embraces, I began to in-
quire of my concerns; and then the old gentleman told nle,
that it was nine years since he had been at Brazil, where my
partner was then living, but tny trustees were both dead;
-that he- believed 1 should hafe a good account of the pro-
duct of my plantation; that the imagination of my being
 
135
Jo?t, had obliged my trustees to give an estimate of my share
to the procurator fiscal, who, in rase of my not returning,
had given one-third to the king, and the rest to the monas*
tery of St. Augustine; but if I put in my claim, or any one
for me, it would be returned, except the yearly product
which was given to the poor. 1 then desired him to tell me
what improvement he thought had been made of my planta-
tion, and whether he imagined it was worth my while to look
after it? He answered he did not know, how much it was im-
proved; but this he was certain of, that my partner was
grown vastly rich upon his half of it; and, that he had been
informed, that the king had 200 moidores per annum for his
third part. He added, that the survivors of my trustees
were persons of an ingenuous character; that my partner
could witness my title, my name being registered in the coun-
try, by which means I should indispensably recover consider-
able sums of money. But, answered I, how could my trus-
tees dispose of my effects, when T made you only my heir?
'J'his, he said, was true; but, there being no affidavit made*
of my death he could not act as my executor. However
he had ordered hi? son, (then at Brazil,) to act by procura-
tion upon my account, and he had taken possession of my
sugar-house, having accounted himself for eight years with
my partner and trustees for the profits, of which he would
give me a very good account.
And, indeed, this he performed very faithfully in a few
days, making himself indebted to me 470 moidores of gold,
over and above what had been lost at sea, after I had left
the place. And then he recounted to me many misfortunes
he had gone through, which forced my money out of his
hands, to buy a part in a new ship: "But," says he, "you
shall not want; take this; and when my son returns, every
farthing shall be paid you." Upon which he put into my
hands a purse of 150 moidores in gold; as likewise the in-
strument containing the title to the ship which his son was
in, and which he offered as security for the remainder. But
really when I saw so much goodness, generosity,, tenderness,
and real honesty, 1 had not the heart to accept it, for fear
he should straiten himself upon my account.—u It is true,*
said he, "it may be so; but then the money is yours, not
ftthtie, and you may have the greatest occasion for it." How-
ever; 1 returned fifty of them back again, promising that t
watlid freely forgive hint the other hundred when I got ray
 
 
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
effects into my hands, and that I designed to go myself for
that purpose. But he told me he could save me that trou-
ble, and so caused me to enter my name with a public nota-
ry, as likewise my affidavit, with a procuration affixed to it;
and this he ordered me to send in a letter to one of his ac-
quaintance, a merchant in Brazil: and, indeed, nothing
could be mJore faithfully and honourably observed; for, in
Seven months time, 1 had a very faithful account of all my
effects, what sums of money were raised, what expended, and
what remained for my use: In a word, 1 found myself to be
worth 50001. sterling, and T000L per annum. Nor was this
all; for my partner congratulate*! me upon my being alive,
telling me how much my plantation was improved; what
Negroes were at work, and how many Ave Marias he had
said to the Virgin Mary for my preservation, desiring me to
accept kindly some presents lie had sent me, which i found
showed the greatest generosity.
No sooner did the ship arrive, but I rewarded my faith-
ful Captain, by returning him the hundred moidores, and
not only forgave him all he owed me, but i allowed him yearly
a hundred more, and fifty to his son, during their lives. And
now being resolved to go to England, 1 returned letters of
thanks to the Prior of St. Augustine, and in particular to my
old partner, with very suitable presents. By the Captains ad-
vice, J was persuaded to go by land to Calais, and there take
passage for England; when, as it happened, I got a young
English gentleman, a merchant's son at Lisbon, to accom-
pany rue, together with two English and two Portuguese gen-
tlemen; so that with a Portuguese servant,* an English sai-
lor, and my man Friday, there were nine of us in number.
Thus'armed and equipped, we set out, and came to Ma-
drid, when the summer decaying we hasted to Navarre,
where we were informed, that there was scarcely any pas-
sing, by reason of the prodigious quantity of snow; so that
we were obliged to abide near twenty days at Pampeluna*
and at last to take a guide to conduct us safe towards Thou-
Jousc. And now twelve other gentlemen joining with us,
together with their servants, we had a very jolly company.
A way our guide led us by frightful mountains, and through
so many intricate mazes and windings, that we insensibly
Essed them, which, as we travelled along, ushered us into
e prospect of the fruitful and charming provinces of Lap*
gueaoe and Gascony.
 
187
But now I came on two adventures both tragical and co-
mical. First, our guide was encountered by three wolves
and a beat4, who set upon him ami his horse, and wounded
him in three pi dees; upon which my man, riding up to his
assistance, shot one of them dead upon the spot, which
made the other retire into the w*o-.ls. But the pleasantest
adventure was to behold my man attack the bear, 'lis
such a creature that if yni let him alone, he will never
meddle with you; and this my man very well knew, and
so'begging leave of me in broken English, he told us u he
would make good laugh." "Why, you silly fool,* said
I, w he'll eat you up at a mouthful." 46 Eeatee me up!" re-
plied he, by way of scorn, 6<" me not only eatee him, but
make much good laugh.'1 Upon which, pulling off his
hoots, he claps on his pumps, and running after the monstrous
beast, he called out that he wanted to discourse with him,
and then throwing stones on purpose to incense him, the
beast turns about in fury, and with prodigious strides,
shuffles after him. But though he was not swift enough to
keep up pace with Friday, who made up to us as it were
for help; yet being angry, "You dog," said I, *'immedi-
ately take horse, and let us shoot the creature." But he
cried, w Dear master, no-shoot, me make you laugh much."
And so he turned alxnR, making signs to follow, while the
bear ran after, till coming to a great oak, he ascended in a
minute, leaving his gun at the bottom of it. Nor did the
bear make any difficulty of it, but ascended like a cat, though
his weight was very great. You must consider 1 was not
a little amazed at the folly of my man, as not perceiving any
thing to occasion our laughter, till such time as we rode up
nearer, and beheld the bear mounted upon the oak, on the
beginning of the same branch, to which Friday clung at the
farther encl^ where the bear durst not come. Hereupon
Friday cried out,- 44 Now, master, me make much laugh; me
make bear dance.1' Upon which he fell a shaking the
bough, which made the creature look behind him, to see
how he could retreat. '1 hen as if the bear had understood
his stammering English; 6< Why you no come farther, Mr.
Bear ?v said he, "pray, Mr. Bear, come far hereand
then indeed we all burst into a laughter, especially when
we perceived Friday drop like a squirrel upon the ground
leaving the beast to make the best of his way down the tree
 
And now thinking it the most convenient time to shoot the
creature, Friday cried out, '* O dear master, no shoot, me
ihoot by and bywhen taking up the gun, "me no shoot
yet," said he, " me make one more much laugh." And ac-
cordingly he was as good as his word; for the creature de-
scending backward from the tree very leisurely, before he
could lay one foot on the ground, Friday shot him through
the ear, stone dead; and looking to see whether we were
pleased, he burst into a hearty laugh, saying, "So we kill
de bear in my country, not with the gun, but with much long
arrows." Thus ended our diversion to our great satisfac-
tion; especially in a place where the terrible bowlings struck
us with a continual terror. But the snows now growing
very deep, particularly on the mountains, the ravenous crea-
tures were then obliged to seek for sustenance in the vil-
lages, where coming by surprise on the country people kil-
led several of them, besides a great number of their sheep
and horses.
Our guide told us, we had yet one more dangerous place
to pass by; and if there were any more wolves in the eoun~
try, there we should find them. This was a smali plain,
encompassed with woods, to get through a long lane to the
village where we were to lodge. When we entered the wood
the sun was within half an hour of setting; and a little af-
ter it was set, we came into the plain, which was not al>ove
two furlongs over, and then we perceived five great wolves
cross the road, without taking notice of us, and so swift as
though they were pursuing after their pre}'. Hereupon our
guide, believing there were more coming, desired us to be
upon our guard. Accordingly our eyes were very circum-
spect, till about half a league farther, we perceived a dead
horse, and near a dozen of wolves devouring ks carcase.
My man Friday fain would have fired at them, but 1 would
not permit him; nor had we gone half over the plain, but we
heard dreadful bowlings in a wood on our left, when pre-
sently we saw a hundred come up against us, as though they
had been an experienced army. This obliged us to form
ourselves in the best manner; and then 1 ordered that every
other man should fire; and those who did not, might be rea-
dy to give a second volley, should they advance upon us;
and then every man shouId make use of his pistols. But
there was no necessity for this; for the enemy being terrified,
stopped at the noise of the fire four of them were shot
 
 
139
rfeaci^ and several others Ining wounded, went bleeding away
as we could very plainly discover by the snow. And now
remembering what had been often told me, that such was
the majesty of a man s voice, as to strike terror even in the
fiercest creatures, I ordered ail my companions to halloo, as
loud as possible; and in this notion I was not altogether
mistaken; for they immediately turned about upon die first
halloo, and began to retire; upon which, ordering a second
volley in their rear, they galloped into the woods with great
precipitation.
Thus we had some small time to load our pieces again,
and then made all the haste we could on our way; but we
had not rode far, before we were obliged to put ourselves
in a posture of defence as before, being alarmed with a very
dreadful noise in the same wood, on our left hand, the
way as we were to pass, only that it was some distance
from us. By this time the darksome clouds began to spread
over the elements, and the night growing very dusky, made
it so much the more to our disadvantage; but still the noise
increasing, we were fully assured that it was the howling
and yelling of these ravenous creatures; when presently
three troops of wolves on our front appeared in sight as
though a great number of them had a mind to surround us
and devour us in spite of fate. But as they did not fall
upon us immediately, we proceeded on our journey in as swift
a manner as the roads would permit our horses, which was
only a large trot. It was in this manner we travelled, till
such a time as we discovered another wood, and had the
prospect of its entrance, through which we were to pass, at
the farthest side of the plain. But surely none can express
the terror we were in, when approaching the lane, we per-
ceived a confused number of the fiercest wolves, standing,
as it were, guarding its entrance. Nor were we long in
this amazement , before another occasion of horror present-
ed itself; for suddenly we heard the report of a gun at ano-
ther opening in the wood; and looking that way, out ran a
horse bridled and sadled, flying with the greatest swiftness,
and no less than sixteen or seventeen wolves pursuing after
him, in order to devour the poor creature; and unquestion-
ably they did so, after they had run him down, not being able
to hold out that swiftness with which he at first escaped,
them*
 
 
 
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
When we rode up to that entrance from whence the horse
came forth, there Jay the carcase of another horse and t wo
men, mangled and torn by these devouring wolves: and un-
doubtedly one of these men was the person who fired the
gun which we had heard; for the piece lay by him; but,
alas! most of the upper part of his body and his head were
entombed in the bowels of these ravenous creatures.
What course to take, whether to proceed or retreat, we
could not tell; but it was not long before the wolves them-
selves made us come to a resolution; for such numbers
surrounded us, every one of whom expected their prey,
that were our bodies to be divided among them, there would
not be half a mouthful a-piece. But happy, very happy it
was for us, that but a little way from the entrance, there lay
some very large timber trees, which I supposed had been
cut down and laid there for sale; anongst which I drew my
little troop, placing ourselves in a line behind one large tree,
which served us for a breast-work, when desiring them to
alight, we stood in a triangle, or three fronts, closing our
horses in the centre, the only place where we could pre-
serve them.
Never certainly was there a more furious charge than
what the wolves mode upon us in this place: and the sight
of the horses, which were the principal prey they aimed at,
provoked their hunger, and added to their natural fierceness.
They came on us with a most dreadful noise, that made the
woods ring again; and beginning to mount the pieces of
timber, I ordered every man to fire, as before directed:
and, indeed, so well did they take their aim, that they killed
several of the wolves at the first volley; but still we were
obliged to keep a continual firing, by reason they came on
like devils, pushing one another with the greatest fury.—
But our second voliev something abated their courage, when
stopping a little, we hoped they would have made the best
uf their way; however it did not prove so, for others made
anew attempt upon us; and though hi four firings we killed
seventeen or eighteen of them, laming twice as many, yet
they several times successively came on, as though they
valued not their lives for the sake of thejr prey.
Unwilling was I to spend our last shot too suddenly, and
therefore calling my other servant* and giving him a horn
of powder, bill him lay a large train quite along the timber,
which he did, while Friday was charging my fusee and his
 
own with the greatest dexterity. By this time the wolves
coming up the timber, I set fire to the train, by snapping,a
discharged pistol close to the powder. This so scorched
and terrified them, that some fell down, and others jumped
in among us; hut these were immediately dispatched, when
all the rest, frightened with the light, which the darksome
night caused to appear more dreadful, began at length to re-
tire; upon which, onlenng our last pistols to be fired at
once, giving at the same time a great shout, the wolves were
obliged to have recourse to their swiftness, and turn tail;
and then we sallied out upon twenty lame ones, cutting them
in pieces with our swords, which obliged them to howl la-
mentably, to the terror of their fellows, who resigned to us
the field as victorious conquerors. And, indeed, I question
whether Alexander, king of Macedonia, in any of his con-
quests had more occasion for triumph than we had; for he
was but attacked with numerous armies of soldiers, where-
as our little army was obliged to combat a legion of devils,
as it were, worse than the cannibals, who, the same moment
they had slain us, would have sacrificed us, to satisfy their
voracious appetites.
Thus ended our bloody battle with the beasts, having
killed threescore of them, and saved our lives from their
fury. We still had a league farther to go, when, as we
went, our ears were saluted with their most unwelcome
bowlings, and we expected every moment another attack.
But, in an hour's time, we arrived at the town where we
were to lodge; and here we found the place strictly guard-
ed, and all in terrible confusion, as well they anight, for
fear of the bears and wolves breaking into the village, in or-
der to prey upon their cattle and people. The next morning
we were obliged to take a new guide, by reason the other
fell very bad of his wounds, which lie had received, as be-
fore mentioned. After we had reached Thoulouse, wc
came into a warm, pleasant, and fruitful country; not infest
ed with wolves, nor any sort of ravenous creatures: and
when we told our story there, they much blamed our guide,
for conducting us through the forest at the foot of the moun-
tains, in such a severe season, when the snow obliged the
wolves to seek for shelter in the woods. When we inform-
ed them in what manner we placed ourselves, and the
horses in the centre, they exceedingly reprehended us, and
 
 
told us, it was a hundred to one but we had been all de«
ttroyed; for that it was the very sight of* the horses (their
so much desired j.;rey) that made the wolves more raging!v
furious than they would have been, which was evident, bv
their being at other times really afraid of a gun; but then
being exceedingly hungry and furious upon that account,
their eagerness to come at the horses made them insensible
of then danger; and that, if we had not, by a continual fire,
and at last by the cunning stratagem of the train of powder,
got the better of them, it had been great odds if their num-
ber had not overpowered us; besides, it was a great mercy
we alighted from our horses, and fought them with that cou-
rage and conduct, which had we failed to do, every man of
us, with our beasts, had been devoured; and, indeed, this
was nothing but truth; for never in my life was I so sensi-
ble of danger, as when three hundred devils came roaring
upon us, to shun whose unwelcome company, if i was sure
to meet a storm every week, 1 would rather go a thousand
leagues by sea.
1 think I have nothing uncommon in my passages through
France to take notice of, since other travellers of greater
learning and ingenuity have given a more ample account
than my pen is able to set forth. From Thoulouse 1 travel-
led to Paris, from thence to Calais, where 1 took shipping,
and landed at Dover the J 4th of January, in a very cold
season.
Thus come to the end of my travels, I soon discovered
my new found estate, and all the bills of exchange I had
were currently paid. The good ancient widow, my only
privy counsellor, thought no pains or care too great to pro-
cure my advantage; nor had I ever occasion to blame her
fidelity, which drew from me an ample reward. I was for
leaving my effects in her hands, intending to set out for
Lisbon, arid to the Brazils; but, as in the Desolate island,
I had some doubts about the Romish religion, so 1 knew
there was little encouragement to settle there, unless 1
would apostatize from the orthodox faith, or live in conti-
nual fear of the Inquisition. Upon this account I resolved
to sell my plantation; and, for that intent, I wrote to my
old friend at Lisbon, who returned me an answer to my great
satisfaction; which was, that he would sell it to good ac*
count; however, if I thought it convenient to give him ]*%
berty to offer it in my name to the two merchants, the sur?.
 
 
 
 
 
vivors of my trustees, residing at the Brazils, who consequent-
ly knew its intrinsic value, having lived just upon the spot,
and who I was sensible were very rich, and therefore might1
be the more willing to purchase it, he did not in the least
doubt, but that I should make four or five thousand pieces
of eight more of it, than I could if I disposed of it in any
other manner whatsoever.
You may be sure I could not but agree with this kind and
ingenuous proposal; and immediately I sent him an order
to offer it to them, which he accordingly did; so that about
eight months after, the ship being in that time returned, he
gave me a satisfactory account, that they not only willingly
accepted the offer, but that they had also remitted 88.000
pieces of eight to a correspondent of their own at Lisbon,
in order to pay for the purchase.
Hereupon, ifi return, I signed the instrument of sale, ac*
cording to form, which they had sent from Lisbon, and re-
turned it again to my old friend, he having sent me, for my
estate, bills of three hundred and twenty eight thousand
pieces of eight, reserving the payment of one hundred moi-
dores per annum, which I had allowed him during life, like-
wise fifty to his son during life also, according to my faith-
ful promise, which the plantation wras to make good as a
rent charge.
And thus having led my reader to the knowledge of the
first parts of my life, so remarkable for the many peculiar
providences that attended it, floating in the ocean of uncer-
tainty and disappointment, of adversity and prosperity, be-
ginning foolishly, and yet ending happily: methinks -now*
that I am come to a safe and pleasant haven, it-is lime to*
cast out my anchor, and, laying up my vessel, bid, for a
while, adieu to foreign adventures. I had no other concerns
to look after but the care of my brother's two sons, which,
with the good widow's persuasions, obliged me to continue
at home seven years. One of these children I bred up a
gentleman, and the other an experienced sailor, remarkable
for his courage and bravery. Besides this, 1 married a vir-
tuous young gentlewoman, of a very good family, by whom
I had two sons and one daughter. But my dear and tender
wife leaving this earthly stage, (as in the second part of my
life you will hear,) which rent my soul, as it were, asunder,
my native country became weary and tiresome to me; and
my nephew happening to come from sea, tempted me to
 
 
 
 
venture another voyage to the East-Indies, which I did in
the year l(i94?, at which time I visited my island, and in-
formed myself of every thing that happened since my de-
parture.
One might reasonably imagine, that what I had .suffered,
together with advanced age, and the fear of losing, not only
what I had gotten, but my life also, might have choked up
all the seeds of useless ambition and curiosity, and put a
lasting period to my wandering inclinations. But as nothing
but death can fully allay the active part of my life, no less
remarkable for the many various contingencies of it, you will
next perceive how I .visited my little kingdom, saw my suc-
cessors the Spaniards, had an account of the usage they met
with from the Englishmen agreeing and disagreeing, uniting
and separating, till at last they were subjected to the Spa-
niards, who yet used them very honourably, together witfy
the wonderful and successful battles over the Indians, who
ipvaded and thought to have conquered the island, but were
repelled by their invincible courage and bravery, having
taken eleven men and five women prisoners, by which, at my
return, I found about twenty young children on my little
kingdom. Here I staid twenty days, left t^hem supplies of
all necessary things, as also a carpenter and smith, and
shared the island into parts, reserving the whole property to
myself. Nor will you be insensible, by the account of
these things, of several new adventures 1 have been enga-
ged in, the battles I have fought, the deliverances I have met
with: and while, in the surprising relations of tsuch remark-*
able occurrences, I shall describe many of God's kindest
providences to me in particular, no less conspicuous in the
same goodness, power, and majesty of our great Creator,
shown one way or other over the face of the earth if duly
adverted to.
 
 
 
 
THE FURTHER ADVENTURES OP
ROBINSON CRUSOE;
Wherein are contained several strange and surprising Ac-
counts of his Travels, and his most remarkable Transac-
tions both by Sea and Land; with his wonderful Vision
of the Angelic World.
WHEN we consider the puissant force of nature, and
what mighty influence it has many times over the temper of
the mind, it will be no such great wonder to think, that my
powerful reason should be overcome by a much stronger in-
clination. My late acquired kingdom ran continually in my
thoughts all the day, and I dreamec^of it in the night; nay,
I made it the continual subject of my talk, even to imperti-
nence, when I was awake. I had such vapours in my head,
that 1 actually supposed myself at my castle; that I not
only perceived Friday's father, the old Spaniard, and the
wicked sailors, but that I talked and discoursed with them
about their manner of living; that I heard the things related
to me, which L found afterwards to be too true; and that 1
executed my judgments with the greatest severity upon the
offenders. And, indeed, this anticipating all the pleasing
joys of my life, scarcely afforded me one pleasant hour: my
dear and tender wife could not but take notice of it, which
drew these affectionate speeches from her; "My dear,1" said
slie, "1 am really persuaded that some secret impulse from
Heaven occasions in you a determination to see the island
again; nor am I less sensible, but your being engaged to
me and these dear children, is the only hinderance of your
departure. I know, my dear, if I were in the grave, you
would not long continue at home; prevent not your happi-
ness on my account, whose only comfort centres in you.
All that I can object is, that such an hazardous undertaking
is no way consistent with a person of your years; but if
you are resolved to go," added she, weeping, <c only permit
me to bear you company, and that is all that I desire."
Such endearing tenderness, graced with the most inno-
cent, and yet most powerful charms, brought me insensibly
into my right understanding; and when I considered all the
transactions of my life, and particularly my new engage*
'G'
 
 
ment; that I had now one child already born, and my wife
big of another; and that I had no occasion to seek for
more riches, who already was blessed with a sufficiency, with
much struggling I altered my resolutions at last, resolving to
apply myself to some business or other, which might put a
period to such wandering inclinations. Hereupon 1 bought
a little farm in the county of Bedford, with a resolution to
move thither; upon this there was a pretty convenient
house, surrounded with land, very capable of improvement,
which suited my temper, as to planting, managing, and cul-
tivating.
Nor was I long before I entered upon my new settlement,
having bought ploughs, harrows, carts, waggons, horses,
cows, and sheep; so that I now led the life of a country
gentleman, and as happy in my retirement as the greatest
monarch in the world. And what made me think my hap-
piness the greater was, that I was in the middle state of life,
which my father had so often recommended, much resem-
bling the felicity of a rural retirement which is elegantly de-
scribed by the poet in these lines *
Free from all vices, free from care,
Age has no pain, and youth no snare.
But in the midst of this my happiness, I was suddenly
j>*unged in the greatest sorrow that 1 could possibly endure;
for, when I least expected it, my dear and tender wife was
forced to submit to the irresistible power of Death, leaving
this transitory life for a better. It is impossible for me to
express the beauties of her mind, or the loveliness of her
1)erson; neither can I too much lament her loss, which my
atest breath shall record; her influence was greater over
me than the powers of my own reason, the importunities of
friends, the instructions oF a father, or the melting tears oi
a tender and disconsolate mother; in a word she was the
spirit of all my affairs, and the centre of my enterprises.—
But now since the cruel hand of Death had closed my dear-
esfs eyes, I seemed in my thoughts a stianger to the world;
my privy counsellor being gone I was like a ship without a
f)iiot, that could only run before the wind. And when I
ooked around me in this busy world, one part labouring
for bread, and the other squandering away their estates;
this put me in mind how I had lived in my little kingdom,
 
 
 
147
 
where both reason and religion dictated to me, that there
was something that certainly was the reason and end of life,
which was far superior to what could be ' hoped for on this
side the grave. My country delights were now as insipid
and dull, as music and science to those who have neither
taste nor ingenuity. In short, resolving to leave off house-
keeping, I left my farm, and in a few months returned to
London.
But neither could that great city, so famous for its variety
of entertainment, afford me any agreeable delight; a state
of idleness 1 found to be the very dregs of life, and most
hurtful to body anil soul. It was now the beginning of the
year 16*84, at which time my nephew (who, as 1 before ob-
served, had been brought up to the sea, and advanced to be
captain ol" a ship) was returned from a short voyage to Bil~
boa, the first he had made in that station. He comes to me
one morning, telling me, that some merchants of his ac-
quaintance -had proposed to him to go a voyage for them to
the East Indies and China, in the manner of private traders;
and now, uncle,"' said he, kt if you'll accompany me thither,
1*11 engage to land you upon jour own island, to visit the
state of your little kingdom.'7
Just before he came in, my thoughts were fixed to get a
patent for its possession, and then to fill it with inhabitants.
After I had paused a while, and looked steadfastly on him,
"What devil or spirit," said I, "sent you with tins un-
lucky errand?" He started as first; but recovering him-
self, when he perceived I was not offended, "Sir," ieplied
he, "what I have proposed cannot, 1 hope, be styled un-
lucky, since certainly you must be desirous to see your little
territory, where you reigned with more content than any of
your brother kings in the universe/—" Nephew," said I,
"if you will leave me there, and call for me as you come
back, I care not if I give my consent :v but he answered,
that the merchants would not allow their vessel, laden
with an infinite value, to return there again, which was a
month's sail out of their way; 44 besides feir," said lie, *' if 1
should miscarry, was your request granted, why then you
would be locked upas before." This, indeed, carried  a
great deal of reason in it; but we found out a remedy, and
Chat was to carry a framed sloop on board, readyto be set
up in the island, by the assistance of some carpenters, which
we should carry with us, that might be fitted in a few days,
g £
 
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
to go to sea. I was not long in forming my resolution,
which overswayed my good friend, the widow's persuasions
and the natural affection I bore to my young children. I
made my will, and settled my estate in such a manner, that I
was perfectly sure my poor infants would have justice done
them. The good widow not only undertook to make pro-
vision for my voyage, but also took charge of my domes-
tic affairs, and to provide for my children's education; and
indeed no niother could take more care, or understand the
office better; for which I lived to reward and return her my
hearty thanks.
The beginning of January, 1694-5, my nephew being
ready to sail, I and Friday went on board in the Downs on
the 8th, having, besides the sloop already mentioned, a very
considerable cargo of my new colony. First, 1 had some
servants, whom I proposed to leave there, as they should
appear willing; there were two carpenters, a smith, and a
very ingenious fellow who was jack-of-all-trades; for ne was
not only a cooper by trade, but also was dexterous at mak-
ing wheels, and hand-mills to grind corn, likewise a good
turner, and a good pot maker. I also carried a tailor, who
consented to stay in my plantation, and proved a most ne-
cessary fellow in the island. As to my cargo, it consisted
of a sufficient quantity of linen, and English stuffs for cioth-
ing the Spaniards that 1 expected to find there; as likewise
gloves, hats, shoes, stockings; together with beds, bedding,
and household stuff, especially kitchen utensils, with pots,
kettles, pewter, brass, &c. also nails, tools of all sorts, sta-
ples, hooks, hinges, and all other things necessary; all which,
I think, cost me about three hundred pounds. Nor was
this all; for I carried a hundred spare arms, muskets, and
fusees, besides some pistols, a considerable quantity of seve-
ral sorts of shot, two brass cannon, besides swords, cutlas-
ses, and the iron part of some pikes and halberts. I made
my nephew take with us two small quarter-deck guns, more
than he had occasion for in his ship, to leave behind, if there
was a necessity, so that we might build a fort there, and
man it against all opposers whatsoever.
Well, we put out to sea; and though I can't say this
voyage was so unprosperous as my others had been, yet
contrary winds drove us so far northward, that we wer«
obliged to put in at Galway in Ireland, where we Jay
wind-bound two and twenty days. Here, indeed, our pro-
 
 
 
149
visions were very cheap, and we added to our ship's stores
by taking several live hogs, two cows and calves, which I
tnen resolved to put on shore hi my island, if our necessities
did not call for them. On the 5th of February we sailed
from Ireland, with a" very fair gale, which lasted for some
days; and I think it was about the 20th of the same month,
late in the evening, when the mate informed us, that be
saw a flash of fire, and heard a gun fired; and when he was
speaking, a boy came in and told us, that the boatswain had
heard another. Upon which we all ran to the quarter deck,
from whence, in a few moments, we perceived a terrible
fire at a distance. We had immediately recourse to our
reckonings, in which we were all of opinion, that there
could be no land that way, it appearing to be at N. N. W.
Hereupon we concluded that some ship had taken fire at
sea, and that it could not he far off, by- the report of the
guns which we had heard. We made up directly to it, and
m half an hour's time, the wind being fair, we could plainly
perceive a great ship on fire in the middle of the sea.—
Touched with this unhappy disaster, and considering my
former circumstances, when the Portuguese Captain took
me up, I immediately ordered five guns to be fired, that the
poor creatures, not seeing us, it being dark, (though we
could perceive their flame,) might be sensible there was de-
liverance at hand, and consequently might endeavour to
save themselves in their boat. .Nor was it long before the
ship blew up in the air, and the lire was extinguished in
the ocean. 13ut supposing them to be all in their boats, we
hung out our lanterns, and kept firing till eight o'clock in
the morning; when, with our perspectives, we beheld two
boats full of people, making towards us, though the tide was
against them; then spreading out our ancient, and hanging
out a waft, as a signal for them to come on board, in half
an hour's time we came up with them, and took them all in*
there being no less than sixty-four men, women, and chil-
dren. It was a French merchant ship of three hundred tons,
home-ward bound from Quebec in the river of Canada.—
The master informed me how> by the negligence of the
6teersman, the steerage was set on lire; that, at his outcry
for help, the fire was, as he thought, totally extinguished:
but that some sparks getting between the timber and within
the ceiling, it proceeded into the hold, where there was no
resisting it; and then they got into their boats,* as creatures
 
 
in the last extremity, with what provisions they had, together
with oars, sails, and a compass, intending to go hack to
Newfoundland, the wind blowing" at S. E. and by E. though*
there were several chances against them, as storms to over-
set and founder them, rains and colds to benumb and perish
their limbs, and contrary winds to keep them back and
starve them: but, said he, in this our great distress, we
"heard the welcome report of your guns,* when, with unspeak-
able joy, taking down our masts and sails, we were resolved
to lie by till morning; but perceiving your li»ht, we set
our oars at work, to keep our boat a-head, the sooner to*
attain your ship, the happy instrument of our deliver-
ance.
indeed no one can express the joy of these poor creatures
on this occasion : fear and grief are easily set forth; sighs
and tears, with a few motions of the hands and head, are all
the demonstrations of these passions; but an excess of joy
carries in it a thousand extravagancies; especially, i think,,
among the French, whose temper is allowed lo he more vo-
latile, passionate, sprightly, and gay, than that of other na-
tions. Some were weeping, tearing themselves in the grey-
est agonies of sorrow, and running stark mad about the ship,
while the rest were stamping with their feet, wringing their
hands, singing, laughing, swooning away, vomiting, faint-
ing, with a few returning hearty thanks to the Almighty, and
crossing themselves. 1 think, if I am not mistaken, our
surgeon was obliged to let thirty of them blood. Eut among
the passengers, there were two priests, the one an old, the
other a young man; hut what amazed me more was, that
the oldest was in the worst plight; for no sooner did he
perceive himself freed from danger, but he dropped down, as
it were, without life, and to every one's appearance quite
dead; but the surgeon chafing and rubbing his arm, opened
a vein, which at first dropped, and then flowing more freely,
the old man began to open his eyes, and in a quarter of an
hour was well again. But soon remembering this happy
change, the joy of which whirled his blood about faster than
the vessels could convey it, he became so feverish, as made
him more fit for bedlam than any other place; but the sur-
geon giving him a sleeping dose, he was perfectly composed
the next morning.
Remarkable, indeed, was the behaviour of the young
priest. At his entrance on*board the ship, he fell on his face
 
15
in the most humble prostration to the Almighty. I thought,
indeed, he had fallen into a swoon, and so ran to help him,
up; hut he modestly told me, he was returning thanks to the
Almighty, desiring me to leave him a few moments, and
that, next to his Creator, he would return me thanks also.
And indeed he did so, about three minutes after with great
seriousness and affection, while the tears stood in his eyes,
which convinced me of the gratitude of his soul. Nor did he
less show his piety and wisdom, in applying himself to his
country people, and labouring to compose them, by the most
powerful reasons, arguments, and persuasions.—And when,
indeed, these people had taken their night's repose, in such
lodgings as our ship would allow we found nothing but the
best of manners, and the most civil acknowledgments, for
which the French are eminently remarkable. The next day
the Captain and one of the priests desired to speak with me
and my nephew the commander. They told us, that they had
saved some money and valuable things out of the ruined ves-
sel, which was at our service; only that they desired to be
set on shore some where in our way. At first my nephew
was for accepting the money; but I (who knew how hard
my case would have been, had the Portuguese Captain serv-
ed me so) persuaded him to the contrary; and therefore told«
them, that as we had done nothing but what we were obliged
to do, by nature and humanity, and what we ourselves might
expect from others in such calamity, so we took them up to
save them, not plunder them, or leave them naked npon the
land, to perish for want of subsistence, and therefore would
not accept their money: but as to landing them that was a
great difficulty; for being bound to the East Indies, it was
impossible wilfully to change our voyage upon their parti-
cular.account, nor could my nephew (who was under char-
ter party to pursue it by way of Brazil) answer it to the
freighters.—All that we could do, was to put ourselves in
the way of meeting some ships home-ward bound from the
West Indies, that, if possible, they might get a passage to
France or England. Indeed, they were very thankful for
our fir3t kindness; but were under great concern, especially
the passengers, at their being carried to the East Indies.
They begged, therefore, 1 would keep on the banks of New-
foundland, where probably they might meet with some
ship or sloop, to carry them to Canada, whence they came.
As this was but a reasonable request, I was inclined to
 
 
G 4
grant it, since it was no breach of charter-party, and the:
laws of God and nature obliged us to do what good we could
to our fellow-creatures; and besides the danger we our-
selves should be in for want of provisions: so we consented
to carry them to Newfoundland, if wind and weather
would permit; if not, that we should carry them-to Mar-
tinico in the West Indies* But, as it happened, in a week's
time we made the banks of Newfoundland, where the French
people hired a bark to carry them to France. But the
young priest being desirous to go to the East Indies, I readily
agreed to it, because I liked his conversation, and two or
three of the French sailors also entered themselves on board
our ship.
Now, directing our course for the West Indies steering
S. and S. by E. about twenty days, with little wind, ano-
ther adventure happened to exercise our humanity. In the
latitude of '27 degrees, 5 minutes north, the 19th of March,
1694-5, we perceived a sail, (our course S. E. and by S.)
which bore upon us, and then she appeared to be a large
vessel, having lost her main top-mast and boltsprit; when
firing a gun as a signal of distress, wind N. N. W. we soon
came to speak with her. She was a ship from Bristol, bound
home from Barbadoes, out of which road she had been forced
in a hurricane to the westward, in which they lost their
masts.
They told us, their expectations were to see the Bahama
islands, but were driven away by a strong wind at N. N. W.
and having no sails to work the ship with, but the main-
course, and a kind of a square sail upon a jury fore mast,
because they could not come near the land, were endeavour-
ing to stand for the Canaries: nay, what was worse, besides
all their fatigue, they were almost starved for want of pro-
vision, having eat nothing for eleven days; all that they had
aboard was sugar, a barrel of fresh water, and seven casks
of rum. In this ship were passengers, a youth, his mother,
and a maid-servant, who were in a most deplorable condition
for want of food. If I had not gone on board their ship,
the knowledge of their misery had been concealed front me,
and they would have inevitably perished, though, indeed,
their second mate, who was Captain, by reason the true
Captain was not on board when the hurricane happened,
had before informed me that there were such persons on
board, whom he supposed to be dead, being afraid to inquire
 
153
after them, because he had nothing to give them for relief.
Hereupon we resolved to let them have what we could
spare, ordering the mate to bring some of his men on board
*is, which he did accordingly; as he and they looked like
skeletons, when meat was set before them I ordered them to
eat sparingly. But, however, they soon fell sick; which
obliged the surgeon to mix something in their broth, which
was to be to them both food and physic. When they were
fed, we ordered our mate to carry them a sack of bread,
and four or five pieces of beef; but the surgeon charged
them to see it boiled, and keep a guard on the cook-room,
to prevent the men from eating it raw, and consequently
killing themselves with what was designed for their relief.
But, particularly L desired the mate to see what condition
the poor passengers were in, and the surgeon gave him a
pitcher of the same broth, which he had prepared for the
men. And being curious to see this scene of misery myself,
i took the Captain (as we called the mate of the ship) iji
our own boat, and sailed after them.
Here was a sad sight indeed! scarce were the victuals
half boiled in the pot, but they were*ready to break open
the cook-room door. To stay their stomachs, the mate gave
them biscuits, which were dipped and softened with the
liquor of the meat, which they call bruise, telling them it
was for their own safety, that he was obliged to give them
but a little at a time; and so feeding them gradually their
bellies were comfortably filled* and the men did very well
Sgain, Rut when they came to the poor gentlewoman in
the cabin who for several days had continued without food,
giving what she had to her son, they found her as it wer^
in the arms of death. She was sitting upon the floor of the
deck, with her back up against the sides, between two chairs,
which were lashed fast, and her head shrunk between her
shoulders, like a senseless corpse. Nothing was wanting in
my mate to revive arid encourage her; opening her lips, and
putting some broth, into her mouth with a spoon. Rut not
baying strength to speak, she lifted up her head with much
ijifficuity, intimating that it was now too late; at the same
time pointing to the youth, her son, as though she desired
Him to do what he could to save the lad; and, in a little
4in# after, she died.
The youth, indeed* was not so far gone, yet lay stretched
cut on the cabin bed, like one that had scarce any life. 1%
 
 
 
his mouth was a piece of an old glove, the rest of which he
had eat up. At first he vomited what the mate had given
him; but at length began sensibly to revive, though in the
greatest concern for the death of his tender mother.
As for the poor maid, she lay by her mistress, like one in
the last pangs of death; her limbs were distorted, one of her
hands was clasped round the frame of a chair, which she
grasped so hard that it was with some difficulty we sepa-
rated her from it; her other arm lay over her head, and her
feet lay both together, set fast against the frame of the cabin
table; not only being starved with hunger, hut overcome
with grief at the loss of her mistress, whom she loved most
tenderly. It was a great while before the surgeon could
bring her to life, and a much longer time before she came
to her senses.
After we had sailed with them some days, we sent them
five barrels of beef, one of pork, two hogshead of biscuit,
with peas, flour, and other things; taking three casks of
sugar, some rum, and some pieces of eight as payment, we
left them, but took the youth and maid with us, with all
their goods. The lad was about seventeen years old, very
handsome, modest, sensible, and well-bred, but mightily
concerned for the loss of his honoured mother, having lost
liis father at Barbadoes but a few months before. He bc-
seeched the surgeon to intercede with me to take him out
of the ship; for that the sailors, by pot sparing a small suste-
nance, had starved his mother. But hunger has no bounds
to right, and consequently is incapable of any compassion.
When the surgeon told him our voyage might put him in
bad circumstances, and farther from his friendhe said he
did not care, if he was delivered from that terrible crew;
that as the Captain (meaning me) had saved him from death,
so he was sure he would do him no harm; and',- as for the
maid, when she was restored to her senses, she would be
no less thankful, let us carry them where we would. And
indeed the surgeon so represented their case to me, that I
consented, and took them on board with all their goods,
except eleven hogsheads of sugar; but the youth having a
bill of lading, 1 made the Commander oblige himself to de-
liver a letter and the deceased widows goods to Mr. Rogers,
a merchant at Bristol; but I believe the ship was lost at sea*
tor we never could hear what became of her afterwards.
We were now in latitude 19 deg. S£ min. having as yet a
 
153
tolerable good voyage. But passing by several little incidents
relating to wind and weather, I shall relate what, is most
remarkable concerning my little kingdom, to which I was then
drawing near. 1 had great difficulty in finding it, for as I
came to, and went from it before, on the south and east side
of the island, as coming from the Brazils, so now approach-
ing between the main and the island, not having any chart
of the coast, nor land mark, it obliged us to go on shore on
several islands in the mouth of the river Oroonoko, but to
no purpose. Thus I perceived, that what I thought was a
continent before, was no such thing, but a long island, or
rather a ridge of sands. On one of these island i found some
Spaniards, but they belonged to the isle de Trinidad, who
came hither in a sloop to make salt, and try to find some
pearl muscles. But at length I came fair on the south-
side of my island, and then I presently knew the counte-
nance of my little kingdom; so we brought the ship safe to
an anchor, broadside within the creek, where stood my an*
cient and venerable castle.
No sooner did I see the place, but calling for Friday, 1
asked him where he was; but when he looked a little, he
dapped his hands, crying, " O joy, O there, O yes, O
there f pointing to our old abode, and then fell a dancing
and capering as if he was mad, and i had much ado to keep
him from jumping into the sea, to swim ashore. "Friday/'
said i; "what do you think, shall we go to see your father r"
At the mentioning of his father's name the poor affectionate
creature fell a weeping: "No, no," says he, <c me see him
no more, never see poor father more! lie long ago die, die
long ago; he much old man." "You don't know that,
said 1; "but shall we see any body else?'" lie looks about,
and pointing to the hill above my houses, cries out, " We see,
we see-there much men and there ;v which, though I could
not perceive them with my perspective glass, was true, by
what the men themselves told me the next day.
When .the English ancient was spread, and three guns
fired, as a signal of friendship, we perceived a . smoke rise
from the creek; upon which 1 ordered the boat out, taking
Friday with me, and hanging out a white flag of truce, 1
went on sUpre, accompanied also by the young friar, to
whom 1 had related the history of the first part of my life;;
besides, we had sixteen men well armed,, iij case we ha/i
MOBk with any opposition.
 
 
 
After we had rowed directly into the creek, the first man
I fixed my eyes upon was the Spaniard, whose life I had
saved, and whose face I perfectly well knew. I ordered
them to all stay in the boat for a while; but Friday, per-
ceiving his father at a distance, would have jumped into the
jsea, had they not let the boat go. No sooner was he on
shore, but he flew like a swift arrow out of a bow to em-
brace his aged lather. Certainly it would melt a man of
the firmest resolution into the softest tears, to see with what
uncommon transports of joy he saluted him; he first kissed
him, then stroked his face, took him in his arms, laid him
under a shady tree, set down by him, then looked as ear-
nestly at him, as one would do at a picture, for a quarter of
an hour together. After this he would lie upon the ground,
stroke his legs and kiss them, then get up and stare at him,
as though he was bewitched: but the next day one could
not forbear laughing to see his behaviour; for he would walk
several hours with his father along the shore, leading him
by the hand, as though he was a lady: while every now and
then, he would run to the boat to get something for him,
as a lump of sugar, dram, biscuit, or something or other that
was good. His frolics ran in another channel in the after-
noon; when he set old Friday on the ground, he would
dance round him, making comical postures and gestures;
and all the while would be telling him one story or another
of his travels and adventures.
it was on the 10th of April, anno 1695, that I set my
foot upon the island a second time. When my faithful
Spaniard, accompanied by one more, approached the boat,
he little knew who I was, till I discovered myself to him.
"Seignior," said I, in Portuguese, "don't you know me?"
He spoke never a word, but giving his musket to his attend-
ant, extended his arms, and saying something \n Spanish
that I did not then understand, he came forward and em-
braced me, saying, he was inexcusable not to know his de^
liverer, who, like an angel sent from heaven, had saved his
life. He then beckoned to the men to call out his com-
panions; asked me if I would walk to my own habitation,
and take possession, where I should find some mean im-
provements; but, indeed they were extraordinary ones; for
they had planted so many trees so close together, that the
place was like a labyrinth, which none could find out ex-
Sept themselves, who, kne^w its intricate windings. I asked
 
 
him the meaning of all these fortifications? he told me lie
would give a large aeeount of what had passed since my
departure till this time, and how he had subdued some Eng-
lish, who thought to be their murderers, hoping I would
riot be displeased, since necessity compelled them to it.—
As I knew they were wicked villains, so I told him, that 1
was not only far from rinding fault with it, but was rather
heartily glad that they had subdued them. While we were
thus taiking, the man whom he sent, returned, accompanied
by eleven more, but in such habits, that it was impossible
to tell what nation they were of. He first turned uvme,
and pointing to them, 44 These, Sir," said he, " are some of
the gentlemen who owe their lives to your goodness then
turning to them, and pointing to me, he made them sensi-
ble who 1 was; and then they saluted me one by on*?,
not as ordinary men, but as though they had been am-
bassadors or noblemen, and I a triumphant conqueror; for
their behaviour not only agreed with a manlike, majestic
gravity, but at the same time was so obliging and courteous,
as made them agreeable to the last degree.
Before I relate the history of the transactions of my king*,
dom, as I had it from the Spaniard's own mouth, I must
here insert what 1 omitted in my former relation; The
matter is this : Just before we weighed anchor and set sail,
there happened a quarrel on board the ship, which had like to
have occasioned a second mutitiy, till such time as the cou-
rageous Captain, taking two of the most refractory prisoners,
laicPtbem in irons, threatening, as they were concerned in
the former disorders, to have them hanged in England for
running away with the ship. This frightened some of the
rest, as thinking the Captain would serve them in the
same manner, though he seemed to give them good words
for the present. But the mate having intelligence of this,
made me acquainted^ with their fears, so that, to make
them more easy, and ourselves more safe from their conspi-
racies, I was obliged t€> go down, and pass my honour's
word for it, that upon their good behaviour^ ail that was
past should be forgiven: in testimony of which, 1 ordered
the two men's irons to, be taken ofl, and themselves for*
given. But as this had brought us to an anchor at nighty
in which there was a calm, the two men that had been in
ironsr stole each of them a musket, and some other weapons,.
*md taking the ship's pinnace* not yet hauled up, ran a^ay
 
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
to their brother rogues. The next morning we sent the
long-boat with men to pursue them, but all in vain; the
mate in revenge, would have* demolished my little castle,
burnt its furniture, ana1 destroyed their plantations, but
having no orders for it, he did not put it in execution.—
And thus there were live Englishmen in the island, which
caused great differences, us my faithful Spaniard gave me a
perfect account of, in the following manner.
"You cannot. Sir, but remember the embassy you sent
me about, and what a disappointment we met with, by your
absence, at our return. There is but little variety in the
relation of all our voyage, being blessed with calm weather,
and a smooth sea. Gn at indeed was the joy of my coun-
trymen to see me alive, having acted as the principal man
on board, the Captain of the shipwrecked vessel dying before;
nor was their surprise less, as knowing I was taken prisoner
by the savages of another nation, they had thought me long
since entombed in their monstrous bowels. But when I
showed them the arms, ammunition, and provisions 1 had
brought for them, they looked upon me as.a second Joseph
advanced in Pharaoh's court, and immediately prepared to
come along with me. Indeed they were obliged to trespass
upon that* friendly savages, by borrowing, two of their
canoes, under a pretext for fishing; and they came away
the next morning, but without any provisions of their own,
uxgept a few roots, which served them instead of bread,—
After three weeks absence, we arrived at our habitation.
Here we met with three English sailors, who, 1 confess,
gave us provisions, and that letter of direction you had left
lor us, which informed us how to bring up tame goats, plant
corn, cure ..grapes,, make, pots, and, in short, every thing
that was necessary for pur use. As, in particular, I knew
your method best, so taking Friday's father to assist me, we
managed all the affairs; nor were the rest of the Spaniards
wanting in their kind offices, dressing food for the English-
men, w ho did nothing but ramble and divert themselves in
the woods, either shooting parrots, or catching tortoises,
lint we had not been long ashore, before we were informed
of two Englishmen, unnaturally turned out of their com-
mon place of residence, by the three others above-mention-
ed; tiiis made my Spaniards and me (whom they now
looked upon as their governor in your absence) endeavour to
pej&uade them to take them in, J.hat we might.be as one family;
 
 
but all our entreaties were in vain, so that the poor fellows
finding nothing to be done without industry, pitched their
tents on the north side of the island, a little inclining to the
west, for fear of savages. Here they built two huts, one to
lodge, and the other to lay their stores in; for my good-natur-
ed Spaniard giving them some seeds, they duo; and planted
as I had done, and began to live prettily. Rut while they
were thus comfortably going on, the three unnatural brutes,
their countrymen, in a mere bullying humour, insulted then),
by saying, the governor (meaning you) had given them
possession of the island, and d—mu'em they should build no
liouses upon their ground, without paving rent. The *two
honest men (for so let me now distinguish them) thought their
three countrymen only jested, and one of them invited them
in, to see their fine habitations; while the other facetiously
told them, that since they built tenements with great im-
provements, they should, according to the custom of lords,
give them a longer lease; at the same time desiring them
to fetch a scrivener to draw the writings. One of these
wretches swearing he should pay for the jest, snatches up a.
fire-brand, and clapping it to the outside of their hut, very
fairly set it on fire, which would soon have consumed it,
had not the honest man thrust him away and trod it out
with his feet. Hereupon the fellow returns with his pole,
with which he would -have ended his days, had not the
poor man avoided the blow, when fetching his musket, he
knocked down the villain that began the quarrel. The other
two coming to assist their fellow, obliged the other honest
man to take his musket also, and both qf them presenting
their pieces, bid the villains stand off;, and if they did not
lay down their arms, death should decide the dispute one
way or other. This brought them to a parley, in which
they agreed to take their wounded man and be gone; but
they were in the wrong that they did not disarm them when
they had the power, and then make their complaint to me
and my Spaniards for justice, which might have prevented
their farther designs against them. And, indeed, so many
trespasses did they afterwards commit, by treading down
their corn, shooting their young kids and goats, and plagu-
ing them night and day, that they resolved to come to my
castle, challenge all the three, and decide their right by one
plain battle, while the Spaniards stood by to see fair play.
One day it happened, that two of my Spaniards 'one of
 
 
whom understood English) being in the woods, were met
by one of the honest men, who complained how barbarous
ttieir countrymen had been in destroying their corn, killing
their milk-goats, and three kids, which deprived them of their
subsistence; and that if we did not grant them relief, they
must be inevitably starved, and so they parted; but when
my Spaniards came home at night, and supper being on the
table, one of them began to reprehend the Englishmen, but
in a very mannerly way; which they resenting, replied,
** What business had their countrymen in that place without
leave, when it was none of their ground ?" Why, said
my Spaniard, calmly, " laglise, they must not starve;"" but
they replied, "Let them starve and be damn'd, they should
neither plant nor build: and damn them they should be
their servants and work for them, for the island was theirs,
and they would burn all the huts they should find in the
island.1' "By this rule,1' said my Spaniard, smiling, "We
shall he your servants too.1" "Aye, by G—d, and so you
shall," replied the impudent rascal. Upon which, starting
up, Will Atkins cries, "Come, Jack, Jet's have t'other
brush with them, who dare to build in our dominions 1"—
Thus leaving us something heated with just passion, away
they trooped, every man having a gun, pistol and sword,
muttering some threatening words, that we could then but
imperfectly understand. That night they designed to mur-
der their two companions, and slept till midnight in the
fapwer, dunking to fall upon them in their sleep; nor were
the honest men less thoughtful concerning them ^ for at this
juncture they were coming to find them out, but in a much
fairer way. As soon as the villains came to the huts, and
found nobody there, they concluded that I and my Spaniard
had given tfiem notice, and therefore swore to be revenged
on us; Then they demolished the poor men's habitation;
not by fire as they attempted before, but pulled down their
houses limb from limb, not leaving $tick or stone on the
ground where they stood, broke their household stuff in
pieces tore up their trees, spoiled their inclosure, and in
short quite ruined them of every thing they had. Had
these people met together, no doubt bu$ there would have
been a bloody battle; but Providence ordered it for the
better; for just as the three were got together, the two
were at our castle; and when they left us, the three came
ba$l^ again, but in great rage, scoffingly telliqg u§. whstl
 
they bad done; when one taking hold of a Spaniard's hat,
twirls it round, saying "And you, Seignior Jack Spaniard,
shall have the same sauce, if you don't mend your manners."
My Spaniard, a grave but courageous man, knocked him
down with one blow of his fist; at which another villain
fired his pistol, and narrowly missed his body, but wounded
him a little in the ear. Hereat enraged, the Spaniard takes
up the fellow's musket whom he had knocked down, and
would have shot him, if l and the rest had not come out
and taken the arms from every one of them*
"These Englishmen perceiving they had made all of us
their enemies, began to cool; but notwithstanding their
bitter words, the Spaniards would not return them their
arms again, telling them they would do them no manner of
harm, if they would live peaceably; but if they offered any
injury to the plantation or cattle, they would shoot them as
they would do ravenous beasts. This made them so mad,
that they went away raging like furies of hell. They were
no sooner gone, but in came the two honest men, fired with
the justest rage, if such can be, having been ruined as afore-
said. And indeed it was very hard, that nineteen of us
should be bullied by three villains, continually offending with-1
impunity.
'* It was a great while, Sir, before wre could persuade the'
two Englishmen from pursuing and undoubtedly killing
them with their fire-arms; but we promised them justice
should be done them; and, in the mean time, they should
reside with us in our habitation; In about five days after,
these three vagrants, almost starved with hunger, drew near
otir grove, and perceiving me, the governor, and two others
talking by the side ot the creek, they very submissively
desired to be received into the family again. We toki
them of their great incivility to us, and of their unnatural
barbarity to their countrymen; but yet we would see what
the rest agreed to, and in half an-hourV time would bring
them word. After some debate we called them in,' where
their two countrymen laid a heavy charge against them,
tor not only ruining but designing to murder them, which
they could not deny. Hut here 1 was forced to interpose
as a mediator, by obliging the two Englishmen not to hurt
them, being naked and unarmed; and that the other three
should make them restitution, by building their two huts,
 
 
 
 
and fencing their ground in the same manner as it was be-
fore. Well, being in a miserable condition, they submitted
to this at present, and lived some time regularly enough,
except as to the working part, which they did not care lor,
but the Spaniards would have dispensed with that, had they s
continued easy and quiet. Their arms being given them
again, they scarce had them a week when they became as
troublesome as ever; but an accident happening soon after }
obliged us to lay aside private resentments, and look to our,
common preservation.
"One night, Sir, I went to bed perfectly well in health,
and yet by no means could I compose myself to sleep; upon
which, being very uneasy, I got up and looked out, but it
being dark, I could perceive nothing but the trees around
the castle. I went to bed again, but it was all one, I could
not sleep; when one of my Spaniards hearing me walk:
about, asked who was up? 1 answered,, « It is I." When \
I told him the occasion, "Sir," said he, "such things are
not to be slighted; for certainly there is some mischief plot-
ting against us." "Where are the Englishmen?" said I.
He answered, "In their huts; for they lay separate from
u% Siry sinc0 the last mutiny." '•Well/' said I, "some
kind spirit gives this information for advantage. Come let
us go abroad, and see if any thing offers to justify our fears."
Upon which I and some of my Spaniards went up the moun-
tain not by the ladder but through the grove, and then we
were struck with a panic fear on seeing a light, as though
it were a fire, at a very little distance, and hearing the
voices of several men. Hereupon we retreated immediately
and raised the rest gf our forces, and made them sensible
of the impending danger; but with all my authority, I could
not make them stay where they were, so earnest were they
to see how things, went. Indeed, the darkness of the night
gave them opportunity enough to view them by the light of
the fire undiscovered. As they were in different parties,
and straggling over the shore, we were much afraid that
they should find out our habitation, and destroy our flocks
of goats, , to prevent which, we sent immediately an Eng-
lishman and two Spaniards to drive the goats into the val-
ley where the cave lay; or, if there was occasion, into the
cave itself: As to ourselves, resuming our native courage
and prudent conduct, had we not been divided, we durst
venture to attack a hundred of them;, bet before it was
 
168
very light, we resolved to send out Friday's father as a spy*
who, immediately stripping himself naked, gets among them
undiscovered, and in two hours time, brings word, that they
were two parties of two different nations, who lately having
a bloody battle with one another, happened to land by mere
chance in the same island, to devour their miserable pri-
soners; that they were entirely ignorant of any persons
inhabiting here; but rather being filled with rage and fury
against one another, he believed, that as soon as day-light
appeared, there would be a terrible engagement. Old Fri-
day had scarce ended his relation, when we heard an un-
common noise, and perceived that there was a horrid en-
gagement between the two armies;
46 Such was the-curiosity.of. our party, especially the Eng-
lishmen, that they would not lie close, though Old Friday told
them their safety depended upon it; and that if we had
patience, we should behold the savages kill one another,
j low ever they used some caution, by going farther into,
the woodsa and placing themselves iq a convenient place to
behold the battle.
"Never could there be a more bloody engagement or
men of more invincible spirit, and prudent conduct, ac-
cording to their manner and way of fighting. It lasted near
two hours, till the party which was nearer our castie began
to decline, and at last to fly from their conquerors. We
were undoubtedly put into a great consternation on this;
account lest they should run into our grove, and conse-*
qucntly bring us into the like danger. II ere upon we re~
solved to kill the fu-st that came,; to prevent discovery, and
that too with our- swords, and the but ends of our muskets,,
fur fear the report of our guns should be heard.
"And so indeed, as we thought, it happened; for three
of the vanquished army crossing the creek, ran directly to
the place, as to a thick wood for shelter; nor was it long
before our scout gave us notice of it; as also, thaJL the vic-
tors* did not think it fit to pursue them. Upon this I would
not suffer them to be slain, but had them surprised and. taken,
by our party; afterwards they proved very good servants
to us, being stout young creatures, and able to do a great
deal of work. The remainder of the conquered savages
fled to their canoes, and put out into the ocean, while the
conquerors, joining together, shouted by way of triumph;
 
 
 
 
and about three in the afternoon they also embarked for
their own country. Thus we were freed at once from those
savages and our fears, not perceiving any of these creatures
for some considerable timd after. We found two and thirty
men dead in the field of battle; some were slain with long
arrows, which we found sticking in their bodies; and the
rest were killed with great unwieldy wooden swords, which
denoted their vast strength, and of which we found seven-
teen, besides bows and arrows; but we could not find one
wounded creature among them alive; for they either kill
their enemies quite, or carry those wounded away with
them,
u This terrible fight tamed the Englishmen for some time,
considering how unfortunate they might have been had they
fallen into their hands, who would not only kill them as
enemies, but also for food as we do cattle: and indeed so
much did this nauseate their stomachy that it not only made
them very sick, but more tractable to the common necessary
business of the whole society, planting, sowing, and reap-
ing with the greatest signs of amity and friendship; so,
that being now all good friends, we began to consider of
circumstances in general; and the*first thing we thought
of was, whether, as we perceived the savages haunted that
side of the island, and there being^ more retired parts of it,
and yet as well suited to our manner of living, and equally
to our advantage, we ought not rather to move our place
of residence, and plant in a much safer place, both for
the security of our corn and cattle.
'< After a long debate on this head, it was resolved, or
rather voted nemine contradicente, not to remove our ancient
castle, and that for this very good reason, that some time
or other we expected to hear from out supreme governor,
(meaning you, Sir,) whose messengers not finding us there,
might think the place demolished, and all' his subjects de-
stroyed by the savages.
*6 As to the next concern* relating to our corn and cat-
rte; we consented to have them removed to the valley where
the cave was, that being most proper and sufficient for both.
Put yet, when we considered farther, we altered one part
of our resolution; which was to remove part of our cattle
thither, and plant only part of our corn there; so that in
case one part was destroyed, the other might be preserved.
Another resolution was taken which really nad a- great deal
 
165
of prudence in it, and that was, in not trusting the three
savages whom we had taken prisoners, with any knowledge
of the plantations we had made in the valley, of what num-
ber of cattle we had there, much less of the cave, wherein
we kept several arms, and two barrels of powder you left
for us at your departure from this island. But though we
could not change our habitation, we resolved to make it
more fortified and more secure. To this end, Sir, as you
planted trees at some distance before the entrance of your
palace; so we, imitating your example, planted and filled
up the whole space of ground, even to the banks of the
creek, nay, into the very ooze where the tide flowed, not
leaving a place for landing; and among these 1 had planted,
they had intermingled so many short ones, all of which
growing wonderfully fast and thick, a little dog could
scarcely find a passage through them. Nor was this suffi-
cient, as we thought, for we did the same to all the ground
on the right and left hand of us, even to the top of the hill,
without so much as leaving a passage for ourselves, excepr
by the ladder, which being taken down, nothing but what
had wings or witchcarft could pretend to come near us.
And indeed this was exceedingly well contrived, especially
to serve that occasion, for which we afterwards found it
necessary.
"'Thus we lived two years, in a happy retirement, hav-
ing, all this time, not one visit from the savages, indeed
one morning we had an alarm, which put us in some amaze-
ment; for a few of my Spaniards being out very early,
perceived no less than twenty canoes, as it were coming
on shore; upon which returning home, with great precipi-
tation, they gave the alarm, which obliged us to keep
at home all that day and the next, going out only in the
night-time to make our observations; but, as good luck
would have it, they were upon another design, and did not
land that time upon the island.
"But now there happened another quarrel between the
three wicked Englishmen, and some of my Spaniards,—
The occasion was this; One of them being enraged at one
of the savages, whom he had taken prisoner, for not being
able to comprehend something which he was showing him,
snatched up a hatchet in a great fury not to correct, but to
kill him : yet missing his head, gave him such a barbarous
cut in the shoulder that he had like to have struck off his
arm; at which one of my good-natured Spaniards inter-
posing between the Englishman and the savage, beseeching
the former not to murder the poor creature ; but this kind-
ness had like to have cost the Spaniard his life, for the
Englishman struck at him in the same manner; which he
nimbly and wisely avoided, returning suddenly upon him
with his shovel, (being all at work about their corn land,) and
very fairly knocked the brutish creature down. Hereupon
another Englishman coming »to his fellow's assistance, laid the
good Spaniard on the earth; when immediately two others
coming to his relief, were attacked by the third Englishman,
armed with an old cutlass, who wounded them both. This
uproar soon reached our ears, when we, rushing out upon
them, took the three Englishmen prisoners, and then our next
question was, what should be done to such mutinous and
impudent fellows, so furious, desperate, and idle, that they
were mischievoui to the highest degree, and consequently
not safe for the society to let them live among them.
"Now, Sir, as I was a governor in your absence, so I also
took the authority of a judge; and having them brought
before me, I told them, that if they had been of my country,
I would have hanged every mother's son of them; but
since it was an Englishman, (meaning you, kind Sir,) to
whom we were indebted for our preservation, and deliver-
ance, I would, in gratitude, use them with all possible mild-
ness; but, at the same time, leaving them to the judgment
of the other two Englishmen, who, 1 hoped, forgetting their
resentments, would deal impartially by them.
"Hereupon one of his countrymen stood up: "Sir,M
said he, "leave it not to us, for you may be sensible we
have reason to sentence them to the gallows; besides, Sir,
this fellow, Will Atkins, and two others, proposed to us
that we might murder you all in your sleep, which we could
not consent to: but knowing their inability, and your vigi-
lance, we did not think fit to discover it before now."
"Now, Seignior," said I, "do you hear what is alleged
against you? What can you say to justify so horrid an action
as to murder us in cold blood? So far, Sir, was the wretch
from denying it, that he swore, d—-mn him but he would do
it still. "But what have we done to you, Seignior Atkins,"
said I; "or what will you gain by killing us? What shall
we do to prevent you? Must we kill you, or you kill us?
Why will you, Seignior Atkins," said I smiling, " put us to
 
Such an unhappy dilemma, such a fatal necessity?" But so
great a rage did my scoffing and yet severe jest, put him
into, that he was going to fly at me, and undoubtedly had
attempted to kill me if he had been possessed of weapons,
and had not been prevented by three Spaniards. This un-
paralleled and villanous carriage, made us Seriously consider
what was to be clone. The two Englishmen and the Spa-
niard, who had saved the poor Indian's life, mightily peti-
tioned me to hang one of them for an example to the others,
which should be him that had twice attempted to commit
murder with his hatchet, it being at that time thought im-
possible the poor slave should recover. But they could
never gain my consent to put him to death, for the reasons
above-mentioned, since it was an Englishman (even your-
self) who was my deliverer; and as merciful counsels are
most, prevailing when earnestly pressed, so I got them to he
of the same opinion as to clemency. But to prevent them
doing us any farther mischief, we all agreed, that they should
have no weapons, as sword, gun, powder, or shot, but be
expelled from the society, to live as they pleased by them-
selves; that neither the two Englishmen, nor the rest of the
Spaniards should have conversation with them upon any ac-
count whatsoever; that they should be kept from coming
within a certain distance of our castle; and if they dared
to offer us any violence, either by spoiling, burning, killing,
or destroying any of the corn, plantings, buildings, fences,
or cattle, belonging to the society, we would shoot them as
freely as we would do beasts of prey, in whatsoever places
we should find them.
"This sentence seeme*! very just to all but themselves;
when, like a merciful judge, i called out to the two hottest
Englishmen saying, " You must consider they ought not to
be starved, neither; and since it will be some time before they
can raise corn and cattle of their own, let us give them some
corn to last them eight months, and for seed to sow, by which
time they'll raise some for themselves; let us also bestow
upon them six milch goats, four he ones, and six kids, as
well for their present support, as for a further increase;
with tools necessary for their work, as hatchets, an axe, saw,
and other things convenient to build them huts; all which
were agreed: but before we took them into possession) I
obliged them solemnly to swear, never to attempt any thing
against iis, >or their countrymen, for the future. Thus diss-
 
 
 
 
missing them from our society, they went away, sullen and
refractory, as though neither willing to go nor stay; how-
ever seeing no remedy, they took what provisions was giv^n
them, proposing to choose a convenient place where they
might live by themselves.
"About five days after, they came to those limits appoint-
ed, in order for more victuals, and sent me word by one of
my Spaniards, whom they called to, where they had pitched
their tents and marked themselves out a habitation and
plantation, at the N. E. and most remote part of the island.
And, indeed, there they built themselves two very handsome
cottages, resembling our little castle, being under the side of
a mountain, with some trees already growing on three sides
of it; so that planting a few more, it would be obscured from
sight, unless particularly sought for. When these huts were
finished, we gave them some dry goat skins for bedding and
covering; and upon their giving us fuller assurance of their
{rood behaviour for the future, we gave them some peas^ bar-
ey, and rice for sowing, and whatever tools we could spare.
Six months did they live in this separate condition, in
which they got their first harvest in, the quantity of which
was but small, because they had planted but little land; for,
indeed, all their plantations being to form, made it more
difficult, especially as it was a thing out of their element.;
and wrhen they were obliged to make their boards and pots,
&c. they could make little or nothing of it. But the rainy
season coming on, put them into great perplexity, for
want of a cave to keep their corn dry, and prevent it from
spoiling; and so much did this humble them, that they beg-
ged of my Spaniards to help them, to which the good-natured
men readily consented, and in four days space, worked a
great hole "in the side of the hill for them, large enough for
their purpose, to secure their corn and other things from the
rain, though not comparable to ours, which had ^veral ad-
ditional apartments.
"But a new whim possessed these rogues about three
quarters of a year alter, which had like to have ruined us,
and themselves too; for it seems, being tired and weary of
this sort of living, which made them work for themselves,
without hopes of changing their condition, nothing would
serve them, but that they would make a voyage to the conr
tinent, and try if they could seize upon some of the savages,
and bdng them over as slaves, to do their drudgery, while
their lived at ease and pleasure.
 
 
109
*c Indeed the project was not so preposterous, if they bad
not gone farther; but they neither did, nor proposed any
thing, but what had mischief in the design, or the event. —
One morning these three fellows came down to the limited
station, and I nimbly desired to be admitted to talk with us,
which we readily granted; they told us, in short, that be-
ing tired of their manner of Jiving, and the labour of their
bands in such employments not being sufficient to procure
the necessaries of life, they only desired one of the canoes
we came over in, with some arms and ammunition for their
defence, and they would seek their fortunes abroad, and
never trouble us any more. To he sure we were glad
enough to get rid of such wretched plagues; but yet
honesty made us ingenuously represent to them by what
we ourselves had suffered, the certain destruction they were
running into, either of being starved to death or murdered
by the savages. To this they very audaciously replied,
that they neither could nor would work ; and consequently
that they might be as well starved abroad as at home;
and as to the falling into the ban its of the savages, why, if
they were murdered, that was nothing to us, there was an
end of them ; neither had they any wives or children to cry
after them; nay, so intent were they upon their voyage, that
if the Spaniards had not given them arms, so they had but
the canoe they would have gone without them.
"Though we could not well spare our fire-arms, rather
than they should go like naked men, we let them have two
muskets, a pistol, a cutlass, and three hatchets, which were
thought very sufficient; we gave them also goats' flesh, a
great basket full of dried grapes, a pot of fresh butter, a
young live kid, and a large canoe sufficient to carry twenty
men. And thus, with a mast made of a long pole, and a
sail of six large goat-skins dried, having a fair breeze, and
flood-tide with them, they merrily sailed way, the Span-
iards, calling after them Bon vcyajo, no man ever expecting
to see them more.
"When they were gone, the Spaniards and Englishmen
would often say to one another, 66 O how peaceably do we
now live since those turbulent fellows have left us
Nothing could be farther from their thoughts than to behold
their faces any more; and yet scarce two and twenty days
had passed over their heads, but one of the Englishmen, be-
ing abroad a planting, perceived, at a distance, three men,
J*
 
 
well armed approaching towards them. Away he flies with
speed to our castle, and tells me and the rest, that we were
all undone, for that strangers were landed upon the island,
and who they were he could not tell: but added, that they
were not savages, but men habited, bearing arms. Why
then, said I, we have the less occasion to be concerned,
since, if they were not Indians they must be friends; for I
am sure there is no Christian people upon earth, but what
will do us good rather than harm. But while we were
considering of the event, up came the three Englishmen,
whose voices we quickly knew, and so all our admiration
of that nature ceased at once. And our wonder was suc-
ceeded by another sort of inquiry, which was, what could
be the occasion of their returning so quickly to the island,
when we little expected, and much less desired their com-
pany? but as this was better to be related by themselves,
I ordered them to be brought in, when they gave me the
following relation of their voyage.
"After two days sail, or something less, they reached
land, where they found the people coming to give them
another sort of a reception than what they expected or desir-
ed ; for, as the savages were armed with bows and arrows,
tHey durst not venture on shore, but steered northwards, six
of seven hours, till they gained an opening, by which they
plainly perceived, that the land that appeared from this
place, was not the main land, but an island. At their en-
trance into the opening of the sea, they discovered another
island on the right hand northward, and several more lying
to the westward: but being resolved to go on shore some
where or other, they put over to one of the western island**.
Here they found the natives very courteous to them, giving
them several roots and dried fish; nay, even their women
too were willing to supply them with what they could
procure them to eat, bringing it a great way to them upon
their heads. Among those hospitable Indians they con-
tinued some days, inquiring, by signs and tokens, what na-
tion lay around them; and were informed, that there were
several fierce and terrible people lived every way, accus-
tomed to eat mankind; but for themselves tney never used
such diet, except those that were taken in battle, and of
them they made a solemn feast.
** The Englishmen inquired how long it was since they
had a feast of that kind? They answered, about two moons
 
 
171
ago, pointing to the moon; and then two fingers; that
at this time their king had two hundred prisoners, which
were fattening up for the slaughter. The Englishmen
Vere mighty desirous of seeing the prisoners, which the
others mistaking thought that they wanted some of them
for their own food: upon which they beckoned to them,
pointing to the rising, and then to the setting of the sun;
meaning, that by the time it appeared in the east next
morning, they would bring them some; and indeed they
were as good as their word: for by that time they brought
eleven men and five women, just as so many cows and
oxen are brought to sea-port towns, to victual a ship. But
as brutish as these Englishmen were, their stomachs turned
at the sight. What to do in this case, they could not tell:
to refuse the prisoners would have been the highest affront
offered to the savage gentry; and to dispose of them, they
knew not in what manner; however they resolved to ac-
cept them, and so gave them in return, one of their
hatchets, an old key, a knife, and six or seven of their
bullets; things which, though they were wholly ignorant of,
yet they seemed entirely contented with; and dragging the
poor wretches into the boat with their hands bound behind
them, delivered them to the Englishmen. But this obliged
them to put off as soon as they had these presents, lest the
donors should have expected two or three of them to be
killed, and to be invited to dinner the next day: and so
taking leave with ail possible respect and thanks, though
neither of them understood what the others said, they sailed
away back to the first island, and there set eight of the
prisoners at liberty. In their voyage they endeavoured to
comfort, and have some conversation with the poor cap-
tives; but it was impossible to make them sensible of any
thing; and nothing they could say or give, or do for them,
could make them otherwise persuaded, but that they were
unbound only to be devoured; if they gave them any
food, they thought it was only to fatten them for the
slaughter; or looked at any one more particularly, the
poor creature supposed itself to be the first sacrifice; and
even when we brought them to our island, and began to
use them with the greatest humanity and kindness, yet they
expected every day that their new master would devour
them.
'* And thus, Sir, did these three strange wanderers con*
h2
 
 
elude their unaccountable relation of their voyage, which
was both amazing and entertaining. Hereupon, I asked
them where their new family was? They told me they had
put them into one of their huts, and they came to beg some
victuals for them. This, indeed, made us all long to see
them; and taking Friday's father with us, leaving only two
at our castle, we came down to behold these poor creatures,
"When we arrived at the hut, (lhey being bound again
by the Englishmen, for fear of escaping,) we found them
stark naked, expecting their fatal tragedy; they were
three lusty men well shaped, with straight and good limbs,
between thirty and five and thirty years old: and five wo-
men, two of them might be from thirty to forty, two more
not above four and twenty; and the last, a comely tall
maiden of about seventeen. Indeed, ail the women were
very agreeable, both in proportion and features, except
that they were tawney, which their modest behaviour and
other graces made amends for, when they afterwards came
to be clotiled.
"This naked appearance, together with the miserable
circumstances, was no very comfortable sight to my Spa-
niards, who for their parts I may venture, Sir, without
flattery, to say, are men of the best behaviour, calmest
tempers, and sweetest nature, that can possibly be; for
they immediately ordered Friday's father to see if he knew
any of them, or if he understood what they could say.
No sooner did the old Indian appear, but he looked at
them with great seriousness; yet as they were not of his
nation, they were utter strangers to him, and none could
inderstand his speech or signs, but one woman. This was
enough to answer his design, which was to assure them
hey would not be killed, being fallen into the hands of
Christians, who abhorred such barbarity. When they
were fully satisfied of this, they expressed their joy by such
Grange gestures, and uncommon tones, as it is not possible
for me to describe. But the woman, their interpreter, was
ordered next to inquire, whether they were content to be
servants, and would work for the men who had brought
them hither to save their lives? Hereupon, (being at this
time unbound,) they fell a capering and dancing, one taking
this thing upon her shoulders, and the others that, intima-
ting, that they were willing to do any thing for them. But
now, Sir, having women amongst us, and dreading that
 
it might occasion some strife, if not blood, I asked the three
men what they would do, and how they intended to use
these creatures, whether, as servants or women? One of them
very pertly and readily answered, they would use them ad
both. Gentlemen, said I, as you are your own masters, I
am not going to restrain you from that; but, methinks, for
avoiding dissensions among you, 1 would only desire you to
engage, that none of you will take more than one for a wo-
man or wife, and that having taken this one, none else should
presume to touch her; for though we have not a priestly
authority to marry you, yet it is but reasonable, that who-
ever thus takes a woman, should be obliged to maintain her,
since nobody has any thing to do with her; and this, in-
deed, appeared so just to all present, that it was unanimously
agreed to. The Englishmen then asked my Spaniards, whe-
ther they designed to take any of them; but they all an-
swered, No; some declaring they had already wives in
Spain; and others, that they cared not to join with infidels.
On the reverse, the Englishmen took each of them a tem-
porary wife, and so set up a new method of living. As to
Friday's father, the Spaniards, and the three savage servants
we had taken in the late battle, they all lived with me in
our ancient castle; and indeed we supplied the main part
of the island with food, as necessity required. But the most
remarkable part of the story is, how these Englishmen, who
had been so much at variance, should agree about the choice
of those women ! yet they took a way good enough to pre-
vent quarrelling among themselves. They set the five wo-
men in one of their huts, and going themselves to the other,
drew lots which should have the first choice. Now, he
that had the first lot went to the hut, and fetched out her
he chose; and it is remarkable, that he took her that was
the most homely and eldest of the number, which made the
rest of the Englishmen exceedingly merry; the Spaniards
themselves could not but smile at it; but, as it happened,
the fellow had the best thought, in choosing on fit for ap-
plication and business; and, indeed, she proved the best
wife of all the parcel.
But when the poor creatures perceived themselves placed
in a row, and separated one by one, they were again seized
with an unspeakable terror, as now thinking they were going
to be slain in earnest; and when the Englishmen came to
take the first, tiie rest set up a lamentable cry, clasped their
H 3
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
arms round her neck, and hanging about her took their
last farewel, as they thought, in such trembling agonies,
and affectionate embraces, as would have softened the hard-
est heart in the world, and made the driest eyes melt into
tears; nor could they be persuaded but that they were going
to die, till such time as Friday's father made them sensible
that the Englishmen had chosen them for their wives, which
ended all their terror and concern upon this occasion,
"Well, after this, the Englishmen went to work, and, be-
ing assisted by my good-natured Spaniards, in a few hours
they erected every one of them a new hut or tent for their
separate lodging, since those they had already, were filled
with tools, household stuff, and provision. They all con-
tinued on the north shore of the island, but separate as be-
fore; the three wicked ones pitched farther off, and the two
honest men nearer our castle; so that the island seemed to
be peopled in three places, three towns beginning to be built
for that purpose. And here I cannot but remark, what is
very common, that the two honest men had the worst wives,
(I mean as to industry, cleanliness, and ingenuity,) while the
three reprobates enjoyed women ot contrary qualities.
"But another observation I made was, in favour of the
two honest men, to show what disparity there is between a
diligent application to business, on the one hand, and a sloth-
ful, negligent, and idle temper, on the other. Both of
them had the same parcel of ground laid out, and corn to
sow sufficient for them; but both did not make the same
improvements, either in their cultivation or their planting.
The two honest men had a multitude of young trees planted
about their habitations, so that when you approached near
them, nothing appeared but a wood, very pleasing and de
lightful. Every thing they did prospered and flourished;
their grapes planted in order, seemed as though managed in
a vineyard, and were infinitely preferable to any of the others.
Nor were they wanting to find out a place of retreat, but
dug a cave in the most retired part of a thick wood, to se-
cure their wives and children, with their provisions and chief
goods, surrounded with innumerable stakes, and having
a most subtle entrance, in case any mischief should happen,
either from their fellow countrymen, or the devouring savages.
"As to the reprobates, (though 1 must own they were
much more civilized then before,) instead of a delightful wood
surrounding their dwellings, we found the words of King
 
 
175
Solomon too truly verified; "I went by the vineyard of the
slothful, and it was all overgrown with thorns." In many
places their crops was obscured by weeds; the hedges having
several gaps in them, the wild goats had got in, and eaten
up the corn, and here and there was a dead bush to stop
the gaps for the present, which was no more than shutting
the stable door after the steed was stolen away. But as to
their wives, they (as I observed before) were more diligent,
and cleanly enough, especially in their victual?, being in-
structed by one of the honest men, who had been a cook's
mate on board a ship: and very well it was so; for as he
cooked himself, bis companions and their families lived as
well as the idle husbands, who did nothing but loiter about*
fetch turtles' eggs, catch fish and birds, and do any thing
but work, and lived accordingly; while the diligent Uvea
very handsomely and plentifully, in the most comfortable
manner.
4i And now, Sir, I come to lay before your eyes a scene
?tuite different from any thing that ever happened to us bo-
ore, and perhaps ever befel you in all the time of your
residence on this island. I shall inform you of its original
in the following manner:
"One morning, Sir, very early, there came five or six
canoes of Indians on shore, indisputably upon their old cus-
tom of devouring their prisoners. All that we had to do
upon such an occasion, was to lie concealed, that they, not
having any notice of inhabitants, might depart quietly, after
performing their bloody execution: whoever first discovered
the savages, was to give notice to all the three plantations
to keep within doors, and then a proper scout was to be
placed to give intelligence of their departure. But, not-
withstanding these wise measures, an unhappy disaster dis-
covered us to the savages, which was like to have caused
the desolation of the whole island, for, after the savages
were gone off in their canoes, some of my Spaniards and I
looking abroad, and being inflamed with a curiosity to see
what they had been doing, to our great amazement beheld
three savages fast asleep on the ground, who, either being
gorged, could not awake when the others went off, or having
wandered too far into the woods, did not come back in time.
** What to do with them at first, we could not tell; as for
slaves we had enough of them already; and as to killing
them, neither Christianity nor humanity would suffer us tQ
 
H 4
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
shed the blood of persons who never did us wrong. We
perceived they had no boat left them to transport them to
their own nation; and that, by letting them wander about,
they might discover us, and inform the first savages that
should happen to land on the same bloody occasion, which
information might entirely ruin us: and therefore I coun-
selled my Spaniards to secure them, and set them about some
work or other, till we could better dispose of them.
"Hereupon we ail went back, and making them awake,
took them prisoners. It is impossible to express the horror
thev were in, especially, when bound, as thinking they were
going to be murdered and eaten, but we soon eased them of
their fear as to that point. We first took them to the bower,
where the chief of our country work lay, as keeping goats,
Idan ting corn, &c. and then carried them to the two Eng-
ishmen's habitation, to help them in their business; but
happy it was for us all we did not carry them to our castle,
as by the sequel will appear. The Englishmen, indeed,
found the in work to do; but whether they did not guard
them strictly, or that they thought they could not better them-
selves, 1 cannot tell; but certainly one of them ran away into
the woods, and they could not hear of him for a long time after.
H Undoubtedly there was reason enough to suppose he got
home in some of the canoes, the savages returning in about
four weeks time, and going off in the space of two days.
You may be certain, Sir, this thought could not but terrify
us exceedingly, and make us justly conclude, that the savage
would inform his countrymen of our abode in the island,
how few and weak we were in comparison to their numbers;
and we expected it would not be long before the English-
men would be attacked in their habitations; but the savages
had not seen our places of safety in the woods, nor our
castle, which it was a great happiness they did not know.
s< Nor were we mistaken in our thoughts upon this oc-
casion; for about eight months after this, six canoes, with
about ten men in each canoe, come sailing by the north-side
of the island, which they were never accustomed to do before,
and landed about an hour after sun-rise, near a mile from the
dwelling of the two Englishmen, who, it seems, had the
good fortune to discover them about a league off; so that it
was an hour before they could attain the shore, and some
time longer before they could come at them. And now
being confirmed in this opinion that they were certainly
 
 
177
betrayed, they immediately bound the two slaves which were
left, causing two of the three men, whom they brought with
the women, and who proved very faithful, to lead them with
their wives, and other conveniences, into their retired cave
in the wood, and there to bind the two fellows hand and
foot, till they had further orders. Then they opened their
fences, where they kept their milch goats, and drove them
all out, giving the goats liberty to ramble in the woods, to
make the savages believe that they were wild ones; but the
slave had given a truer information, which made them come
to the very enclosures. The two frightened men sent the
other slave of the three, who had been with them by acci-
dent, to alarm the Spaniards, and desire their assistance; in
jJip mean time they took their arms and ammunition, and
made to the cave where they had sent t|ieir wives, and se-
curing their slaves, seated themselves in a private place,
from whence they might behold all the actions of the savages.
Nor had they gone far, when, ascending a rising ground,
they could see a little army of Indians approach to their
beautiful dwelling, and in a few moments more, perceive
the same, and their furniture, to their unspeakable grief,
burning in a consuming flame; and when this was done,
they spread here and there, searching every bush and place
for the people, of whom it was evident they had information.
Upon which the two Englishmen, not thinking themselves
secure where they stood, retreated about half a mile higher
into the country, rightly concluding, that the farther the
savages strolled, there would be less numbers together: upon
which they next took their stand by the trunk of an old tree
very hollow and large, whence they resolved to see what
would offer; but they had not stood long there, before two
savages came running directly towards them, as though
having knowledge of their being there, who seemed resolved
to attack them; a little farther were three more, and five
more behind them again, all running the same way. It
cannot be imagined the perplexity the poor men were in at
this sight, thinking that if assistance did not speedily come,
their cave in the wood would be discovered, and consequently
all therein lost; so they resolved to resist them there, and,
when overpowered, to ascend to the tops of the trees, where
they might defend themselves as long as their ammunition
lasted, and sell their lives as dear as possible to those
i% 5
 
 
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
devouring savages. Thus fixed in their resolution, they
next considered, whether they should fire at the first two, or
wait for the three, and so take the middle party, by which
the two first and the five last would be separated. In tills
regulation the two savages also confirmed them, by turning
a little to another part of the wood; but the three, and the
five after them, came directly towards the tree. Hereupon
they resolved to take them in a direct line as they approach-
ed nearer, because, perhaps, the first shot might hit them all
three ,* and upon this occasion, the man who was to fire,
charged his piece with three or lour bullets. And thus
while they were waiting, the savages came on; one of them
was the runaway, who had caused all the mischief: so they
resolved he should not escape, if they both fired at once.
But, however, though they did not fire together, they were
ready charged; when the first that let fly was too good a
marksman to miss his aim, for he killed the formost out-
right, the second (who was the runaway Indian) fell to the
ground, being shot through the body, but not dead, and the
third was a little wounded in the shoulder, who sitting
down on the ground, fell a screaming in a most fearful man-
ner. The noise of the guns, which not only made the most
resounding echoes, from one side to the other, but raised
the birds of all sorts, fluttering with the most confused noise,
so much terrified the five savages behind, that they stood
still at first, like so many inanimate images. But when ail
things were in profound silence, they came to the place where
their companions lay: and here not being sensible that
they were liable to the same fate, stood over the wounded
men, undoubtedly inquiring the occasion of this calamity;
and 'tis as reasonable to suppose, he told them, that it came
by thunder and lightning from the gods, having never seen
or heard of a gun before, in the whole course of their lives.
By this time the Englishmen, having loaded their pieces,
fired both together a second time, when seeing them all fall
immediately on the ground, they thought they had killed
every creature of them. This made them come up boldly
before they had charged their guns, which indeed, was a
wrong step; for, when they came to the place, they found
four alive, two of them very little wrounded, and one not at
all, which obliged them to fall upon them with their muskets;
they first knocked the runaway savage on the head, and
another that was but little wounded in the arm, and then
 
 
173
put the other languishing wretches out of their pain; while
lie that was not hurt, with bended knees and uplift hands,
made piteous moans and signs to them to spare his life;
nor indeed, were they unmerciful to the poor wretch, but
pointed to him to sit down at the root of a tree hard by; and
then one of the Knglishmcn, with a piece of rope-twine he
had in his pocket by mere chance, tying his feet fast to-
gether and his two hands behind him, they left him there,
making all the haste they could after the other two, fearing
they should find out their cave; but though they could not
overtake them, they had the satisfaction to perceive them
at a distance cross a valley towards the sea, a quite con-
trary way to their retreat; upon which they returned to the
tree, to look after their prisoner; but when they came there
he was gone, leaving the piece of rope-yarn, wherewith he
was bound, behind him.
"Well now they were as much concerned as ever, as
not knowing how near their enemies might be, or in what
numbers. Immediately they repaired to the cave, to see if
all was well there, and found every thing safe, except the
women who were frightened upon their husband's account,
whom they now loved entirely. They had not been long
here, before seven of my Spaniards, came to assist them;
while the other ten, their servants, and Friday's father, were
gone to defend their bower, corn, and cattle, in case the
savages should have rambled so far. There accompanied
the seven Spaniards, one of the three savages that had for-
merly been taken prisoner; and with them also that very
Indian whom the Englishmen had, a little before, left under
the tree; for, it seems, they passed by that way where the
slaughter was made, and so carried along with them .that
poor wretch that was left bound. But so many prisoners
now becoming a burden to us, and fearing the dreadful
consequence of their escaping, most of the Spaniards and
English urged the absolute necessity there was of killing
them for our common preservation; but, Sir, the authority
I bore, as governor, over-ruled that piece of cruelty; and
then I ordered them to be sent prisoners to the old cave in
the valley, bound hands and feet with two Spaniard* to
guard them.
*< So much encouraged were the Englishmen at the ap-
proach of the Spaniards, and so great was their fury against
tfa$ gavages for destroying their • habitations; that they had
16
 
not patience to stay any longer; but, taking five Spaniards
along with them, armed with four muskets, a pistol and a
quarter staff, away they went in pursuit of their enemies.
As they passed by the place where the savages were slain,
it was very easy to be perceived that more of them had
been there, having attempted to carry off their dead bodies,
but found it impracticable. From a rising ground, our party
had the mortification to sec the smoke that proceeded from
the ruins, when, coming farther in sight of the shore, they
plainly perceived that the savages had embarked in their
eanoeg, and were putting out to sea. This they were very
sorry for, there being no coming at them to give them a
parting salute; but, however, they were glad enough to get
clear of such unwelcome guests.
"Thus the two honest but unfortunate Englishmen, being
ruined a second time, and their improvements quite destroyed,
most of my good natured Spaniards helped them to rebuild,
and we all assisted them with needful supplies; nay, what is
more remarkable, their three mischievous countrymen, when
they heard of it, (which was after all these disasters were over,
they living more remote eastward,) very friendly sympathized
with them, and worked for them several days: so that in a
little time their habitations were rebuilt, their necessities sup-
plied, and themselves restored to their former tranquillity.
"Though the savages had nothing to boast of in this ad-
venture, (several canoes being driven ashore, followed by
two drowned creatures, having undoubtedly met with a
storm at sea, that very night they departed,) yet it was natural
to be supposed, that those whose better fortune it was to
attain their native shore, would inflame their nation to
another ruinous attempt, with a greater force, to carry all
before them, And, indeed, so it happened: for about seven
months after, our island was invaded with a most formidable
navy, no less than eight and twenty canoes full of savages,
armed with wooden swords, monstrous clubs, bows and
arrows, and such like instruments of war, landing at the east
end of the island.
"You may well, Sir, imagine, what consternation our
men were in upon this account, and how speedy they were
to execute their resolution, having only that nights time
allowed them. They knew that since they could not with-
stand their enemies, concealment was the only way to pro-
pure their safety; and, therefore, they took down the huts
 
that were built for the two Englishmen, and drove their
flock of goats, together with their own at the bower, to the
old cave in the valley, leaving as little appearance of in
habitants as possible; and then posted themselves, with all
their force, at the plantation of the two men. As they ex-
pected so it happened; for early the next morning, the
Indians, leaving their canoes at the east-end of the island,
came running along the shore, about two hundred and fifty
in number, as near as could be guessed. Our army was but
little indeed; and what was our greatest misfortune, we had
not arms sufficient for them. The account, as to the men,
Sir, is as follows; viz. 17 Spaniards, 5 Englishmen, old Fri-
day, the three savages taken with the five women, who
proved faithful servants, and three other slaves, living with
the Spaniards. To arm these, they had 11 muskets, 5, pis-
tols, 3 fowling-piece, 2 swords, 8 old halberts, o muskets,
or fowling-pieces, taken from the sailors whom you reduced.
As to the slaves, we gave three of them halberts, and the
other three long staves, with great iron spikes at the end
of them, with hatchets by their sides; we had also hatchets
sticking in our girdles, besides the fire arms; nay, two of
the women inspired with Amazonian fortitude, could not
be dissuaded from figthing along with their dear husbands,
and if they died, to die with them. Seeing their resolution,
we gave them hatchets likewise; but what pleased them
best were the bows and arrows (which they dexterously knew
how to use) that the Indians had left behind them, after
their memorable battle one against another.
"Over this army, which, though little, was of great in-
trepidity, I was constituted chief general and commander;
and knowing Will Atkins, though exceedingly wicked, yet
a man of invincible courage, I gave him the power of com-
manding under me; he had six men with their muskets
loaded with six or seven bullets a piece, and were planted
just behind a small thicket of bushes, as an advanced guard,
having orders to let the first by; and then when he
fired into the middle of them, make a nimble retreat round
a part of the wood, and so come in the rear of the Spaniards,
who were shaded by a thicket of trees: for, though the sa-
vages came on with the fierceness of lions, yet they wanted
the subtlety of foxes, being out of all manner of order, and
draggling in heaps every way; and indeed, when Will Al-
kinv after fifty of the savages had passed by, had ordered?
 
 
three of his men to give fire, so great was their consterna-
tion, to see so many men killed and wounded, and hear such
a dreadful noise, and yet knew not whence it came, that
they were frightened to the highest degree; and when the
second volley was given, they concluded no less but that
their companions were slain by thunder and lightning from
Heaven. In this notion they would have continued, had
Will Atkins and his men retired, as soon as they had fired,
according to order; or had the rest been near them to pour
in their shot continually, there might have been a complete
victory obtained; but staying to load their pieces, again,
discovered the whole matter. They were perceived by
some of the scattering savages at a distance, who let fly their
arrows among them, wounded Atkins himself, and killed his
fellow Englishman, and one of the Indians taken with the
women. Our party did not fail to answer them, and in their
retreat killed about twenty savages. Here 1 cannot but
take notice of our poor dying slave, who though stopt from
his retreat by a fatal arrow, yet with his staff and hatchet
desperately and gallantly assailed his pursuers, and killed
five of the savages, before his life submitted to a multiplicity
of wounds. Nor is the cruelty or malice of the Indians to
be less remarked, in breaking the arms, legs, and heads of
the two dead bodies with their clubs and wooden swords,
after a most wretched manner. As Atkins retreated our
party advanced, to interpose between him and the savages;
but, after three volleys, we were obliged to retreat also; for
they were so numerous and desperate, that they came up to
our very teeth, shot their arrows like a cloud, and their
wounded men enraged with cruel pain, fought like madmen.
They did not, however, think fit to follow us, but drawing
themselves up in a circle, they gave two triumphant shouts in
token of victory, though they had the grief to see several of
their wounded men bleed to death before them,
"After I had, Sir, drawn up my little army together upon
a rising ground, Atkins, wounded as he was, would have
had us attack the whole body of the savages at once. I
was extremely well pleased with the gallantry of the man:
but, upon consideration, I replied, '* You perceive, beig-
flior Atkins, how their wounded men fight, let them
alone till morning, when they will be faint, stiff and sore,
and then we shall have fewer to combat with." T9
whfcfa Atkins smiling, replied, That's very true, &eig-
183
nior, so shall I too; and that's the reason I would fight, them
now 1 am warm."" We all answered, Seignior Atkins, for
your part you have behaved very gallantly; and if you arc
not able to approach the enemy in the morning, we will
light for you, till then we think it convenient to wait, and
so we tarried.
<*' By the brightness of the moon that night, we perceived
the savages in great disorder about their dead and wounded
men. Tins made us change our resolution, and resolve to
fall upon them in the night, if we could give them one vol-
ley undiscovered. This we had a lair opportunity to do,
by one of the two Englishmen leading us round, between
the woods and the sea-side westward, and turning short
south, came privately to a place where the thickest of them
were. Unheard and unperceived, eight of us fired among
them, and did dreadful execution; and in half a minute
after, eight more of us let fly, killing and wounding abund-
ance of them; and then dividing ourselves into three bodies,
eight persons in each body, we marched from among the
trees, to the very teeth of the enemy, sending forth the
greatest shouts and acclamations. The savages hearing a
different noise from three quarters at once, stood in the
utmost confusion; but coming in sight of us let fly a volley
of arrows, which wounded poor old Friday, yet happily it
did not prove mortal. We did not, however, give them a
second opportunity, but rushing in among them, we fired
three several ways, and then fell to work with our swords,
slaves, hatchets, and the but-end of our muskets, with a
fury not to be resisted; so that, with the most dismal scream-
ing and howling, they had recourse to their feet, to save their
lives by a speedy flight, Nor must -we forget the valour of
the two women; for they exposed themselves to the greatest
dangers, killed many with their arrows, and valiantly de-
stroyed several more with their hatchets.
<* In fighting these two battles, we were so much tired,
that we did not then trouble ourselves to pursue them to
their canoes, in which we thought they would presently
put to the ocean; but there happening a dreadful storm at
sea, which continuing all that night, it not only prevented thei*
voyage, but dashed several of their boats to pieces against
the beach, and drove the rest so high upon the shore, that it
required infinite labour to get them off. After our men had
taken some refreshment and a little repose, they resolved
 
 
LIFE AND ADVENTURES.
early in the morning to go towards the place of their land-
ing, and see whether they were gone off, or in what posture
they remained. This necessarily led them to the place of
battle, where several of the savages were expiring, a sight
no way pleasing to generous minds, to delight in misery,
though obliged to conquer them by the law of arms; but
our own Indian slaves put them out of their pain, by de-
spatching them with their hatchets. At length coming in
view of the remainder of the army, we found them leaning
upon their knees, which were bended towards their mouth,
and the head between the two hands. Hereupon, coming
within musket-shot of them, 1 ordered two pieces to be fired
without ball, in order to alarm them, that we might plainly
know, whether they had the courage to venture another battle,
or were utterly dispirited from such an attempt, that so we
might accordingly manage them. And, indeed, the project
took very well; for, no sooner did the savages hear the first
gun, and perceive the flash of the second, but they suddenly
started upon their feet, in the greatest consternation; and
when we approached towards them, they ran howling and
screaming away up the hill into the country.
"We could rather, at first, have wished that the weather
had permitted them to have gone off to the sea; but when
we considered that their escape might occasion the approach
of multitudes, or our utter ruin and desolation, we were
very well pleased the contrary happened: Will Atkins
(who, though wounded, would not part from us all this while)
advised us not to let slip this advantage, but clapping be-
tween them and their boats, deprive them of the capacity
of ever returning to plague the island: u I know," said he,
6* there is but one objection you can make, which is, that
these creatures living like beasts in the wood, may make ex-
cursions, rifle the plantations, and destroy the tame goats;
but then, consider, we had better do with an hundred men,
whom we can kill, or make slaves of at leisure, than with an
hundred nations, whom it is impossible we should save our-
selves from, much less subdue." This advice and these
arguments being approved of, we set fire to their boats: and
though they were so wet that we could not burn them en-
tirely, yet we made them incapable of swimming in the seas.
As soon as the Indians perceived what we were doing, many
of them ran out of the woods, in sight of us, and kneeling
down, piteously cried out 0ar Oa, Waramakoa. Intimating,
 
 
185
I suppose, that, if we would but spare their canoes, they
would never trouble us again.
46 But all their complaints, submissions and entreaties,
were in vain; for self-preservation obliging us to the con-
trary, we destroyed every one of them that had escaped the
fury of the ocean. When the Indians perceived this, they
raised a lamentable cry, and ran into the woods, where they
continued ranging about, making the woods ring with their
lamentations. Here we should have considered, that making
these creatures thus desperate, we ought, at the same time,
to have set a sufficient guard upon the plantations: for the
savages, in their ranging about, found out the bower, de-
stroyed the fences, trode the corn down under their feet, and
tore up the vines and grapes. It is true, we were always
able to fight these creatures; but as they were too swift for
us, and very numerous, we durst not go out single, for fear
of them; though that too was needless, they having no
weapons, nor any materials to make them; and, indeed,
their extremity appeared in a little time after,
f* Though the savages, as already mentioned, had de-
stroyed our bower, and all our corn, grapes, &e. yet we
had still left our stock of cattle in the valley, by the cave,
with some little corn that grew there, and the plantation of
Will Atkins and his companions, one of whom oeing killed
by an arrow, they were now reduced to two: it is remark-
able that this was the fellow who cut the poor Indian with
his hatchet, and had a design to murder me and my coun-
trymen the Spaniards. As our condition was so low, we
came to the resolution to drive the savages up to the farther
part of the island, where no Indians landed; to kill as many
of them as we could, till we had reduced their number; and
then to give the remainder some corn to plant, and to teach
them how to live by their daily labour. Accordingly we
pursued them with our guns, at the hearing of which they
were so terrified, that they would fail to the ground.—
Every day we killed and wounded some of them, and many
were found starved to death, so that our hearts began to re-
lent at the sight of such miserable objects. But at last with
great difficulty, taking one of them alire, and using him
with kindness and tenderness, we brought him to old Fri-
day, who talked to him, and told him how good we would
be to them all, giving them corn and land to plant, and live
in, and present nourishment, provided they should keep
 
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
within such bounds as should be allotted them, and not do
prejudices to others: "Go then," said he, "and inform
your countrymen of this; which if they will not agree to,
every one of them shall be slain."
'* The poor creatures, thoroughly humbled, being reduced
to about thirty-seven, joyfully accepted the offer, and earn-
estly begged for food; hereupon we sent twelve Spaniard"
and two Englishmen, well armed, together with old Friday,
and tliree Indian slaves were loaded with a large quantity
of bread and rice cakes, with three live goats; and the
!)oor Indians being ordered to sit down on the side of the
1 ill, they ate the victuals very thankfully, and have proved
faithful to the last, never trespassing beyond their bounds,
where at this day they quietly and happily remain, and
where we now and then visit them. They are confined to
a neck of land about a mile and a half broad, and three or
four in length, on the south-east corner of the island, the
sea being before, and lofty mountains behind them, free
from the appearance of canoes; and indeed their country-
men never made any inquiry after them. We gave them
twelve hatchets, and three or four knives; have taught
them to build huts, make wooden spades, plant corn, make
bread, breed tame goats and milk them, as likewise to make
wicker-work, in which, I must ingenuously confess, they
infinitely outdo us, having made themselves several pretty
necessaries and fancies, as baskets, sieves, birdcages, and
cupboards, as also stools, beds, and couches, no less useful
than delightful; and now they live the most innocent and
inoffensive creatures that ever were subdued in the world,
wanting nothing but wives to make them a nation.
"Thus, kind Sir, have I given you, according to my
ability, an impartial account of the various transactions that
have happened in the island since your departure, to this
day; and we have great reason to acknowledge the kind
providence of Heaven in our merciful deliverance. When
you inspect your little kingdom, you will find in it some
improvements, your flocks increased, and your subjects
augmented, so that from a desolate island, as this was before
your wonderful deliverance upon it, here is a visible pros-
pect of its becoming a populous and well governed little
Kingdom, to your immortal fame and glory."
There is no doubt to suppose but that the preceding re-
lation of my faithful Spaniard was very agreeable, and no
 
187
less surprising to me, to the young priest, and to all who
hear it: nor were these people less pleased with thosr
necessaiy utensils that I brought them, such as the knives,
scissors, spades, shovels, and pick-axes, with which they now
adorned their habitations.
So much had they addicted, themselves to wicker-work,
prompted by the ingenuity of the Indians, who assisted them,
that when 1 viewed the Englishmen's colonies, they seemed
at a distance as though they had lived like bees in a hive;
for Will Atkins, who had now become a very industrious
and sober man, had made himself a tent of basket-work
round the outside; the walls were worked in as a basket,
in panne!s or strong squares of thirty-two in number, stand-
ing about seven feet high: in the middle was another, not
above twenty-two paces round, but much stronger built,
being of an octagonal formy and in the eight corners stood
eight strong posts, round the top of which he laid strong
pieces, pinned with wooden pins, from which he raised p
pyramid for the roof, mighty pretty, I assure you, and joinec
very well together with iron spikes, which he made him-
self, for he had made him a forge, with a pair of wooden
bellows and charcoal for his work, forming an anvil out oi
one of the iron crows, to work upon, and in this manner
would he make himself hooks, staples, spikes, bolts, and
hinges. After he had pitched the roof of his innermost tent,
he made it so firm between the rafters with basket-work,
thatching that over again with rice-straw, and over that a
large leaf of a tree, that his house was as dry as if it had
been tiled or slated. The outer circuit was covered as a
lean-to, quite round this inner apartment laying long rafters
from the thirty-t wo angles to the top posts of the inner
house, about twenty feet distance, so that there was a space
like a walk between the outer and inner wall, near twenty
feet in breadth. The inner place he partitioned off with
the same wicker-work, dividing it into six neat apartments,
every one of which had a door, first into the entry of the
main tent, and another into the space and walk that was
round it, not only convenient for retreat, but for family ne-
cessaries. Within die door of the outer circle, there was a
passage directly to the door of the inner house; on either
side was a wicker partition, and a door, by which you got
into a room twenty-two feet wide, and about thirty long,
 
and through that into another of a smaller length; so that in
the outer circle were ten handsome rooms, six of which
were only to be come at through the apartments of the in-
ner tent, serving as retiring rooms to the respective cham-
bers of the inner circle, and four large warehouses, which
went in through one another, two on either hand of the
passages that led through the outer door to the inner tent.—
[n short nothing could be built more ingeniously, kept more
neat, or have better conveniences; and here lived the
three families, Will Atkins, his companions, their wives and
children, and the widow of the deceased. As to religion
the men seldom taught their wives the knowledge of Uod
any more than the sailors' custom of swearing by his name.
The greatest improvement their wives had, was, they taught
them to speak English, so as to be understood,
None of their children where then above six years old:
they were all fruitful enough, and I think the cook's mate's
wife was big of her sixth child'.
When 1 inquired of the Spaniards about their circumstan-
ces while among the savages, they told me, that they aban-
doned themselves to despair, reckoning themselves a poor
and miserable people, that had no means put into their
hands, and consequently must soon be starved to death.—
They owned however that they were in the wrong to think
so, and for refusing the assistance that reason offered for
their support, as well as a future deliverance, confessing that*
giief was a most insignificant passion, as it looked upon
things as without remedy, and having no hopes of things to
t;omu; all which verified this noted proverb,
In trouble to be troubled,
Is to have your trouble doubled.
Nor did these remarks end here; for, making observa-
tions upon my improvements, and on my condition at first,
infinitely worse than theirs, he told me that Englishmen had,
in their distress, greater presence of mind than those of any
other country that he had met with; and that they and the
Portuguese were *the worst of men in the world to struggle
under misfortunes. When they landed among the savages
they found but little provision, except they would turn can-
nibals, there being but a few roots and herbs, with little sub-
stance in them, and of which the natives gave them but very
189
sparingly. Many were the ways they took to civilize and
teach the savages, but in vain; for they would not own
them to be their instructors, whose lives were owing to
their bounty. Their extremities were very great, being
many days entirely without food, the savages there being
more indolent and less devouring than those who had better
supplies. When they went out to battle, they were obliged
to assist these people, in one of which my faithful Spaniard
being taken, had like to have been devoured. They had
lost their ammunition, which rendered their fire-arms use-
less; nor could they use the bows and arrows that were
given them, so that while the armies were at a distance
they had no chance, but when close, then they could be of
service with halberts, and sharpened sticks put into the
muzzles of their muskets. They made themselves targets
of wood, covered with the skins of wild beasts; and when
one happened to be knocked down, the rest of the com-
pany fought over him till he recovered ; and then standing
close in a line they could make their way through a thousand
savages. At the return of their friends, who they thought
had been entombed in the bowels of their enemies, their joy
was inconceivable. Nor were they less surprised at the
sight of the loaves of bread I had sent them, things that they
had not seen for several years, at the same time crossing
and blessing it, as though it was manna sent from Heaven:
but when they knew the errand, and perceived the boat which
was to carry them to the person and place from whence such
relief came, this struck them with such a surprise of joy
as made some of them faint away, and others burst out
into tears.
This was the summary account that 1 had from them.—
I shall now inform the reader what I next did for them, and
in what condition 1 left them. As we were ail of opinion
that as the savages would scarce trouble them any more, so
we had no apprehensions on that score. I told him 1 was
come purely to establish, and not to remove them; and
upon that occasion, had not only brought them necessaries
for convenience and defence, but also artificers, and other
persons, both for the necessary employments, and to add
to their number. They were all together when 1 thus talked
to them, and before I delivered to him the stores I brought,
I asked them one by one, if they had entirely forgot their
 
 
first animosities, would engage in the strictest friendship,
and shake hands with one another? On this Will Atkins,
with abundance of good humour, said, they had afflictions
enough to make them all sober, and enemies enough to
make them all friends; as for himself he would live and
die among them, owning that what the Spaniard had done
to him, his own mad humour had made necessary for them
to do. Nor had the Spaniards occasion to justify their pro-
ceedings to me: but they told me that since Will Atkins
had behaved himself so valiantly in fight, and at other times
showed such a regard to the common interest of them all,
they had not only forgotten all that was past, but thought
he ought as much to be trusted with arms and necessaries
as any of them, which they testified by making him next in
command to the governor; and they most heartily embraced
the occasion of giving me this solemn assurance, that they
would never separate their interest again as long as they lived.
After these kind declarations of friendship, we appointed
all of us to dine together the next day; upon this i caused
the ship's cook and his mate to come on shore, for that pur-
pose, to assist in dressing our dinner. We brought from
the ship six pieces of beef, and four of pork, together with
our punch-bowl, and materials to till it; and in particular I
gave them ten bottles of French claret, and ten of English
beer, which was very acceptable to them. The Spaniards
added to our feast five whole kids, which being roasted,
three of them were sent as fresh meat to the sailors on board,
and the other two we ate ourselves. After our merry and
innocent feast was over, 1 began to distribute my cargo
among them. First, I gave them linen sufficient to make
every one of them four shirts, and at the Spaniard's request
made them up six, The thin English stuif I allotted to
make every one a light coat like a frock, agreeable to the
climate, and left them such a quantity as to make more upon
their decay; as also pumps, shoes, hats and stockings. It
is not to be expressed the pleasing satisfaction which sat
upon the countenances of these poor men, when they per-
ceived what care I took of them, as if I had been a common
father to them all; and they all engaged never to leave the
island, till I gave my consent for their departure. I then
presented to them the people I had brought, viz. the tailor,
smith and the two carpenters: but my Jack-of-all-Trades
was the most acceptable present I could make them. My
 
 
191
tailor fell immediately to work, and made every one of them
a shirt; after which, he learned the women how to sew and
stitch, thereby to become more helpful to their husbands.
Neither were the carpenters less useful, taking in pieces their
clumsy things; instead of which they made convenient and
handsome tables, stools, bedsteads, cupboards, lockers, and
shelves. But when I carried them to see Will Atkins's
basket-house, they owned they never saw such a piece of
natural ingenuity before: "1 am sure," said one of the car-
penters, "the man that built this, has no need of ue; you
need, Sir, do nothing but give him tools.
I divided the tools among them in this manner: to every
man 1 gave a digging spade, a shovel, and a rake, as having
no harrow or ploughs; and to every separate place a pick-
axe, a crow, a broad axe, and a saw, with a store for a general
supply, should any be broken or worn out. I left them also
nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chissels, knives, scissors, and
all sorts of tools and iron work; and for the use of the
smith, gave them three tons of unwrought iron, for a sup-
ply; and as to arms and ammunition, I stored them even to
profusion; or, at least, to equip a sufficient little army
against all opposers whatsoever.
The young man (whose mother was unfortunately starved
to death) together with the maid, a pious and well-educated
occasion to go so far a voyage as to the East-Indies, they
both desired of me, that 1 would leave them there, and
enter them among my subjects. This I readily agreed to,
ordering them a plat of ground, on which were three little
houses erected, environed with basket-work pallisadoed
like Atkins's and adjoining to his plantation. So contrived
were their tents, that each of them had a room apart to
lodge in, while their middle tent was not only their store-
house, but their place for eating and drinking. At this
time the two Englishmen removed their habitation to their
former place; so that now the island was divided into three
colonies: first, Those 1 have just now mentioned : secondly,
That of Will Atkins, where there were four families of
Englishmen, with their wives and children, the widow and
her children; the young man and the maid, who by the
way, we made a wife of before our departure; three sa-
vages, who were slaves; the tailor, smith, (who served also
 
thi
well ordered on shore, (for
d considering they had no
*
as a gunsmith,) and my other celebrated person called Jack
of-all-trades: Thirdly, my chief colony, which consisted of
the Spaniards with old Friday, who still remained at my
old habitation, which was my capital city; and surely never
was there such a metropolis, it being now hid in so obscure
a grove, that a thousand men might have ranged the island
a month, and looked purposely for it, without being able to
find it, though the Spaniards had enlarged its boundaries,
both without and within in a most surprising manner.
But now I think it high time to speak of the young French
priest, of the order of St. Benedict, whose judicious and pious
discourse, upon sundry occasions, merit an extraordinary
obesrvation; nor can his being a French Papist priest, I pre-
sume, give offence to any of my readers, when they have
this assurance from me, that he was a person of a most
courteous disposition, extensive charity, and exalted piety.
His arguments were always agreeable to reason, and his
conversation the most acceptable of any person that I had
ever yet met with in my life.
66 Sir," said he to me one day, "since, under God,v
at the same time crossing his breast, "you have not only
saved my life; but by permitting me to go this voyage,
have granted me the happiness of free conversation, I
think it my duty, as my profession obliges me, to save
what souls 1 can, by bringing them to the knowledge of
some catholic doctrine necessary to salvation; and since
these people are under your immediate government, in
gratitude, justice, and decency, for what you have done
for me, i shall offer no farther points in religion, than
what merits your approbation." Being pleased with the
modesty of his carirage, I told him he should not be worse
used for being of a different persuasion, if upon that very
account we did not differ in points of faith, net decent in
a part of the country where the poor Indians ought to be
instructed in the knowledge of the true God, and his Son
Jesus Christ. To this he replied, that conversation might
easily be separated from disputes; that he would discourse
with me rather as a gentleman, than on religion: but that,
if we did enter upon religious arguments upon my desiring
the same, I would give him liberty to defend his own prin-
ciples. He farther added, that he would do all that became
him in his office, as a priest as well as a Christian, to pro-
cure the happiness of all that were in the ship: that though
 
195
lie could not pray with, he would pray for us on all occa-
sions; and then he told me several extraordinary events of
his life, within a few years past; but particularly in this
last, which was the most remarkable: that in this voyage
he had the misfortune to be five times shipped and unshipped;
his first design was to have gone to Martinico; for which
taking ship at St. Maloes, he was forced into Lisbon by bad
'weather, the vessel running a-ground in the mouth of the
Tagus; that from thence lie went on board a Portuguese
ship, bound to the Madeiras, whose master being but an in-
different mariner, and out of his reckoning, they were drove
to Fial, where selling their commodity, which was corn, they
resolved to take in their loading at the Isle of May, and to
sail to Newfoundland: at the Banks of which, meeting a
French ship bound to Quebec, in the river of Canada, and
from thence to Martinico, in this ship he embarked; the
master of which dying at Quebec, that voyage was sus-
pended; and lastly shipping himself for France, this last
ship was destroyed by fire, as before has been related.
At this time we talked no further; but another morning
he comes to me, just as I was going to visit the English*
men's colony, and tells me, that as he knew the prosperity
of the island was my principal desire, he had something to
communicate agreeable to my design, by which perhaps he
might put it, more than he yet thought it was, in the way
of the benediction of Heaven. "How, Sir!" said I, in a
surprise, "are we not yet in the way of God's blessings,
after all these signal providences and deliverances, of which
you have had such an ample relation? He replied, " 1 hope,
Sir, you are in the way, and that your good design will
prosper: but still there are some among you that are not
equally right in their actions; and remember, i beseech
you, Sir, that Achan, by his crime, removed God's blessing
from the camp of the children of Israel; that though six
and thirty were entirely innocent, yet they became the ob-
jects of Divine vengeance, and bore the weight of his punish-
ment accordingly."
So sensible was I touched with his discourse, and so sa-
tisfied with that ardent piety that inflamed his soul, that I
desired him to accompany me to the Englishmen's planta-
tions, which he was very glad of, by reason they were the
subject of what he designed to discourse with me about:
and while we walked on together, he began irt the follow
ing manner •
 
"Sir," said he, <c I must confess it as a great unhappiness
that we disagree in several doctrinal articles of religion; but
surely both of us acknowledge this, that there is a God,
who liaving given us some stated rules for our service and
obedience, we ought not willingly and knowingly to offend
him; either by neglecting what he has commanded, or by
doing what he has forbidden. This truth every Christian
owns, that when any one presumptuously sins against God's
command, the Almighty then withdraws his blessing from
him; every good man therefore ought certainly to prevent
such neglect of, or sin against, God and his commands." 1
thanked the young priest for expressing so great a concern
for us, and desired him to explain the particulars of what
he had observed, that according to the parable of Achan, I
"might remove the accursed thing from among us." "Why
then, Sir," said he, "in the first place, you have four English*
men, who have taken savage women to their wives, by
whom they have several children, though none of them are
legally married, as the law of God and man requires; they,
I say, Sir, are no less than adulterers, and as they still live
in adultery, are liable to the curse of God. 1 know, Sir,
you may object the want of a priest, or clergyman of any
kind; as also, pen, ink, and paper, to write down a con-
tract of marriage, and have it signed between them. But
neither this nor what the Spanish governor has told you of
their choosing by consent, can be reckoned a marriage, nor
any more than an agreement to keep them from quarrelling
among themselves: for, Sir, the essence in sacrament of
matrimony (so he called it) not only consists in mutual con-
sent, but in the legal obligation which compels them to
own and acknowledge one another, to abstain from other
persons, the men to provide for their wives and children,
and the women to the same and like conditions, mutatis mu-
tandis, on their side; whereas, Sir, these men, upon their
own pleasure, on any occasion may forsake those women,
and marry others, and by disowning their children, suffer
them utterly to perish. Now, Sir," added he, "can
God be honoured in such an unlawful liberty as this? how
can a blessing succeed to the best endeavours, if men are
allowed to live in so licentious a way?" 1 was indeed struck
with the thing myself, and thought that they were much to
blame, that no formal contract had been made, though it
had been but breaking a stick between them, to engage
 
195
tliem to live as man and wife, never to separate, but love,
cherish, and comfort one another all their lives. "Yet
Sir," said I, "when they took these women, I was not here;
and if it is adultery, it is past my remedy, and I cannot help
it." "'True, Sir," answered the young priest, "you can-
not be charged with that part of their crime which was done
in your absence: but I beseech you don't flatter yourself,
that you are under no obligation now to put a period to it:
which if you neglect to do, the guilt will be entirely on you
alone, since it is certainly in nobody's power but yours, to
alter their condition/' I must confess I was so dull, that I
thought he meant 1 should part them, and knowing that
this would put the whole island in confusion, I told him I
could not consent to it upon any account whatsoever. "Sir,"
said he, in great surprise, 66 1 do not mean that you should
separate, but marry them, by a written contract, signed by
both man and woman, and by all the witnesses present,
which all the European laws decree to be of sufficient effi-
cacy.'" Amazed with such true piety and sincerity, and
considering the validity of a written contract, i acknowledged
all that he said to be very just and kind, and that I would
discourse with the men about it; neither could I see what
reason they could have not to let him marry them, whose
authority in that affair is owned to be as authentic as if they
were married by any of our clergymen in England.
The next complaint he had to make to me was this, that
though these English subjects of mine have lived with these
women seven years, and though they were of good under-
standing, and capable of instruction, having learned not
only to speak but to read English, yet all this while they
had never taught them any thing of the Christian religion,
or the knowledge of God, much less in what manner he
ought to be served. "And is not this an unaccountable
neglect?" said he warmly; "Depend upon it, God Al-
mighty will call them to account for such contempt. And
though I am not of your religion, yet I should be glad to
see these people released from the devil's power, and be
saved by the principles of the Christian religion, the know-
ledge of God, of a Redeemer, the resurrection, and of a
future state. But as it is not too late, if you please to give
me leave to instruct them, I doubt not but I shall supply
this great defect, by bringing them into the great circle of
Christianity, even while you continue in the island.
I 2
 
 
 
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
I could hold no longer, but embracing him, told him,
with a thousand thanks, I would grant whatever he request-
ed, and desired him to proceed in the third article, which
he did in the following manner:
<c Sir/' said he, "it should be a maxim among all Chris-
tians, that Christian knowledge ought to be propagated
by all possible means, and on all occasions. Upon this
account our church sends missionaries into Persia, India, and
China, men who are willing to die for the sake of God and
the Christian faith, in order to bring poor infidels into the
way of salvation. Now, Sir, as here is an opportunity to
convert seven and thirty poor savages, I wonder how you
can pass by such an occasion of doing good, which is really
worth the expence of a maifs whole life."
I must confess I was so confounded at this discourse, that
I could not tell how to answer him. "Sir," said he, seeing
me in disorder, fih I shall be very sorry if I have given you
offence.,, "No, Sir/' said I, "1 am rather confounded;
and you know my circumstances, that being bound to the
East-Indies in a merchant ship, I cannot wrong the owners
so much, as to detain the ship here, the men laying at vic-
tuals and wages on their account. If I stay above twelve
days I must pay 3/. sterling per diem demurrage, nor must
the ship stop above eight days more; so that I am unable
to engage in this work, unless I would leave the ship, and
be reduced to my former condition.7' The priest, though
he owned this was hard upon me, yet laid it to my con-
science, whether the blessing of saving seven and thirty
souls was not worth venturing all that I had in the world?"
"Sir," said I, <c it is very true: but as you are an ecclesias-
tic, it naturally falls into your profession; why therefore
don't you rather offer to undertake it yourself, than press
me to it? upon this he turned about, making a very low
bow, "I most humbly thank God and you, Sir, (said he,)
for so blessed a call; and most willingly undertake so glo-
rious an office, which will sufficiently compensate all the
hazards and difficulties I have gone through in a long and
uncomfortable voyage."
While he was thus speaking, I could discover a rapture
in his face, by his colour going and coming; at the same
time his eyes sparkled like fire, and all the signs of the
most zealous transports. And when I asked whether he
was in earnest? "Sir," said he, "it was to preach to the
 
 
Indians I consented to come along with you: these infidels,
even in this little island, are infinitely of more worth than
my poor life : if so that I should prove the happy instrument
of saving these poor creatures souls I care not if I never
see my native country again. One thing I only beg of you
more is, that you would leave Friday with me, to be my
interpreter, without whose assistance neither of vis will
understand each other."
This request very sensibly troubled me: first upon Fri-
day's being bred a Protestant; and, secondly, for the af-
fection 1 bore for him for his fidelity : But immediately the
remembrance of Friday's father coming into my head, I re-
commended him to him as having learned Spanish, which
the priest also understood; and so was thoroughly satisfied
with him.
When we came to the Englishmen, after I had told them
what necessary tilings I had done for them, I talked to them
of the scandalous life they led; told them what notice the
clergyman had taken of it, and asked them if they were
married men or bachelors? They answered, two of them
were widowers, and the other three single men. But said
J, with what conscience can you call these your wives, by
whom you have so many children, and yet are not lawfully
married? They all said, that they took them before the
Governor, as such, having nobody else to marry them, which
they thought as legal, as if they had had a person. No
doubt, said I, but in the eye of God it is so: but unless f
am assured of your honest intent, never to desert these poor
creatures, I can do nothing more for you, neither can you
expect God's blessing while you live in such an open course
of adultery. Hereupon Will Atkins, who spoke for the rest,
told me, that they believed their wives the most innocent
and virtuous creatures in the world: that they would never
forsake them while they had breath; and that if there was
a clergyman in the ship, they would be married to them
with ail their hearts. I told you before, said 1, that I have
a minister with me, who shall marry you to-morrow morn-
ing, if you are willing; so L would have you consult to-
night with the rest about it. I told him the clergyman was
a Frenchman, and knew not a word of English, but that I
would act as a clerk between them. And indeed this busi-
ness met with such speedy success, that they all told me
 
in a few minutes after, that they were ready to be formally
married, as soon as I pleased; with which informing the
priest, he was exceedingly rejoiced.
Nothing now remained, but that the women should be
made sensible of the meaning of the thing; with which be-
ing well satisfied, they, with their husbands, attended at my
apartment the next morning; there was my priest, habited
in a black vest, something like a cassock with a sash round
it, much resembling a minister, and I was his interpreter.
But the seriousness of his behaviour, and the scruples he
made of marrying the women who were not baptized, gave
them an exceeding reverence for his person: nor, indeed,
would he marry them at all, till he obtained my liberty to
discourse both with the men and women, and then he told
them, That in the sight of all indifferent men, and in the
sense of the laws of society, they had lived in open adultery,
which nothing now, but their consent to marry, or final
separation, could put an end to; and even here was a diffi-
culty with respect to the laws of Christian matrimony, in
marrying a professed Christian to a heathen idolater, un-
baptized; but yet there was time enough to make them
Srofess the name of Christ, without which nothing could be
one; that, besides, he believed they were very indifferent
Christians: and consequently had not discoursed with their
wives upon the subject; and that unless they promised
him to do so, he could not marry them, as being expressly
forbidden by the laws of God.
All this they had heard attentively, and owned readily.
*< But, Lord, Sir," said Will Atkins to me, "how should
we teach them religion, who know nothing of it ourselves?
How can we talk to our wives of God, Jesus Christ, hea-
ven and hell? why they would only laugh at us, who never
yet have practised religion, but on the contrary all manner
of wickedness," "Will Atkins," said I, "cannot you tell
your wife she is in the wrong, and that her gods are idols,
which can neither speak nor understand; but that our God,
who has made, can destroy all things; that he rewards the
good and punishes the wicked; and at last will bring us to
judgment? cannot you tell her these things?" "That's
true/' said Will Atkins, " but then she'll tell me it is utterly
false, since I am not punished and sent to the devil, who
hath been such a wicked creature." These words J inter
preted to the priest. "Oh said he, " tell him, his repent-
 
 
199
ance will make him a very good minister to his spouse and
qualify him to preach on the mercy and long-suffering of a
merciful Being, who desires not the death of a sinner, and
even defers damnation to the last judgment; this will lead
liim to the doctrine of the resurrection, and will make him
an excellent preacher to his wife." 1 repeated this to Atkins,
who being more than ordinarily affected with it, replied,
"I know all this, Sir, and a great deal more; but how can
I, have the impudence to talk thus to my wife, when my
conscience witnesses against me?" "Alas!" said he, (with
tears in his eyes, and giving a great sigh,) «' as for repenting,
that is for ever past me." <c Past you! Atkins," said J,
"what do you mean?" "You know well enough,'1 said he^
<c what I mean; I mean it is too late.*"
When I told the priest what he said, the poor affectionate
man could not refrain from weeping; but recovering
himself, Pray, Sir," said he, " ask him if he is contented
that it is too late; or is he concerned, and wishes it were
not so?" This question I put fairly to Atkins, who replied
in a passion, " How can I be easy in a state which 1 know
must terminate in my ruin ? for I really believe, some time
or other, I shall cut my throat, to put a period both to my
life, and to the terrors of my conscience."
At this the clergyman shook his head: "Sir," said he,
** pray tell him it is not too late; Christ will give him re-
pentance if he has recourse to the merit of his passion.—
Does he think he is beyond the power of Divine Mercy?
There may indeed be a time when provoked mercy will no
longer strive, but never too late for men to repent in this
world." I told Atkins every word the priest had said, who
then parted from us to walk with his wife, while we dis-
coursed with the rest. But these were very stupid in reli-
gious matters: yet all of them promised to do their endea-
vours to make their wives turn Christians: and upon which
Eromises the priest married the three couple. But as At-
ins was the only sincere convert, and of more sense than
the rest, my clergyman was earnestly enquiring after him:
4< Sir," said he, ""let us walk out of this labyrinth, and I
dare say we shall find this poor man preaching to his wife
already." And indeed we found it true; for coming to the
edge of the wood, we perceived Atkins and his savage wife
sitting under the shade of a bush, in very earnest discourse;
 
be pointed to the sun, to the quarters of the earth, to himself,
to her,, the woods, and the trees, Immediately we could
perceive him start upon his feet, fall down upon his knees,
and lift up both his hands; at which the tears ran down my
clergyman's cheeks; but our great misfortune was, we
could not hear one word, that passed between them. Ano-
ther time he wrould embrace her, wiping the tears from her
eyes, kissing her with the greatest transports, and then both
kneel down for some minutes together. Such raptures of
joy did this occasion in my young priest, that he could
scarcely contain himself: Ard a little after this we observed
by her motion, as frequently lifting up her hands, and laying
them on her breast, that she was mightily affected with
his discourse, and so they withdrew from our sight.
When we came back we found them both waiting to be
called in; upon which we agreed to examine him alone, and
so I began thus to discourse to him. "Prithee, Will Atkins."
said I, '* what education have you? What was your Father?"
W. A. A better man than ever I shall be; he was, Sir, a
clergyman, who gave me good instruction, or correction,
which I despised, like a brute as I was, and murdered my
poor father.
JPr. Ha! a murderer.
[Here the Priest started and looked pale, as thinking he had
really killed his father.]
R. C. What, did you kill him with your hands?
W. A. No, Sir, I cut not his throat, but broke his heart
by the most unnatural turn of disobedience to the tenderest
and best of fathers.
R. C. Well, I pray God grant you repentance: I did
not ask you to extort a confession; but I ask you because I
see you have more knowledge of what is good than your
companions.
W. A. O Sir, whenever, I look back upon my past life,
conscience upbraids me with my father: the sins against
our parents make the deepest wounds, and their weight lies
the heaviest upon the mind.
R. C. You talk, Will, too feelingly and sensibly for me;
I am not able to hear it.
W. A. You bear it, Sir! you know nothing of it.
R. C. But yes, Atkins, 1 do; and every shore, valley,
and tree in the island, witness the anguish of my soul for
my undutifulness to my kind father, whom 1 have murder-
 
 
£01
ed likewise: vet my repentance falls infinitely short cf your?.
But, Will, now conies the sense of this matter to touch
you just now?
IV. A. Sir, the work you have set me ahout, has occa-
sioned it; for talking to my wife ahout God and religion,
she has preached me such a sermon, that I shall retain it
in lasting remembrance.
K. C. No, no, it is your own moving pious arguments to
her, has made conscience fling them back upon you. But
pray, Atkins, inform us what passed between you and your
wife, and in what manner did you begin.
W. A. I talked to her of the laws of marriage, the reason
of such compacts whereby order and justice is maintained;
without which men would run from their wives and children,
to the dissolution of families or inheritances.
R. C. Well, and what did she say to all this?
IV. A. Sir, we began our discourse in the following manner,
which I shall exactly repeat, according to my mean capacity,
if you think it worth your while to honour it with your
attention.
THE DIALOUGE BETWEEN WILL ATKINS AND
HIS WIFE IN THE WOOD.
Wife.—YOU tell me marriage God appoint, have you
God in your country?
W. A, Yes, child, God is in every nation,
Wife. No; great old Benamuckee God is in my country,
not yours.
W. A. My dear, God is in heaven, which he made; he
also made the earth, the sea, and all that is therein.
Wife. Why you not tefl me much long ago?
W. A. My dear, I have been a wicked wretch, having a
long time lived without the knowledge of God in the world.
Wife. What, not know great God in own nation? No
do good ting? No say 0 to him? that's strange!
W. A. But, my dear, many live as if there was no God
in heaven, for all that,
Wife. Why God suffer them; why makee not live well?
W. A. It is our own faults, child.
Wife. But if he is much great, can makee kill, why no,
makee kill when no serve him? No be good mans, no cry*
Q to him?
I if ,
 
 
W. A. That's true my dear, he may strike us dead, but
his abundant mercy spareth us.
Wife. Did not you tell God tankee for that?
W. A. No, I have neither thanked him for his mercy,
nor feared him for his power.
Wife, Then me not believe your God be good, nor
makee kill, when you make him angry.
W. A, Alas! must my wicked life hinder you from be-
lieving in him?
Wife. How can me tink your God live there? (pointing
to Heaven.) Sure lie no ken what do you here.
W. A. Yes, my dear, he hears us speak, sees what we
do, and knows what we even think.
Wife. Where then makee power strong, when he hears
you curse, swear de great darn?
W. A. My dear, this shows indeed he is a God and not
a man, who has such tender mercy.
Wife. Mercy! what you call mercy?
W, A. He pities and spares us: as he %is our great
Creator, so he is also our tender Father.
Wife. So God never angry, never kill wicked, then he no
good, no great mighty.
W. A. O, my dear, don't say so, he is both; and many
times he shows terrible examples of his judgment and ven-
geance.
Wife. Then you makee de bargain with him; you do bad
ting, he no hurt you, he hurt other mans.
W. A. No, indeed, my sins are all presumptions upon his
goodness.
Wife. Well, and yet no makee you dead; and you give
him no tankee neither?
W. A. It is true I am an ungrateful, unthankful dog, that
I am.
Wife. Why, you say he makee you, why no makee you no
much better then?
W. A. It is I alone that have deformed myself, and abused
his goodness.
Wife. Pray makee God know me, me no makee him an-
gry, no do bad ting.
W* A. You mean, my dear, that you desire I would teach
yofc to know God: alas! poor dear creature, he must teach
thee, and not I. But I'll pray Earnestly to him to direct
tkee, and forgive me, a miserable sinner. (Hereupon be
 
 
 
 
£03
went a little distance, and kneeling down, prayed earnestly
to God to enlighten her mind, and to pardon his sins; when
this was done, they continued their discourse thus :)
Wife. What you put down knee for? For what hold up
handr Who you speak to?
W. A. My dear, I bowed in token of submission to him
that made me, and prayed that lie would open your eyes
and understanding.
Wife. And can he do that too? And will he hear what
you say?
IV. A. Yes, my dear, he bids us pray, and has given us
promise that he will hear us.
Wife, When did he bid you pray? What! do you hear
him speak?
W. A. No, my dear, but God has spoken formerly to
good men from heaven; and by divine revelation they have
written all his laws down in a book.
Wife. O where that good book?
W. A. I have it not now by me: but one time or other
I shall get it for you to read. Then he embraced her with
great affection.
Wife. Pray tell me, did God teachee them write that book,
W. A. Yes, and by that rule we know him to be God.
Wife. What way, what rule you know him r
W. A. Because he teaches what is good, just and holy;
and forbids all wicked and abominable actions, that incur
his displeasure.
Wife. O me fain understand that, and if he do all things
you say he do, surely he hear me say O to him; he makee
me good if I wish to be good; he not kill me if [ love him;
me tink, believe him great God; me say O to him, along
with you, my dear.
Here the poor man fell upon his kness, and made her
kneel down by him, praying with the greatest fervency
that God would instruct her by his Holy Spirit; and that
God, by his providence, would send them a Bible for both
their instructions. And such was the early piety of this
pew convert, that she made him promise never to forsake
God any more, lest being made dead, as she called it, she
should not only want her instructor, but himself be miser-
able in a long eternity. •
Such a surprising account as this was, proved very af-
fecting to us both, But particularly to the young clergymfmf
i 6
 
who was mightily concerned he could not talk to her himself;
"Sir," said he, " there is something more to be done to
this woman than to marry her: I mean that she ought to
be baptized." To tin? 1 presently agreed: "Pray," said
he, "ask her husband, whether he has ever talked to her of
Jesus Christ, the salvation of sinners, the nature of faith, and
redemption in and by him, and of the Holy Spirit, the resur-
rection, last judgment, and a future state but the poor
fellow melted into tears at this question, saying that he had
said something to her of these things, but his inability to
talk of them, made him afraid, lest her knowledge of them
should rather make her contemn religion, than be benefited
by it; but that if J would discourse with her, it would be
very evident my labour would not be in vain. Accord-
ingly I called her in, and placing myself as interpreter be-
tween the religious priest and the woman, I entreated him to
go on; but surely never was such a sermon preached by
any clergyman in these latter days, with so much zeal, know-
ledge and Sincerity: in short, he brought the woman to
embrace the knowledge of Christ, and of redemption by
him, with so surprising a degree of understanding, that she
made it her pwn request to be baptized.
He then performed his office in the sacrament of baptism,
first, by saying some words over to himself in Latin, and
then asking me to give her a name, as being her godfather;
and pouring a whole dishful of water upon the woman's
head he said, "Mary, I baptize thee in the name of the
Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghostso that
none could know of what religion he was. After this he
pronounced the benediction in Latin. Thus the woman
being made a Christian, he married her to Will Atkins:
which being finished, he affectionately exhorted him to
lead a holy life for the future; and since the Almighty, for
the convictions of his conscience, had honoured him to be
the instrument of his wife's, conversion, he should not dis-
honour the grace of God, that while the savage was con-
verted, the instrument should be cast away. Thus ended a
ceremony, to me the most pleasant and agreeable I ever
passed in my life,
The affairs of the island being settled, I was preparing to
go on board, when the young man (whose mother was starv-
ed) came to me, saying, that as he understood I had a cler-
gyman with me,, who had married the Englishmen with
 
savages, he had a match to make between two Christians
which he desired might be finished before I departed. -
Thinking that it was lie himself that had courted his mother's
maid, I persuaded him not to do any thing rashly upon the
account of his solitary circumstances; that the maid was an
unequal match for him, both in respect to substance and
years; and that it was very probable he would live to re-
turn to his own country, where he might have a far better
choice. At these words, smiling, lie interrupted me, thank-
ing me for my good advice; that as he had nothing to beg
of me but a small settlement, with a servant or two, or some
few necessaries, so he hoped I would not be unmindful of
him when 1 returned to England, but give his letter to his
friends; and that when he was redeemed, the plantation,
and all its improvements, however valuable, should be re-
turned to me again. But as for the marriage he proposed;,
that it was not himself, but that it was between my Jack-of
ail-trades and the maid Susan.
I was indeed agreeably surprised at the mentioning this,,
match, which seemed very suitable, the one being a very
ingenious fellow, and the other an excellent, dexterous, and
sensible housewife, fit to be governess of the whole island;
so we married them the same day; and as 1 was her father
and gave her away, so 1 gave her a handsome portion, ap-
pointing her and her husband a convenient large spot of
ground for their plantation. The sharing out of the land I
left to Will Atkins, who really divided it very justly to
every person's satisfaction, they only desired one general
writing under my hand for the whole, which I caused to be
drawn up, signed, and sealed to them, setting out their
bounds, and giving them a right to the whole possession of
their respective plantations, with their improvements, to
them and their heirs, reserving all the rest of the island a&
my own property, and a certain rent for every particular
plantation, after eleven yeais. As to their laws and go-
vernment, I exhorted them to love one another; and as to
the Indians who lived in a nook by themselves, I allotted
three or four of them plantations, and the rest willingly
chose to become servants to the other families, by which
means they were employed in useful labour, and fared
much better than they did before. Besides the savages be-
ing thus mixed with the Christians, the work of their con*
versiojj migUt be set on foot by the latter, in the clergy*
 
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
man's absence, to our equal satisfaction. The young priest,
however, was a little anxious lest the Christians should not
be willing to do their parts in instructing these poor Indi-
ans ; I therefore told him we should call them all together;
that he should speak to the Spaniards who were Papists,
and I to the English who were Protestants, and make them
I)romise that they would never make any distinction in re-
igion, but teach the general true knowledge of God, and
his Son Jesus Christ, in order to convert the poor savages.
And this, indeed, they all promised us accordingly.
When I came to Will Atkins's house, I found his baptized
wife, and the young woman newly married to my Jack-of-
all-trades, were become great intimates, and discoursing of
religion together. 66 O, Sir," says Will Atkins, "when
God has sinners to reconcile to himself, he never wants an
instructor; I knew 1 was unworthy of so good a work, and
therefore this young woman has been sent hither as it were
from heaven, who is sufficient to convert a whole nation of
Ravages." The young woman blushed, and was going to
rise; but I desired her to sit still, and hoped that God
'would bless her in so good a work; and then pulling out
a Bible, (which I brought on purpose in my pocket for him,)
* a Here Atkins," said I, "here is an assistant that perhaps
you had not before." So confounded was the poor man,
that it was some time before he could speak; at last turning
to his wife, " My dear," said he, " did I not tell you that
God could hear what we said? Here^s the book 1 prayed
for, when you and I kneeled under the bush; God then
heard us* and now has sent it." The woman was surprised,
and thought really God had sent that individual book from
heaven; but 1 turned to the young woman, and desired her
to explain to the young convert, that God may properly be
said to answer our petitions, when, in the course of his pro-
vidence, such particular things came to pass as we petition-
ed for. This the young woman did effectually; but surely
Will Atkins's joy cannot be expressed; no man being more
thankful for any thing in the world, than he was Tor his
Bible, nor desired it from a better principle.
After several religious discourses I desired the young
woman to give mean account of the anguish she felt when
she was starving to death with hunger; to which she readily
consented, and began in the following manner:
- *f Sir," said she, *• all our victuals being gone, after I had
fasted one day, my stomach was very sickly, and, at the ajK
 
 
207
proach of night, I was inclined to yawning and sleepy.—
When I had slept on the couch three hours, I awaked a lit-
tle refreshed: three hours after, my stomach being more
and more sickly, I laid down again, but could not sleep, be-
ing very faint and ill. Thus I passed the second day with
a strange variety, first hungry, then sick again, with retch-
ings to vomit; that night J dreamed 1 was at Barbadoes,
buying plenty of provisions, and dined heartily. But when
I awaked my spirits were exceedingly sank, to find myself
in the extremity of famine. There was but one glass of
wine, which being mixed with sugar, I drank up: but for
want of substance to digest upon, the fumes of it got into
my head, and made me senseless for some time. The third
day I was so ravenous and furious, that I could have eaten
a little child if it had come in my way; during which time
I was as mad as any creature in Bedlam.. In one of these
fits I fell down, and struck my face against the corner of
a pallet-bed, where my mistress lay; the blood gushed out
of my nose, but by excessive bleeding, both the violence
of the fever, and the ravenous part of the hunger abated.—
After this I grew sick again, strove to vomit but could not;
then bleeding a second time, I swooned away as dead;
when 1 came to myself, I had a dreadful gnawing pain in
tny stomach, whicn went off* towards night with a longing
desire for food. I took a draught of water and sugar, but
it came up again; then I drank water without sugar, and
that staid with me. ] laid me down on the bed, praying
God would take me away: after I had slumbered, I thought
myself a dying, therefore recommended my soul to God,
and wished some body would throw me into the sea. All
this while my departing mistress lay by me; the last bit of
bread she had, she gave to her dear child, my young master.
The morning after I fell into a violent passion of crying,
and after that into hunger; I espied the blood that came
from my nose in a basin, which I immediately swallowed
up. At night I had the usual variations^ as the pain in the
stomach, sick, sleepy and ravenous; and 1 had no thought
but that I should die before morning. In the morning came
on terrible gripings in my bowels. At this time I heard my
young master's lamentations,, by which I understood his
mother was dead. Soon after this, the sailors cried, M A
sail! a sail!" hallooing as if they were distracted for joy of
that relief* which afterwards we received from your hands/*
 
Surely never was a more distinct account of starving to
death than this. But to return to the disposition of things
among my people, I did not take any notice to them of the
sloop that 1 had framed, neither would I leave them the
two pieces of brass cannon, or the two quarter-deck guns
that 1 had on board, lest upon any disgust they should have
separated, or turned pirates, and so make the island a den
of thieves, instead of a plantation of sober, pious people:
but leaving them in a flourishing condition, with a promise
to send them further relief from Brazil, as sheep, hogs, and
cows, (being obliged to kill the latter at sea, having no hay
to feed them,) I went on Loard the ship again, the first of
May, 169,5, after having been twenty days among them;
and next morning, giving them a salute of five guns at
parting, we set sail for the Brazils. The third day, towards
evening, there happening a calm, and the current being
very strong, we were drove to the N. N. E. towards the
land. Some hours alter we perceived the sea covered
as it were with something very black, not easily at first to
be discovered: upon which our chief mate ascending the
shrouds a little way, and taking a view with the perspec-
tive glass, he cries out, "An army! an army!" "You
fool,M said I, «« what do you mean?" *' Nay, bir," said he,
*c don't be angry, I assure you it is not only an army, but a
fleet too, for 1 believe there are a thousand canoes paddling
along, and making with great haste towards us."
Indeed every one of us were surprised at this relation;
and my nephew, the captain, could not tell what to think
of it, but thought we should all be devoured. Nor was I
free from concern, when 1 considered how much we were
becalmed, and what a strong current set towards the shore;
however, 1 encouraged him not to be afraid, but bring the
ship to an anchor, as soon as we were certain that we must
engage them. Accordingly we did so, and furled all our
saiis; as to the savages we feared nothing, but only that
they might set the ship on fire; to prevent which, I ordered
them to get their boats, out, and fasten them one close by the
head, and another by the stern, *well manned, with skeets and
buckets to extinguish the flames, should it so happen. The
savages soon came up with us, but there was not so many
ar* the mate had said, for instead of a thousand canoes there
were only one hundred and twenty; too many indeed for
us* several of their canoes containing about sixteen or seven-.,
leen men.
 
209
As they approached us, they seemed to be in the great-
est amazement, not knowing what to make of us. They
rowed round the ship, which occasioned us to call to the
men in the boats not to suffer them to come near them.—
Hereupon they beckoned to the savages to keep back, which
they accordingly did; but at their retreat they let fly about
fifty arrows among us, and very much wounded one of our
men in the long-boat. I called to them not to lire upon
any account, but handing them down some deal boards, the
carpenters made them a kind of fence to shield them from
the arrows. In half an hour after they came so near astern
of us that we had a perfect sight of them; then they rowed
a little further out, till they came directly along-side of us,
and then approached so near, that they could hear us speak;
this made me order all my men too keep close, and get their
guns ready. In the mean time I ordered Friday, to go out
upon deck, and ask them in his language what they meant.
No sooner did he do so, but six of the savages, who were
in the former canoes, stooping down showed us their
naked backsides, as much as to say in English, Kiss our: but Friday quickly knew what this meant, by im-
mediately crying out they were going to shoot; unfortu-
nately for him, poor creature, who fell under the cloud of
three hundred arrows no less than seven piercing through
his body, killing one of the best servants, and faithfullest of
companions in all my solitudes and affliction.
So enraged was J at the death of poor Friday, that the
guns which before were charged only with powder, to
frighten them, I ordered to be loaded with small shot; nor
did the gunners fail in their aim, but at this broadside split
and overset thirteen or fourteen of their canoes, which
killed numbers of them, and set the rest a swimming: the
others frightened out of their wits, little regarding their
fellows drowning, scoured away as fast as they could. One
poor wretch our people took up, swimming for his life an
hour after. He was very sullen at first, so that he would
neither eat or speak; but I took a way to cure him, by
ordering them to throw him into the sea, which they did,
and then he came swimming back like a* cork, calling in his
tongue, as I suppose, to save him. So we took him on hoard,
but was a long time before we could make him speak
or understand English yet when we had taught him, he
told us, they were going with their kings to fight a great
 
battle; and when we asked him, what made them come up
to us? he said, «* to makee de great wonder look here
it is to be noted, that those natives, and those of Africa,
always add two e's at the end' of English words, as makee,
takee, and the like, from which it is a very difficult thing to
make them break off.
Being now under sail, we took our last farewell of poor
honest Friday, and interred him with all possible decency
and solemnity, putting him in a coffin, and committing
him to the deep, at the same time causing eleven guns to
be fired over him. Thus ended the life of one of the most
grateful, faithful, honest, and affectionate servants, that ever
any man was blessed with in the world.
Having now a fair wind for Brazil, in about twelve days
time we made land in the latitude of five degrees south of
the line. Four days we kept on S. by E. in sight of shore,
when we made Cape St. Augustine, and in three days we
came up to an anchor off the Bay of All Saints. I had great
difficulty here to get leave to hold correspondence on shore,
for neither the figure of my partner, my two merchant trus-
tees, nor the fame of my wonderful preservation in the
island, could procure me the favour, till such time as the
prior of the monastery of the Augustines (to whom I had
given 500 moidores,) obtained leave from the Governor, for
me, personally, with the Captain and one more, together
with eight sailors, to come on shore; upon this condition,
that we should not land any goods out of the ship, nor
carry any person away without licence; I found means,
however,^ to get on shore three bales of English goods, such
as fine brbael cloths, stuffs, and some linen, which I "brought
as a present for my partner, who had sent me on board a
present of fresh provisions, wine, and sweetmeats, worth
about thirty moidores^ including some tobacco, and three
or four fine gold medals.
Here 1 delivered my partner in goods to the value of
100/. sterling, and obliged him to fit up the sloop I bought
for the use of my island, in order to send them refreshments;
and so active was he in this matter that he had the vessel
finished in a few days, to the master of which I gave par-
ticular instructions to find the place. I soon loaded him
with a small cargo; and one of our sailors offered to settle
there, upon my letter to the Spanish governor, if I would
allot him tools and a plantation. Thin I willingly granted,
 
 
and gave him the savage we had taken prisoner to be his
slave. All things being ready for the voyage my old
partner told me there was an acquaintance of his, a Brazil
planter, who having fallen under the displeasure of the
church, and in fear of the Inquisition, which obliged him to
be concleaed, would be glad of such an opportunity to
make his escape, with his wife and two daughters ; and if I
would allot them a plantation in my island, he would give
them a small stock ta begin with, for that the officers had al-
ready seized his effects and estate, and left him nothing but
a little household stuff and two slaves. This request I pre-
sently granted, concealing him and his family on board our
ship, till such time as the sloop (where all the effects were)
was gone out of the bay, and then we put them on board,
who carried some materials, and plants for planting sugar-
canes, along with them. By this sloop, among other things,
I sent my subjects three milch cows and five calves, about
£2 hogs, three sows big with pig, two mares and a stone-
horse. I also engaged three Portugal women to go for sake
of the Spaniards, which, with the persecuted man's two
daughters, were sufficient, since the rest had wives of their
own, though in another country; all which cargo arrived safe,
no doubt, to their exceeding comfort, who, with this addi-
tion, were about sixty or seventy people, besides children.
At this place my truly honest and pious clergyman left
me; for a ship being ready to set sail for Lisbon, lie asked
me leave to go thither; but I assure you it was with the
greatest reluctance 1 parted from a person, whose virtue
and piety merited the greatest esteem.
From the Brazils, we made directly over the Atlantic
Ocean to the Cape of Good Hope, having a tolerable good
voyage, steering for the most part S. E. We were on a
trading voyage, and had a supercargo on board, who was
to direct all the ship's motions after she arrived at the Cape,
only being limited to a certain number of days for stay, by
charter party, at the several ports she was to go to. At the
Cape we only took in fresh water, and then sailed for the
coast of Coromandel; we were there informed, that a French
man of war of 50 guns, and two large merchant ships, were
sailed for the Indies, but we heard no more of them.
In our passage, we touched at the island of Madagascar,
where, though the inhabitants are naturally fierce and trea*
cherous, and go constantly armed with bows and lances,
yet for some time they treated us civilly enough; and, m
exchange for knives, scissors, and other trifles, they brought
us eleven good fat bullocks, which we took partly for pre-
sent victuals, and the remainder to salt for the ship's use.
So curious was I to view every corner of the world where
1 came to, that I went on shore as often as 1 could. One
evening when on shore we observed numbers of the people
stand gazing at us at a distance. We thought ourselves in
no danger, as they had hitherto used us kindly. However
we cut three boughs out of a tree, sticking them at a distance
from us, which it seems in that country is not only a token
of truce and amity, but when poles or boughs are set up on
the other side, it is a sign the truce is accepted. In
these treaties, however, there is one principal thing to be
regarded, that neither party come beyond one another's
three poles or boughs; so that the middle space is not only
secure, but is also allowed as a market for traffic and com-
merce. When the truce is thus accepted, they stick up
their javelins and lances at the first poles, and come on un-
armed; but if any violence is offered, away they run to
their poles, take up their weapons and then the truce is
at an end. This evening it happened that a greater num-
ber of people than usual, both men and women, traded
among us for such toys as we had, with such great civility,
that we made us a little tent of large boughs of trees* some
of the men resolving to lie on shore all night; but for my
f)art, I and some others took our lodgings in the boat, with
)oughs of trees spread over it, having a sail spread at the
bottom to lie upon. About two o'clock in the morning we
were awakened by the firing of muskets, and our men cry-
ing out for help, or else they would all be murdered. Scarce
had we time to get the boat ashore, when our men came
plunging themselves into the water, with about four hun-
dred of the islanders at their heels. We took up seven of
the men, three of them ^ery much wounded, and one left
behind killed, while the enemy poured their arrows so
thick among us, that we were forced to make a barricado,
with boards lying at the side of the boat, to shield us from
danger; and, having got ready our fire-arms, we returned
them a volley, which wounded several of them, as we could
hear by their cries. In this- condition we lay till break of
day, and then making signals of distress to the ship, which
213
my nephew, the captain, heard and understood, he weighed
anchor, and stood as near the shore as possible, and then
.sent another boat with ten hands in her to assist us; but wre
eaiied to them not to come near, informing them of our un-
happy condition. However they ventured; when one of
the men taking the end of a tow-line in one hand, and keep-
ing our boat between him and our adversaries, swam to us,
and slipping our cables, they towed us out of reach of their
arrows, and quickly after a broadside was given them from
the ship, which made a most dreadful havock among them.
When we got on board we examined into the occasion of
this fray. The men who fled informed us that an old wo-
man, who sold milk within the poles, had brought a young
woman with her, who carried roots and herbs, the sight of
whom so much tempted our men, that they offered rude-
ness to the maid, at which the old woman set up a great
cry; nor would the sailors part with their pirze, but carried
her among the trees, while the old woman went and
brought a whole army down upon them. At the beginning
of the attack, one of our men was killed with a lance, and
the fellow who began the mischief paid dear enough for
his mistress, though as yet we did not know what had be-
come of him: the rest luckily escaped. The third night
after the action, being curious to understand how affairs
stood, 1 took the supercargo and twenty stout fellows with
me, and landed about two hours before midnight at the same
place where those Indians, stood the night before, and there
we divided our men into two bodies, the boatswain com-
manding one, and I another. It was so dark, that we
could see nobody, neither did we hear any voice near us;
but by and by the boatswain falling over a dead body, we
agreed to halt till the noon should rise, which we knew
would be an hour after. We perceived here no fewer than
two and thirty bodies upon the ground, whereof two were
not quite dead. Satisfied with this discovery, I was for go-
ing on board again; but the boatswain and the rest told me,
they would make a visit to the Indian town, where these
dogs so they called them, resided, asking me at the same
time to go along with them, for they did not doubt, besides
getting a good booty, but they should fine Tom Jeffery
there, for that was the unhappy man we missed. But I
utterly refused to go, and commanded them back, being
unwilling to hazard their lives, as the safety of the ship
wholly depended upon them. Notwithstanding all I couid
say to them, they all left me but one, and the supercargo;
so we three returned to the boat, where a" boy was left re-
solving to stay till they returned. At parting I told them
I supposed most of them would run the same fate with Tom
Jeffery, To this they replied, u Come boys, come along,
we'll warrant we'll come off safe enough; and so away
they went notwithstanding all my admonitions, either con-
cerning their own safety or the preservation of the ship.—
Indeed they were gallantly armed, every man having a
musket, bayonet, and a pistol, besides cutlasses, hangers,
pole-axes, and hand-granades. They came to a few In-
dian houses at first, which not being the town, they expected,
they went farther, and finding a cow tied to a tree, they
concluded that she would be a sufficient guide, and so it
proved; for after they untied her, she led them directly
to the town, which consisted of above two hundred houses,
several families living in some of the huts together. At
their arrival, all being in a profound sleep, the sailors agreed
to divide themselves into three bodies, and set three parts
of the town on fire at once, to kill those that were escaping,
and plunder the rest of the houses. Thus desperately re-
solved, they went to work; but the first party had not
gone far before they called to the rest that they had found
Tom Jeffery; whereupon they all ran up to the place, and
found the poor fellow indeed hanging up naked by one
arm, and his throat almost cut from ear to ear. In a house
that was hard by the tree, they found sixteen or seventeen
Indians, who had been concerned in the fray; two or three
of them being wounded, were not gone to sleep; this house
they set on fire first, and in a few minutes after, five or six
places more in the town appeared in flames. The confla-
gration spread like wild-fire, their houses being all of wood,
and covered with flags or rushes. The poor affrighted in-
habitants endeavoured to run out to save their lives, but
they were driven back into the flames by the sailors, and
killed without mercy. At the first house above mentioned,
after the boatswain had slain two with his pole-axe, he threw
a hand-granade, into the house, which bursting, made a ter-
rible havock, killing and wounding most of them; and their
king and most of his train, who were in that house fell
victims to their fury, every creature of them being either
 
215
smothered or burnt. All this while they never fired a gun,
lest the people should awaken faster than they could over
power them. But the fire awakened them fast enough,
which obliged our fellows to keep together in bodies. By
this time the whole town was in a flame, yet their fury ra-
ther increased, calling out to one another to remember Tom
JefFery. The terrible light of this conflagration made me
very uneasy, and roused my nephew the Captain, and the
rest of his men, who knew nothing of the matter. When
he perceived the dreadful smoke, and heard the guns go
off, he readily concluded his men were in danger; he there-
fore takes another boat, and comes ashore himself, with
thirteen men well armed. He was greatly surprised to see
me and only two men in the boat, but more so when 1 told
him the story; but though I urged with him, as I did
with the men, about the dangers of the voyage, the interests
of the merchants and owners, and the safety of the ship, yet
my nephew, like the rest, declared, that he would rather
lose the ship, his voyage, his life and all, then his men should
be lost for want of help; and so away he went. For my
Eart, seeing him resolved to go, I had not power to stay
ehind. He ordered the pinnace back again for twelve
men more, and then we marched directly as the flame
fuided us. But surely never was such a scene of horror
eheld, or more dismal cries heard, except when Oliver
Cromwell took Drogheda, in Ireland, where he neither spared
man, woman, nor child.
The first object, 1 think, we met with was the ruins of
one of their habitations, before which lay four men and three
women killed, and two more burnt to death among the fire,
f which was now decaying. Nothing could appear more
barbarous than this revenge; none more cruel than the
authors of it. As we went on, the fire increased, and the
cry proceeded in proportion. We had not gone much far-
ther, when we beheld three naked women, followed by six-
teen or seventeen men, flying with the greatest swiftness
from our men, who shot one of them in our sight. When
they perceived us, whom they supposed also their murderers,
they set up a most dreadful shriek, and both of them swoon-
ed away in fright. This was a sight which might have
softened the hardest heart; and in pity we took some ways
to let them know we would not hurt them, while the poor
creatures, with bended knees and lifted-up hands, made
LIFE AND ADVENTURE'S,
piteous lamentations to us to save their lives. I ordered
our men not to hurt any of the poor creatures whatsoever;
but being willing to understand the occasion of all this, I
went among these unhappy wretches, who neither under-
stood me nor the good I meant them. However, being
resolved to put an end to this barbarity, I ordered the men
to follow me. We had not gone fifty yards before we came
up with the boatswain, with four of our men at his heels, all
of them covered with blood and dust, and in search of more
people to satiate their vengeance. As soon as we saw them
we called out and made them understand who we were •;
upon which they came up to us, setting up a halloo of tri-
umph, in token that more help was come. " Noble Captain,*
said he to my nephew, "I'm glad you're come; we have
not half done with these villainous hellhound dogs; well
root out the very nation of them from the earth, and kill
more than poor Tom has hairs upon his head and thus he
went on till 1 interrupted him—" Blood thirsty dog,1' said
I, *' will your cruelty never end? 1 charge you touch not one
creature more; stop your hands and stand stili, or you're
a dead m3n this moment." "Why, Sir," said he, "you
neither know whom you are protecting, nor what they have
done: but pray come hither, and behold an instance of
compassion, if such can merit your clemencyand with
that he showed me the poor fellow with his throat cut,
hanging upon the tree.
Indeed, here was enough to fill their breasts with rage,
which, however, I thought had gone too far, agreeable to
these words of Jacob to his sons Simeon and Levi: " Cursed
be their anger, for it was fierce: and their wrath, for it
was cruel." But this sight made my nephew and the
rest as bad as they: nay, my nephew declared, his con-
cern was only for his men: as for the people, not a soul
of them ought to live. Upon this, the boatswain and eight
more directly turned about, and went to finish the intended
tragedy; which being out of my power to prevent, I re-
turned back from the dismal sight, andy the piteous cries of
those unfortunate creatures, who were made victims to their
fury. Indeed it was an egregious piece of folly in me to
return to the boat with but one attendant; and 1 had very
near paid for it, having narrowly escaped forty armed In-
dians, who had been alarmed by the conflagration; but
having passed the place where they stood, I got to the boat,
217
accompanied with the supercargo, and so went on board,
sending the pinnace back again, to assist the men in what
might happen. When 1 had got to the boat, the fire was
almost extinguished, and the noise abated; but had scarce
been half an hour on board the ship, when I heard another
volley given by our sailors, and a great smoke, which, as I
afterwards found, was our men falling upon those houses
and persons that stood between them and the sea; but here
they spared the wives and children, and killed only the men,
to the number of about sixteen or seventeen. By the time
they got to the shore, the pinnace and the ship's boat were
ready to receive them, and they all got safe on board, not
a man of them having received the least hurt, except two,
one of them having strained his foot, and the other burnt his
hand a little ; for they met with no resistance, the poor
Indians being unprepared, amazed, and confounded.
I was extremely angry with every one of them, but par-
ticularly with the captain, who, instead of cooling the- rage
of the men, had prompted them on to further mischief; nor
could he make me any other excuse, but that as he was a
man, he could not master his passion, at the sight of one of
his men so cruelly murdered. As for the rest, knowing
they were not under my command, they took no notice of
my anger, but rather boasted of their revenge. According
to all their accounts, they killed or destroyed about 150
men, women, and children, besides burning the town to
ashes. They took their companion Tom Jeffery, from the
tree, covered him with some of the ruins, and so left him.
But however this action of our men might seem to them
justifiable, yet I always openly condemned it with the ap-
pellation of the Massacre of Madagascar. For though the
natives had slain this Jeffery, yet certainly he was the first
aggressor, by attempting to violate the chastity of a young
innocent woman, who ventured down to them, on the faith of
the public capitulation, which was so treacherously broken.
While we were under sail, the boatswain would often
defend his bloody action, by saying that the Indians had
broke the truce the night before, by shooting one of our
men without just provocation: and what if the poor fellow
had taken a little liberty with the wench, he ought not to
have been murdered in so villainous a manner; and that
they had acted nothing but what the divine laws commis-
sioned to be done to such homicides. However I was in %
K
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
the same mind as before, telling them that they were mur-
derers, and bid them depend upon it that God would blast
their voyage, for such an unparalleled piece of barbarity.
When we came to the Gulph of Persia, five of our men
who ventured on shore, were either killed or made slaves
by the Arabians, the rest of them having scarce time to
escape to their boat. This made me upbraid them afresh
with the retribution of Heaven for such actions; upon
which the boatswain very warmly asked me, "Whether
those men on whom the tower of Siloam fell, were greater
sinners than the rest of the Galileans? and besides. Sir,"
said he, tc none of these five poor men that are lost were
with us at the Massacre of Madagascar, as you call it, and
therefore your representations are very unjust, and your ap-
plication improper. Besides," added he, "you are con-
tinually using the men very ill upon this account, and, be-
ing but a passenger yourself, we are not obliged to bear it;
nor can we tell what evil designs you may have to bring us
to judgment for it in England; and, therefore, if you do
not leave this discourse, as also not concern yourself with
any of our affairs, I will leave the ship, and not sail among
such dangerous company.
All this I heard very patiently; but, it being often re-
peated, I at length told him, the concern I had on board
was none of his business; that I was a considerable owner
in the ship, and therefore had a right to speak in common,
and that 1 was no way accountable to him, nor any body
else. As no more passed for some time after, I thought
nil had been over. At this time we were in the road of
Bengal, where going on shore with the supercargo one day,
in the evening, as I was preparing to go on board, one of
the men came to me, and told me, I need not trouble my-
self to come to the boat, for that the cockswain and others
bad ordered him not to carry me on board any more. This
insolent message much surprised me, yet I gave him no
answer to it, but went directly and acquainted the super-
cargo, entreating him to go on board, and, by acquainting
the Captain with it, to prevent the mutiny which I perceived
would happen. But before I had spoken this, the matter
was effected on board; for no sooner was he gone off in
the boat, but the boatswain, gunner, carpenter, and all the
inferior officers, came to the quarter-deck, desiring to speak
With the Captain, and there the boatswain made a long
 
harangue, exclaiming against me, as before mentioned, that
if I had not gone on shore peaceably for my own diversion,
they, by violence, would have compelled me, for their sa-
tisfaction: bat as they had shipped with the Captain, so
they would faithfully serve him; but if 1 did not quit the
ship, or the Captain oblige me to it, they would leave the
ship immediately: hereupon, turning his face about, by
way of signal, thev all cried out, " ONE and ALL! O \
and ALL!"
You may be sure, that though my nephew was a man of
great courage, yet he could not but be surprised at their
sudden and unexpected behaviour; and though lie talked
stoutly to them, and afterwards expostulated with them,
that in common justice to me, wlio was a considerable owner
in the ship, they could not turn me, as it were, out of mv
own house, which might bring their Jives in danger should
they ever be taken in England; nay, though he invited tlir
boatswain on shore to accommodate matters with me, yet
all this, I say, signified nothing; they would have nothing to
do with me: and they were resolved to go on shore if I
came on board. u Well," said my nephew <c if you are
so resolved, permit me to talk with him, and then I have
doneand so he came to me, giving me an account of their
resolution, how one and all designed to forsake the ship
when I came on board, for which he was mightily concern-
ed. "I am glad to see you, nephew,'1 said I, <c and rejoice
it is no worse, since they have not rebelled against you;
I only desire you to send my necessary things on shore,
with a sufficient sum of money, and I will find my way to
England as well as I can." Though this grieved my ne-
phew to the heart, yet there was no remedy but compliance:
in short, all my necessaries were sent to me, and so this
matter was over in a few hours.
I think I was now near a thousand leagues farther oft
England by sea, than at my little kingdom, except this dif-
ference, that I might travel by land over the Great Mogul's
country to Sural, from thence to Bassora, by sea up the
Persian Gulph, then take the way of the caravans over the
Arabian Desert to Aleppo and Scanderoon, there take
shipping to Jtaly, and so travel by land into France, and from
thence across the sea to England.
My nephew left me two persons to attend me; one of
them was his servant, and the other clerk to the purser,
k8
who engaged to be mine. I took lodgings in an English
woman^ house, where several French, one English, and two
Italian merchants resided. The handsome entertainment
1 met with here, occasioned me to stay nine mouths, con-
sidering what course 1 should take. Some English goods
I had with me of great value, besides a thousand pieces of
eight, and a letter for more, if there was such necessity.—
The goods I soon disposed of to advantage, and bought here
several good diamonds, which I could easily carry about
with me. One morning the English merchant came to me,
as being very intimate together, "Countryman," said he,
*< I have a project to communicate to you, which I hope
wall suit to both our advantage. To be short, Sir, we are
both in a remote part of the world from our country; but
yet in a place where men of business may get a great deal
of money. Now, if you will put a thousand pounds to my
thousand pounds, we will hire a ship to our satisfaction;
you shall be Captain, i will be merchant; and we'll go a
trading voyage to China, for why should we lie still like
drones, while the world is in continual motion."
This proposal soon got my consent, being very agreeable
to my rambling genius; and the more so, because 1 looked
upon my countryman to be a very sincere person; it re-
quired some time before we could get a vessel to our mind,
and sailors to man it accordingly; at length we bought a
ship, and got an English mate, boatswain, and gunner, a
Dutch carpenter, and three Portuguese foremast-men; and
for want of others made shift with Jndian seamen. We first
sailed to Achin, in the island of Sumatra, and thence to Siam,
were wre bartered our wares, for some arrack and opium,
the last of which bore a great price among the Chinese; in
a word, we went up to Suskan, making a very great voyage,
and, after eight months time, 1 returned to Bengal, very well
satisfied with this adventure, having not only got, a sufficient
quantity of money, but an insight of getting a great deal more.
The next voyage my friend proposed to me, was to go
among the Spice islands, and bring home a load of cloves
from the Manillas, or thereabouts; islands belonging partly
to Spain, but where the Dutch trade very considerably.
We were not long in preparing for this voyage, which we
made no less successful than the last, touching at Borneo,
and several other places which I do not perfectly remem-
ber, *nd returned home in about five months time. We
221
soon sold our spices, which were chiefly cloves and some
nutmegs, to the Persian merchants, who carried them away
for the Gulph; and, in short, making five to one advantage,
we were loaded with money.
Not long after my friend and I had made up our accounts
to our entire satisfaction, there came in a Dutch coaster
from Batavia of about two hundred tons. The crew of
the vessel pretended themselves so sickly, that there were
not hands sufficient to undertake a voyage; and the Captain
having given out that he intended to go to Europe, public
notice was given that the ship was to be sold. No sooner
did this come to our ears> but we bought the ship, paid the
master, and took posses ion. We would also have very
willingly entertained some of the men; but they having
received their share of booty, were not to be found, being
altogether fled to Agra, the great city of the Mogul's resi-
dence; and from thence went to travel to Surat, and so by
the sea to the Persian Gulph. And indeed they had reason
to fly in this manner; for the truth of it was, the pretended
Captain was the gunner only, and not the commander;
that having been on a trading voyage, they were attacked
on the shore by the Malayans, who killed three men and
the Captain; after whose death the other eleven men run
away with the ship to the Bay of Bengal, and left the mate
and five men more on shore; but of this affair we shall
have occasion to speak more at length hereafter.
However he came by the ship, we thought we bought;
it honestly: neither did we suspect any thing of the matter,'
when the man showed us a bid of sale for the ship (undoubt-
edly forged,) to one Emanuel Closteishoven, which name he
went by. And so, without any more to do, we picked up
some Dutch and English seamen, resolving for another voy-
age for cloves among the Philippine and Molucca islands:
in short, we continued thus five or six years, trading from
port to port with extraordinary success. In the seventh
year, we undertook a voyage to China, designing to touch
at Siam, and buy some rice by the way. In this voyage
contrary winds beat us up and down for a considerable time
among the islands in the Straits of Molucca. No sooner
were we clear of those rugged seas, but we perceived
our ship had sprung a leak, which obhged us to put into the
river Cambodia, which lies northward of the Gulph, and
goes up to Siam.
K 3
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
One day, as I was on shore refreshing myself, there
can e to me an Englishman, who was a gunner's mate on
board an English East-India ship, riding up the river near
the city of Cambodia: " Sir," said lie, "you may wonder
at my business, having never seen me in your life; but tho"*
I am a stranger I have somethirg to tell you that very near-
ly concerns you; and indeed it is the imminent danger you
are in has moved me to give you this timely notice.'"—
64 Danger!" said I, "what danger? I know of none, ex-
cept my ship being leaky, for which I design to have her
run aground to-morrow morning." "1 hope you will be
better employed when you shall hear what I have to say to
you. You know the town of Cambodia is about fifteen
leagues up this river; about three leagues on this side of it
there lie two Dutch and three English ships. And would
you venture here without considering what strength you
have to engage them?" I knew not what be meant by this
discourse, and turning short upon him, "Sir," said 1, " I
know no reason I have to be afraid either of any Dutch or
English ships. I am no interloper, and what business have
they with me ?v "Well, Sir," said the man, "if you do
think yourself secure, all as 1 can say you must take your
chance; however, 1 am very sorry you are so deaf to good
advice; but I assure yon, if you do not put to sea immedi-
ately, you will be attacked by iive long boats full of men,
hanged yourself for a pirate, if you are taken, and the par-
ticulars examined afterwards. I thought, Sir," added he,
"L might have met a better reception for such a singu-
lar piece of service." "Sir," said J, "I never was un-
grateful to any man; but pray explain yourself, and Ell go
on board this minute, whether the leak be stopped or no."
*8 Why, Sir," said he "to be short because time is precious,
the matter is this: You know well enough that you was
with the ship at Sumatra, when your Captain was murdered
by the Malayans, with three of his sailors; and that either
you, or some who were on board with you, ran away with the
ship, and are since turned pirates at sea. Now, Sir, this
is the sum of what J have to say; and i can positively assure
you, that if you are taken, you will be executed without
much ceremony, for undoubtedly you cannot but be sen-
sible what little law merchant ships show to pirates, when-
ever they fall into their hands.'" .
"Sir," said I " I thank you for your kind information;
223
and though I am sure no man could come more honestly
by the ship than I have done, yet knowing their enterprise^
and being satisfied of your honest intention, I'll be upon my
defence." "IVythee, Sir," said the man "don't talk of
being upon your defence, the best that you can make is to
be out of danger; and therefore, if you have any regard for
your life, and the lives of your men, take the advantage,
without fail, of putting out to sea at high-water: by which
means, as you have a whole tide before you, you will be gone
too far out of their reach before they can come down.
"I am mightily well satisfied," said 1, " in this particular;
and for your kindness, which merits my great esteem, pray,
Sir, what amends shall 1 make you ?" He replied "I know
not what amends you are willing to make, because you
may have some doubts of its certainty: but, to convince
you of the truth of what I say, I have one offer to make to
you. On board one of these English ships, 1 have nineteen
months pay due to me, and this Dutchmau that is with me,
has seven months pay due to him, which if you will make
good to us, we will go along with you. If you shall find
that there is nothing in what we have said, then we shall
desire nothing; but when you are convinced that we have
saved the ship, your life, and the lives of the men, we shall
leave the whole to your generosity."
So reasonable did this every way appear, that I immedi-
ately consented, and we went directly on board. As soon
as we came on board, my partner calls joyfully out, 44 That
they had stopped the leak!" "Well, thank God," said I,
"but pray let us weigh anchor forthwith.'1—" Weigh!"
said he, "what is the meaning of this hurry?" u Pray ask
no questions," said I, "but all hands to work, without
losing a moment's time." Upon which, in great surprise,
the Captain was called, who immediately ordered the anchor,
to be got up: and though the tide was not quite down,
yet being assisted by a little land breeze, we stood to sea.
I then called my partner into the cabin, and related the
story at large, which was confirmed and more amplified by
the two men 1 had brought on board. Scarce had we
finished our discourse upon this head, but a sailor came to
the cabin door, with a message from the Captain, that we
were chased by five sloops full of armed men. "Very
well," said 1, "it is plain now there is something in it."—
And so, going upon deck, I told all the men there was a
design for seizing the ship, and of executing us for pirates;
and asking them whether they would faithfully stand by us,
and by one another? To which they unanimously replied,
"That they would h'ght to their last drop of blood." I
then asked the Captain, which way he thought best for us
to manage the battle ?" Sir," said he, "the only method
is to keep them off with our great shot as long as we are
able, and then have recourse to our small arms; and when
both these fail us, then retire to close quarters, when per-
haps the enemy, wanting materials, can neither break open
our bulk-heads, nor get in upon us." Mean-time the gun-
ner was ordered to bring two guns to bear fore and aft out
of the steerage, and so loaded them with musket-bullets and
small pieces of old iron; and the deck being cleared, we
prepared for the engagement, still, however, keeping out
at sea. The boats followed us with all the sail they could
make, and we could perceive the two foremost were Eng-
lish, which outsailed the rest by two leagues, and winch we
found would come up with us; hereupon we fired a gun
without ball, intimating that they should bring to, and we
*mt out a flag of truce, as a signal for parley; and finding
hem crowding after us, till they came within shot, we took
in our white, and hanging out the red flag, immediately
fired at them with bail; we then called to them with a
speaking trumpet, bidding them at their peril keep off*.
* But all this signified nothing; for depending upon the
strength that followed them, they were resolutely bent for
mischief: hereupon I ordered them to bring the ship to, by
which means, they lying upon our broadside, we let fly at
them at once, one of whom carried away the stern of the
hindermost boat, and obliged them not only to take down
their sail, but made them all run to the head of the boat, to
keep them from sinking, and so she lay by, having enough
of it. In the mean time, we prepared to welcome the fore-
most boat in the same manner. While we were doing this,
one of the three hindermost boats came up to the relief of
that which was disabled, and took the men out of her. We
again called to parley with them; but instead of an answer,
one of the boats came close under our stern; whereupon
our gunner let fly his two chase guns, but missing, the men
in the boat shouted, and waving their caps, came on with
greater fury. To repair this seeming disgrace, the gunner
soon got ready, and firing a second time, did a great deal uf
mischief among the enemy. We waved again, and bring-
ing our quarter to bear upon them, fired three guns more,
when we found the boat sinking, and several men already
in the sea; hereupon, manning our pinnace, I gave orders
to save as many as they could, and instantly to come on
board, because the rest of their boats were approaching:
accordingly they did so, and took up three of them, one of
whom was almost past recovery; and then crowding all the
sail we could, after our men came on board, we stood out
farther to sea, so that the other three boats gave over the
chase, when they came up to the first two. Thus delivered
from imminent danger, we changed our course, to the east-
ward, quite out of the course of all European ships.
Being now at sea, and inquiring more particularly of the
two seamen the meaning of all this, the Dutchman at ones
let us into the secret. He told us that the fellow who sold
us the ship was an arrant thief, who had run away with her;
that the Captain was treacherously murdered on the coast
of Molucca by the natives there, with three of his men;
that he, the Dutchman, and four more, being obliged to
have recourse to the woods for their safety, at length escaped
hy means of a Dutch ship, on its way to China, which liad
sent their boat on shore for fresh water; that after this,
he went to Batavia; there two of the seamen belonging to
the ship (who had deserted the rest in their travels) arrived,
and there gave an accouut that the fellow who ran away
with the ship had sold her at Bengal to a set of pirates, who
went a cruising, and had already taken one. English and two
Dutch ships richly laden.
Now, though this was absolutely false, my partner truly
said, that our deliverance was to be esteemed so much the
more, by reason had we fallen into their hands, we could
have expected nothing from them but immediate death,
considering our accusers would have been our judges; and,
therefore, his opinion was to return directly to Bengal,
where, being known, we could prove how honestly we came
by the ship, of whom we bought her* and the like, and
where we were sure of some justice; at least we would not b*
Langed first and judged afterwards. I was at first of myt
partner's opinion, but when I had more seriously consider,
ed of the matter, I told him we ran a great hazard in at-
tempting to return, being on the wrong side of the Straitji
of Molucca, and that if, upon alarm given, we should be
taken by the Dutch at Batavia, or English elsewhere, our
running away would be a sufficient evidence to condemn us.
This danger indeed startled not only my partner, but like-
wise all the ship's company; so we changed our former re-
solution, and resolved to go to the coast of Tonquin, and
so to that of China, where pursuing our first design as to
trade, we might likewise have an opportunity to dispose of
the ship some way or other, and to return to Bengal, in any
country vessel we could procure. This being agreed to,
we steered away N. N. E. about 50 leagues off the usual
course to the east, which put us to some inconveniences.
As the wind blew steadily against us, our voyage became
more tedious, and we began to be afraid of want of provi-
sions; and what was still worse, we apprehended that as
those ships, from whose boats we had escaped, were bound
to China, they might get before us, and have given fresh
information, which might create another vigorous pursuit.
Indeed I could not help being grieved, when 1 considered
that I, who had never wronged or defrauded any person in
my lifb, was now pursued like a common thief, and, if taken,
to run the greatest danger of being executed as such; and,
though innocent, I found myself under the necessity of fly*
ing for my safety, and thereby escape being brought to
shame, of which I was even more afraid than of death itself.
It was easy to read my dejection in my countenance. My
mind was oppressed, like those unhappy, innocent persons,
who being overpowered by blasphemous and perjured evi-
dences, wickedly resolved to take away their lives, or ruin
their reputation, have no other recourse in this world to
ease their sorrow, but sighs, prayers, and tears. My partner
seeing me so concerned, encouraged me as well as he could;
and alter describing to me the several ports of that coast,
he told me, he would tither put me in on the coast of
Cochin-China, or else in the Bay of Tonquin, from whence
we might go to Macao, a town once possessed by the Portu-
guese, and where still many European families resided.
To this place we steered, and early next morning came
in sight of the coast; but thought it advisable to put into
a small river where we could, either overland, or by the
ship's pinnace, know what vessels were in any ports there-
abouts. This happy step proved our deliverance: for, next
morning, there came to' the Bay of Tonquin two Dutch
 
 
 
ships, and a third without any colours; and in the evening
two English ships steered the same course. The river
where we were was but small, and run but a few leagues up
the country northward; the country was wild and barbarous,
and the people thieves, having no correspondence with any
other nation, dealing only in fish, oil and such gross com-
modities; and one barbarous custom they still retained, that
when any vessel was unhappily shipwrecked upon their
coast, they make them prisoners or slaves; so that now
we might fairly say we were surrounded by enemies both by
sea and land.
As the ship had been leaky, we took the opportunity, in
this place, to search her, and to stop up the places which
let in the water. We accordingly lightened her, and bring-
ing our guns and other moveable tilings to one side, we es-
sayed to bring her down, that we might come to her bot-
tom; but, upon second consideration, we did not think it
safe to let her lie on dry ground, neither indeed, was the
place convenient for it. The inhabitants, not used to such
a sight as to see a ship lie down on one side, and heel in to-
wards the shore, and not perceiving the men who were at
work on her bottom, with stages and boats on the off-side,
presently imagined the ship had been cast away, and lay
fast on the ground. Agreeable to this supposition, they
surrounded us with ten or twelve large boats, with a resov
lution undoubtedly to plunder the ship, and carry away
those they found alive for slaves to their king. Rut when
they perceived our men hard at work on the ship's bottom
and side, washing, graving, and stopping her, it tilled them
all with such surprise, that they stood gazing as though they
were confounded. Nor could we imagine what their de-
sign was; however, for fear of danger, we handed down
arms and ammunition to those at work, in order to defend
themselves; and, indeed, this precaution was absolutely
necessary; for, in a quarter of an hour after, the natives
concluding it was really a shipwreck, and that we were sa-
ving our lives and goods, which they thought belonged tx>
them, came down upon our mew; as though it had been in
line of battle. We lay at present but in a very unfit posture
to fight; and before the stages could be got down, or the
men in the boat come on board as they were ordered, th«*
Cochin-Chinese were upon them, and two of their boats
boarding our long-boat, they began to lay hold of ourmgfik
 
 
 
 
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
as prisoners. The first they seized was a stout English
sailor, who never fired his musket, like a fool as 1 imagined,
but laid it down in the boat; but lie knew what he was
doing; for, by main force, he dragged the Pagan out of* the
boat into ours by the two ears, and knocked his brains out
against the boat's gunnel; a Dutchman that was next him
snatched up the musket, and knocked down five more with
the butt-end of it; however, this was doing very little to
their number; but a strange unexpected accident, which
rather merits laughter than any thing else, gave our men a
complete victory over them.
It seems the carpenter, who was preparing to grave the
outside of the ship, as well as to pay the seams, where he
caulked to stop the leaks, had^ gotten two kettles just let
down in the boat, one filled with boiling pitch, and the
other with rosin, tallow, oil, and such siuif as the ship-
wrights use; the carpenter's man had a great iron ladle
with which he used to supply the workmen with hot stuff,
and as two of the enemy entered the boat where the fel-
low stood, he saluted them with a full ladle of the hot boil-
ing liquor, which, the poor creatures being half naked, made
them roar out, and jump into the sea. (i Well done> Jack,"
says the carpenter, '« give them the other dose and so
stepping forward himself, takes a mop, and dipping it into
the pitch-pot, he and his man so plentifully flung it among
them, as that none escaped being scalded; upon which they
all made the best of their way, crying and howling in such a
frightful manner, that, in all my adventures, I never heard
the like. And, indeed, never was I better pleased with
any conquest than J was with this, there being so little
blood shed, and having an aversion to kill such savage
wretches, (more than was necessary,) as knowing they came
on errands, which their laws and customs male them think
were just and equitable. By this time all things being in
order, and the ship swimming, they found their mistake, so
they did not adventure a second attack. Thus ended our
merry fight, and having got rice, bread, roots, and sixteen
good hogs on board the day before, we set sail, not daring
to go into the bay of Tonquin, but steered N. E. towards
the island of Formosa, or as though we would go to the
Manillas, or Philippine islands, for fear of meeting with any
European ships; when we anchored at the isle of Formosa,
the inhabitants not only courteously supplied us with pro*
 
vision and fresh water, but dealt very fairly and honestly
with us in their bargains and agreements. From this placo
we steered north, keeping still off the coast of China, till
we were beyond all its ports where European ships usually
come; and, at length being come to the latitude of thirty
degrees, we resolved to put into the first trading port we
should come at; and standing for the shore a boat came off
two leagues to us, with an old Portuguese pilot on board,
who offered his service; we very gladly accepted him, and
sent the boat back again. And now, having an old man
on board, I talkeJ to him of going to Nanquin, the most
northward part of the coast of China. "What will you do
there?" said he, smiling. I told him we would sell our
cargo and purchase calicoes, raw and wrought silks, tea,
&x. and so return the same- way back. "O," said he, u you
had better put in at Macao, where you may buy China wares
as cheap as at Nanquin, and sell your opium at a greater
advance." "But," said I, "we are gentlemen, as well as
merchants, and design to see the great city of Pekin, and
the magnificent court of the monarch of China." "Why,
then," said he, "you should go to Ningpo, where there is
a navigable river that goes through the heart of that vast
empire, two hundred and seventy leagues from the sea,
which crosses all the rivers, passes considerable hills, by the
help of the sluices and gates, and goes even up to the city of
Pekin. You may go to Nanquin, if you please, and travel to
Pekin, and there is a Dutch ship just before bound^ that way.'
At the name of a Dutch or English ship, I was struck with
confusion; they being as great a terror to me in this vessel,
as an Algerine man of war is to them of the Mediterranean.
The old man finding me troubled, Sir," said he, "I hope
the Dutch are not now at war with your nation." "No,"
said I, "but God knows what liberty they may take when
out of the reach of the law." " Why," says he, "what occa*
sion is there for peaceable merchants to fear? For, believe
me, they never meddle with any but PIRATES."
At the mentioning the word Pirates, my countenance
turned to that of scarlet; nor was it possible for me to con-
ceal it from the old pilot; who taking notice of it, "Sir,"
said he, 44 take what course you please, I'll do you all the
service I can." "Seignior/* said I, "J am a little con-
cerned at your mentioning pirates; I hope there are none
suck in these seas, because you see in what weak condition
 
 
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
we are to defend ourselves." "0, Sir," said he, "if that's
ail, don't be concerned; I don't remember one in these seas
these fifteen years, except about a month ago one was seen in
the bay of Siam, but he is gone to the southward; neither
was she built for a privateer, but was run away with by a
reprobate Captain, and some of his men, the right Captain
having been murdered by the Malayans."
"What r said I, (as though ignorant of what had hap-
pened) "did they kill the Captain!" "No," said he, "it is
generally thought the Malayans murdered him; but perhaps
they might procure them to doit, and therefore they justly
deserve hanging. The rogues were lately discovered in
the Bay of Siam, in the river of Cambodia, by some Dutch-
men who belonged to the ship, and had much ado to escape
the five boats that pursued them, but they have solemnly
sworn to give no quarters to the Captain or the seamen, but
hang them every one upon the yard-arm, without any for-
ma] business of bringing them to the court of judicature."
Being sensible that, having the old man on board, he
was incapable of doing me any mischief, "Well Seignior/'
said I, "it is for this very reason I would have you carry
us up to Nanquin, where neither English nor Dutch ships
come; and I must tell you, their captains are a parcel of
rash, proud, insolent rascals, that neither know what belongs
to justice, nor how to behave themselves as the laws of God
or nature direct; fellows that would prove murderers to
punish .robbers, and take upon them to judge innocent men
to death, without any proof to prove them guilty; but per-
haps 1 may live to call them to account for it, in a place
where they may be taught how justice is to be executed."
And so 1 told him the story of buying the ship, and bow
we were saved by the means of two men: that the murder
of the Captain by the Malayans, as also the runnhig away
with the ship. I believed to be true; but that we, who bought
it, were turned pirates, was a mere fiction, to cover their
cowardice and foolish behaviour, when they attacked us;
and the blood of those men we killed in our own just defeivee
lay at their door, who were sent to attack us by surprize.1'
"Sir," said the old man amazed, "you have taken the
right course to steer to the north, and if I might advise
!rou, 1 would have you sell your ship in China, and buy or
mild another in that country; and I'll procure people to
buy the one and sell the other." "Well, but Seignior/*'
 
 
231
said I, " if I sell the ship in this manner, I may bring some
innocent persons into the same dangers I have gone through,
perhaps worse than even death itself: whereby 1 should be as
guilty of their murder as their villainous executioners."—.
44 That need not trouble you," says the old man, " Til-find
a way to prevent that: for these commanders you talk of„
I know very well, and will inform them rightly of the mat-
ter as you have related, and am persuaded they will not
only believe me, but act more cautiously for the future."—
"And will you deliver one message from me to them ?*
"Yes," said he, "if you will give it under your hand, that
1 may prove it not of my own production." Hereupon
I wrote a large account of their attacking me in their long-
boat, the pretended reason and unjust design of it; that
they had done what they might be a.diamed of, and could
not answer for it at any tribunal in England. But this letter
was writ in vain. Providence ordered things another way.
We sailed directly for Nanquin and in about thirteen days
sail came to an anchor at the south-west point of the great
gulf of that place, where we learned that two Dutch
ships were gone the length before us, and that we fhould
certainly fall into their hands. We were all at a great loss
in this exigency, and would very gladly have been on shore
almost any where; but our old pilot told me that if I
would sail to the southward about two and forty league^
there was a little port called Quinchang, where no Euro-
pean ships ever came, and where we might consider what
was further to be done. Accordingly we weighed anchor
the next day, calling only twice on shore by the way to
get fresh water. The country people very courteously
sold us roots, tea, rice, fowls, and other provisions. After
five days sail we came to the port, and landed with unspeak-
able joy. We resolved to dispose of ourselves and effects
in any way possihle,jrather than enter on board that ill-fated
vessel more: for no state can be more miserable than a
continued fear, which is a life of death, a confounder of
dur understanding, thai sets the imagination at work to
form a thousand frightful things that may never happen.
And we scarce slept one night, without dreaming of halters,
yard-arms, or gibbets, or fighting, being taken, and being
killed: nay so violent were our apprehensions, that w«
would bruise our heads and heels against the sides of the
cabin as though actually engaged. The story, of the Dutch
cruelty at Amboyna, often came into our thoughts when
awake; and, for my part, I thought my condition' very
hard, that after so many difficulties and such signal deliver-
ances, I should be hanged in my old age, though innocent
of any crime that deserved such punishment; but then re-
ligion would seem to represent to me, as though the voice
of it had said, consider, O man I what sins you have been
formerly guilty of; which now thou art called to an account
for, to expiate with they blood! And as to thy innocence,
what art thou more innocent than they blessed Redeemer
Jesus Christ, who suffered for thy offences, and to whose
providence you ought to submit, let what will happen?
After this, natural courage would inspire me to resist to the
last drop of blood, and sooner die than suffer myself to be
taken by bookish rascally Dutchmen, who had hearts to tor-
ment beyond death itself
But now, thank kind Heaven, being ashore, our old pilot
procured us a lodging and warehouse for our goods; it
was a lit tie hut, with a large warehouse joining to it, all
built with cants, and palisadoed round with large ones to
keep out pilfering thieves, which are very numerous in that
country. The magistrates allowed us a little guard during
the night, and we employed a centinei with a kind of a hal-
bert for threepence a day. The fair, or mart we found
had been over for some time; however, there remained in
the river four junks and two Japan ships, the merchants of
the latter being on shore. In the first place, our old pilot
brought us acquainted with the missionary Roman priests,
v. ho were converting the people to Christianity: two of
them were reserved, rigid, and austere, applying themselves
to the work they came about with great earnestness; but
the third, who was a Frenchman, called Father Simeon, was
of a free conversation, not seeming so serious and grave,
yet no worse Christian than the other two, one of whom
was a Portuguese, and the other a Genoese. Father Simeon,
it seems, was appointed to go to Pekin, the royal seat of
the Emperor of the Chinese; and he only waited for ano-
ther priest, who was ordered from Macao to accompany
him* We never met together, but he was prompting me to
accompany him in that journey; "bir" said he, "1
will show you the glorious things of this mighty empire,
and a city, the city of- Pekin, far exceeding London and
Faris, put them both together," One day in particular, be*
 
jrig at dinner with liim, I showed some inclination to go;
which made him press the more upon me and my partner,
to gain our perfect consent. "But, Father Simeon," said
my partner, "what satisfaction can you have in our com-
pany, whom you esteem as heretics, and consequently objects
not worthy your regard?" <# O," said he, 44 you may be as
good Catholics in time as those I hope to convert to our
religion." "Aud so," said I, "we shall have you preach-
ing to us all the way, instead of pleasing us with a descrip-
tion of the country." "Sir," said he, "however our reli-
gion may be vilified by some people, it is very certain it
neither divests us of good manners or Christian charity; and
as we are gentlemen, as such we may converse together
without making one another uneasy."
But we shall leave him a'while, to consider of our ship and
the merchandise which we had to dispose of. There was
but very little trade in the place where we were; and I
was once resolved to venture to sail to the river Kilam, and
so to the city of Nanquin; but Providence ordered it other-
wise, by our old pilot's bringing a Japan merchant to us^ to
see what goods we had. He immediately bought our opium,
for which lie gave us a very good price in gold by weight,
some wedges of which were about, ten or eleven ounces.
It came into my head that perhaps he might buy the ship
too; and 1 ordered his interpreter to propose it to him.—
He said nothing then, but shrugged up his shoulders; yet
in a few days after he came, accompanied by a missionary
priest, who was his interpreter, with his proposal. "That
as he had bought a great quantity of our goods, he had not
money enough to purchase our ship; but if I pleased he
would hire her, with all my men, to go to Japan, and from
thence with another loading to the Philippine islands, the
freight of which he would very willingly pay to us before
hand, and at their return to Japan, would buy the ship." Upon
this we asked the Captain and his men, if they were willing
to goto Japan; to which they unanimously agreed. While
this was in agitation, the young man, my nephew left to
attend me, told me, *4 That as I did not care to accept this
prospect of advantage, he would manage it for me as I
pleased, and render me a faithful account of his success,
which would be wholly mine." Indeed I was very unwil-
ling to part with him, but considering it might be for the
 
young man's good, I discoursed with my partner about it,
who, of his own generosity gave him his share of the vessel,
so that 1 could do no otherwise than give him mine: but,
however, we let him have but the proper half of it, and
preserved a power, that when we met in England if he
had obtained success, he should account to us for one-half of
the profits of the ship's freight, and the other should be his
own. Thus having taken a writing under his hand, away
he sailed to Japan, where the merchant dealt very honestly
by him, got him a licence to come on shore, sent him loaded
to the Philippines with a Japanese supercargo, from whence
lie came back again loaded with European goods, cloves, and
other spices. By this voyage he cleared a considerable
sum of money, which determined him not to sell his ship,
but to trade on his own account; so he returned to the Ma-
nillas, where, getting acquaintance, he made his ship free,
was hired by the governor privately to go to Acapulco in
America, on the Mexican coast, with a licence to travel to
the great city of Mexico. This traffic turned out greatly to
account,, and my friend finding means to get to Jamaica, re-
turned nine years after exceedingly rich into England.
In parting with the ship, it comes in course to consider
of those men who had saved our lives when in the river of
Cambodia; and though, by the Way, they were a couple of
rogues, who thought to turn pirates themselves, yet we
paid them what they had before demanded, and gave eacb
of them a small sum of money, making the Englishman a
gunner, and the Dutchman a boatswain, with which they
were very well contented.
We vvere now about 1000 leagtaes farther from home
than when at Bengal. All the comfort we could expect
was, that there being another fair to be kept in a month's
time, we might not only purchase all sorts of that country's
manufactures, but very possibly find some Chinese junks,
or vessels from Tonquin. to be sold, which wrould carry u»
and our goods wheresoever we pleased. Upon these hopes,
we resolved to continue; and to divert ourselves, we took
several little journeys in the country. About ten days after
we parted with our ship, we travelled to see the city of
Nanquin. The city lies in latitude 30 degrees north of the
line: it is regularly built, and the streets are exactly straight,
and cross one another in direct lines, which sets it out to
the greatest advantage. At our return, we found the priest
 
was come from Macao, that was to accompany father Si-
meon to Pekin, That father earnestly solicited me to ac-
company him, and I referred him to my partner. In short,
we both agreed, and prepared accordingly; and we were
so lucky as to have liberty to travel among the retinue of
one of their Mandarines, who is a principal magistrate, and
much reverenced by the people.
We were five and twenty days travelling through this miser-
able country, infinitely populous, but as indifferently cul-
tivated; and yet their pride is infinitely greater than their
poverty, insomuch that the priests themselves deride them.
As we passed by the house of one of their country gentle-
men, two leagues of Nanquin, we had the honour, forsooth,
to ride with the Chinese squire, about two miles. Never
was Don Quixote so exactly imitated ! Never such a com-
pound of pomp and poverty seen before!
His habit, made of calico, was dirty, greasy, and very
proper for a Merry Andrew or Scaramouch, with all its
tawdry trappings, as hanging sleeves, tassels, See. though'
torn and rent in almost every part; his vest underneath it
was no less dirty, but more greasy, resembling trie most ex-
quisite sloven, or greasy butcher: his horse, (worse than lio-
sinante, or the famous steed of doughty Hudibras) was a
poor starved, decrepit thing, that would not sell for thirty
shillings in England; and yet this piece of worshipful pomp
^vas attended with ten or twelve slaves, who guarded their
master to his country seat. We stopped at a little village
for refreshment; and when we came by the country seat of
this great man, we found him sitting under a tree before his
door, eating a mess of boiled rice, with a great piece of
garlic in the middle, and a bag filled with green pepper by
him, and another plant like ginger, together with a piece
of lean mutton in it: this was his worship's repast; but
pray observe the state of the food I two women slaves brought
him his food, which being laid before him, two others ap-
peared to perforin their respective offices; one fed him
with a spoon, while the other scraped off1 what fell upon hi$
beard and taffety vest, and gave it to a particular favourite
to eat. And thus we left the wretch pleased with the con-
ceit of our admiring his magnificence, which rather merited
our scorn and detestation.
At length we arrived at the great city of Pekin, accom-
panied by two servants, and the old Portuguese pilot, whose
 
 
 
 
charges we bore, and who served us as an interpreter by
the way. We had scarce been a week at Pekin, but he
comes laughing to us, "Ah! Senior Inglise," said he,
"me some thing tell you make you heart glad, but make
me sorry, for you bring me here twenty five days journey,
and now you leave me go back alone; and which way
shall I make my port after, without de ship, without de
horse, without pecune ?" so he called money in his broken
Latin. He then informed me, that there was a great ca-
ravan of Muscovite and Polish merchants in the city, who
were preparing to set out for Muscovy by land within six
weeks: and that he was certain we would take this oppor-
tunity, and consequently that he must go home by hitnse.f.
Indeed this news infinitely surprised and pleased me.—
"Are you certain of this?" said I. "Yes, sir," says he,
"me sure it's true."" And so he told me that having met
an old acquaintance of his, an Armenian, in the street, who
was among them, and who had come from Astracan, with
a design to go to Tonquin, but for certain reasons having
altered his resolution, he was now resolved to go with the
caravan, and to return by the river Wolga, to Astracan. -
u Well, Senior/' said I "don't be discontented about
your returning alone: and if, by this means, I can find a
passage to England, it will be your own fault if you return
to Macoa at all/' And so consulting with my partner what
was best to be done, he referred it to me to do as i pleased,
having our affairs so well settled ;it Bengal, that if he could
convert the good voyage he had made in China silks,
wrought or raw, he would be satisfied to go to England,
and so return to Bengal in the Company's ship. Thus* re-
solved, we agreed that if oi!r old pilot would go with us, we
Would bear his charges either to Moscow or England; and
give him in a present the sum of one hundred and seventy
pounds sterling. Hereupon we called him' in, and told
him the cause of his complaint should be removed, if he
would accompany us with the caravans; and, therefore, wc
desired to know his mind. At this he shook his head,
"Great long journey," said he, "me no pecune carry me
to Moscow, or keep me there." But we soon put him out
of that concern, by making him sensible of what we would
give him here to lay out to the best advantage: and, as fur
his charges, we would set him safe on shore, God willing,
either in Muscovy, or England, as he pleased, at our own
 
 
237
charge, except the carriage of his goods. At this proposal,
he was like a man transported, telling us, he would go with
us all the world over; and we made preparations for our
journey; but it was near four months before all the mer-
chants were ready.
In the mean time, my partner and the pilot went express
to the port where we first put in, to dispose of what goods
had been left there, while I accompanied a Chinese mer-
chant who was going to Nanquin, and there bought twenty-
nine pieces of damask, with about three hundred more of
other fine silks; and by the time my partner returned to
Pekin, I had them all carried thither; our cargo in silks
amounted to 45,0001. sterling, which, together with tea, fine
calicoes, nutmegs, and cloves, loaded eighteen camels for
our share, besides what we rode upon, with two or three
spare horses, and two more loaded with provisions; the
company now was very great, making about four hundred
horse, and about one hundred and twenty men, well armed
and provided." We were of several nations, among whom
were five Scotch merchants, inhabiting in Moscow, and well
experienced in trade.
We set out from Pekin the beginning of February, our
style; and in two days more, we passed through the gate
of the great China wall, which was erected as a fortifica-
tion against the Tartars, being one hundred English miles
long. We then entered a country not near so populous,
chiefly under the power of plundering Tartars, several com-
panies of whom we perceived riding on poor starved horses,
contemptible as themselves, without order or discipline.—
One time our leader for the day gave us leave to go a
hunting; but what do you think we hunted? only a parcel
of sheep, which indeed exceeds any in the world for wild-
ness and swiftness; but while we were pursuing this game,
it was our chance to meet with about forty Tartars, who
no sooner perceived us, but one of them blew a horn, at
the sound of which there soon appeared a troop of forty or
fifty more, at about a mile distance. Hereupon one of
the Scotch merchants (who knew the ways) ordered us to
advance towards them, and attack them immediately. As
we advanced, they let fly a volly of a arrows, which happily
fell a little short of us; this made us halt a little, to return
the compliment with bullets; and then being led up by
the bold Scot, we fired our pistols in their faces, and drew
out our swords; but there was no occasion; for they flew
like timorous sheep, and only three of them remained,
beckoning on the rest to come back. But our brave com-
mander galloped up to them by himself shot one dead,
knocked another off his horse, while the third ran away;
and thus ended our battle with the Tartars.
We travelled a month more through the Emperor of
 China's dominions; and at length coming to one of their
towns about a day and a half's journey from the city of
Naum, I wanted to buy a camel. The person I spoke to
would have bought nie one, but, like a fool I must go
along with him, about two miles from the village. My
old pilot and \ walked on foot, forsooth, for some variety,
when coming to the place where the camels were kept as
in a park guarded by Chinese soldiers, we there agreed
and bought one, which the Chinese man that came along
with me led along the road. But we had not gone far, be-
fore we were attacked by five Tartars, mounted on horse-
back, two of whom seized the man, took the camel from
him and rode away, while the other three approached us,
the first of whom suddenly seized me as I was drawing my
sword, the second knocked me down, but my old trusty
Portuguese, taking a pistol out of his pocket, which 1 knew
nothing of, and coming up to the fellow that struck me, he
with one hand pulled him off his horse, and then shot him
dead upon the spot; then taking his cimeter, die struck
at the man that stopped us, but missing him, cut off one of
his horse's ears, the pain of which made him throw his
rider to the ground. The poor Chinese who had led the
camel, seeing the Tartar down, runs to him, and seizing
upon his pole-axe, wrenched it from his hands, and knocked
his brains out. But there was another Tartar to deal with,
who seeming neither inclined to fight or fly, and my old ~
man having begun to charge his pistol, the sight of it struck
such a terror into the wretch, that away he scoured, leav-
ing my old pilot, rather my champion and defender, an
absolute victory.
By this time being awakened from my trance, I began
to open my eyes, wondering where I was, having quite
forgot all that passed; but my senses returning, and feeling
a great pain in my head, and seeing the blood was running
over my clothes/1 instantly jumped upon my feet, and
 
 
239
grasped my sword in my hand, with a resolution to take re-
venge: but no enemies now remained except the dead
Tartar, with his horse standing by him. The old man
seeing me recovered, whom he thought slain, ran towards
me, and embraced me with the greatest tenderness, at the
same time examining into my wound, which was far from
being mortal. When we returned to the village, the man
demanded payment for his camel, which 1 refusing, we
brought the cause before a Chinese judge, who acted with
great impartiality: having heard both sides, he asked the
Chinese man that went with me, whose servant he was?
"Sir," said he, " 1 am nobody's, but went with the stran-
ger at his request." "What then," said the judge, "you
are the stranger's servant for the time, and the camel be-
ing delivered to his servant, it is the same as though de-
livered to himself, and accordingly he must pay for it."—
Indeed the case was so fairly stated, that I had nothing to
object to it; so having paid for that I was robbed of, f
sent for another, but did not go myself to fetch it, as I had
enough of that sport before.
The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese empire, so
fortified, as some will teli you, that, millions of Tartars can-
not batter down their walls; by which certainly one might
think one of our cannons would do more execution than all
their legions.
When we were within a day's march of that city, we
had information that the governor had sent messengers to
every part of the road, to inform the travellers and caravans
to halt, till a guard was sent to protect them from the nu-
merous bodies of Tartars that lately appeared about the
city. The news put us into great consternation: but,
obeying the orders, we stopt; and two days after, there
came two hundred soldiers from a garrison of the Chinese,
and three hundred more from "Naum; thus guarded both
in the front and rear, with our own men in the flanks, we
boldly advanced, thinking we* were able to combat with
ten thousand Mogul Tartars if they appeared.
Early next morning, in our march, from a little well situ*,
ated town, called Changu, after having passed a river, and
entered upon a desert of about fifteen or sixteen miles over,
we soon beheld by a cloud of dust that was raised, that
the enemy was approaching. This much dispirited the
Chinese. My old pilot took notice of it, and called out,
9AQ
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
"Seignior Inglise, those; follows must be encouraged, or they
will ruin us all; and I am afraid if the Tartars attack u?,
they will ail run away." "Why, Seignior/' said I, "what
shall be done in this case?" "Done/' says he, "why let
fifty of our men advance, and flank them on each wing. [
know the fellows will fight well enough in company." We
accordingly took his advice, and inarched fifty to the right
wing, and the same number to the left, and with the rest
made a line of reserve, Laving the last two hundred men
to guard the camels, or to assist us, as occasion required.
Thus prepared, a party of the enemy came forward, view-
ing our posture, and traversing the ground on the front of
our line. Hereupon we ordered the two wings to move
on, and give them a salute with their shot; which accord-
ingly was done. This put a stop to their proceedings;
for immediately wheeling off to their left, they all marched
away and we saw no more of them. They had undoubtedly
given an account to their companions of what reception
they might expect, which made them so easily give over
their enterprize.
When we came to the city of Naum, we returned the
governor hearty thanks, and distributed a hundred crowns
among the soldiers that guarded us. We rested there one
day, and then proceeded on our travels, passing several
great rivers and deserts; and on the 13th of April we came
to the frontiers of Muscovy, the first town of which was
called Argun.
This happy occasion, as I thought, of coming into a
Christian country, made me congratulate the Scots mer-
chant upon it. He smiled at that, telling me not to rejoice
too soon, *' for," said he, "except the Russian soldiers in
garrisop, and a few inhabitants of the city upon the road,
all the rest of this country, for above a thousand miles, is
inhabited by the most ignorant and barbarous Pagans."
We advanced from the river Arguna by moderate jour-
neys, and found convenient garrisons on the road, filled with
Christian soldiers, for the security of commerce, and of
the convenient lodgings of travellers: but the inhabitants of
the country were mere Pagans, worshipping the sun, moon,
and stars. We particularly observed this idoltary near the
river Arguna, at a city inhabited by Tartars and Russians
called Nerisinkey. Being curious to see their ways of liv-
ings while the caravans continued to rest themselves in that
city, I went to one of their villages, where there was
to be one of their solemn sacrifices. There I beheld,
upon the stump of an old tree, an idol of wood, more ugly
than the representation of the devil himself: its head
resembling no living creature; its ears were as big and as
high as goats' horns, a crooked nose, four-cornered mouth,
and horrible teeth: it was clothed in sheep's skins, had a
great Tartar bonnet, with two horns growing through it,
and was eight feet high, without feet, legs, or proportion.
Before this idol there lay sixteen or seventeen people, who
brought their offerings, and were making their prayers,
while at a distance stood three men and one bullock, as
victims to this ugly monster.
Such stupendous sacrilege as this in robbing the true
God of his honour, filled me with the greatest astonishment
and reflection; which soon turning to rage and fury, I
rode up to the image, and cut in pieces the bonnet that
was upon his head with my sword, so that it hung down by
one of the horns, while one of my men that was with me
pulled at it by his sheep skin garment. Immediately an
nideous howling and outcry ran through the village, and
two or three hundred people coming about our ears, we
were obliged to fly for it.
But I had not done with the monster; for the caravan
being to rest three nights in the town, I told the Scots mer-
chant what I had seen, and that I was resolved to take four
or five men well armed with me, in order to destroy the
idol, and show the people how little reason they had to trust
in a god who could not save himself. At first he laughed
at me, representing the danger of it; and when it was de-
stroyed, what time had we to preach to them better things,
whose zeal and ignorance were in the greatest degree,
and both unparalleled? that if I should be taken by them, I
should be served as a poor Russian who condemned their
worship; that is, to be stripped naked, and tied to the top
of the idol, there shot at with arrows till my body was full
of them, and then burnt as a sacrifice to the monster; "but
Sir," said he, "since your zeal carries you so far, rather
than you should be alone, I will accompany you, and bring
a stout fellow equal lo yourself, if you will, to assist you in
this design: and accordingly he brought one captain Rich-
ardson, who, hearing the story, readily consented; but my
partner declined it, being altogether out of his way: and
h
 
go we three, and my servant, resolved to execute this ex-
ploit about midnight: but upon second thoughts we defer-
red it to the next night, by reason that the caravan being
to go from hence the next morning, we should be out of
the governor's power. The better to effectuate my design,
I procured a rl artar's sheep skin robe, a bonnet, with bow
and arrow, and every one of us got the like habits. The
first night we spent in mixing combustible matter with aqua-
vita?, gunpowder, &c. having a good quantity of tar in a
little pot: the next night we came up to the idol about eleven,
o'clock, the moon being up. We fojpnd none guarding it;
but we perceived a light in the house,, where we had
seen the priests before. One of our men was for firing thi;
hut, another for killing the people, and the third for mak-
ing them prisoners while the idol was destroyed. We
agreed to the latter; so knocking at the door, we seized
the first that opened it, and stopping his mouth and tying
his feet we left him. We served the other two in the like
manner: and then the Scots merchant set fire to the com-
position, which frightened them so much that we brought
them all away prisoners to their wooden god. There we
fell to work with him, daubing him aH over with tar mixed
with tallow and brimstone, stopping his eyes, ears and
mouth full of gunpowder, with a great piece of wild-fire in
his bonnet, and environed it with dry forage. All this be-
ing done, we unloosed and ungagged the prisoners, and set
the idol on fire, which the gunpowder blowing up, the
shape of it was deformed, rent, and split, which the forage
utterly consumed: for we stayed to see its destruction, lest
the ignorant, idolatrous people should have thrown thenir
selves into the flames. And thus we came away undis-
covered, in the morning, appearing as busy among our fellow
travellers, as nobody could have suspected any other, but
that we had been in our beds all night.
Next morning we set out, and had gone but a small
distance from the city, when there came a multitude of
people of the country to the gates of the city, demanding
satisfaction of the Russian governor for insulting their priests,
and burning their great Cham-Chi-Xhaungu, who dwelt in
the sun, and no mortal would violate this image but some
Christian miscreants; and being already no less than thirty
thousand strong, they announced war against him and aU
his Christians,
 
 
 
The governor assured them he was ignorant of the mat-
ter, and that none of his garrison had been abroad; that in-
deed there was a caravan that went away that morning, and
that he would send after them to inquire into it; and who-
ever was the offender should be delivered into their hands*
This satisfied them for the present, but the governor sent
to inform us, that if any of us had done it, we should make
all the haste away possible, while he kept them in play as
long as he could. Upon this we marched two days and
two nights, stopping but very little, till at last we arrived
at a village called Plothus, and hastened to Jarawena, another
of the Czar's colonies. On the third day, having entered
the desert, and passed the lake called Shaks Oser, we beheld
a numerous body of horse on the other side of it to the
north, who supposed we had passed on that side of the lake;
but either having found their mistake, or being certainly in-
formed of the way we took, they came upon us towards the
dusk of the evening, just as we had pitched our camp be-
tween two little but very thick woods, with a little river
running before our front, and some felled trees with which
we covered our rear; a precaution we always took, and
which we had just finished when the enemy came up,—
They did not fall on us immediately, but sent three messen-
gers, demanding the men who had insulted their priests,
and burnt their god Cham Chi-Thaungu, that they might
be burnt with fire; that if this was complied with, they
would peaceably depart; but if not, they would de-
stroy one and all of us. Our men started at one another
on receipt of this message, but nobody was the word, as
indeed nobody knew it, but he who did it. Upon which
the leader of the caravan returned for answer, "That they
were peaceable merchants, who meddled with none of their
prjests and gods; and therefore desired them not to disturb
us, and put us under the necessity of defending ourselves.7*
But so far was this from satisfying them, that the next morn-
ing coming to our right, they let fly a volley of arrows among
us? which happily did not hurt any, because we sheltered
ourselves behind our baggage. We expected, however, to
come to closer engagement; but were happily saved by
a cunning fellow, a Cossack, who obtaining leave of the
leader to go out, mounts his horse, rides directly from our
rear, and taking a circuit, comes up to the Tartars, as
though he had been sent express, and tells them a formal
 
story, that the wretches who had burnt the Cham Chi
Thaungu, were gone to Shiheilka, with a resolution to burn
the god Shal-lsar, belonging to the Tongueses. Upon which
believing this cunning Tartar, who was a servant to our Mus-
covites, away they drove to Shiheilka, and in less than three
minutes were out of sight, nor did we ever hear of them more.
When we came to the city of Jarawena, we rested five
days, and then entered into a frightful desert, which held us
twenty-three days march, infested with several small com-
panies of robbers, or Mogul Tartars, who never had the
courage to attack us. After wre had passed over this desert
we found several garrisons to defend the caravans from the
violence of the Tartars: In particular the Governor of Adin-
skoy offered us a guard of .fifty men to the next station, if.
we apprehended any danger. The people here retained
the same paganism and barbarity, only they were not so
dangerous, being conquered by the Muscovites. The cloth-
ing, both of men and women, is of the skins of beasts, living
under the ground in vaults and caves, which have com-
munication with one another. They have idols almost in
every family : besides they adore the sun and stars, water
and snow; and the least uncommon thing that happens in
the elements, alarms them as much as thunder and light-
ning does the unbelieving Jews.
Nothing remarkable occurred in our march through this
country. When we had gone through the desert, after two
days farther travel, we came to Jenezoy, a Muscovite city,
on the great river so called, which we were told parted Eu-
rope from Asia. The inhabitants here were very little bet-
ter, though intermixed with the Muscovites, but the won-
der will cease, when I inform my readers what was observed
to me, that the Czar rather converts the Tartars with soldiers
than clergymen, and is more proud to make them faithful
subjects, than good Christians.
From the city of the river Oby, we travelled over a
pleasant, fruitful, but very uncultivated country, for want
of good management and people, and those few are mostly
Pagans. This is the place where the Muscovite criminals
are banished to, if they are not put to death. The next
city we came to, was the capital city of Siberia, called To-
bolski, when having been almost seven months on our jour-
ney, and winter drawing on apace, my partner and I con-
sulted about our particular affairs, in what manner we should
 
245
dispose of ourselves. We had been told of sledges and
rein-deer to carry us over the snow, in the winter seasons,
the snow being frozen so hard, that the sledges can run
upon the surface without any danger of going down. As I
was bound to England, I now behoved either to go with the
caravan to Jereslaw, from thence west to Narva, and the
gulf of Finland, and so by land or sea to Denmark; or
else I must leave the caravan at a little town on the JDwina,
and so to Archangel, where I was certain of shipping either
to England, Holland, or Hamburgh. One night 1 happened
to get into the company of an illustrious but banished Prince,
whose company and virtues were such as made me propose
to him a method how he might obtain his liberty.—" My
dear friend," said he, u as 1 am here happily free from my
miserable greatness, with all its attendants of pride, am-
bition, avarice, and luxury, if I should escape from this place,
those precious seeds may again revive, to my lasting dis-
quietude; therefore let me remain in a blessed confinement,
for I am but flesh, a mere man, with passions and affections
as such: O be not my friend and tempter too i" Struck
dumb with surprise, 1 stood silent awhile; nor was he less
in disorder, by which perceiving he wanted to give vent to
his mind, 1 desired him to consider of it, and so withdrew.
But about two hours after he came to my apartment; "Dear
friendsaid he, "though I cannot consent to accompany
you, 1 shall have this satisfaction in parting, that you leave
me an honest man still; but as a testimony of my affection
to you be pleased to accept this present of sables."
In return for his compliments, I sent my servant next
morning to his Lordship with a small present of tea, two
pieces of China damask, and four little wedges of gold:
but he only accepted the tea, one piece of damask, and one
piece of gold, for the curiosity of the Japan stamp that was
upon it. Not long after he sent for me, and told me that
wftat he had refused himself, he hoped, upon his account, J
would grant to another, whom he should name; In short it
was his only son, who was about two hundred miles distant
from him, on the other side of the city, whom he said he
would send for, if I gave my consent. This I soon com-
f)lied with : upon which he sent his servant next day for
lis son, who returned in twenty days time, bringing seven
horses loaded with valuable furs. At night the young Lord
was conducted incognito into our apartment, where his fa*
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
ther presented him to me. We then concerted the best
ways for travelling, and after having bought a considerable
quantity of sables, black fox skins, fine ermines, &c.
(which I sold at Archangel at a good price,) we set out from
this city the beginning of June, making a small caravan, be-
ing about thirty two horses and camels, of which I repre-
sented the head. My young Lord had with him a very
faithful Siberian servant, well acquainted with the roads.
We shunned the principal towns and cities, as Tumen, Soil,
Kamoskoi, and several others, by reason of their strictness
in examining travellers, lest any of the banished persons of
distinction should escape. Having passed the river Kama,
we came to a city on the European side, called Soloy Ka-
moskoi, where we found the people mostly Pagans as before.
We then passed a desert about two hundred miles over;
but in other places it is near seven hundred. In passing
this wild place, we were beset by a troop of men on horse-
back, and about five and forty men armed with bows and
arrows. At first they looked earnestly at us, and then
placed themselves in our way. We were above sixteen
men, and drew up a little line before our camels. My
young Lord sent out his Siberian servant to know who
they were: but when he approached them, he neither
knew a word they said, nor would they admit him to come
near them at his peril, but prepared to shoot him. At his
return, he told us he believed them to be Calmuck Tar-
tars; and that there were more upon the desert. This was
but a small comfort to us; yet seeing a little grove, about
a quarter of a mile distance, we moved to it by the old
Portuguese pilot's advice, without meeting with any oppo-
sition. Here we found a marshy piece of ground, and a
spring of water, running into a little brook on one side,
which joined another like it a little farther off, and these
two formed the head of the river called Writska. As soon
as we arrived, we went to work, cutting great arms off the
trees, and laying them hanging them not quite off from one
tree to another. Jn this situation we waited the motion of the
enemy, without perceiving any advancement they made
towards us. About two hours before night, being joined
by some others, in all about fourscore horses, among whom
we fancied were some women, they came upon us with great
tongue, to know their business; but they either not know-
fury. We fired without
 
247
ing, or seeming not to understand us, came directly to the
wood-side, not considering that we were so fortified, as that
they could not break in. Our old pilot, the Portuguese,
proved both our captain and engineer, and desired us not
to fire till they came within pistol shot; and when he gave
the word of command, then to take the surest aim; but he
did not bid us give fire, till they were within two pikes length
of us, and then we killed fourteen of tliem, wounded seve-
ral, as also their horses, having every one of us loaded our
pieces with two or three bullets at least. So much were
they surprised at our undauntedness, that they retired about
a hundred roods from us. In the mean while we loaded
our pieces again, and sallying out, secured four or five of
their horses, whose riders we found were killed, and per-
ceived them to be Tartars. About an hour after they
made another attempt, to see where they might break in,
but finding us ready to receive them they retired.
All that night we wrought hard in strengthening our
situation, and barricading the entrance into the wood;
but when the daylight came, we had a very unwelcome dis-
covery; for the enemy being encouraged by their num-
bers, had set up eleven or twelve tents, in form of a camp,
about three quarters of a mile from us. I must confess I
was never more concerned in my life, giving myself and all
that I had over for lost. And my partner declared, that as
the loss of his goods would be his ruin, before they should
be taken from him he would fight to the last drop of his
blood. As we could not pretend to force our way we had
recourse to a stratagem; we kindled a large fire, which
burnt all night; and no sooner was it dark than we pursued
our journey towards the pole, or north star; and travelling
all night, by six o'clock in the morning we came to a Rus-
sian village, called Kertza, and from thence came to a large
town named Ozonzoys, where we heard that several troops
of Calmuck Tartars had been abroad upon the desert, but
that we were past all danger. In five days after we came
to Veuslima, upon the river Witzedga; from thence we
came to Lawrenskoy, on the third of July, where, provi-
ding ourselves with two luggage-boats, and a convenient
bark, we embarked the seventh, and arrived at Archangel
the eighteenth, after a year, five months and three days
{'ourney, including the eight months and odd days at To-
>olski. We came from Archangel the 20th of August in
 
 
 
us
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
the same year, and arrived at Hamburgh the 30th of Sep-
tember. Here my partner and i made a very good sale Of
our goods, both those of China and Siberia; when, dividing
our effects, my share came to 8475/. 17,?. CM, after all the
losses we had sustained, and charges we had been at. Here
the young Lord took his leave of me, in order to go to the
Court of Vienna, not only to seek protection, but to corres-
pond with his father's friends. After we had staid four
months in Hamburgh, I went from thence over land to the
Hague, where embarking in the packet, I arrived in London
the 10th of January, 1705, after ten years and nine months
absence from England.
VISION OF THE ANGELIC WORLD.
CHAP. L
OF SOLITUDE.
However solitude is looked upon as a restraint to the
pleasure of the world, in company and conversation, yet it
is a happy state of exemption from a sea of trouble, an
inundation of vanity and vexation, of confusion and disap-
pointment. While we enjoy ourselves, neither the joy nor
sorrow of other men affect us: We are then at liberty,
with the voice of our soul, to speak to God. By this we
shun such frequent trivial discourse, as often becomes an ob-
struction to virtue; and how often do we find that we had
reason to wish that we had not been in company, or said
nothing when we were there? for either we offended God
by the impiety of our discourse, or lay yourselves open to the
violence of designing people by our unguarded expressions;
and frequently feel the coldness and treachery of pretended
friends, when once involved in trouble and affliction; of
such unfaithful intimates, (I should say enemies,) who rather
by false inuendoes would accumulate miseries upon us, than
honestly assist us when under the hard hand of adversity.
But in a state of solitude, when our tongues cannot be heard,
except from the great Majesty of Heaven, how happy are
we in the blessed enjoyment of conversing with our Ma-
ker? It is then we make him our friend, which sets us
 
 
 
above the envy and contempt of wicked men. When a
man converses with himself, he is sure that he does not
converse with an enemy. Our retreat should be to good
company, and good books. I mean not b) solitude, that
a man should retire into a cell, a desert, or a monastery:
which would be altogether an useless and unprofitable re-
straint: for as men are formed for society, and have an
absolute necessity and dependence upon one another, so
there is a retirement of the soul, with which it converses in
heaven, even in the midst of men; and indeed no man is
more fit to speak freely, than he who can, without any
violence to himself, refrain his tongue, or keep silence alto-
gether. As to religion it is by this the soul gets acquaint-
ed with the hidden mysteries of the holy writings; here
she finds those floods of tears, in which good men wash them-
selves day and night, and only makes a visit to God, and
his holy angels, in this conversation the truest peace and
most solid joys are to be found; it is a continual feast of
contentment, on earth, and the means of attaining everJasU
ing happiness in heaven..
CHAP. II.
OF HONESTY.
Honesty is a virtue beloved by good men, and pretended
to by all other persons. In this there are several degrees;
to pay every man his own is the common law of honesty;
but to do good to all mankind, is the chancery Jaw of ho-
nesty; and this chancery court is in every man's breast,
where his conscience is a Lord Chancellor. Hence it is,
that a miser, though he pays every body their own, cannot
be an honest man, when he does not discharge the good
offices that are incumbent on a friendly, kind, and generous
person: for, saith the prophet Isaiah, chap, xxxii. ver. 7,. 8.
"The instruments of a chur are evil: he deviseth wicked
devices to destroy the poor with lying words, even when
the needy speaketh right. But the liberal soul deviseth
liberal things, and by liberal things shall he stand." It is-
certainly honest to do every thing the law requires; but
rtKmld we throw every poor debtor into prison till he has*
 
 
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
paid the utmost farthing, hang every malefactor without
mercy, exact the penalty of every bond, and the forfeiture
of every indenture, this would be downright cruelty, and
not honesty; and it is contrary to that general rule, "To do
to another that which you would have done unto you"
Sometimes necessity makes an honest man a knave; and a
rich man an honest man, because he has no occasion to be
a knave. The trial of honesty is this: Did you ever want
Jbread, and had your neighbour's loaf in keeping, and would
starve rather than eat it? Were you ever arrested, having
in your custody another man's cash, and would rather go to
gaol than break itP if so, this indeed may be reckoned ho-
nesty. For King Solomon teils us, "That a good name is
better than life, and is a precious ointment, and which
when a man has once lost, he has nothing left worth keeping."
CHAP. III.
Of the present State of RELIGION in the World
I doubt, indeed, there is much more devotion than reli-
gion in the world; more moderation than supplication; and
more hypocrisy than sincerity: and it is very melancholy to
consider, what numbers of people there are furnished with
the powers of reason and gifts of nature, and yet abandoned
to the greatest ignorance and depravity. But it would be
uncharitable for us to imagine (as some papists, abounding
with too much ill-nature, the only scandal to religion, do)
that they will certainly be in a state of damnation after this
life: or how can we think it consistent with the mercy and
foodness of an infinite Being, to damn those creatures, when
e has not furnished them with the light of the gospel? or
how can such proud, conceited, and cruel bigots, prescribe
! rules to the justice and mercy of God?
We are told by some people, that the great image which
King Nebuchadnezzar set up to be adored by his people,
held the, representation of the sun in his right-hand, as the
principal object of adoration. But to wave this discourse of
Heathens, now many self-contradicting principles are there
held among Christians? and how do we doom one another
to the devil, while all profess to worship the same Deity,
iiid t& expect the same salvation?
 
251
When I was in Portugal, there was held at that time the
court of justice of the inquisition, All the criminals were
carried in procession to tfie great church, where eight of
them were habited in gowns and caps of canvas, whereon
the torments of hell were displayed, and they were con-
demned and burnt for crimes against the Catholic faith and
blessed Virgin.
J am sorry to make my reflections upon Christians; but
indeed in Italy the Roman religion seems the most cruel and
mercenary upon earth; and a very judicious person, who*
travelled through Italy from Turkey, tells, "That there is
only the face and outward pomp of religion there: that
the church protects murderers and assassins, and then de-
livers the civil magistrates over to Satan for doing justice;
interdicts whole kingdoms, and shuts up the churches for
want of paying a few ecclesiastical dues, and so puts a stop
to religion for want of their money: that the court of in-
quisition burnt two men for speaking dishonourably of the
blessed Virgin; and the missionary of China, tolerated the
worshipping the devil by their new converts; that Italy
was the theatre, where religion was the grand opera;
and that the polish clergy were no other than the stage
players.1'
As to the religion in Poland, they deny Christ to be the
Messiah, or that the Messiah has come in flesh. And
as to their Protestants, they are the followers of Lgelius So-
chi us, who denied our Saviour's divinity; and have no con-
cern about the divine inspiration of the Holy Ghost. *
In Muscovy, their churches are built of wood,, and indeed
they have but wooden priests, though of the Greek church;
they pray as much to saint Nicholas, as the Papists do to the
Virgin Mary, for protection in all their difficulties or afflic-
tions.
As to the Lutherans, they only differ from the Romans in
believ'mg consubstantation, instead of transubstantation;
but, like them, they are much pleased with the external gal-
lantry and pomp, more than the true and real practice of it.
In France I found a world of priests, the streets every
where crowded with them, and the churches full of women •
but surely never was a nation so full of blind guides, so ig-
norant of religion, and even so void of morals, as those
people who confess their sins to them.
Does it not seem strange, that, while all men own the
Divine Being, there should he so many different opinions
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
as to the manner of paying him obedience in the Christian
church! I know not what reason to assign for this, except
it be their different capacities and facultl s.
And, indeed, upon this account, we have perceived, in
all Christian countries, what mortal feuds have been about
religion; what wars and bloodshed have molested Europe,
till the general pacification of the German troubles at the
treaty of Westphalia; and since those times, what persecu-
tion in the same country among the churches of the Luthe-
rans; and should I take a prospect at home, what unhappy
divisions are between Christians in this Kingdom, about
Episcopacy and Presbytery; the church of England and the
Dissenters opposing one another like St. Paul and St. Peter,
even to the face; that is, they carry on the dispute to the
utmost extremity.
It might be a question why there are such differences in
religious points, and why these breaches should be more
hot and irreconcilable? A11 the answer I can give to this,
is, that we inquire more concerning the truth of religion,
than any other nation in the world: and the anxious con-
cern we have about it, makes us jealous of every opinion,
and tenacious of our own: and this is not because we are
more furious and rash than other people; but the truth is
we are more concerned about them, and being sensible that
the Scripture is the great rule of faith, the standard for life
and doctrine, we have recourse to it ourselves, without sub-
mitting to any pretended infallible judge upon earth.
There is another question pertinent to the former, and
that is, What remedy can we apply to his malady? And to
this. I must negatively answer, Not to be less religious, that
we may differ the less. This is striking at the very root of
all religious differences; for certainly, were they to be
carried on with a peaceable spirit, willing to be informed,
our variety of opinions would not have the name of differ-
ences; nor should we separate in communion of charity,
though we did not agree in several articles of religion.
Nor is there a less useful question to start, namely, Where
will our unhappy religious differences end? To which, I
hope, 1 may answer, in Heaven; there all unchristian and
unbrotherly differences will find a period; there we shall
embrace many a sinner, that here we think it a dishonour
to converse with; and perceive many a heart we have bro-
ken here with censures, reproaches, and revi-lings, made
 
253
whole again by the balm of the same Redeemer's blood,—
Here we shall perceive there have been other flocks than
those of our fold; that those we have excommunicated have
been taken into that superior communion; and, in a word,
that those contradicting notions and principles which we
thought inconsistent with true religion, we shall then find
reconcilable to themselves, to one another, and to the foun-
tain of truth. If any man ask me, Why our differences can-
not be ended on earth? I answer, Were we all thoroughly
convinced that then they would be reconciled, we would
put an end to them before; but this is impossible to be done;
for as man's certain convictions of truth are not equal to
one another, or the weight or signifh ancy of such veracity,
so neither can a general affect of this affair be expected on
this side of time.
Before I conclude this chapter, 1 shall beg leave to dis-
course a little on the wonderful excellency of negative re-
ligion and negative virtue. The latter sets out, like the
Pharisee, with—God, 1 thank thee: it is apiece of religi-
ous pageantry, the hypocrite's hope: and in a word, it is
positive vice; for it is either a mask to deceive others, or a
mist to deceive ourselves. A man that is clothed with ne-
gatives, thus argues: I am not such a drunkard as ray land-
lord, such a thief as my tenant,, such a swearer as his neigh-
bour; neither am I cheat, an atheist* a rakish fellow, or
a highwayman; no 1 I live a sober, regular, retired life: I
am a good man, I go to church; God, 1 thank thee. Now,
though a man boast of his vktue in contradiction to the
vices mentioned, yet a person had better have them alto-
gether than the man himself; for he is full of himself; so
persuaded that he is good and religious enough already,
that he has no thoughts of any thing, except it be to pull off
his hat to God Almighty now and then, and thank him that
he has no occasion for him; and has the vanity to think
that bis neighbours must imagine well of him. too,.
The negative man, though he is no drunkard, is yet in-
toxicated with the pride of his own worth; a good neigh-
bour and peace-maker in other families, but a tyrant innis
own; appears in a church for a show, but never falls upon
his knees in his closet; does all h'ts alms before men, to be
seen of them; eager in the duties of the second table, but
regardless of the first; appears religious, to be taken notice
ol by men, but without intercourse or communieauoit bt*
 
u
tween God and his own soul: Pray, what is this man?
of what comfort is there of the life he lives? He is insensible
of faith, repentance, and a Christian mortified life: in a word,
he is perfectly a stranger to the essential part of religion.
Let us for a while enter into the private and retired part
of his conversation: What notions has he of his* mis-spent
hours, and of the progress of time to the great centre and
gulf of life, eternity? Does he know how to put a right
value on time, or esteem the life-blood of his soul as it
really is, and act in all the moments of it, as one that must
account for them? if then you can form an equality between
what he can do and what he shall receive, less can be
founded upon his negative virtue, or what he has forborne
to do: And if neither his negative nor positive piety tcan
be equal to the reward, and to the eternity that reward is
to last for, what then is to become of the Pharisee, when
he is to be judged by the sincerity of" his repentance, and
rewarded, according so the infinite grace of God, with a
state of blessedness to an endless eternity?
When the negative man converses with the invisible
world, he is filled with as much horror and dread as Felix,
when St. Paul reasoned to him of temperance, righteous-
ness, and of judgment to come; for Felix, though a great
philosopher, of great power and reverence, was a negative
man, and he was made sensible by the Apostle, that as a
life of virtue and temperance was its own reward, by giving
a healthy body, a clear head, and a composed life, so eter-
nal happiness must proceed from another spring: namely,
the infinite unbounded grace of a provoked God, who hav-
ing erected a righteous tribunal, Jesus Christ would sepa*
rate such as by faith and repentance, he had brought home
and united to himself by the grace of adoption, and on the
foot of his having laid Sown his life as a ransom for them,
had appointed them to salvation, when all his philosophy,
temperance, and righteousness in the world besides had
been ineffectual. And this, I say, it was, that made Felix,
this negative man, tremble.
CHAP. IV.
Of listening to the Voice of Providence,
The magnificent and wise king Solomon bids us cry after
knowledge, and lift up our voice for understanding-; by
 
 
 
 
f55-
which is meant, religious knowledge; for it follows : " Then
shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord, and find the
knowledge of God." By which undoubtedly he meant, to
inquire after every thing he has permitted us to know, and
not search into those ways that are uncharitable, and are
effectually locked up from our knowledge.—Now, <c as
lis'ening to the voice of Providence,*' is my present subject,
1 intend, in the first place, to write to those who own—1.
That there is a God, a first great moving cause of all things,
an eternal power, prior, and consequently superior to all
created power or being.—2. That this eternal power, which
is God, is the sovereign creator and governor of heaven and
earth.
To avoid all needless distinctions, what persons in the God-
head exercise the creating, and what the governing power,
1 offer that glorious text, Psal. xxiii. 6. where the whole
Trinity is entitled to the whole creating work; and therefore*
in, the next place, I shall lay down these two propositions:
I. That the eternal God guides, by his Providence, the
whole universe, which was created by his power.
II. That this Providence manifests a particular care over,
and concern in, the governing and directing man, the most
noble creature upon earth.
It is plain, that natural religion proves the first, by inti-
mating the necessity of a Providence guiding and govern-
ing the world, from the consequence of the wisdom, justice,
prescience, and goodness of the Almighty Creator: for
otherwise it would be absurd to think, that God should
create a world, wthout any care or providence over it, ui
guiding the operations of nature, so as to preserve the
order of his creation.
Revealed religion gives us a light into the care and con-
cern of his providence, by the climate's being made habit-
able, the creatures subjected and made nourishing, and all
vegetative life made medicinal; and all this for the sake of
man, who is made viceroy to the King of the earth. The
short description I shall give of Providence is this: "That
it is that operation of the power, of the wisdom, justice,
and goodness of God, by which he influences, governs, and
directs, not only the means, but the events of all things,
which concern us in this sublunary world; the sovereignty
of which we ought always to reverence, obey its motions,
observe its dictates, and listen to its voice* <SJbe prudent
 
man fureseeth the evil, and hideth himself; that is, as I take
it, there is a secret Providence intimates to us, that some
danger threatens, if we strive not to shun it."
The same day that Sir John Hotham kept out Hull against
the royal Martyr King Charles I. the same day Sir John
Hotham was put to death hy the parliament for that very
action: The same day that the King himself signed the war-
rant for the execution of the Earl of Stafford, the same day
of the month was he barbarously murdered by the blood-
thirsty Oliverian crew: and the same day that King James IL
came to the crown against the bill of exclusion, the same
day he w^as voted, abdicated by the parliament, and the
throne filled with King William and Queen Mary.
The voice of signal deliverances from sudden danger, is
not only a just call to repentance, but a caution against fall-
ing iuto the like danger: but such who are utterly careless
of themselves after, show a lelhargy of the worst nature,
which seems to me to be a kind of practical atheism, or at
least living in a contempt of Heaven, when he receives
good at the hand of his Maker, but is unconcerned from
whence it comes, or to thank the bountiful hand that gave
it; neither,, when he receives evil, does it alter his manner
of life or bring him to any state of humiliation.
We have a remarkable story of two soldiers being con-
demned to death in Flnnders. The General being prevailed
upon to spare one of them, ordered them to cast dice upon
the drunvhead for their lives; the first having thrown two
sixes, the second fell a wringing his hands,, having so poor a
chance to escape; however, having thrown he was surprised
when he also threw other two sixes. The officer appointed
to see the execution, ordered them to throw again; they
did so, and each of them threw fives; at which the soldiers
that stood round, shouted, and said, neither of them was to
die. Upon this, the officer acquainted the council of nar,
who ordered them to throw a third time, when they threw
two fours: the General being acquainted with it, sent for
the men, and pardoned them; 1 love, said he, in such ex»
traordinary cases,, to listen to the voice of Providence*
We read in the holy writings, how God speaks to men
by appearances of angels, or by dreams and visions of the
Otght. As God appeared to Abraham, Lot, and Jacob;
so angels ham appeared to many in other cases, as to Ma*
»o&h aod idf^ites Zachariah8 the Virgin Mary, and to iht
 
Apostles: others have been warned in a dream, as King
Auimelech, the false prophet Balaam, and many others.
It is certainly a very great and noble inquiry, " What we
shall be after this life ?* for there is scarce a doubt that
there is a place reserved for the reception of" our souls after
death: for if we are to be, we must have a where, which
the Scriptures assert by the examples of Dives and Lazarus.
The doctrine of spirits was long believed before our Sa-
viour's time; for when the disciples of the blessed Jesus
perceived our Saviour walking on the sea, they were as
much surprised as though they had seen a spirit. Nay, in
those ages of the world, it was believed that spirits inter-
meddled in the affairs of mankind; and throughout the Old
Testament, I do not find any thing that in the least con-
tradicts it. All the pains and labour that some learned men
have taken, to confute the story of the witch of Endor, and
the appearances of an old man personating Samuel, cannot
make such apparitions, inconsistent with nature or religion;
and it is plain, that it was either a good or a bad spirit, that
prophetically told the unfortunate king, what should happen
the next day: for, said the spirit, "The Lord will deliver
thee into the hands of the Philistines; and to-morrow shalt
thou and thej sons be with me."
Abundance of strange notions, possessed me, when I was
in the desolate island; especially on a moonshine night,
when every bush seemed a man, and every tree a man on
horseback. When I crept in the dismal cave where the
old goat lay expiring, whose articulate groans even resem-
bled those of a man, how was I surprised! my blood chil-
led in my veins, a cold sweaty dew sat on my forehead,
my hair stood upright, and my joints, like Belshazzar's
knees, struck against one another. And, indeed, though I
afterwards found what it was, the remains of this surprise
did not wear off for a great while; and I had frequently
returns of those vapours on different occasions, and some-
times without any occasion at all.
One night, after having seen some appearance in the air,
as I had just laid down in my bed, one of my feet pained
me; after that came a numbness, succeeded with a tingling
in my blood; when on a sudden 1 thought something alive
lay upon me, from my knee to above half my leg. Upon
this I flung myself out of bed where 1 thought the creature
lay; but finding nothing, "Lord, deliver me Trom an evil
 
 
spirit," said I; "what can this be?" When I lighted a
candle, I could perceive no living creature, in the place
with me, but the poor parrot, who being frightened, cried
out, w Hold your tongue,1' and "What's the matter with
you f" which words 1 had taught him by saying so to him,
when he had made such screaming noises as I did not like.
"Lord," said I aloud, "surely the devil has been here.
"Hold your tongue," says Poll. I was then mad at the
bird, and putting on my clothes, cried, *• I am terribly
frightened." "W7 hat's the matter with you?" says Poll.
"You toad," said I, " I'll knock your brains out." « Hold
your tongue," cried he again, and so fell a chattering,
and called Robinson Crusoe, as he did before. But after
I had composed myself, and went to bed again, 1 began
plainly to see it was a distemper that affected my nerves,
and so my terrors vanished at once.
How intelligences are given or received, we do not know;
nor are we sensible how they are convened, from spirits em-
bodied to ours that are in life; or, on the contrary, from us
to them; the latter is certainly done without the help of the
organs, and the former is conveyed by the understanding,
and the retired faculties of the soul.
The spirits, without the help of Voices, converse; and
the more particular discoveries of converse of the spirits,
seem to me as follow: to wit, dreams, voices, noise, im-
pulse> hints, apprehensions, involuntary sadness, &c.
Dreams of old were the ways by which God himself was
pleased to warn men what services to perform and what to
shun. Joseph was directed of God in a dream to go to
Egypt; and so were the wise men warned in a dream to
depart into their own country another way, to avoid the
fury of Herod. I am not like those who think dreams are
the mere designs of a delirious head, or the relics of a day's
perplexities or pleasures; but on the contrary, I must beg
leave to say, I never met with any capital mischief in my
life, but I had some notice of it by a dream; and had I not
been a thoughtless, unbelieving creature, I might have taken
many a warning, and avoided many of the evils I after-
wards fell into, merely by total neglect to those dreams.
I was once present at a dispute between a layman and a
clergyman, upon the subjects of dreams. The first thought
no regard should be given unto them; that their communi-
cation for the invisible to the visible world was a mere
 
chimera, without any solid foundation. For, first, said he,
if dreams were from the agency of any prescient being, the
motives would be more direct, and the discoveries more
plain, and not by allegories and emblematic fancies, ex-
pressing things imperfect and obscure. 2. Since, with the
notice of evil, there was not a power given to avoid it, it
is not likely to proceed from a spirit, but merely fortuitous.
3. That the inconstancy of such notices, in cases equally
important, proves they aid not proceed from any such agent.
4. That as our most distinct dreams had nothing in them of
any significancy, it would be irrational and vain to think
that they came from heaven. And, 5. That as men were
not always thus warned or supplied with notice of good or
evil, so all men are not alike supplied with them; and what
reason could we give, why one man or one woman should
not have the same hints as another?
To all this the clergyman gave answer: 1. That as to
the signification of dreams, and the objections against them,
and being dark and doubtful, they are expressed generally by
hieroglyphical representations, similies, allusions, and figura-
tive emblematic ways, by which means, for want of inter-
pretation, the thing was not understood, and consequently,
the evil not# shunned. 2. That we charge God foolishly,
to say, that he has given the notice of evil, without the
power to avoid it; for, if any one had not power to avoid
the evil, it was no notice to him; and it was want of giving
due heed to that notice, that men first neglected themselves,
and then charged the Judge of all the earth with injustice.
3. That we ought not to find fault with the inconstancy of
these notices, but rather with our weak understandings,
by pretending dreams, were not to be regarded, and negli-
gent when the voice really spoke to us for our good. It is
a mistake to say dreams have no import at ail; we might,
with more reason, have said, none that we could perceive
the reason of, owing to our blindness and supine negligence,
too secure at one time, and too much alarmed at another;
so that the spirit, which we might be said to be conversing
with in a dream, was constantly and equally kind and care-
ful . but our powers are not always in the same state of
action, not equally attentive to, or retentive of the hints
that were given. And, 4. To answer the last question,
Why people are not equally supplied? This seems to be
no question; for Providence itself might have some share in
 
S60
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
the direction of it, and then that Providence might be li-
mited by a superior direction; that as to the converse of
spirits, he could not call it a stated converse: such a thing
there was, but why there was so much of it, and no more,
was none of his business, and that no such discovery had
ever yet been made to mankind. Nor were we to imagine
less of waking dreams, trances, visions, noises, hints, im-
pulses, and the waking testimonies of an invisible world,
and of the communication that there is between us and
them, which commonly entertain us with our open eyes.
One time my fancy soared on high, to see what disco-
veries I could make in those clear regions. I found that
such immense bodies as the sun, stars, planets, and moon,
in the great circle of the lower heaven, are far from being
found in the study of nature on the surface of the earth.
Here 1 saw many things that we can entertain little or no
-> notion of in a state of common life, and the emptiness of
our notion, that the planets are habitable worlds; that is,
ereated like ours^ for the subsistence and existence of man
and beast, and the preservation of the vegetative and sensi*
tive life; No, no; this is, I assure you, a world of spirits;
for here 1 saw a clear demonstration of Satan being the
prince of the power of the air9 keeping his court or camp,
with innumerable angels to attend him; but* his power is
not so great as we imagine, he cai* tempt us to the crime,
but cannot force us to commit; Humanum est peccare. Nei-
ther has the devil power to force the world into a rebellion
against heaven, though his* legions are employed among
savage nations, to set up their master for a god, who make
the heathens either worship him in person, or by his repre-
sentative, idols and monsters, with the cruel sacrifices of
human blood. Now, as to the limitations of the devil's
power, you must understand, that, as there are numbers of
evil spirits employed in mischief* so there are numbers of
good angels sent from the higher and blessed abodes to dis-
concert and oppose their measures; and this every Christian,
I hope, believes, when he prays to God, the father of spi-
rits, to give his angels charge over him while he slumber-
eth and sleepeth. For if by those preventing powers the
devil was not restrained, the earth would be subjected to
dearth, droughts, and famine: the air infected with noxious
fumes; and, in a word, mankind would be utterly destroyed,
which might oblige our Maker (if I may be allowed the
 
expression) to the necessity of a new fiat, or else have no
more creatures to honour and worship him.
As the devil never wanted insinuators, I shall observe
that I learned a way how to make a man dream of what I
pleased. For instance, let us suppose one to be sound
asleep; let another lay his mouth close to his ear, and whis-
per any thing so softly, as not to awake him, the sleeping
man shall dream of what has been so whispered in his ears;
nay, I can assure you, those insinuating devils can do this
even when we are awake, which I call impulses of the mind;
for from whence, but from these insinuators, come our cause-
less passions, involuntary wickedness, or sinful desires? Who
else form ideas in the mind of man when he is asleep, or pre-
sent terrible or beautiful figures to his fancy? Mr. Milton
represents the devil tempting Eve in the shape of a toad,
lying just at her ear, when in her bower she lay fast asleep;
and brings in Eve telling Adam what an uneasy night's
rest she had, and relating her dream to him. And likewise
I believe that good spirits have the same intercourse with
us, in warning us against those things that are evil, and
prompting us to that which is good.
Were we to have the eyes of our souls opened, through
the eyes of our bodies, we should see this very immediate
region of air which we breathe in thronged with spirits
now invisible, and which otherwise would be the most ter-
rible; we should view the secret transactions of those mes-
sengers who are employed when the parting soul takes its
leave of the reluctant body, and perhaps see things Nature
would shrink back from with the utmost terror and amaze-
ment. In a word, the curtain of Providence for the dis-
position of things here, and the curtain of judgment for the
determination of the state of souls hereafter, would be alike
drawn back; and what heart could support here its future
state of life much less that of its future state after life,
even good or bad.
A gentleman of my acquaintance, being about seven miles
distant from London, a friend that came to dine with him,
solicited him to go to the city. "What," said the gentle-
man, "is there any occasion tor me?" "No, sir,1' said the
other, "nothing at all, except the enjoyment of your good
company and so gave over importuning him. Just then
a strong impulse of mind urged the gentleman, and pursued
him like a voice, with, "Go to London, Go to Loadon."
 
 
u Hark ye," says he to his friend, "is all well at London?
Am I wanted there? Or, did you ask me to go with you on
any particular account? Are all my family well f" <c Yes,
indeed, Sir,1' said he, "I perceived them all very hearty;
and I did not ask you to go to London upon any particular
account whatsoever, except it was for the sake of your good
company." Again he put off his resolution; but still the
impulse suggested to him, "Go to London and at length
he did so. When he came there, he found a letter, and a
messenger had been there to seek him, and to tell him of a
particular business, which was at first and last above a thou-
sand pounds to him, and which might inevitably have been
lost, had he not gone to London that night.
The obeying of several hints, or secret impulses, argues
great wisdom. I knew a man that was under misfortunes,
being guilty of misdemeanors against the government;
when, absconding for fear of his ruin, all his friends advis-
ing him not to put himself into the hands of the law, one
morning as he awaked, he felt a strong impulse darting into
his mind thus, "Write a letter to them; and this was
repeated several times to his mind, and at last answered
to it, as if it had been a voice, "Whom shall I write to ?'*
Immediately it replied, "Write to the Judge:" and this
impulse pursued him for several days, till at length he took
pen, ink, and paper, and sat down to write to him: when
immediately woras flowed from his pen like streams from
a fair fountain, that charmed even himself with hopes of
success. In short, the letter was so strenuous in argument,
so pathetic in its eloquence, and so persuasively moving,
that when the judge had read it, he sent him an answer, he
might be easy, he would endeavour to make that matter
light to him: and indeed, never left exerting himself till
he had stopt the prosecution, and restored him to his liberty
and family.
While I am mentioning these things, methinks it is very
hard that we should obey the whispers of evil spirits, and
not much rather receive the notices which good ones are
pleased to give. We never perceive the misfortune of this,
but when in real danger, and then we cry u My mind mis-
gave me when I was going about it:" but if so, why do you
slight the caution? Why not listen to it as to a voice? and
then there had been no reason to make this complaint.
I remember about fourteen or fifteen years ago (as to
 
 
 
263
time I cannot be very positive) there was a young clergy-
man in the city of Dublin, in Ireland, who dreamed a very
uncommon dream, That a gentleman had killed his wife, a
relation of his, by stabbing her in several places; the fright
of this awakened him, but finding it a dream, he composed
himself again to sleep, when he dreamed a second time the
same dream. This made him a little uneasy; but thinking
it proceeded from the impression made upon his mind, by the
former, he went to sleep again, and dreamed the same
dream a third time also. So troubled was he at this, that
he rose, and knocked at his mother's chamber, told his
concern, and his apprehensions, that all was not right at his
relation's house. -M Dear Son," says the good old gentle-
woman, " do not mind those foolish dreams; and I very
much wonder, that you being a person in holy orders should
have regard to such illusions." Upon this he went to bed
again, fell asleep, and dreamed a fourth time as before.—-
And then indeed he put on his night-gown, and went to
Smithfield, the place where his relation dwelt. Here it
was, alas! he perceived his dream too sadly fulfilled, by
seeing his relation, the young lady, big with child, who was
a protestant, stabbed in several places by her barbarous
husband, Mr. Eustace, a violent Papist, only for some dis-
course of religion thai happened the day before. After
the wretch had stabbed her in three places, he went to
make his escape out at a window; but she cried out,
"My dear! don't leave me, come back and I shall be well
again." At which he returned in a hellish rage, and gave
her four wounds more; when even in this condition, rising
from her bed, she wrapped herself in her night-gown, and
went to the Lord Bishop of Rapho's chamber door, (the
Bishop lodging at that time in the house,) " My Lord," said
she, "O my lord make haste unto me ;* but as soon as
his Lordship came, she expired in his arms, resigning her
precious soul unto the hands of Almighty God. The cruel
wretch, (her husband,) was shot by the pursuers; too good a
death for one who deserved the* gibbet; and the lady was
universally lamented by all tender and religious people.
And this tragical relation I have mentioned, upon the ac-
count of that impluse, or dream, that the clergyman had
at the fatal time of the bloody action.
Some people make a very ill use of the general notion,
that there are no apparitions nor spirits at all: which is
 
 
 
worse than those who fancy they see them upon every oc-
casion; for those carry their notions further, even to an-
nihilate the devil, and believe nothing about him, neither
of one kind or other: the next step they come to, is to
conclude, "There is no God, " and so atheism takes its
rise in the same sink, with a carelessness about futurity.
But there is no occasion to enter upon an argument to prove
the being of the Almighty, or to illustrate the power by
words, who has so many undeniable testimonies in the
breast of every rational being to prove his existence: and
we have sufficient proofs enough to convince us of the
great superlntendency of Divine Providence in the minutest
affairs of this world; the manifest existence of the invi-
sible world; the reality of spirits, and intelligence between
us and them. What 1 have said, I hope, will not mislead
any person, or be a means whereby they may delude them-
selves; for I have spoken of these tilings with the utmost
seriousness of mind, and with a sincere and ardent desire
for the general good and benefit of the world.
 
THE END,
 
J. M'Gou an and Son, Great Windmill Street*
!
* 4
 
