Robinson Crusoe.
DANIEL DEFOE.
»n -
NEW YORK:
THE F. M. LUPTON PUBLISHING OOMPAWY,
Nos. 72-76 Walker Street.
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
SECTION 1.
fiobinson's Family, etc.—His Elopement from his Parents.
I was born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of a
good family, though not of that country, my father being
a foreigner of Bremen, named Kreutznaer, who settled
first at Hull. He got a good estate by merchandise, and
leaving off his trade, lived afterward at York; from whence
he had married my mother, whose relations were named
Robinson, a very good family in that country, and after
whom I was so called, that is to say, Robinson Kreutznaer;
but, by the usual corruption of words in England, we are
now called, nay, we call ourselves, and write our name,
Crusoe; and so my companions always called me.
I had two elder brothers, one of whom was lieutenant-
colonel to an English regiment of foot in Flanders, former-
ly commanded by the famous Colonel Lockhart, and waa
killed at the battle near Dunkirk against the Spaniards.
What became of my second brother, I never knew, any
more than my father and mother did know what was be-
come of me.
Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any
trade, my head began to be filled very early with rambling
thoughts. My father, who was very aged, had given me a
competent share of learning, as far as house education and
a country free school generally go, and designed me for the
law; but 1 would be satisfied with nothing but going to
sea; and my inclination to this led me so strongly against
the will, nay, the commands of my father, and against all
the entreaties and persuasion of my mother and other
friends, that there seemed to be something fatal in that
propension of nature, tending directly to the life of misery
which was to befall me.
My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and
excellent counsel against what he foresaw was my deiign.
He called me one morning into his chamber, where he was
confined by the gout, and expostulated very warmly with
me upon this subject: he asked me what reasons, more
than a mere wandering inclination, I had for leaving his
house, and my native country, where I might be well in-
troduced, and had a prospect of raising my fortune, by ap-
plication and industry, with a life of ease and pleasure. He
told me it was men of desperate fortunes, on one hand, or
of superior fortunes, on the other, who went abroad upon
adventures, aspiring to rise by enterprise, and make them-
selves famous in undertakings of a nature out of the com-
mon road; that these things were all either too far above
me, or too far below me; that mine was the middle state,
or what might be called the upper station of low life,
which he had found, by long experience, was the best state
in the world, the most suited to human happiness; not ex-
posed to the miseries and hardships, the labor and suffer-
ings, of the mechanic part of mankind, and not embar-
rassed with the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of the
upper part of mankind: he told me, 1 might judge of the
happiness of this state by one thing, viz., that this was the
state of life which all other people envied; that kings have
frequently lamented the miserable consequences of being
born to great things, and wished they had been placed in
the middle of two extremes, between the mean and the
great; that the wise man gave his testimony to this as the
just standard of true felicity, when he prayed to have
"neither poverty nor riches."
He bade me observe it, and I should always find, that
the calamities of life were shared among the upper and
lower part of mankind; but that the middle station had
the fewest disasters, and was not exposed to so many vicis-
situdes as the higher or lower part of mankind: nay, they
were not subjected to so many distempers and uneasinesses,
either of body or mind, as those were, who, by vicious liv-
ing, luxury, and extravagancies, on one hand, or, by hard
labor, want of necessaries, and mean and insufficient diet,
on the other hand, bring distempers upon themselves by
the natural consequences of their way of living; that the
middle station of lite was calculated for all kind of virtues,
and all kind of enjoyments: that peace and plenty were
the handmaids of a middle fortune; that temperance,
moderation, quietness, health, society, all agreeable diver-
sions, and all desirable pleasures were the blessings attend-
ing the middle station of life; that this way men went
silently and smoothly through the world, and comfortably
out of it, not embarrassed with the labors of the hands or
of the head, not sold to the life of slavery for daily bread,
or harassed with perplexed circumstances, which rob the
soul of peace, and the body of rest; not enraged with the
passion of envy, or secret burning lust of ambition for
great things; but, in easy circumstances, sliding gently
through the world, and sensibly tasting the sweets of liv-
ing, without the bitter; feeling that they are happy, and
learning by every day's experience to know it more
sensibly.
After this he pressed me earnestly, and in the most
affectionate manner, not to play the young man, nor to
precipitate myself into miseries which nature, and the
station of life I was born in, seemed to have provided
against; that I was under no necessity of seeking my bread;
that he would do well for me, and endeavor to enter me
fairly into the station of life which he had been just recom-
mending to me; and that if 1 was not very easy and happy
in the world, it must be my mere fate, or fault, that must
,binder it; and that he should have nothing to answer for,
having thus discharged his duty in warning me against
measures which he knew would be to my hurt; in a word,
that as he would do very kind things for me if I would stay
and settle at home as he directed, so he would not have so
much hand in my misfortunes as to give me any encour-
agement to go away; and, to close all, he told me 1 had
my elder brother for an example, to whom he had used the
same earnest persuasions to keep him from going into the
Low Country wars; but could not prevail, his young de-
sires prompting him to run into the army, where he was
killed; and though, he said, he would not cease to pray for
me, yet he would venture to say to me, that if I did take
this foolish step, God would not bless me: and I would
have leisure, hereafter, to reflect upon having neglected
his counsel, when there might be none to assist in my
recovery.
I observed, in this last part of his discourse, which was
truly prophetic, though, I suppose, my father did not know
it to be so himself; I say, I observed the tears run down
his face very plentifully, especially when he spoke of my
brother who was killed; and that, when he spoke of my
having leisure to repent, and none to assist me, he was so
moved, that he broke off the discourse, and told me his
heart was so full he could say no more to me.
1 was sincerely affected with this discourse; as, indeed,
who could be otherwise? and I resolved not to think of go-
ing abroad any more, but to settle at home, according to
my father's desire. But alas! a few days wore it all off:
and, in short, to prevent any of my father's further im-
portunities, in a few weeks after 1 resolved to run quite
away from him. However, 1 did not act so hastily, neither,
as my first heat of resolution prompted; but I took my
mother, at a time when I thought her a little pleasanter
than ordinary, and told her that my thoughts were so en-
tirely bent upon seeing the world, that I should never settle
to anything with resolution enough to go through with it,
and my father had better give me his consent than force
me to go without it; that 1 was now eighteen years old,
which was too late to go apprentice to a trade, or clerk to
an attorney; that 1 was sure, if I did, I should never serve
out my time, and 1 should certainly run away from my
master before my time was out, and go to sea; and if she
would speak to my father to let me make but one voyage
abroad, if I came home again, and did not like it, I would
go no more; and I would promise by a double diligence, to
recover the time I had lost.
This put my mother into a great passion; she told me
she knew it would be to no purpose to speak to my father
upon any such a subject; that he knew too well what was
my interest to give his consent to anything so much for my
hurt; and that she wondered how I could think of any
such thing, after such a discourse as I had from my father,
and such kind and tender expressions as she knew my
father had used to me; and that, in short, if 1 would ruin
myself, there was no help for me; but 1 might depend I
should never have their consent to it; that for her part,
she would not have so much hand in my destruction; and
I should never have it to say that my mother was willing
when my father was not.
Though my mother refused to move it to my father, yet,
as 1 have heard afterward, she reported all the discourse to
him; and that my father, after showing a great concern at
it, said to her with a sigh, Thac boy might be happy if he
would stay at home; but if he goes abroad, he will be the
most miserable wretch that ever was born: I can give no
consent to it.
It was not till almost a year after this that 1 broke loose;
though in the meantime I continued obstinately deaf to all
proposals of settling to business, and frequently expostulat-
ing with my father and mother about their being so posi-
tively determined against what they knew my inclinations
prompted me to. But being one day at Hull, whither I
went casually, and without any purpose of making an
elopement at that time, and one of my companions then
going to London by sea in his father's ship, and prompting
me to go with them by the common allurement of seafar-
ing men, viz., that it should cost me nothing for my pass-
age, I consulted neither father nor mother any more, nor
so much as sent them word of it; but left them to hear of
it as they might, without asking God's blessing, or my
father's, without any consideration of circumstances or
consequences, and in an ill hour, God knows.
SECTION 11.
First Adventures at Sea, and Experience of a Maritime Life.—Voy-
age to Guinea.
On the 1st of September, 1651, I went on board a ship
bound for London. Never any young adventurer's mis-
fortunes, 1 believe, began younger, or continued longer,
than mine. The ship had no sooner got out of the Hum-
ber, than the wind began to blow, and the waves to rise,
in a most frightful manner; and as I had never been at sea
before, I was most inexpressibly sick in body, and terrified
in mind: I began now seriously to reflect upon what I had
done, and how justly I was overtaken by the judgment of
Heaven for wickedly leaving my father's house. All the
good counsels of my parents, my father's tears, and my
mother's entreaties, came now fresh into my mind; and
ray conscience, which was not yet come to the pitch of
hardness to which it has been since, reproached me with
the contempt of advice and the abandonment of my duty.
All this while the storm increased, and the sea, which I
had never been upon before, went very high, though noth-
ing like what I have seen many times since; no, nor what
1 saw a few days after; but, such as it was, enough to
affect me then, who was but a young sailor, and had never
known anything of the matter. 1 expected every wave
would have swallowed us up, and that every time the ship
fell down, as I thought, in the trough or hollow of the sea,
we should never rise more; and in this agony of mind I
made many vows and resolutions, that if it would please
God to spare my life this voyage, if ever 1 got my foot once
on dry land, I would go directly home to my father, and
never set it into a ship again while 1 lived; that I would
take his advice, and never run myself into such miseries as
these any more. Now I saw plainly the goodness of his
observations about the middle station of life; how easy,
how comfortable, he had lived all his days, and never had
been exposed to tempests at sea or troubles on shore; and
I resolved that I would, like a true repenting prodigal, go
home to my father.
These wise and sober thoughts continued during the
storm, and indeed some time after; but the next day, as
the wind was abated, and the sea calmer, I began to be a
little inured to it. However, I was very grave that day,
being also a little sea-sick still; but toward night the
weather cleared up, the wind was quite over, and a charm-
ing fine evening followed; the sun went down perfectly
clear, and rose so the next morning; and having little or
no wind, and a smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, the
sight was, as 1 thought, the most delightful that I ever
saw.
1 had slept well in the night, and was now no more sea-
sick, but very cheerful, looking with wonder upon the sea
that was so rough and terrible the day before, and could be
so calm and pleasant in a little time after.
And now, lest my good resolutions should continue, my
companion, who had indeed enticed me away, came to me,
and said, Well, Bob, clapping me on the shoulder, how do
you do after it? I warrant you "you were frightened,
wa'n't you, last night, when it blew but a capful of wind?
—A capful, do.you call it? said I; 'twas a terrible storm.
—A storm, you fool! replies he, do you call thai a storm?
Why, it was nothing at all; give us but a good ship, and
sea-room, and we think nothing of such a squall of wind as
that: you are bar & fresh-water sailor, Bob; come, let us
make a bowl of pwnch, and we'll forget all that . D'ye see
what charming weather 'tis now? To make short this sad
part of my story, we went the way of all sailors; the punch
was made, and I was made drunk with it; and in that one
night's wickedness I drowned all my repentance, all my re-
flections upon my past conduct, and all my resolutions for
the future. In a word, as the sea was returned to its
smoothness of surface and settled calmness by the abate-
ment of the storm, so the hurry of my thoughts being
over, my fears and apprehensions of being swallowed up by
the sea iorgotten, and the current of my former desires re-
turned, I entirely forgot the vows and promises 1 had made
in my distress. I found, indeed, some intervals of reflec-
tion; and serious thoughts did, as it were, endeavor to re-
turn again sometimes; but I shook them off and roused
myself from them, as it were from a distemper, and, ap-
plying myseif to drink and company, soon mastered the
Teturn of those fits—for so I called them; and 1 had in five
or six days got as complete a victory over conscience as any
young sinner, that resolved not to be troubled with it,
could desire. But 1 was to have another trial for it still;
and Providence, as in such cases generally it does, resolved
to leave me entirely without excuse: for if I would not take
this for a deliverance, the next was to be such a one as the
worst and most hardened wretch among us would confess
both the danger and the mercy of. The sixth day of our
being at sea we came into Yarmouth Roads; the wind hav-
ing been contrary and the weather calm, we had made be*
little way since the storm. Here we were obliged to com*
to an anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing con-
trary, viz., at south-west, for seven or eight days, during
which time a great many ships from Newcastle came into
the same roads, as the common harbor where the ships
might wait for a wind for the River Thames. We had not,
however, rid here so long, but we should have tided up the
river, but that the wind blew too fresh; and, after we had
lain four or five days, blew very hard. However, the roads
being reckoned as good as a harbor, the anchorage good,
and c-nr ground tackle very strong, our men were uncon-
cerned, and not in the leaRt apprehensive of danger, but
spent the time in rest and mirth, after the manner of the
sea. But the eighth day, in the morning, the wind in*
creased, and we had all hands at work to strike our top-
masts, and make everything snug and close, that the ship
might ride as easy as possible. By noon the sea went very
high indeed, and our ship rode forecastle in, shipped several
seas, and we thought, once or twice, our anchor had come
home; upon which our master ordered out the sheet
anchor; so that we rode with two anchors ahead, and the
cables veered out to the better end.
By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now I
began to see terror and amazement in the faces of even the
seamen themselves. The master was vigilant in the busi-
ness of preserving the ship; but, as he went in and out of
his cabin by me, I could hear him softly say to himself
several times, Lord, be merciful to us! we shall be all lost;
we shall be all undone! and the like. During these first
hurries I was stupid, lying still in my cabin, which was in
the steerage, and can not describe my temper. I could ill
reassume the first penitence, which I had so apparently
trampled upon, and hardened myself against; I thought
that the bitterness of death had been past, and that this
would be nothing too, like the first: but when the master
himself came by me, as I said just now, and said we should
be all lost, I was dreadfully frightened. I got up out of
my cabin, and looked out; but such a dismal sight 1 never
saw; the sea went mountains high, and broke upon us
every three or four minutes. When I could look about, I
could see nothing but distress around us; two ships, that
rid near us, we found had cut their masts by the board,
being deeply laden; and our men cried out that a ship
which rid about a mile ahead of us was foundered. Two
more ships, being driven from their anchors, were run out
of the roads to sea, at all adventures, and that with not a
mast standing. The light ships fared the best, as not sn
much laboring in the sea; but two or three of them drove,
and came close by us, running away, with only their sprit-
sails out, before the wind. Toward evening, the mate and
boatswain begged the master of our ship to let them cut
away the foremast, which he was very loath to do; but the
boatswain protesting to him, that if he did not, the ship
would founder, he consented; and when they had cut away
the foremast, the mainmast stood so loose, and shook the
snip bo much, they were obliged to out it away also, and
make a clear deck,
Any one may judge what a condition I must be in at all
this, who was but a young sailor, and who had been in such
a fright before at but a little. But if I can express, at this
distance, the thoughts 1 had about me at that time, I was
in tenfold more horror of mind upon account of my former
convictions, and the having returned from them to the res-
olutions I had wickedly taken at first, than I was at death
itself; and these, added to the terror of the storm, put me
into such a condition that I can by no wards describe it.
But the worst was not come jet; the storm continued with
such fury that the seamen themselves acknowledged they
had never known a worse. We had a good ship, but she
was deep laden, and so wallowed in the sea, that the sea-
men every now and then cried out she would founder. It
was my advantage, in one respect that 1 did not know what
tpey meant by founder, till I inquired. However, the
storm was so violent that 1 saw, what is not often seen, the
master, the boatswain, and some others, more sensible than
the rest, at their prayers, and expecting every moment the
ship would go to the bottom. In the middle of the night,
and under all the rest of our distresses, one of the men.,
that had been down on purpose to see, cried out, we had
sprung a leak; another said there was four feet of water in
the hold. Then all hands were called to the pump. At
that very word my heart, as I thought, died within me,
and 1 fell backward upon the side of my bed, where I sat
in the cabin. However, the men roused me, and told me
that I, who was able to do nothing before, was as well able
to pump as another: at which 1 stirred up and went to the
pump, and worked very heartily. While this was doing,
the master seeing some light colliers, who, not able to ride
out the storm, were obliged to slip and run away to sea,
and would not come near us, ordered us to fire a gur>, as; a
signal of distress. I, who knew nothing what that meant,
was so surprised, that I thought the ship had broke, or
some dreadful thing had happened. In a word, I was so
surprised, that I fell down in a swoon. As this was a time
when everybody had his own life to think of, no one mind-
ed me, or what was become of me: but another man
stepped up to the pump, and thrusting me aside with his
foot, let me lie, thinking I had been dead; and it was a
great while before I came to myself.
We worked on; but the water increasing in the hold, it
-
was apparent that the ship would founder; and though the
storm began to abate a little, yet as it was not possible she
could swim till we might run into a port, the master
continued firing guns for help; and a light ship, who had
rid it out just ahead of us, ventured a boat out to help us.
It was with the utmost hazard the boat came near us, but
it was impossible for us to get on board, or for the boat to
lie near the ship's side; till at last the men rowing very
heartily, and venturing their lives to save ours, our men
cast them a rope over the stern with a buoy to it, and then
veered it out a great length, which they, after great labor,
and hazard, took hold of, and we hauled them close under
our stern, and got all into their boat. It was to no pur-
pose for them or us, after we were in the boat, to think of
reaching their own ship; so all agreed to let her drive, and
only to pull her in toward shore as much as we could; and
our master promised them, that if the boat was staved
upon shore, he would make it good to their master; so,
partly rowing and partly driving, our boat went away to
the northward, sloping toward the shore almost as far as
Winterton-Ness.
We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out
of our ship when we saw her sink; and then I understood,
for the first time, what was meant by a ship foundering in
the sea. 1 must acknowledge, I had hardly eyes to look
up when the seamen told me she was sinking; for, from
that moment, they rather put me into the boat, than that
1 might be said to go in. My heart was, as it were, dead
within me, partly with fright, partly with horror of mind,
and the thoughts of what was yet before me.
While we were in this condition, the men yet laboring at
the oar to bring the boat near the shore, we could see
(when, our boat mounting the waves, we were able to see
the shore) a great many people running along the strand,
to assist us when we should come near; but we made slow
way toward the shore; nor were we able to reach it, till,
being past the light-house at Winterton, the shore falls off
to the westward, toward Cromer, and so the land broke off
a little the violence of the wind. . Here we got in, and,
though not without much difficulty, got all safe on shore,
and walked afterward on foot to Yarmouth; where, as un-
fortunate men, we were used with great humanity, as well
by the magistrates of the town, who assigned us good
quarters, as by the particular merchants and owners of
ships: and had money given us sufficient to carry us either
to London or back to Hull, as we thought fit.
Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull, and
have gone home, 1 had been happy: and my father, an
emblem of our blessed Saviour's parable, had even killed
the fatted calf for me; for, hearing the ship I went in was
cast away in Yarmouth Roads, it was a great while before
he had any assurance that I was not drowned.
But my ill fate pushed me on with an obstinacy that
nothing could resist; and though I had several times loud
calls from my reason, and my more composed judgment,
to go home, yet I had no power to do it.—1 know not what
to call this, nor will I urge that it is a secret, overruling
decree, that hurries us on to be the instruments of our own
destruction, even though it be before us, and that we rush
upon it with our eyes open. Certainly, nothing but some
such decreed unavoidable misery attending, and which it
was impossible for me to escape, could nave pushed me
forward against the calm reasonings and persuasions of my
most retired thoughts, and against two such visible instruc-
tions as I had met with in my first attempt
.
My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and
who was the master's son, was now less forward than I;
the first time he spoke to me after we were at Yarmouth,
which was not till two or three days, for we were separated
in the town to several quarters; I say, the first time he saw
me, it appeared his tone was altered, and, looking very
melancholy, and shaking his head, he asked me how I did;
telling his father who I was, and how I had come this voy-
age only for a trial, in order to go further abroad. His
father, turning to me, with a grave and concerned tone,
Young man, says be, you ought never to go to sea any
more; you ought to take this for a plain and visible token,
that you are not to be a seafaring man.—Why, sir? said I;
will you go to sea no more?—That is another case, said he;
it is my calling, and therefore my duty; but as you made
this voyage for a trial, you see what a taste Heaven has
given you of what you are to expect if you persist. Per-
haps this has all befallen us on your account, like Jonah in
the ship of Tarshish.—Pray, continues he, what are you,
and on what account did you go to sea? Upon that I told
him some of my story; at the end of which he burst out
with a strange kind of passion. What had I done, said ne,
that such an unhappy wretch should come into my ship?
I would not set my foot in the same ship with thee again
for a thousand pounds. This indeed was, as 1 said, an ex-
cursion of his spirits, which were yet agitated by the sense
of his loss, and was further than he could have authority
to go.—However, he afterward talked very gravely to me.
exhorted me to go back to my father, and not tempt Provi-
dence to my ruin; told' me, I might see a visible hand of
Heaven against me; and, young man, said he, depend upon
it, if you do not go back, wherever you go, you will meet
with nothing but disasters and disappointments, till your
father's words are fulfilled upon you.
We parted soon after, for 1 made him little answer, and
I saw him no more; which way he went, I know not; as
for me, having some money in my pocket, I traveled to
London by land; and there, as well as on the road, had
many struggles with myself what course of life 1 should
take, and whether I should go home or go to sea. As to
going home, shame opposed the best motions that offered
to my thoughts; and it immediately occurred to me how I
should be laughed at among the neighbors, and should be.
ashamed to see, not my father and mother only, but even
everybody else. From whence I have often since observed,
how incongruous and irrational the common temper oi
mankind is, especially of youth, to that reason which ought
to guide them in such cases, viz., that they are not
ashamed to sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not
ashamed of the action, for which they ought justly to be
esteemed fools; but are ashamed of the returning, which
only can make them be esteemed wise men.
In this state of life, however, I remained some time, un-
certain what measures to take, and what course of life to
lead. An irresistible reluctance continued to going home;
and as I stayed awhile, the remembrance of the distress 1
had been in wore off; and as that abated, the little motion
1 had in my desires to a return wore off with it, till at last
I quite laid aside the thoughts of it, and looked out for a
voyage. That evil influence which carried me first away
from my father's house, that hurried me into the wild and
indigested notion of raising my fortune, and that impressed
those conceits so forcibly upon me as to make me deaf to
all good advice, and to the entreaties, and even the com*
mands of my father; I say, the same influence, whatever
it was, presented the most unfortunate of all enterprises to
my view, and I went on board a vessel bound to the coast
of Africa, or, as our sailors vulgarly call it, a voyage to
Guinea.
It was my great misfortune, that in all these adventures
1 did not ship myself as a sailor; whereby, though I might
indeed have worked a little harder than ordinary, yet, at
the same time, I had learned the duty and office of a fore-
mast-man, and in time might have qualified myself for a
mate or lieutenant, if not a master; but as it was always
my fate to choose for the worse, so I did here, for having
money in my pocket, and good clothes upon my back, I
would always go on board in the habit of a gentleman;
and so I neither had any business in the ship, nor learned
to do any. It was my lot, first of all, to fall into pretty
good company in London; which does not always happen
to such loose and misguided young fellows as I then was;
the devil, generally, not omitting to lay some snare for
them very early. But it was not so with me. 1 first fell
acquainted with the master of a ship, who had been on the
coast of Guinea, and who, having had very good success
there, was resolved to go again. He, taking a fancy to my
conversation, which was not at all disagreeable at that
time, and hearing me say I had a mind to see the world,
told me that if I would go the voyage with him, I should
be at no expense; 1 should be his messmate and his com-
panion; and if 1 could carry anything with me, 1 should
nave all the advantage of it that the trade would admit,
and perhaps I might meet with some encouragement. I
embraced the offer, and entering into a strict friendship
with this captain, who was an honest and plain-dealing
man, 1 went the voyage with him and carried a small ad-
venture with me, which, by the disinterested honesty of
my friend the captain, 1 increased very considerably; for I
carried about forty pounds in such toys and trifles as the
captain directed me to buy. This forty pounds I had mus-
tered together by the assistance of some of my relations
whom I corresponded with, and who, 1 believe, got my fa-
ther, or, at least, my mother, to contribute so much as that
to my first adventure. This was the only voyage which 1
may say was successful in all my adventures, and which 1
owe to the integrity and houesty of my friend the captain;
under whom a.V. I got a competent knowiedge of n.Mr.o
matics and the rn*es of navigation, learned how to keep an
account of the ship's course, take an observation, and, in
short, to understand some things that were needf al to be
understood by a sailor; for, as he took delight to instruct
me, I took delight to learn; and, in a word, this voyage
made me both a sailor and a merchant; for I brought home
five pounds nine ounces of 'gold dust for my adventure,
which yielded me in London, at my return, almost three
hundred pounds, and this filled me with those aspiring
thoughts which have since so completed my ruin. Yec
even in this voyage 1 had my misfortunes too; particular-
ly, that I was continually sick, being thrown into a violent
calenture by the excessive heat of the climate; our princi-
pal trading being upon the coast, from the latitude of fif-
teen degrees north, even to the Line itself.
SECTION III.
Robinson's Captivity at Sallee.—Escape with Xury.—Arrival at
the Brazils.
I was now set up for a Goinea trader, and my friend,
to my great misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I re-
solved to go the same voyage again, and 1 embarked in the
same vessel with one who was his mate in the former voy-
age, and had now got the command of the ship. This was
the unhappiest v«yage that ever man made; for though I
did not carry quite a hundred pounds of my new-gained
wealth, so that I had two hundred pounds left, and which
1 lodged with my friend's widow, who was very just to me,
yet I fell into terrible misfortunes in this voyage; and the
first was this, viz.—our ship, making her course toward
the Canary Islands, or rather between those islands and
the African shore, was surprised, in the gray of the morn-
ing, by a Turkish rover, of Sallee, who gave chase to us
with all the sail she could make. We crowded also as
much canvas as our yards would spread, or our masts
carry, to get clear; but finding the pirate gained upon us,
and would certainly come up with us in a few hours, we
prepared to fight, our ship having twelve guns and the
rover eighteen. About three in the afternoon he came up
with as, and bringing to, by mistake, just athwart our
V
quarter, instead of athwart our stern, as he intended, we
brought eight of our guns to bear on that side, and poured
in a broadside upon him, which made him sheer off again,
after returning our fire, and pouring in also his small shot
from near two hundred men which he had on board. How-
ever, we had not a man touched, all our men keeping
close. He prepared to attack us again, and we to defend
ourselves; but laying us on board the next time upon our
other quarter, he entered sixty men upon our decks, who
immediately fell to cutting and hacking the sails and rig-
ging. We plied them with small shot, half-pikes, powder-
chests, and such like, and cleared our deck of them twice.
However, to cut short this melancholy part of our story,
our ship being disabled, and three of our men killed and
eight wounded, we were obliged to yield, and were carried
all prisoners into Sallee, a port belonging to the Moors.
The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first 1
apprehended; nor was I carried up the country to the em-
peror's court, as the rest of our men were, but was kept by
the captain of the rover as his proper prize, and made his
slave, being young and nimble, and fit for his business. At
this surprising change of my circumstances, from a mer-
chant to a miserable slave, I was perfectly overwhelmed;
and now looked back upon my father's prophetic discourse
to me, that 1 should be miserable, and have none to relieve
me, which I thought was now so effectually brought to
pass that it could not be worse, that now the hand of
Heaven had overtaken me, and I was undone, without re-
demption. But, alas! this was but a taste of the misery 1
was to go through, as will appear in the sequel of this
story.
As my new patron, or master, had taken me home to his
house, so I was in hopes he would take me with him when
he went to sea again, believing that it would, some time or
other, be his fate to be taken by a Spanish or Portuguese
man-of-war, and that then I should be set at liberty. But
this hope of mine was soon taken away, for when he went
to sea he left me on shore to look after his little garden, and
do the common drudgery of slaves about his house, and when
he came home again from his cruise, he ordered me to lie
in the cabin, to look after the ship.
. Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what
method 1 might take to effect it, but found no way that
had the least probability in it. Nothing presented to
make the supposition of it rational; for I had nobody to
communicate it to that would embark with me, no fellow-
slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotchman there but
myself; so that for two years, though I often pleased my-
self with the imagination, yet I never had the least encour-
aging prospect of putting it in practice.
After about two years, an odd circumstance presented
itself, which put the old thought of making some attempt
for my liberty again in my head. My patron lying at
home longer than usual, without fitting out his ship,
which, as 1 heard, was for want of money, he used con-
stantly, once or twice a week, sometimes oftener, if the
weather was fair, to take the ship's pinnace, and go out
into the road a-fishing; and as he always took me and a
young Moresco with him to row the boat, we made him
very merry, and 1 proved very dexterous in catching fish,
insomuch that sometimes he would send me with a Moor,
one of his kinsmen, and the youth, the Moresco, as they
called him, to catch a dish of fish for him.
It happened one tims, that going a-fishing in a stark
calm morning, a fog vose so tfrick, that though we were
not half a league from the shore, we lost sight of it; and
rowing, we knew not whither, or which way, we labored
all day and all the next night, and when the morning
came, we found we had pulled off to sea, instead of pull-
ing in for the shore, and that we were at least two leagues
from the shore; however, we got well in again, though
with a great deal of labor, and some danger, for the wind
began to blow pretty fresh in the morning; but particular-
ly we were all very hungry.
But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take
more care of himself for the future; and having lying by
him the long-boat of our English ship he had taken, he re-
solved he would not go a-fishing any more without a com-
pass and some provision; so he ordered the carpenter of
the ship, who was an English slave, to build a little state-
room or cabin in the middle of the long-boat, like that of a
barge, with a place to stand behind it, to steer and haul
home the main sheet, and room before for a hand or two
to stand and work the sails. She sailed with what we
called a shoulder-of-mutton sail, and the boom jibed
ever the t»p of the cabin, which lay very snug and low,
and had in it room for him to lie, with a slave or two, and
a table to eat on, with some small lockers to put in some
bottles of such liquor as he thought fit to drink, and par-
ticularly his bread, rice, and coffee.
We went frequently out with this boat a-fishing, and aa
I was most dexterous to catch fish for him, he never went
without me. It happened that he had appointed to go out
in this boat, either for pleasure or for fish, with two or
three Moors of some distinction in that place, and for
whom he had provided extraordinarily, and had therefore
sent on board the boat, overnight, a larger store of pro-
visions than ordinary, and had ordered me to get ready
three fusees, with powder and shot, which were on board
his ship, for that they designed some sport of fowling aa
well as fishing.
I got all things ready as he directed, and waited the next
morning with the boat washed cleau,her ensign and pennants
out, and everything to accommodate his guests; when, by
and by, my patron came on board alone, and told me his
guests had put off going, upon some business that fell out,
and ordered me with a man and boy, as usual, to go out
with the boat, and catch them some fish, for that his
friends were to sup at his house, and commanded that as
soon as I had got some fish I should bring it home to his
house; all which 1 prepared to do.
This moment my former notions of deliverance darted
into my thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a
little ship at my command; and my master being gone, 1
prepared to furnish myself, not for a fishing business, but
for a voyage; though I knew not, neither did I so much as
consider, whither 1 should steer, for anywhere, to get out
of that place, was my way.
My first contrivance was to make a pretense to speak to
this Moor, to get something for our subsistence on board;
for I told him we must not presume to eat of our patron's
bread. He said that was true; so he brought a large
basket of rusk or biscuit, of their kind, and three jars with
fresh water, into the boat. 1 knew where my patron's
case of bottles stood, which, it was evident by the makev
were taken out of some English prize, and 1 conveyed
them into the boat while the Moor was on shore, as if they
had been there before our master. I conveyed also a great
lamp of beeswax into the boat, which weighed above half
a hundredweight, with a parcel of twine or thread, a
hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all which were of great use
to us afterward, especially the wax, to make candles. An-
other trick I tried upon him, which he innocently came
into also; his name was Ismael, whom they call Muley, or
Moley; so 1 called to him. Moley, said 1, our patron's guna
are on board the boat; can you not get a little powder aud
shot? it may be we may kill some alcamies (fowls like our
curlews) for ourselves, for 1 know he keeps the gunner>
stores in the ship. Yes, says he, I will bring some; and
accordingly he brought a great leather pouch, which held
about a pound and a half of powder, or rather more, and
another with shot, that had fire or six pounds, with some
bullets, and put all into the boat; at the same time 1 found
some powder of my master's in the great cabin, with which
I filled one of the large bottles in the sase, which waa
almost empty, pouring what was in it fc,to another; and
thus furnished with everything needful, we sailed out of
the port to fish The castle, which ia at the entrance of
the port, knew who we were, and tock no notice of us;
and we were not above a mile out c,i the port before wa
hauled in our sail, and set us dorm to fish. The wind
blew from NN.E., which was contrary to my desire; for,
had it blown southerly, I had been sure to have made the
coast of Spain, and at last reached to the Bay of Cadis,
but my resolutions were, blow which way it would, 1 would
be gone from the horrid place where I was, and leave the
rest to fate.
After we had fished some time and catched nothing, for
when 1 had fish on my hook I would not pull them up,
that he might not see them, I said to the Moor: This will
not do; our master will not be thus served; we must stand
further off. He, thinking no harm, agreed, and being at
the head of the boat, set th& sails; and as I had the helm,
1 run the boat near a league further, and then brought to,
as if 1 would fish. Then giving the boy the helm, 1
stepped forward to where the Moor was, and I took him
b_ surprise, with my arm under his waist, and tossed him
clear overboard into the sea. He rose immediately, for he
swan?, like a cork, and called to me, begged to be taken in,
and toid me he would go all the world over with me. He
swam so strong after the boat, that he would have reached
me very quickly, there being but little wind; upon which
I stepped into the cabin, and fetching one of the fowling-
pieces, 1 presented it at him, and told him I had done him
no hurt, and if he would be quiet I would do him none.
But, said I, you swim well enough to reach the shore, and
the sea is calm; make the best of your way to shore, and I
will do you no harm; but if you come near the boat I will
shoot you through the head; for I am resolved to have my
liberty. So he turned himself about, and swam for the
shore, and 1 make no doubt but he reached it with ease,
for he was an excellent swimmer.
I could have been content to have taken this Moor with
me and have drowned the boy, but there was no venturing
to trust him. When he was gone I turned to the boy,
whom they called Xury, and said to him: Xury, if you
will be faithful to me I will make you a great man; but if
you will not stroke your face to be true to me (that is,
swear by Mahomet and his father's beard), 1 must throw
you into the sea too. The boy smiled in my face, and
spoke so innocently, that 1 could not mistrust him, and
swore to be faithful to me and go all over the world with
me.
'While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming, 1
stood out directly to sea with the boat, rather stretching to
windward, that they might think me gone toward the
strait's mouth (as indeed any one that had been in their
wits must have been supposed to do); for who would have
supposed we were sailing on to the southward, to the truly
Barbarian coast, where whole nations of negroes were sure
to surround us with their canoes and destroy us; where we
could never once go on shore but we should be devoured
by savage beasts, or more merciless savages of human
kind?
But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening I changed my
course, and steered directly south and by east, bending my
course a little toward the east, that I might keep in with
the shore; and having a fair, fresh gale of wind, and a
smooth, quiet sea, 1 made such sail that 1 believe by the
next day, at three o'clock in the afternoon, when 1 made
the land, I could not be less than one hundred and fifty
miles south of Sallee, quite beyond the Emperor of Moroc-
co's dominions, or indeed of any other king thereabout;
for we saw no people.
Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, and
the dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into their hands,
that I would not stop, or go on shore, or come to an an-
chor, the wind continuing fair, till I had sailed in that
manner five days; and then the wind shifting to the south-
ward, I concluded also that if any of our vessels were in
chase of me, they also would now give over; so 1 ventured
to make to the coast, and came to an anchor in the mouth
of a little river; 1 knew not what or where, neither what
latitude, what country, what nation, or what river. I
neither saw, nor desired to see, any people; the principal
thing 1 wanted was fresh water. We came into this creek
in the evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon as it was
dark, and discover the country; but as soon as it was quite
dark we heard such dreadful noises of the barking, roar-
ing, and howling of wild creatures, of we knew not what
kinds, that the poor boy was ready to die with fear, and
begged of me not to go on shore till day. Well, Xury,
said I, then I will not; but it may be we may see men by
day, who will be as bad to us as those lions. Then we may
give them the shoot-gun, says Xury, laughing; make
them run away. Such English Xury spoke by conversing
among us slaves. However, 1 was glad to see the boy so
cheerful, and I gave him a dram out of our patron's case
of bottles to cheer him up. After all, Xury's advice was
good, and I took it. We dropped our little anchor, and
lay still all night; 1 say still, for we slept none; for in two
or three hours we saw vast creatures (we knew not what to
call them), of many sorts, come down to the sea-shore, and
run into the water, wallowing and washing themselves, for
the pleasure of cooling themselves, and they made such
hideous howlings and yellings, that I never indeed heard
the like.
Xury was dreadfully frightened, and indeed so was I too;
but we were both more frightened when we heard one of
these mighty creatures swimming toward our boat; we
could not see him, but we might hear him, by his blowing,
to be a monstrous, huge, and furious beast. Xury said it
was a lion, and it might be so, for aught I know; but poor
Xury cried to me to weigh the anchor and row away. No,
says 1, Xury; we can slip our cable with a buoy to it, and
go off to sea; they can not follow us far. 1 had no sooner
said so, but 1 perceived the creature (whatever it was)
within two oars' length, which something surprised me;
however, 1 immediately stepped to the cabin door, and
taking up my gun, fired at him; upon which he immedi-
ately turned about, and swam to the shore again.
But it is impossible to describe the horrible noises and
hideous cries and howlings that were raised, as well upon
the edge of the shore as higher within the country, upon
the noise or report of the gun; a thing, I believe, those
creatures had never heard before. This convinced me
there was no going on shore for us in the night upon that
coast; and how to venture on shore in the day, was another
question too; for to have fallen into the hands of any of
the savages, had been as bad as to have fallen into the
Eaws of lions and tigers; at least, we were equally appre-
ensive of the danger of it.
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore
somewhere or other for water, for we had not a pint left in
the boat; when and where to get it was the point. Xury
said if I would let him go on shore with one of the jars, he
would find if there was any water, and bring some to me.
1 asked him why he would go, why I should not go, and he
stay in the boat. The boy answered with so much affec-
tion that he made ine love him ever after. Says he, If
wild mans conn.1, they eat me, you go away. Well, Xury,
said I, we will both go; and if the wild mans come, we
will kill them; they shall eat neither of us. So I gave
X'iry a piece of rusk bread to eat and a dram out of our
patron's case of bottles, which 1 mentioned before; and we
hauled in the boat as near the shore as we thought was
proper, and so Waded-to shore, carrying nothing but our
arms, and two jars for water.
1 did not care to go out oi sight of the boat, fearing the
coming of canoes with savages down the river; but, the
boy, seeing a low place about a mile up the country, ram-
bled to it; and by and by 1 saw him come running toward
me. I thought he was pursued by some savage, or fright-
ened by some wild beast, and 1 therefore ran forward to
help him; but when I came nearer to him, I saw some-
thing hanging over his shoulders, which was a creature
that he had shot, like a hare, but different in color, and
loDger legs; however, we weie very glad of it, and it was
very good meat; but the great joy that poor Xury came
with was to tell me he had found good water and seen no
wild mans.
But we found afterward that we need net take such pains
for water; for a little higher up the creek where we were,
we found the water fresh when the tide was out, which
flowed but a little way up; so we filled our jars, and hav-
ing a fire, feasted on the hare we had killed, and prepared
to go on our way, having seen no footsteps of any human
creature in that part of the country.
As 1 had been one voyage to this coast before, 1 knew
very well that the Islands of the Canaries and the Cape de
Verd Islands also, [ay not far from the coast. But as I
had no instruments to take an observation, to find what
latitude we were in, and did not exactly know, or at least
remember, what latitude they were in, I knew not where
to look for them, or when to stand off to sea toward them,
otherwise 1 might now have easily found some of these
islands. But my hope was that if I stood along this coast
till I came to the part where the English traded, 1 should
find some of their vessels upon their usual design of trade,
that would relieve and take us in.
By the best of my calculation, the place where I now
was, must be that country which, lying between the Em-
peror of Morocco's dominions and the Negroes, lies waste
and uninhabited, except by wild beasts; the Negroes hav-
ing abandoned it, and gone further south, for fear of the
Moors, and the Moors not thinking it worth inhabiting, by
reason of its Barrenness; and, indeed both forsaking it be-
cause of the prodigious number of tigers, lions, leopards,
and other furious creatures which harbor there, so that the
Moors use it for their hunting only, where they go like an
army, two or three thousand men at a time; and, indeed,
for near a hundred miles together upon this coast, we saw
nothing but a waste, uninhabited country by day, and
heard nothing but howlings and roaring of wild beasts by
night.
Once or twice, in the day-time, I thought I saw the Pico
of Teneriffe, being the top of the mountain of Teneriffe,
in the Canaries, and had a great mind to venture out, in
hopes of reaching thither; but having tried twice, I was
forced in again By contrary winds; the sea also going too
high for my little vessel; so I resolved to pursue my first
design, and keep along the shore.
Sever*! times I was obliged to land for fresh water, after
we had left this place; and once, in particular, being early
in the merning, we came to an anchor under a little point
of land which was pretty high; and the tide beginning to
flow, we lay still, to go further in. Xury, whose eyes were
more about him than, it seems, mine were, calls softly to
me and tells me that we had best go further off the shore;
for, says he, Look, yonder lies a dreadful monster on the
side of that hillock, fast asleep. I looked where he
pointed, and saw a dreadful monster indeed, for it was a
terrible great lion, that lay on the side of the shore, under
the shade of a piece of the hill, that hung, as it were, over
him. Xury, says I, you shall go on shore and kill him.
Xury looked frightened, and said, Me kill! he eat me at
one mouth; one mouthful he meant. However, I said no
more to the boy, but bade him be still; and 1 took our
biggest gun, which was almost musket-bore, and loaded it
with a good charge of powder, and with two slugs, and laid
it down; then I loaded another gun with two bullet*; and
a third, for we had three pieces, I loaded with five smaller
bullets. 1 took the best aim 1 could with the first piece,
to have shot him in the head; but he lay so, with his leg
raised a little above his nose, that the slugs hit his leg
about the knee, and broke the bone; he started up, growl-
ing at first, but finding his leg broke, fell down again, and
then got up upon three legs, and gave the most hideous
roar that ever I heard. I was a little surprised that I had
ttot hit him on the head; however, I took up the second
piece immediately, and though he began to move off, fired
again and shot him in the head, and had the pleasure to
see him drop, and make but little noise, but lie struggling
for life. Then Xury took heart, and would have me let
him go on shore. Well, go, said I; so the boy jumped
into the water, and taking a little gun in one hand, swam
to shore with the other hand, and coming close to the creat-
ure, put the muzzle of the piece to his ear, and shot him in
the head again, which dispatched him quite.
This was game, indeed, to us, but it was no food; and 1
was very sorry to lose three charges of powder and shot
upon a creature that was good for nothing to us. How-
ever, Xury said he would have some of him; so he oomes
on board, and asked me to give him the hatchet: For
what, Xury? said I. Me cut off his head, said he. How-
ever, Xury could not cut off his head; but he cut off a
loot, and brought it with him, and it was a monstrous
X
great one. I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the
skin of him might one way or other, be of some value to
us; and I resolved to take off his skin, if I could. So
Xury and 1 went to work with him: but Xury was much
the better workman at it, for 1 knew very ill how to do it
.
Indeed, it took us both up the whole day; but at last we
got off the hide of him, and spreading it on the top of our
cabin, the sun effectually dried it in two days' time, and it
afterward served me to lie upon.
After this stop we made on to the southward continual-
ly, for ten or twelve days, living very sparingly on our
provisions, which began to abate very much, and going no
oftener into the shore than we were obliged to for fresh
water. My design in this, was to make the River Gambia,
or Senegal: that is to say, anywhere about the Cape de
Verd, where I was in hopes to meet with some European
ship; and if I did not, I knew not what course I had to
take, but to seek for the islands or perish among the
Negroes. 1 knew that all the ships from Europe, which
sailed either to the coast of Guinea, or to Brazil, or to the
East Indies, made this Cape, or those islands: and in a
word I put the whole of my fortune upon this single
point, either that I must meet with some ship, or must
perish.
"When 1 had pursued this resolution about ten days
longer, as I have said, 1 began to see that the land was in-
habited; and in two or three places, as we sailed by, we
saw people stand upon the shore to look at us: we could
also perceive they were quite black and stark naked. I was
once inclined to have gone on shore to them; but Xury
was my better counselor, and said to me: No go, no go.
However, I hauled in nearer the shore, that 1 might talk
to them; and 1 found they ran along the shore by me a
good way. I observed they had no weapons in their hands,
except one, who had a long slender stick, which Xury said
was a lance, and that they would throw them a great way
with good aim; so 1 kept at a distance, but talked to them
by signs, as well as 1 could, and particularly made signs
for something to eat. They beckoned to me to stop my
boat, and they would fetch me some meat: upon this I
lowered the top of my sail, and lay by, and two of them
ran up into the country; and in less than half an hour
came back, and brought with them two pieces of dry flesh
\
eObinson ceusoe. 2&
and some corn, such as the produce of their country; but
we neither knew what the one or the other was; however,
we were willing to accept it. But how to come at it wad
our next dispute, for I was not for venturing on shore to
them, and they were as much afraid of us: but they took
a safe way for us all, for they brought it to the shore, and
laid it down, and went and stood a great way off till we
fetched it on board, and then came close to us again.
We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing
to make them amends; but an opportunity offered that
very instant to oblige them wonderfully; for while we were
lying by the shore, came two mighty creatures, one pursu-
ing the other (as we took it) with great fury, from the
mountains toward the sea; whether it was the male pursu-
ing the female, or whether they were in sport or in rage, we
could not tell,, any more than we could tell whether it was
usual or strange; but I believe it was the latter, because,
in the first place, those ravenous creatures seldom appear
but in the night; and, in the second place we found the
people terribly frightened, especially the women. The
man that had the lance, or dart, did not fly from them,
but the rest did; however, as the two creatures ran directly
into the water, they did not seem to offer to fall upon any
of the Negroes, but plunged themselves into the sea, and
swam about, as if they had come for their diversion; at
last, one of them began to come nearer our boat than I at
first expected; but I lay ready for him, for I had loaded
my gun with all possible expedition, and bade Xury load
both the others. As soon as he came fairly within my
reach, I fired, and shot him directly in the head: immedi-
ately he sunk down into the water, but rose instantly, and
plunged up and down, as if he was struggling for life, and
so indeed he was: he immediately made to the shore, but
between the wound which was his mortal hurt, and the
strangling of the water, he died just before he reached the
shore.
It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor
creatures, at the noise and fire of my gun; some of them
were even ready to die for fear, and fell down as dead with
the very terror; but when they saw the creature dead, and
sunk in the water, and that 1 made signs to them to come
to the shore, they took heart and came to the shore, and
began to search for the creature. I found him by his
blood staining the water; and by the help of a rope, which
I slung round him, and gave the Negroes to haul, they
dragged him on shore, and found that it was a most curi-
ous leopard, spotted, and fine to an admirable degree; and
the negroes held up their hands with admiration, to think
what it was I had killed him with.
The other creature, frightened with the flash of fire, and
the noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up directly
to the mountains from whence they came; nor could I, at
that distance, know what it was. I found quickly the
Negroes were for eating the flesh of this creature, so I was
willing to have them take it as a favor from me; which,
when I made signs to them that they might take him, they
were very thaukful for. Immediately they fell to work
with him; and though they had no knife, yet with a sharp-
ened piece of wood, they took off his skin as readily, and
much more readily, than we could have done with a knife.
They offered me some of the flesh, which I declined, mak-
ing as if I would give it them, but made signs for the skin,
which they gave me very freely, and brought me a great
deal more of their provisions, which, though I did not un-
derstand, yet I accepted. I then made signs to them for
some water, and held out one of my jars to them, turning
it bottom upward, to show that it was empty, and that I
wanted to have it filled. They called immediately to some
of their friends, and there came two women, and brought
a great vessel made of earth, and burned, as I suppose, in
the sun; this they set down to me, as before, and 1 sent
Xury on shore with my jars, and filled them all three.
The women were as stark naked as the men.
1 was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it was,
and water; and leaving my friendly Negroes, I made for-
ward for about eleven days more, without offering to go
near the shore, till I saw the land run out a great length
into the sea, at about the distance of four or five leagues
before me; and the sea being very calm, 1 kept a large
offing, to make this point. At length, doubling the point,
at about two leagues from the land, I saw plainly land on
the other side, to seaward: then I concluded, as it was
most certain indeed, that this was the Cape de Verd, and
those the islands, called, from thence, Cape de Verd
Islands. However, they were at a great distance, and I
could not well tell what I had best to do; ior if I should
fee taken with a gale of wind, 1 might neither reach one
nor the other.
In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, 1 stepped into
the cabin, and Bat me down, Xury having the helm; when,
on a sudden, the boy cried out, master, master, a ship with
a sail! and the foolish boy was frightened out of his wits,
thinking it must needs be some of his master's ships sent
to pursue us, when 1 knew we were got far enough out of
their reach. I j umped out of the cabin, and immediately
saw, not only the ship, but what she was, viz., that it was
a Portuguese ship, and, as 1 thought, was bound to the
coast of Guinea, for Negroes. But, when I observed the
course she steered, I was soon convinced they were bound
some other way, and did not design to come any nearer to
the shore; upon which, I stretched out to sea as much as I
could, resolving to speak with them, if possible.
With all the sail I could make, 1 found I should not be
able to come in their way, but that they would be gone by
before I could make any signal to them; but after 1 had
crowded to the utmost, and began to despair, they, it
seems, saw me, by the help of their perspective glasses,
and that it was some European boat, which, they sup-
posed, must belong to some ship that was lost: so they
shortened sail, to let me come up. I was encouraged with
this, and as 1 had my patron's ensign on board, I made a
waft of it to them, for a signal of distress, and fired a gun,
both which they saw; for they told me they saw the smoke,
though they did not hear the gun. Upon these signals,
they very kindly brought to, and lay by for me; and in
about three hours' time I came up with them.
They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and in
Spanish, and in French, but I understood none of them;
but, at last, a Scotch sailor who was on board, called to
me, and I answered him, and told him I was an English-
man, that 1 had made my escape out of slavery from the
Moors, at Sallee: they then bade me come on board, and
very kindly took me in, and all my goods.
It was an inexpressible joy to me, which any one will
believe, that I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from
such a miserable, and almost hopeless, condition as 1 was
in; and I immediately offered all 1 had to the captain of
the ship, as a return for my deliverance; but he generously
told me, he would take nothing from me, but that all I
had should be delivered safe to me, when 1 came to th»
Brazils. For, says he, I have saved your life on no. other
terms than I would be glad to be saved myself; and it
may, one time or other, be my lot to be taken up in the
same condition. Besides, said he, when 1 carry you to the
Brazils, so great a way from your own country, if 1 should
take from you what you have, you will be starved there,
and then I only take away that life 1 had given. No, no,
Senhor Ingles (Mr. Englishman), says he, 1 will carry you
thither in charity, and these things will help to buy your
subsistence there, and your passage home again.
SECTION IV.
He settles in the Brazils as a Planter.—Makes another Voyage, and
is Shipwrecked.
As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was just in
the performance, to a tittle: for he ordered the seamen,
that none should offer to touch anything I had: then he
took everything into his own possession, and gave me back
an exact inventory of them, that I might have them, even
so much as my three earthen jars.
As to my boat, it was a very good one; and that he saw,
and told me he would buy it of me for the ship's use; and
asked me what 1 would have for it? I told him, he hail
been so generous to me in everything, that 1 could not
offer to make any price of the boat, but left it entirely to
him: upon which, he told me he would give me a note of
hand to pay me eighty pieces of eight for it at Brazil; and
when it came there, if any one offered to give more, he
would make it up. He offered me also sixty pieces of
eight more for my boy Xury, which 1 was loath to take;
not that 1 was not willing to let the captain have him, but
I was very loath to sell the poor boy's liberty, who had as-
sisted me so faithfully in procuring my own. However,
when I let him know my reason, he owned it to be just,
and offered me this medium, that he would give the boy an
obligation to set him free in ten years, if he turned Christ-
ian; upon this, and Xury saying he was willing to go to
him, I left the captain have him.
We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and arrived
In the Bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints' Bay, iii
about tvrenty-two days after. And now 1 was ouoe more
delivered from the most miserable of all conditions of life;
and what to do next with myself, 1 was now to consider.
The generous treatment the captain gave me, 1 can never
enough remember: he would take nothing of me for my
passage, gave me twenty ducats for the leopard's skin, and
forty for the lion's skin, which I had in my boat, and
caused everything 1 had in the ship to be punctually de-
livered to me; and what 1 was willing to sell, he bought of
me; such as the case of bottles, two of my guns, and a
piece of the lump of bees-wax—for I had made candles of
the rest: in a word, 1 made about two hundred and twenty
pieces of eight of all my cargo; and with this stock, I went
on shore in the Brazils.
1 had not been long here, before I was recommended to
the house of a good honest man, like himself, who had an
ingenio as they call it (that is, a plantation and a sugar-
house). I lived with him some time, and acquainted my-
self, by that means, with the manner of planting and of
making sugar; and seeing how well the planters lived, and
how they got rich suddenly, I resolved, if I could get a
license to settle there, I would turn planter among them:
endeavoring, in the meantime, to find out some way to get
my money, which I had left in London, remitted to me.
To this purpose, getting a kind of letter of naturalization,
1 purchased as much land that was uncured as my money
would reach, and formed a plan for my plantation and
settlement; such a one as might be suitable to the stock
which 1 proposed to myself to receive from England.
1 had a neighbor, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born of
English parents, whose name was Wells, and in much such
circumstances as I was. I call him my neighbor, because
his plantation lay next to mine, and we went on very soci-
ably together. My stock was but low, as well as his; and
we rather planted for food than anything else, for about two
years. However, we began to increase, and our land be-
gan to come into order; so that the third year we planted
some tobacco, and made each of us a large piece of ground
ready for planting canes in the year to come; but we both
wanted help; and now 1 found more than before, I had
done wrong in parting with my boy Xury.
But, alas! for me to do wrong, that never did right, was
no great wonder. I had no remedy, but to go on: I had
f
got into an employment quite remote to my genius, and
directly contrary to the life I delighted in, and for which 1
forsook my father's house, and broke through all his good
advice: nay, I was coming into the very middle station, or
upper degree of lower life, which my father advised me to
before; and which, if I resolved to go on with, I might as
well have stayed at home, and never have fatigued myself
in the world, as I had done; and I used often to say to my-
self, I could have done this as well in England, among my
friends, as have gone five thousand miles off to do it among
strangers and savages, in a wilderness, and at such a dist-
ance as never to hear from any part of the world that had
the least knowledge of me.
In this manner, I used to look upon my condition with
the utmost regret. I had nobody to converse with, but
now and then this neighbor; no work to be done, but by
the labor of my hands: and 1 used to say, I lived just like
a man cast away upon some desolate island, that had no-
body there but himself. £i*t how just has it been! and
how should all men reflect, that when they compare their
present conditions with others that are worse, Heaven may
oblige them to make the exchange, and be convinced of
their former felicity by their experience: 1 say, how just
has it been, that the truly solitary life I reflected on, in an
island of mere desolation, should be my lot, who had so
often unjustly compared it with the life which I then led,
in which, had 1 continued, I had, in all probability, been
exceeding prosperous and rich!
1 was, in some degree, settled in my measures for carry-
ing on the plantation, before my kind friend, the captain
of the ship that took me up at sea, went back; for the ship
remained there, in providing his lading, and preparing
for his voyage, near three months; when telling him what
little stock I had left behind me in London, he gave me
this friendly and sincere advice: Senhor lnglez, says he
(for so he always called me), if you will give me letters,
and a procuration here in form to me, with orders to the
person who has your money in London, to send your effects
to Lisbon, to such persons as I shall direct, and in such
goods as are proper for this country, 1 will bring you the
produce of them, God willing, at my return: but since hu-
man affairs are all subject to changes and disasters, I would
have you give orders for but one hundred pounds sterling,
which, you say, is half your stock, and let the hazard be
run for the first, so that if it come safe, you may order the
rest the same way; and, if it miscarry, you may have the
other half to have recourse to for your supply. This was
so wholesome advice, and looked so friendly, that I could
not but be convinced it was the best course I could take;
so I accordingly prepared letters to the gentlewoman with
whom I left my money, and a procuration to the Portu-
guese captain, as he desired me.
I wrote the English captain's widow a full account of
all my adventures; my slavery, escape, and how I had met
with the Portuguese captain at sea, the humanity of his be-
havior, and what condition 1 was now in, with all other
necessary directions for my supply; and when this honest
captain came to Lisbon, he found means, by some of the
English merchants there, to send over, not the order only,
but a full account of my story to a merchant at London,
who represented it effectually to her, whereupon she not
only delivered the money, but, out of her own pocket, sent
the Portuguese captain a very handsome present for his
humanity and charity to me.
The merchant in London, vesting this hundred pounds
in English goods, such as the captain had wrote for, sent
them directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought them all
Bafe to me at the Brazils among which, without my direc-
tion (for I was too young in my business to think of them),
he had taken care to have all sorts of tools, iron work, and
utensils, necessary for my plantation, and which were of
great use to me. When this cargo arrived, 1 thought my
fortune made, for I was surprised with the joy of it; and
my good steward, the captain, had laid out the five pounds,
which my friend had sent him as a present for himself, to
purchase and bring me over a servant, under bond for six
years' service, and would not accept of any consideration,
except a little tobacco, which I would have him accept, be-
ing of my own produce. Neither was this all: but my
goods being all English manufactures, such as cloths,
stuffs, baize, and things particularly valuable and desirable
:n the country, 1 found means to sell them to a very great
advantage; so that I might say, I had more than four
times the value of my first cargo, and was now infinitely
beyond my poor neighbor, I mean in the advancement of
my plantation: for the first thing_I did, I bought me a
Negro slave, and a European servant also; I mean another
besides that which the captain brought me from Lisbon.
But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very
means of our adversity, so was it with me. I went on the
next year with great success in my plantation; I raised fifty
great rolls of tobacco on my own ground, more than 1 had
disposed of for necessaries among my neighbors: and these
fifty rolls, being each of above one hundred pounds weight,
were well cured, and laid by against the return of the fleet
from Lisbos: and now, increasing in business and in wealth,
my head began to be full of projects and undertakings be-
yond my reach; such as are, indeed, often the ruin of the
best heads in business. Had I continued in the station I
was now in, I had room for all the happy things to have
yet befallen me, for which my father so earnestly recom-
mended a quiet, retired life, and which he had so sensibly
described the middle station of life to be full of: but other
things attended me, and I was still be to be the willful
agent of all my own miseries; and, particularly, to increase
my fault, and double the reflections upon myself, which in
my future sorrows I should have leisure to make, all these
miscarriages were procured by my apparent obstinate ad-
hering to my foolish inclination, of wandering about, and
pursuing that inclination, in contradiction to the clearest
views of doing myself good in a fair and plain pursuit oi
those prospects, and those measures of life, which nature
and Providence concurred to present me with, and to make
my duty.
As I had once done thus in breaking away from my par-
ents, so I could not be content now, but I must go. and
leave the happy view 1 had of being a rich and thriving
man in my new plantation, only to pursue a rash and im-
moderate desire of rising faster than the nature of the
thing admitted; and thus I cast myself down again into
the deepest gulf of human misery that ever man fell into,
or perhaps could be consistent with life, and a state of
health in the World.
To come then, by just degrees, to the particulars of this
f>art of my story—You may suppose, that having now
ived almost four years in the Brazils, and beginning to
thrive and prosper very well upon my plantation, I had
not only learned the language, but had contracted an ac-
quaintance and friendship among my fellow-planters, m
well as among th< merchants at St. Salvador, which was
our port: and that, in my discourees among them, 1 had
frequently given them an account of my two voyages to
the coast of Guinea, the manner of trading with the
Negroes there, and h>' w easy it was to purchase on the
coast for trifles—suet as beads, toys, knives, scissors,
hatchets, bits of glass, tfud the like—not only gold dust,
Guinea grains, elephants' teeth, etc., but Negroes, for the
service of the Brazils, in {Treat numbers.
They listened always very attentively to my discourses
on these heads, but especially to that part which related to
the buying of Negroes; which was a trade, at that time, not
only not far entered into, bat, as far as it was, had been
carried on by the assientos, ,or permission of the kings of
Spain and Portugal, and en^.-ossed from the public; so
that few Negroes were bought, and those excessively dear.
It happened, being in company with some merchants
and planters of my acquaintance, and talking of those
things very earnestly, three of them came to me the next
morning, and told me they had been musing very much
upon what I had discoursed with them of the last night,
and they came to make a secret proposal to me: and, after
enjoining me to secrecy, they told me that they had a mind
to fit out a ship to go to Guinea; that they had all planta-
tions as well as I, and were straitened vor nothing so much
as servants; that as it was a trade that'" could not be carried
on, because they could not publicly sell the Negroes when
they came home, so they desired to m&ke but one voyage
to bring the Negroes on shore privately- and divide them
among their own plantations; and, in a word, the question
was, whether I would go their supercargo in the ship, to
manage the trading part upon the coast of Guinea; and
they offered me that 1 should have an eq'ial share of the
Negroes, without providing any part of the stock.
This was a fair proposal, it must be confessed, had it
been made to any one that had not a settlement and plan-
tation of his own to look after, which was in a fair way of
coming to be very considerable, and with a good stock
upon it. But for me, that was thus entered and estab-
lished, and had nothing to do but go on as I h*d begun,
for three or four years more, and to have sent for the other
hundred pounds from England; and who, in that ii;»ie and
with that little addition, coald scarce have failed r*A bofetflj
worth three or four thousand pounds sterling, and that in.
creasing too, for me to think of such a voyage, was the
most preposterous thing that ever man, in such circum-
stances, could be guilty of.
But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could no
more resist the offer, than 1 could restrain my first ramb-
ling designs, when my father's good counsel was lost upon
me. In a word, I told them I would go with all my heart,
if they would undertake to look after my plantation in my
absence, and would dispose of it to such as 1 should direct,
if I miscarried. This they all engaged to do, and entered
into writings or covenants to do so: and I made a formal
will, disposing of my plantation and effects, in case of my
death; making the captain of the ship that had saved my
life, as before, my universal heir; but obliging him to dis-
pose of my effects as 1 had directed in my will; one-half of
the produce being to himself, and the other to be shipped
to England. In short, I took all possible caution to pre-
serve my effects, and to keep up my plantation: had I used
half as much prudence to have looked into my own inter-
est, and have made a judgment of what I ought to have
done and not to have done, I had certainly never gone away
from so prosperous an undertaking, leaving all the prob-
able views of a thriving circumstance, and gone a voyage
to sea, attended with all its common hazards, to say noth-
ing of the reasons I had to expect particular misfortunes
to myself.
But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates of
my fancy, rather than my reason: and accordingly, the
ship, being fitted out, and the cargo furnished, and all
things done as by agreement, by my partners in the voy-
age, I went on board in an evil hour again, the first of
September, 1659, being the same day eight years that I
went from my parents at Hull, in order to act the rebel to
their authority, and the fool to my own interest.
Our ship was about one hundred and twenty tons bur«
den, carried six guns and fourteen men, besides the master,
his boy, and myself; we had on board no large cargo of
goods, except of such toys as were fit for our trade with
ithe Negroes, such as beads, bits of glass, shells, and odd
trifles, especially little looking-glasses, knives, scissors,
Hatchets, and the like.
The very same day I went on board we set sail, standing
HOBINSOX CRTT8OB.
away to tks northward upon our own oeask, witk design to
stretch over for the African coast. When they came about
ten or twelve degrees of northern latitude, which, it seems,
was the manner of their course in those days, we had very
good weather, only excessively hot all the way upon our
own coast, till we came to the height of Cape St. August-
ino; from whence, keeping further off at sea, we lost sight
of land, and steered as if we were bound for the isle Fer-
nando de Noronha, hold'ng our course N.E. by N. and
leaving those isles on th last. In this course we passed
the Line in about twelve iys' time, and were, by our last
observation, in seven degv ,js twenty-two minutes northern
latitude, when a violent tornado, or hurricane, took us
quite out of our knowledge: it began from the south-east,
came about to the north-west, and then settled in the
north-east; from whence it blew in such a terrible manner,
that for twelve days together we could do nothing but
drive, and, scudding away before it, let it carry us whither-
soever fate and the fury of the winds directed; and, during
these twelve days, 1 need not say that 1 expected every day
to be swallowed up; nor, indeed, did any in the ship expect
to save their lives.
In this distress, we had, besides the terror of the storm,
one of our men dead of the calenture, and one man and a
boy washed overboard. About the twelfth day, the
weather abating a little, the master made an observation
as well as he could, and found that he was in about eleven
degrees north latitude, but that he was twenty-two degrees
of longitude difference, west from Cape St. Augustino; so
that he found he was got upon the coast of Guiana, or the
north part of Brazil, beyond the river Amazon, toward
that of the river Oronoco, commonly called the Great
River; and began to consult with me what course he
should take, for the ship was leaky and very much dis-
abled, and he was for going directly back to the coast of
Brazil.
1 was positively against that; and looking over the charts
of the sea-coast of America with him, we concluded there
was no inhabited oountry for us to have recourse to, till
we came within the circle of the Carribee Islands, and
therefore resolved to stand away for Barbadoes; which by
keeping off to sea, to avoid the indraft of the Bay or Gulf
of Mexico, we might easily perform, as we hoped, in about
fifteen days' sail; whereas we could not possibly make our
voyage to the coast of Africa without some assistance, both
to our ship and ourselves.
With this design we changed our course and steered away
N. W. by W., in order to reach some of our English islands,
where 1 hoped for relief; but our voyage was otherwise de-
termined; for being in the latitude of twelve degrees eigh-
teen minutes, a second storm came upon us which carried
us away with the same impetuosity westward, and drove us
so out of the way of all human commerce, that had
all our lives been saved, as to the sea, we were rather in
danger of being devoured by savages than ever returning
to our own country.
In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one of
our men early in the morning, cried out, Land! and we
had no sooner run out of the cabin to look out, in hopes of
seeing whereabouts in the world we were, than the ship
struck upon a sand, and in a moment, her motion being
so stopped, the sea broke over her in such a manner that
we expected we should all have perished immediately; and
we were immediately driven into our close quarters, to
shelter us from the foam and spray of the sea.
It is not easy for any one who has not been in the like
condition to describe or conceive the consternation of men
in such circumstances; we knew nothing where we were,
or upon what land it was we were driven, whether an island
or the main, whether inhabited or not inhabited; and as
the rage of the wind was still great, though rather less than
at first, we could not so much as hope to have the ship hold
many minutes without breaking in pieces, unless the wind,
by a kind of miracle, should immediately turn about. In
a word we sat looking upon one another, and expecting
death every moment, and every man acting accordingly, as
preparing for another world; for there was little or noth-
ing more for us to do in this. That which was our present
comfort, and all the comfort we had, was that, contrary to
our expectation, the ship did not break yet, and that the
master said the wind began to abate.
Now, though we thought that the wind did a little abate,
yet the ship having thus struck upon the sand, and stick-
ing too fast for us to expect her getting off, we were in a
dreadful condition indeed, and had nothing to do, but to
*.hink of saving our lives as well as we could. We had a
boat at, our stern just before the storm, but she was first
staved by dashing against the ship's rudder, and, in the
next place, she broke away, and either sunk, or was driven
off to sea; so there was no hope from her; we had another
boat on board, but how to get her off into the sea was a
doubtful thing; however, there was no room to debate, for
we fancied the ship would break in pieces every minute,
and some told us she was actually broken already.
In this distress the mate of our vessel laid hold of the
boat, and with the help of the rest of the men they got her
flung over the ship's side; and getting all into her, we let
her co and committed ourselves, being eleven in number,
to God's mercy, and the wild sea; for though the storm
was abated considerably, yet the sea went dreadfully high
upon the shore, and might be well called den wild zee, as
the Dutch call the sea in a storm.
And now our case was very dismal indeed; for we all saw
plainly, that the sea went so high, that the boat could not
live, and that we should be inevitably drowned. As to
making sail, we had none; nor, if we had, could we have
done anything with it; so we worked at the oar toward the
land, though with heavy hearts, like men going to execu-
tion; for we all knew that when the boat came nearer to
the shore, she would be dashed in a thousand pieces by the
breach of the sea. However, we committed our souls to
God in the most earnest manner; and the wind driving us
toward the shore, we hastened our destruction with our
own hand, pulling as well as we could toward land.
What the shore was—whether rock or sand, whether
steep or shoal—we knew not; the only hope that could
rationally give us the least shadow of expectation, was, if
we might happen into some bay or gulf, or the mouth of
some river, where by great chance we might have run our
boat in, or got under the lee of the land, and perhaps made
smooth water. But nothing of this appeared; and as we
made nearer and nearer the shore, the land looked more
frightful than the sea.
After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league
and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-
'ikfi, came rolling astern of us, and plainly bade us expect
ih'f roup de grace. In a word, it took us with such fury,
that it overset the boat at once; and separating us, as well
from the boat as from one another, gave us no time hardly
to say, " Oh, God!" for we were all swallowed up in a mo-
ment.
Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I
felt, when I sunk into the water; for though I swam very
well, yet I could not deliver myself from the waves so as
to draw my breath, till that wave having driven me, or
rather carried me, a vast way on toward the shore, aud
having spent itself, went back, and left me upon the land
almost dry, but half dead with the water I took in. I had
so much presence of mind, as well as breath left, that see-
ing myself nearer the main land than I expected, 1 got
upon my feet and endeavored to make on toward the land
as fast as I could, before another wave should return aud
take me up again; but I soon found it was impossible to
avoid it; for I saw the sea come after me as high as a great
hill, and as furious as an enemy which I had no means or
strength to contend with; my business was to hold my
breath and raise myself upon the water, if 1 could; and so,
by swimming, to preserve my breathing and pilot myself
toward the shore, if possible; my greatest concern now be-
ing that the wave, as it would carry me a great way toward
the shore when it came on, might not carry me back again
with it when it gave back toward the sea.
The wave that came upon me again buried me at once
twenty or thirty feet deep in its own body, and I could feel
myself carried with a mighty force and swiftness toward
the shore, a very great way; but 1 held my breath, and
assisted myself to swim still forward with all my might.
I was ready to burst with holding my breath, when, as 1
felt myself rising up, so, to my immediate relief, 1 found
my head and hands shoot out above the surface of the
water; and though it was not two seconds of time that 1
could keep myself so, yet it relieved me greatly, gave me
breath and new courage. 1 was covered again with water
a good while, but not so long but I held it out; and find-
ing the water had spent itself, and began to return, 1 struck
forward against the return of the waves, and felt ground
again with my feet. I stood still a few moments, to re-
cover breath, and till the water went from me, and then
took to my heals and ran with what strength I had further
toward the shore. But neither would this deliver me from
the fury of the sea, which came pouring in after me again;
And twice mare 1 was lifted up by the waves and carried
forward as before, the shore being very flat.
The last time of these two had well-nigh been fatal to
me; for the sea, having hurried me along, as before, landed
me, or rather dashed me, against a piece of rock, and
that with such force that it left me senseless, and indeed
ielpless, as to my own deliverance; for the blow, taking
my side and breast, beat the breath, as it were, quite out
of my body; and had it returned again immediately, I must
have been strangled in the water; but I recovered a little
before the return of the waves, and, seeing 1 should again
be covered with the water, I resolved to hold fast by a
piece of the rock, and so to hold my breath, if possible, till
the wave went back. Now as the waves were not so high
as the first, being nearer land, I held my hold till the wave
abated, and then fetched another run, which brought me
so near the shore that the next wave, though it went over
me, yet did not so swallow me up as to carry me away; and
the next run I took, I got to the mainland; where, to my
great comfort, 1 clambered up the cliffs of the shore, and,
sat me down upon the grass, free from danger, and quite
out of the reach of the water.
I was now landed, and safe on shore; and began to look
up and thank God that my life was saved, in a case where-
in there were, some minutes before, scarcely any room to
hope. I believe it is impossible to express, to the life,
what the ecstasies and transports of the soul are, when it is
so saved, as I may say, out of the grave; and I did not
wonder now at the custom, viz., that when a malefactor,
who has the halter about his neck, is tied up, and just go-
ing to be turned off, and has a reprieve brought to him; 1
say, I do not wonder that they bring a surgeon with it, to
let him blood that very moment they tell him of it, that
the surprise may not drive the animal spirits from the
heart and overwhelm him.
"Few sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first."
I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands, and
my whole being, as I may say, wrapped up in the contem-
plation of my deliverance, making a thousand gestures ami
motions, which I can not describe; reflecting upon my
comrades that were drowned, and that there should not be
ene soul saved but myself; for, as for them* I Dffef taw
them afterward, or any sign of them, except three of their
hats, one cap, and two shoes that were not fellows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel—when the breach
and froth of the sea being so big 1 could hardly see it, it lay
so far off—and considered, Lord! how was it possible I
could get on shore?
After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable pait
of my condition 1 began to look around me, to see what
kind of a place 1 was in, and what was next to be done;
and I soon found my comforts abate, and that, in a word,
I had a dreadful deliverance; for I was wet, had no clothes
to shift me, nor anything either to eat or drink, to com-
fort me; neither did I see any prospect before me, but that
of perishing with hunger, or being devoured by wild beasts;
and that which was particularly afflicting to me was that
I had no weapon either to hunt and kill any creature for
my sustenance, or to defend myself against any other creat-
ure that might desire to kill me for theirs. In a word, I
had nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a
little tobacco in a box. This was all my provision; and
this threw me into such terrible agonies of mind, that for
awhile 1 ran about like a madman. Night coming upon
me, I began, with a heavy heart, to consider what would
be my lot if there were-any ravenous beasts in that coun-
try, seeing at night they always come abroad for their
prey.
All the remedy that offered to my thoughts, at that
time, was to get up into a thick, bushy tree, like a fir, but
thorny—which grew near me, and where I resolved to sit
all night—and consider the next day what death I should
die, for as yet I saw no prospect of life. I walked about a
furlong from the shore, to see if I could find any fresh
water to drink, which I did, to my great joy; and having
drunk, and put a little tobacco into my mouth to prevent
hunger, I went to the tree, and getting up into it, en-
deavored to place myself so as that, if I should fall asleep,
I might not fall; and having cut me a short stick, like a
truncheon, for my defense, I took up my lodging, and hav-
ing been excessively fatigued, I fell fast asleep and slept as
comfortably as, 1 believe, few could have done in my con-
dition, and found myself the most refreshed with it that I
think 1 ever was on such an occasion.
SECTION V.
toWiison finds Himself in a Desolate Island.—Procures a Stock of
Articles from the Wreck.—Constructs his Habitation.
When I waked it was broad day, the weather clear, and
the storm abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell as
before; but that which surprised me most was that the
ship was lifted off in the night from the sand where she
lay, by the swelling of the tide, and was driven up almost
as far as the rock which I at first mentioned, where I had
been so bruised by the wave dashing against it. This be-
ing within about a mile from the shore where I was, and
the ship seeming to stand upright still, I wished myself on
board, that at least I might save some necessary things for
my use.
When I came down from my apartment in the tree, 1
looked about me again, and the first thing I found was the
boat, which lay, as the wind and the sea had tossed her up,
upon the land, about two miles on my right hand. I
walked as far as I could upon the shore to have got to her,
but found a neck or inlet of water between me and the
boat, which was about half a mile broad; so I came back
for the present, being more intent upon getting at the ship,
where I hoped to find something for my present subsist-
ence.
A little after noon, I found the sea very calm, and the
tide ebbed so far out that 1 could come within a quarter of
a mile of the ship; and here I found a fresh renewing of
my grief, for I saw evidently that if we had kept on board
we had been all safe; that is to say, we had all got safe on
shore, and I had not been so miserable as to be left entire-
ly destitute of all comfort and company as 1 now was.
This forced tears from my eyes again; but as there was lit-
tle relief in that, I resolved, if possible, to get to the ship;
so I pulled off my clothes, for the weather was hot to ex-
tremity, and took the water; but when I came to the ship
my difficulty was still greater to know how to get on board,
for as she lay aground, and high out of the water, there
was nothing within my reach to lay hold of. I swam round
her twice, and the second time I spied a small piece of
rope, which 1 wondered I did not aee at first hanging down
by the fore-chains so high that with great difficulty I got
hold of it, and by the help of that rope got into the fore-
castle of the ship. Here I found that the ship was bulged,
and had a great deal of water in her hold; but that she lay
so on the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather earth, that
her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head low,
almost to the water. By this means all her quarter was
free, and all that was in that part was dry; for you may
be sure my first work was to search and to see what was
spoiled and what was free; and, first, I found that all the
ship's provisions were dry and untouched by the water,
and, being very well disposed to eat, I went to the bread-
room and filled my pockets with biscuit, and eat it as 1
went about other things, for 1 had no time to lose. 1 also
tound some rum in the great cabin, of which I took a large
dram, and which I had indeed need enough of to spirit me
for what was before me. Now I wanted nothing but a
boat to furnish myself with many things which I foresaw
would be very necessary to me.
It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to
be had, and this extremity roused my application; we had
several spare yards, and two or three large spars of wood,
and a spare topmast or two in the ship; I resolved to fall
to work with these, and flung as many overboard as I could
manage for their weight, tying every one with a rope, that
they might not drive away. When this was done I went
down the ship's side, and pulling them to me, I tied four
of them fast together at both ends, as well as I could, in
the form of a raft, and laying two or three short pieces of
plank upon them crossways, 1 found I could walk upon it
very well, but that it was not able to bear any great weights
the pieces being too light; so 1 went to work, and with the
carpenter's saw I cut a spare topmast into three lengths
and added them to my raft, with a great deal of labor and
pains. But the hope of furnishing myself with necessaries
encouraged me to go beyond what I should have been able
to have done upon another occasion.
My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonablt
weight. My next care was what to load it with, and how
to preserve what I laid upon it from the surf of the sea;
but I was not long considering this. I first laid all the
planks or boards upon it that I could get, and having con-
sidered well what I .most wanted. I got three of the sett,
men's chests, which I had broken open and emptied and
iowered them down upon my raft; these 1 filled with pro-
:sions, viz., bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of
: Lied goat's flesh (which we lived much upon), and a little
:*F!uuiuder of European corn, which had been laid by for
::nme f wis which we had brought to sea with us, but the
fowl were killed. There had been some barley and wheat
rtgether, but, to my great disappointmnt, I found after-
ward that the rats had eaten or spoiled it all. As for
liquors, 1 found several cases of bottles belonging to our
skipper, in which were some cordial waters; and in all
about five or six gallons of rack. These I stowed by them-
selves, there being no need to put them into the chests, nor
any room for them. While I was doing this I found the
tide began to flow, though very calm; and I had the mor-
tification to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had
left on shore, upon the sand, swim away;,as for my
breeches, which were only linen, and open-kneed, I swam
on board in them, and my stockings. However, this put
me upon rummaging for clothes, of which 1 found enough,
but took no more than I wanted for present use, for 1
had other things which my eye was more upon; as, first,
tools to work with on shore; and it was after long search-
ing that 1 found the carpenter's chest, which was indeed a
very useful prize to me, and much more valuable than a
ship-lading of gold would have been at that time. 1 got it
down to my raft, even whole as it was, without losing time
to look into it, for I knew in general what it contained.
My next care was for some ammunition and arms.
There were two very good fowling-pieces in the great
cabin, and two pistols; these I secured first, with some
powder-horns and a small bag of shot, and two old rusty
swords. I knew there were three barrels of powder in the
ship, but knew not where our gunner had stowed them;
but with much search I found them, two of them dry and
good, the third had taken water. Those two I got to my
raft, with the arms. And now I thought myself pretty
well freighted, and began to think how I should get to
shore with them, having neither sail, oar, nor rudder; and
the least capful of wind would have overset all my naviga-
tion.
I had three encouragements: 1st. A smooth, calm sea;
Sdly. The tide rising, and setting in to the shore; 3dly.
I
What little wind there was blew me towuwi ,4\b land. And
Ihus, having found two or three broken oiys lelonging to
the boat, and besides the tools which were in the chest, I
found two saws, an ax, and a hammer; and with this cargo
1 put to sea. For a mile or thereabouts my raft went very
well, only that 1 found it drive a little distant from the
place where I had landed before; by which I perceived tha,
there was some indraft of the water, and consequently 1
hoped to find some creek or river there, which I wight
make use of as a port to get to land with my cargo.
As 1 imagined, so it was; there appeared before me u lit-
tle opening of the land, and 1 found a strong curreni of
the tide set into it; so 1 guided my raft as well as I could,
to get into the middle of the stream. But here I had lite
to have suffered a second shipwreck, which, if I had, I
think it verily would have broken my heart; for, knowing
nothing of the coast, my raft ran aground at one end of it
upon a shoal, and not being aground at the other end, it
wanted but a little that all my cargo had slipped off toward
that end that was afloat, and so fallen into the water. I
did my utmost, by setting my back against the chests, to
keep them in their places, but could not thrust off th«
raft with all my strength; neither durst I stir from the
posture I was in, but holding up the chests with all my
might, I stood in that manner near half an hour, in which
time the rising of the water brought me a little more upon
a level; and a little after, the water still rising, my raft
floated again, and 1 thrust her off with the oar I had into
the channel, and then driving up higher, I at length found
myself in the mouth of a little river, with land on both sides,
and a strong current or tide running up. 1 looked on both
sides for a proper place to get to shore, for I was not will-
ing to be driven too high up the river, hoping in time to
see some ship at sea, and therefore resolved to place my.
self as near the coast as I could.
At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the
creek, to which, with great pain and difficulty, I guided
my raft, and at last got so near as that, reaching ground
with my oar, I could thrust her directly in; but here I had
like to have dipped all my cargo into the sea again, for
that shore lying pretty steep, that is to say, sloping, there
was no place to land but where one end of my float, if it
ran on shore, would lie so high, and the other sink lower,
as before, that it would endanger my cargo again. All
that 1 could do was to wait till the tide was at the highest,
keeping the raft with my oar like an anchor, to hold the
side of it fast to the shore, near a flat piece of ground,
which 1 expected the water would flow over; and so it did.
As soon as I found water enough, for my raft drew about
a foot of water, 1 thrust her upon that flat piece of ground,
and there fastened or moored her by sticking my two
broken oars into the ground, one on one side near one end,
and one on the other side near the other end; and thus I
lay till the water ebbed away, and left my raft and all my
cargo safe on shore.
My next work was to view the country, and seek a proper
place for my habitation, and where to stow my goods, to
secure them from whatever might happen. Where I was 1
yet knew not; whether on the continent or on an island;
whether inhabited or not inhabited; whether in clanger of
wild beasts or not. There was a hill, not above a mile
from me, which rose up very steep and high, and which
seemed to overtop some other hills, which lay as in a ridge
from it, northward. I took out one of the fowling-pieces,
and one of the pistols, and a horn of powder, and thu,
armed I traveled for discovery up to the top of that hills
where, after I had, with great labor and difficulty, got up
to the top, I saw my fate, to my great affliction, viz., that
I was in an island, environed every way with the sea, no
land to be seen, except some rocks which lay a great way
off, and two small islands, less than this, which lay about
three leagues to the west.
I found also that the island I was in was barren, and, as
I saw good reason to believe, uninhabited, except by wild
beasts, of whom, however, I saw none; yet 1 saw abund-
ance of fowls, but knew not their kinds; neither, when 1
killed them, could 1 tell what was fit for food and what
not. At my coming back I shot at a great bird, which I
saw sitting upon a tree, on the side of a great wood. 1 be-
lieve it was the first gun that had been fired there since
the oreatfon of the world; I had no sooner fired, but from
all the parts of the wood there arose an innumerable num-
ber of fowls, of many sorts, making a conf used screaming,
and orying, and every one according to hie usual note; but
not one of them of any kind that I knew. As for the
creature I killed, I took it to be a kind of a hawk, its color
t
and beak resembling it, but it bad no talons or claws mora
than common. Its flesh was carrion and fit for nothing.
Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft,
and fell to work to bring my cargo on shore, which took
me up the rest of that day; what to do with myself at
night 1 knew not, nor indeed where to rest, for I was
afraid to lie down on the ground, not knowing but some
wild beast might devour me; though, asl afterward found,
there was really no need for those fears. However, as well
as I could, I barricaded myself round with the chests and
boards that I had brought on shore, and made a kind of
hut for that night's lodging. As for food, I yet saw not
which way to supply myself, except that I had seen two or
three creatures, like hares, run out of the wood where 1
shot the fowl.
I now began to consider that I might yet get a great
many things out of the ship, which would be useful to me,
and particularly some of the rigging and sails, and such
other things as might come to land; and I resolved to
make another voyage on board the vessel, if possible. And
as 1 knew that the first storm that blew must necessarily
break her all in pieces, I resolved to set all other things
apart, till I got everything out of the ship that I could get.
Then I called a council, that is to say, in my thoughts,
whether 1 should take back the raft; but this appeared im-
practicable; so I resolved to go as before, when the tide was
down; and I did so, only that I stripped before I went
from my hut; having nothing on but a checked shirt, a
pair of linen drawers, and a pair of pumps on my feet.
I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second
raft; and having had experience of the first, I neither mada
this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard, but yet 1 brougat
away several things very useful to me; as, first, in the oar-
penter's stores, I found two or three bags of nails and
spikes, a great screw-jack, a dozen or two of hatchets, ana,
above all, that most useful thing called a grind-stone. All
these I secured together, with several things belonging to
the gunner; particularly two or three iron crows, and two
barrels of musket-bullets, seven muskets, and another
fowling-piece, with some small quantity of powder more; a
large bagful of small shot, and a great roll of sheet-lead;
but this last Was so heavy I could not hoist it up to get it
over the ship's side, Besides these things, I took all the
mea's clothes that I could find, and a spare fare-tepgail, a
hammock, and some bedding; and with this I loaded my
second raft, and brought them all safe on shore, to my
very great comfort.
1 was under some apprehensions lest, during my absence
from the land, my provisions might be devoured on shore:
but when 1 came back, 1 found no sign of any visitor; only
there sat a creature like a wild cat, upon one of the chests,
which, when 1 camo toward it, ran away a little distance,
and then stood still. She sat very composed and uncon-
cerned, and looked full in my face, as if she had a mind
to be acquainted with me. I presented my gun to her,
but, as she did not understand it, she was perfectly uncon-
cerned at it, nor did she offer to stir away; upon which I
tossed uSi <=» bit of biscuit, though, by the way, I was not
veryfi'Co oi it, for my store was not great; however, 1
spared her a bit, 'I say, and she went to it, smelled of it,
and. eat it, and leaked (as pleased) for more; but I thank-
ed her, and could spare no more; so she marched off.
Having got my secoiic cargo on shore—though I was fain
oO open the barrels of powder, and bring them by parcels,
^or the/ were too heavy, being large casks—I went to work
io make me a little tent with the sail and some poles which
i cut for that purpose; and into this tent 1 brought every-
thing that I knew would spoil either with rain or sun, and
i piled all the empty chests and casks up in a circle round
the tent, to fortify it from any sudden attempt either from
raan or beast.
When I had done this I blocked up the door ef the tent
with some boards within, and an empty chest set up on
end without, and spreading one of the beds upon the
ground, laying my two pistols just at my head, and my
gun at lengih by me, 1 went to bed for the first time, and
slept very quietly all night, for 1 was very weary and heavy ,,
for the night before 1 had slept little, and had labored very
hard all day, as well to fetch all those things from the shr:
as to get them on shore.
I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever-
was laid up, 1 believe, for one man; but £ was not satisfied
still, for while the ship sat upright iu that posture I
thought I ought to get everything oat of her that 1 couids
so every day at low wa-'^r t went on board and brought
away something or other; but particularly the third time it
went 1 brought away as mnch of the rigging as 1 could, as
also all the small ropes and rope-twine 1 could get, with a
piece of spare canvas, which was to mend the sails upon
occasion, and the barrel of wet gunpowder. In a word, I
brought away all the sails firsb and last; only that 1 was
fain to cut them in pieces and bring as much at a time as
1 could; for they were no more useful to be sails, but as
mere canvas only.
But that which comforted me still more was that, last of
all, after I had made five or six such voyages as these, and
thought I had nothing more to expect from the ship that
was worth my meddling with; I say, after all this, I found
a great hogshead of bread, and three large runlets of rum or
spirits, and a box of sugar, and a barrel of fine flour; this
was surprising to me, because 1 had given over expecting
any more provisions, except what was spoiled by the water.
1 soon emptied the hogshead of that bread, and wrapped
it up, parcel by parcel, in pieces of the sails which 1 cut
out; and, in a word, I got all this safe on shore also.
The next day 1 made another voyage, and now having
plundered the ship of what was portable and fit to hand
out, I began with the cables, and cutting the great cable
into pieces such as 1 could move, I got two cables and a
hawser on shore, with all the iron work 1 could get; and
having cut down the spritsail-yard, and the mizzen-yard,
and everything I could, to make a large raft, 1 loaded it
with all those heavy goods, and came away; but my good
luck began now to leave me, for this raft was so unwieldy
and so overladen that after I was entered the little cove,
where I had lauded the rest of my goods, not being able to
guide it so handily as I did the other, it overset, and threw
me and all my cargo into the water; as for myself, it was.
no great harm, for 1 was near the shore, but as to my
cargo, it was a great part of it lost, especially the iron,
which I expected would have been of great use to me; how-
ever, when the tide was out I got most of the pieces of cabl«
ashore, and some of the iron, though with infinite labor;
for I was fain to dip for it into the water, a work which
fatigued me very much. After this I went every day on
board, and brought away what 1 could get.
1 had now been thirteen days ashore, and had been
eleven times on board the ship, in which time I had
brought away all that one pair of hands could well be sup-

capable to bring; though I believe verily, had the
calm weather held, 1 should have brought away the whole
ship piece by piece, but preparing, the twelfth time, to go
on board, 1 found the wind began to rise: however, at low
water, I went on board, and though 1 thought 1 had rum-
maged the cabin so effectually as that nothing could be
found, yet 1 discovered a locker with drawers in it, in one
of which I found two or three razors, and one pair of large
scissors, with some ten or a dozen of good knives and forks;
in another I found about thirty-six pounds in money, some
European coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight, some
gold, and some silver.
I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. Oh, drug'.
I exclaimed, what art thou good for? Thou art not worth
to me, no, not the taking off the ground; one of those
knives is worth all this heap. 1 have no manner of use for
thee; e'en remain where thou art, and go to the bottom, as
a creature whose life is not worth saving. However, upon
second thoughts, I took it away, and wrapping all this in a
piece of canvas, I began to think of making another raft;
out while 1 was preparing this I found the sky overcast,
and the wind began to rise, and in a quarter of an hour it
blew a fresh gale from the shore. It presently occurred to
me that it was in vain to pretend to make a raft with the
wind off shore; and that it was my business to be gone be-
fore the tide of flood began, or otherwise 1 might not be
able to reach the shore at all. Accordingly 1 let myself
down into the water, and swam across the channel which
lay between the ship and the sands, and even that with
difficulty enough, partly with the weight of the things
1 had about me, and partly the roughness of the water; for
the wind rose Tery hastily, and before it was quite high
water it blew a storm.
But I was got home to my little tent, where I lay, with
all my wealth about me very secure. It blew very hard all
that night, and in the morning when I looked out, behold,
no more ship was to be seen! 1 was a little surprised, but
recovered myself with the satisfactory reflection, viz., that
I had lost no time nor abated no diligence to get everything
out of her that could be useful to me, and that indeed
there was little left in her that 1 was able to bring away, if
1 had had more time.
1 now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of
anything :>ut of her, except what might drive on shore,
from her wreck; as, indeed, divers pieces of her at'teiwaiti
did; but those things were of small use to me.
My thoughts were now wholly employed about securing
myself against either savages, if any should appear, or
wild beasts, if any were in the island; and I hud many
thoughts of the method how to do this, aud what kind of
dwelling to make, whether 1 should make me a cave in the
earth or a tent upon the earth; and, in short, 1 resolved
upon both; the manner and description of which it may
not be improper to give an account of.
I soon found the place I was in was not for my settle-
ment, particularly because it was upon a low, moorish
ground, near the sea, and I believed it would not be whole-
some; and more particularly because there was no fresh
water near it. So I resolved to find a more healthy and
more convenient spot of ground.
1 consulted several things in my situation, which I found
would be proper for me: First, air and fresh water, 1 just
now mentioned; secondly, shelter from tha host of the sun;
thirdly, security from ravenous creatures, whether men or
beasts; fourthly, a view to the sea, that if God sent any
ship in sight, I might not lose any advantage for my de-
liverance, of which 1 was not willing to banish all my ex-
pectation yet.
In search for a place proper for this, I found a little
plain on the side of a rising hill, whose front toward this
little plain was steep as a house-side, so that nothing could
come down upon me from the top. On the side of this
rock, there was a hollow place, worn a little way in, like
the entrance or door of a cave; but there was not really
any cave or way into the rock at all.
On the flat of the green, just before this hollow place, I
resolved to pitch my tent . This plain was not above a
hundred yards broad, and about twice as long, and lay like
a green before my door; and, at the end of it, descended
irregularly every way down into the low ground by the sea-
side. It was on the N.N.W. side of the hill; so that it was
sheltered from the heat every day, till it came to a W. and
by S. sun, or thereabouts, which, in those countries, is
near the setting.
Before I set up my tent, I drew a half-circle before the
hollow place, which took in about ten yards in its semi.
liameter from the rock, and twenty yards in its diameter,
Erom its beginning and ending.
In this half-circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes,
driving them into the ground till they stood very firm like
piles, the biggest end being out of the ground, about five
feet and a half, and sharpened on the top. The two rows
did not stand above six inches from each other.
Then 1 took the pieces of cable which I cut in the ship,
and laid them in rows, one upon another, within the circle,
between these two rows of stakes, up to the top, placing
other stakes in the inside, leaning against them, about two
feet and a half high, like a spur to a post; and this fence
was so strong that neither man nor beast could .get into it
or over it. This cost me a great deal of time and labor,
especially to cut the piles in the woods, bring them to the
place, and drive them into the earth.
The entrance into this place I made to be not by a door,
but by a short ladder to go over the top; which ladder,
when 1 was in, I lifted over after me; and so 1 was com-
pletely fenced in and fortified, as 1 thought, from all the
world, and consequently slept secure in the night, which
otherwise 1 could not have done; though, as it appeared
afterward, there was no need of all this caution against the
enemies that 1 apprehended danger from.
SECTION VI.
Carries all his Riches.Provisions, etc., into his Habitation.—Dreari-
ness of Solitude.—Consolatory Reflections.
Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite labor, 1 carried
til my riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and stores,
of which you have the account above; and I made a large
tent, which, to preserve me from the rains that in one part
of the year are very violent there, I made double, viz., one
smaller tent within and one larger tent above it, and cov-
ered the uppermost with a large tarpaulin, which I had
saved among the sails.
And now I lay no more for awhile in the bed which I
had brought on shore, but in a hammock, which was indeed
a very good one, and belonged to the mate of the ship.
Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and every-
thing that would spoil by the wet; and having thus inclosed
all my goods, I made up the entrance, which till now I had
left open, and so passed and repassed, as 1 said, by a short
ladder.
When I had done this I began to work my way into the
rock, and bringing all the earth and stones that 1 dag
down out through my tent, 1 laid them up within my fence
in the nature of a terrace, so that it raised the ground
within about a foot and a half; and thus I made me a cave,
just behind my tent, which served me like a cellar to my
house. It cost me much labor and many days, before all
these things were brought to perfection; and therefore 1
must go back to some other things which took up some of
my thoughts. At the same time it happened, after I had
laid my scheme for the setting up my tent, and making
the cave, that a storm of rain falling from a thick, dark
cloud, a sudden flash of lightning happened, and after that
a great clap of thunder, as is naturally the effect of it. I
was so much surprised with the lightning, as 1 was with a
thought which darted into my mind as swift as the light-
ning itself: Oh, my powder! My very heart sunk within
me when 1 thought, that at one blast, all my powder might
be destroyed; on which, not my defense only, but the pro-
viding me food, as 1 thought, entirely depended. 1 was
nothing near so anxious about my own danger, though,
had the powder taken fire, 1 should never have known who
had hurt me.
Such impression did this make upon me, that after the
storm was over 1 laid aside all my works, my building and
fortifying, and applied myself to make bags and boxes to
separate the powder, and to keep it a little and a little5 in a
parcel, in hope that whatever might come, it might not all
take fire at once; and to keep it so apart that it should not
be possible to make one part fire another. I finished this
work in about a fortnight, and 1 think my powder, which
in all was about two hundred and forty pounds weight,
was divided into not less than a hundred parcels. As to
the barrel that had been wet, 1 did not apprehend any dan-
ger from that; so 1 placed it in my new cave which, in my
fancy, I called my kitchen, and the rest I hid up and down
in holes among the rocks, so that no wet might come to it,
marking very carefully where 1 laid it.
In the interval of time while this was doing, I went out
at least once every day with my gun, as well to divert my-

i
X
self as to see if 1 ecu e\!_^aything fit for food; and, as
near as I could, to ac .. .,3.J5*myself with what the island
produced. The first time I went out I presently discov-
ered that there were goats upon the island, which was a
great satisfaction to me; but then it was attended with this
misfortune to me, viz., that they were so shy, so subtle,
and so swift of foot, that it was the most difficult thing in
the world to come at them; but I was not discouraged at
this, not doubting but 1 might now and then shoot one,
as it soon happened; for after I had found their haunts a
little, 1 laid wait in this manner for them; I observed, if
they saw me in the valleys, though they were upon the
rocks, they would run away as in a terrible fright; but if
they were feeding in the valleys, and I was upon the rocks,
they took no notice of me, from whence I concluded that
by the position of their optics, their sight was so directed
downward that they did not leadily see objects that wero
above them; so afterward, I took this method—I always
climbed the rocks first, to get above them, and then had
frequently a fair mark. The first shot I made among
these creatures I killed a she-goat, which had a little kid
by her, which she gave suck to, which grieved me heartily;
but when the old one fell the kid stood stock-still by her
till I came and took her up; and not only so, but when I
carried the old one with me, upon my shoulders, the kid
followed me quite to my inclosure; upon which I laid down
the dam, and took the kid in my arms, and carried it
over my pale, in hopes to have bred it up tame; but it
would not eat, so I was forced to kill it and eat it myself.
These two supplied me with flesh a great while, for I eat
sparingly and preserved my provisions (my bread espe-
cially) as much as possibly I could.
Having now fixed my habitation, I found it absolutely
necessary to provide a place to make a fire in, and fuel to
burn; and what I did for that, as also how I enlarged my
cave, and what conveniences 1 made, 1 shall give a full ac-
count of it in its proper place; but 1 must first give soma
little account of myself, and of my thoughts about living,
which, it may well be supposed, were not a few.
I had a dismal prospect of my condition; for as I was
not oast away upon that island without being driven, as is
said, by a violent storm quite out of the course of our in-
tended voyage, and a great way, tis.. some hundreds of
\
V
98 BOBINta CRUSOE..
leagues, oat of the ordinal entranc*" of the trade of man-
kind, 1 had great reason to ooassder it as a determination
of Heaven, that in this desolate place, and in this desolate
manner, I should end my life. The tears would run
plentifully down my face when I made these reflections;
*nd sometimes I would expostulate with myself why Provi-
dence should thus completely ruin its creatures, and rendei
them so absolutely miserable; so abandoned without help,
9o entirely depressed, that it could hardly be rational to be
thankful for such a life.
But something always returned swift upon me to check
these thoughts, and to reprove me; and particularly, one
day walking with my gun in my hand, by the sea-side, I
was very pensive upon the subjct of my present condition,
when reason, as it were, expostulated with me the other
way, thus: Well, you are in a desolate condition, it is true;
but, pray remember, where are the rest of you? Did not
you come eleven of you into the boat? Where are the
ten? Why were not they saved, and you lost? Why were
you singled out? Is it better to be here or there? And
then I pointed to the sea. All evils are to be considered
with the good that is in them, and with what worse attends
them.
Then it occurred to me again, how well 1 was furnished
for my subsistence, and what would have been my case if
it had not happened (which was a hundred thousand to
one) that the ship floated from the place where she first
struck, and was driven so near to the shore, that I had
time to get all these things out of her; what would have
been my case if I had been to have lived in the condition
in which I at first came on shore, without necessaries of
life, or necessaries to supply and procure them? Particu-
larly, said I aloud (though to myself), what should I have
done without a gun, without ammunition, without any tools
to make anything, or to work with, without clothes, bed-
ding, a tent, or any manner of covering? and that now 1
had all these to a sufficient quantity and was in a fair way
to provide myself in such a manner as to live without mj
gun, when my ammunition was spent; so that 1 had a
tolerable view of subsisting, without any want, as long as 1
lived; for 1 considered, from the beginning, how I would
provide for the acoidents that might happen, and for the
tfme that was to come, not only after my ammunition
v,<
BCffil / JTLTT80M. 5$
should be spent, but even after my health or strength
should decay.
I confess, I had not entertained any notion of my am-
munition being destroyed at one blast, I mean my powder
being blown up by lightning; and this made the thoughts
of it so surprising to me when it lightened and thundered,
as I observed just now.
And now being about to enter into a melancholy relation
of a scene of silent life, such, perhaps, as was never heard of
in the world before, I shall take it from its beginning and
continue it in its order. It was, by my account, the 30th
of September, when, in the manner as above said, I first
set foot upon this horrid island, when the sun being to us
in its autumnal equinox, was almost just over my head;
for I reckoned myself, by observation, to be in the latitude
of nine degrees twenty-two minutes north of the Line.
SECTION VII.
Robinson's Mode of reckoning Time.—Difficulties arising from
Want of Tools.—He arranges his Habitation.
After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it
came into my thoughts that I should lose my reckoning of
time for want of books and pen and ink, and should even
forget the Sabbath days from the working days; but, to
prevent this, I cut it with my knife upon a large post, in
capital letters ; and making it into a great cross, I set it up
on the shore where I first landed, viz., "I came on shore
here on the 30th of September, 1659." Upon the sides of
this square post I cut every day a notch with my knife, and
every seventh notch was as long again as the rest, and
every first day of the month as long again as that long one;
and thus I kept mv calendar, or weekly, monthly and
yearly reckoning of time.
But it happened that among the many things which I
brought out of the ship, in the several voyages which, as
above mentioned, I made to it, I got several things of less
value, but not at all less useful to me, which I found som«
time after in rummaging the chests; as, in particular,
pens, ink, and paper; several narcels in the captain's
mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's keeping; three or foal
compasses, some mathematical instruments, dials, per-
spectives, charts and books of navigation; all of which I
huddled together, whether 1 might want them or no; also
1 found three very good Bibles, which came to me in my
cargo from England, and which 1 had packed up among
my things; some Portuguese books also, and among them
two or three popish prayer-books, and several other books,
all which I carefully secured. And 1 must hot forget that
we had in the ship a dog and two cats, of whose eminent
history 1 may have occasion to say something in its place;
for 1 carried both the cats with me, and as for the dog, he
jumped out of the ship himself and swam on shore to me
the day after 1 went on shore with my first cargo, and was
a trusty servant to me for many years. I wanted nothing
that Le could fetch me, nor any company that he could
make up to me, 1 only wanted to have him talk to me, but
that would not do. As I observed before, I found pens,
ink, and paper, and I husbanded them to the utmost; and
I shall show that while my ink lasted, I kept things very
exact, but after that was gone, I could not; for I could not
make any ink, by any means that I could devise.
And this put me in mind that I wanted many things,
notwithstanding all that 1 had amassed together; and of
these this of ink was one, as also a spade, pick-ax, and
shovel, to dig or remove the earth, needles, pins, and
thread; as for linen, I soon learned to want that without
much difficulty.
This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily,
and it was near a whole year before 1 had entirely finished
my little pale, or surrounded my habitation. The piles or
stakes, which were as heavy as I could well lift, were a long
time in cutting and preparing in the woods, and more by
far, in bringing home; so that 1 spent sometimes two days
in cutting and bringing home one of those posts, and a
third day in driving it into the ground; for which purpose
I got a heavy piece of wood at first, but at last bethought
myself of one of the iron crows, which, however, though I
found it answer, made driving these posts qr piles very
laborious and tedious work. But what need I have been
concerned at the tediousness of anything I had to do, see*
ing I had time enough to do it in? nor had 1 any othei
employment, if that had been over, at least that I could
iTOBiKeoifcgtTsoEr; ', 61
foreBee, except the ranging the island to seek for food,
which I did, more Or less, every day.
1 now began to consider seriously my condition, and the
circumstance I was reduced to; and I drew up the state of
my affairs in writing, not so much to leave them to any
that were to come after me (for 1 was like to have but few
heirs), as to deliver my thoughts from daily poring upon
them, and afflicting my mind; and as my reason began
now to master my despondency, I began to comfort my-
self as well as 1 could, and to set the good against the evil,
that I might have something to distinguish my case from
worse; and 1 stated very impartially, like debtor and credi-
tor, the comforts 1 enjoyed against the miseries I suffered,
thus:
EVIL. GOOD.
I am cast upon a horrible, des- But I am alive; and not drown-
olate island; void of all hope of ed, as all my ship's company
recovery. were.
I am singled out and separated, But I am singled out too from all
as it were, from all the weld, to the ship's crew, to be spared from
be miserable. death; and He that miraculously
saved me from death, can deliver
me from this condition.
I am divided from mankind, But I am not starved, and per-
a solitaire; ene banished from hu- ishing in a barren place, aifording
man society. no sustenance.
I have no clothes to cover me. But I am in a hot climate,
where, if I had clothes, I could
hardly wear them.
I am without any defense, or But I am cast on an island
means to resist any violence of where I see no wild beast to hurt
man or beast. me, as I saw on the coast of
Africa; and what if I had been
shipwrecked there?
I have no soul to speak to, or But God wonderfully sent fr"
relieve me. ship in near enough to the show.
that I have got out so many nec-
essary things, as will either supply
my wants, or enable me to supply
myself, even as long as I live.
Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony, that
there was scarce any condition in the world so miserable,
but there was something negative, or something positiye,
to be thankful for in it: and let this stand as a direction.
horn the experience of the most miserable of all conditions
in this world, that we may always find in it something to
comfort ourselves from, and to set, in the description of
good and evil on the credit side of the account.
Having now brought my mind a little to relish my condi-
tion, and given over looking out to sea, t.o see if I could
spy a ship; I say, given over these things, I began to apply
myself to accommodate my way of living, and to make
things as easy to me as 1 could.
I have already described my habitation, which was a
tent under the side of a rock, surrounded with a strong
pale of posts and cables; but 1 might now rather call it a
wall, for 1 raised a kind of wall against it of turfs, about
two feet thick on the outside: and after some time (1 think
it was a year and a half) I raised rafters from it, leaning to
the rock, and thatched or covered it with boughs of trees,
and such things as 1 could get, to keep out the rain; which
I found, at some times of the year, very violent.
I have already observed how 1 brought all my goods into
this pale, and into the cave which 1 had made behind me..
&joao 'sSmq^ jo iiuamSpnf ibhoi^b.1 ^som eift Strafem £<\
pnb 'aoeb&i Aq Saiq^aoAO Snubnbs pun Sui^s Aq os
'sorrBuiaqqbin aqq. jo vbuiSijo pus oonb^sqns oq^ si uosbai
sb ireqi OAiosqo spaau ^snra I aiaq puy -^iom. o% quaA j os
'.Q\qvi b ^noq^iM. ainsbOid qonui o3 u:iiay sSniq^ puoAas op ao
'ysz jo 9}iu %ou ppAoo I '. ojjoav oq^ ut pbq I s;a:ojuioo aibj
«q^ Aofuo 0!j aiqb ^ou sba£ I esaq^ ^noqijAV joj i ajqb!} b pne
jruqo b Apttrnorjibd 'pa^abii ;soui I punoj I sb sSutq^ Axbs
-sraoan qons ojrBin 0$ JiasAra Afddb o^ ub§aq I Avon pay
-spooS Am mo^s o% uiooj
sni 9ab3 iinq 'osnoqojo^s Ara o^ pnb ^uo^ Am o^ Aba 3[OBq
e 'ejoAv qi sb 'ssaiSoj pab ssaaSa A^uo ^oa era oab§ siqj,
-uoi^boni^j.oj jo ored Am jo opts^no oq^ m irno amoo
o% aoop b era apbra pnb '^no o^mb po^ioM 'uibSb ^qSu
oqq. oi Saining uaq^ pub 'spoi oifl oiiui 'pnbq ;rq2u eqi
o^ sAbavopts pasfiOA I 'Aead jo s^sbaq aqq. o^ sb ojbs A^oid
sbav I paaoj I uaqM. pnb I %i no poAO^saq I ioqb[ aqq. o^
Aitsbo papjaiA qoiqiA 'jjooj ApubS (9soo{ b sbav ^i joj I q^JbO
aq; o^uj jaminj '^joa pttb 'oabo Ara a&reraa o^ i{esA*ra qas
I as i jpsAra jtiu% o% raooj on pbq I i oob{d Ara \\v. dn
5[oo^ Aaq^ os 'iapjo ou ui Ab^ Aaqij sb 'qoiqAV 'epooS jo draaq
©asnjaoo B s*& siq; ^s.tij ;b iraq^ 'oo!j 'eA-wsqp ^snra I i»g
: - - - ROBINSON CRUSOE. 09
man may be, in time, master of every mechanic art. i
had never handled a tool in my life; and yet, in time, by
labor, application, and contrivance I found at'last, that 1
wanted nothing but I could have made, especially if I had
had tools. However, I made abundance of things, even
without tools; and some with no more tools that an adze
and a hatchet, which perhaps were never made that way
before, and that with infinite labor. For example, if I
wanted a board, I had no other way but to cut down a
tree, set it on an edge before me, and hew it flat on either
side with my ax, till I had brought it to be as thin as a
plank, and then dub it smooth with my adze. It is trne,
by this method, I could make but one board oi a whole
tree; but this I had no remedy for but patience, any more
than I had for a prodigious deal of time and labor which
it took me up to make a plank or board: but my time or
labor was little worth, and so it was as well employed one
way as another.
However, I made me a table and a chair, as I observed
above, in the first place; and this I did out of the short
pieces of boards that 1 brought on my raft from the ship.
But when I wrought out some boards, as above, I made
large shelves, of the breadth of a foot and a half, one over
another, all along one side of my cave, to lay all my tools,
nails, and iron work on; and, in a word, to separate every-
thing at large in their places, that I might easily come at
them. I knocked pieces into the wall of the rock, to hang
my guns, and all things that would hang up: so that had
my cave been seen, it looked like a general magazine of all
necessary things; and 1 had everything so ready at my
hand, that it was a great pleasure to me to see all my goods
in such order, and especially to find my stock of all neces-
saries so great.
And now it was that I began to keep a journal of every
day's employment; for, indeed, at first, I was in too much
hurry, and not only as to labor, but in much discomposure
of mind; and my journal would, too, have been full of
many dull things: for example, I must have said thus—
"Sept. 30th. After I had got to shore, and had escaped
drowning, instead of being thankful to God for my deliver-
ance, having first vomited, with the great quantity of salt
'water which had got into my stomach, and recovering my
Mlf a little, I ran about the shore, wringing my hands, and
beating my head and face, exclaiming at my misery, anfl
crying out I was undone, undone! till, tired and faint, 1
was forced to lie down on the ground to repose; but durst
not sleep, for fear of being devoured.''
Some days after this, and after I had been on board the
ship and got all that 1 could out of her, I could not forbear
getting up to the top of a little mountain, and looking out
to sea, in hopes of seeing a ship: then fancy that, at a vast
distance, I spied a sail, please myself with the hopes of it,
and, after looking steadily, till I was almost blind, lose it
quite, and sit down and weep like a child, and thus in-
crease my misery by my folly.
But, having got over these things in some measure, and
having settled my household stuff and habitation, made
me a table and a chair, and all as handsome about me as I
could, 1 began to keep my journal: of which 1 shall here
give you the copy (though in it will be told all these partic-
ulars over again) as long as it lasted; for, having no more
ink, 1 was forced to leave it off.
SEC&O* VIII.
Robinson's Journal.—Details o* his Domestic Economy and Con-
trivances.—Sh^ck of an Earthquake.
THB JOURNAL.
September 30th, 1659. I, poor miserable Robinson
Crusoe, being shipwrecked, during a dreadful storm, in
the offing, came on shore on this dismal unfortunate island,
which I called the Island of Despair; all the rest of the
ship's company being drowned, and myself almost dead.
All the rest of that day I spent in afflicting myself at the
dismal circumstances I was brought to, viz., 1 had neither
food, house, clothes, weapon, nor place to fly to: and, in
despair of any relief, saw nothing but death before me;
that I should either be devoured by wild beasts, murdered
by savages, or starved to death for want of food. At the
approach of night I slept in a tree, for fear of wild creat-
ures; but slept soundly, though it rained all night.
October 1. In the morning I saw, to my great surprise,
the ship had floated with the high tide, and was driven on
shore again much nearer the island; which, as it was some
comfort on one hand (for seeing her sit upright, and not
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 63
broken in pieces, I hoped, if the wind abated, I might get
on board, and get some food and necessaries out of her for
my relief,) so, on the other hand, it renewed my grief at
the loss of my comrades, who, 1 imagined, if we had all
stayed on board, might have saved the ship, or, at least, .
that they would not have been all drowned, as they were:
and that, had the men been saved, we might perhaps have
built us a boat, out of the ruins of the ship, to have carried
us to some other part of the world. 1 spent great part of
this day in perplexing myself on these things; but, at
length, seeing the ship almost dry, 1 went upon the sand
as near as I could, and then swam on board. This day
also it continued raining, though with no wind at all.
Prom the 1st of October to the 34th. All these days
entirely spent in many several voyages to get all I could
out of the ship; which I brought on shore, every tide of
flood, upon rafts. Much rain also in these days, though
with some intervals of fair weather: but, it seems, this was
the rainy season.
Oct. 20. I overset my raft, and all the goods I had got
upon it; but being in shoal water, and the things being
chiefly heavy, I recovered many of them when the tide was
out.
Oct. 25. It rained all night and all day, with some gusts
of wind; during which time the ship broke in pieces (the
wind blowing a little harder than before) and was no more
to be seen, except the wreck of her, and that only at low
water. I spent this day in covering and securing the goods
Which I had saved, that the rain might not spoil them.
Oct. 26. I walked about the shore almost all day, to find
out a place to fix my habitation; greatly concerned tc
secure myself from any attack in the night, either from
wild beasts or men. Toward night 1 fixed upon a proper
place, under a rock, and marked out a semicircle for my
encampment; which I resolved to strengthen with a work,
wall, or fortification, made of double piles lined within with
cables, and without with turf.
From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in carry-
ing all my goods to my new habitation, though some part
of the time it rained exceedingly hard.
The 31st, in the morning, f went out into the island
with my gun, to see for some food, and discover the coun-
ty. when I killed a she-goat, and her kid followed w
ft
•8 JlOBiSrSON CRUSOE." *"-"' -
home, which I afterw&rd killed also, because it would not
feed.
November 1. I <wfc up my tent under a rock, and la-p
there for the first night; making it as large as I could,
with stakes driven in to swing my hammock upon.
Nov. 2. I set up all my chests and boards, and the pieces
of timber which made my rafts; and with them formed a
fence round me, a little within the place I had marked out
for my fortification.
Nov. 3. I went out with my gun, and killed two fowls
like ducks, which were very good food. Is the afternoon
I went to work to make me a table.
Nov. 4. This morning 1 began to order my times of
work, of going out with my gun., time of sleep, and time
of diversion; viz., every morning I walked out with my gun
for two or three hours, if it did not rain; then employed
myself to work till about eleven o'clock; then eat what I
had to live on; and from twelve to two I lay down to sleep,
the weather being excessive hot; and then, in the evening,
to work again. The working part of this day and the next
was wholly employed in making my table, for I was yet
but a very sorry workman: though time and necessity
made me a complete natural mechanic soon after, as I be-
iieve they would any one else.
Nov. 5. This day went abroad with my gun and dog,
and killed a wild cat; her skin pretty soft, but her flesh
good for nothing: of every creature that I killed I took off
the skins, and preserved them. Coming back by the sea-
shore, I saw many sorts of seafowl which I did not under-
stand: but wa3 surprised, and almost frightened, with two
or three seals; which while I was gazing at them (not well
knowing what they were) got into the sea, and escaped me
lor that time.
Nov. 6. After my morning walk, I went to work with
lay table again, and finished it, though not to my liking:
aor was it long before I learned to mend it
.
i Nov. 7. Now it began to be settled fair weather. The
7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and part of the 12th (for the 11th was
Sunday, according to my reckoning), I took wholly up to
make me a chair, and with much ado brought it to a toler-
able shape, but never to please me; and, even in the mak-
ing, 1 pulled it in pieces several times.
Kote. i soon neglected my keeping Sundays; for, oi^.i>

ting my mark for them on my post, 1 forgot which was
which.
Nov. 13. This day it rained; which refreshed me exceed-
ingly, and cooled the earth: but it was accompanied with
terrible thunder and lightning, which frightened me dread-
fully, for fear of my powder. As soon as it was over, 1 re-
solved to separate my stock of powder into as many little
parcels as possible, that it might not be in danger.
Nov. 14, 15, 16. These three days I spent in making
little square chests or boxes, which might hold about a
pound, or two pounds at most, of powder: and so, putting
the powder in, I stowed it in places as secure and as re-
mote from one another as possible. On one of these three
days 1 killed a large bird that was good to eat; but 1 knew
not what to call it.
Kor. 17. This day 1 began to dig behind my tent, intc
the rock, to make room for my further convenience.
Note. Three things 1 wanted exceedingly for this work,
viz., a pickax, a shovel, and a wheelbarrow, or basket; ea
1 desisted from my work, and began to consider how to
supply these wants, and make me some tools. As for a
piekax, I made use of the iron crows, which were proper
enough, though heavy: but the next thing was a shovel or
spade; this was so absolutely necessary, that, indeed, 1
could do nothing effectually without it; but what kind of
one to make I knew not.
Nov. 18. The next day, in searching the woods, 1 found
a tree of that wood, or like it, which, in the Brazils, they
call the iron-tree, from its exceeding hardness: of this,
with great labor, and almost spoiling my ax, I cut a piece;
and brought it home, too, with difficulty enough, for it was
exceeding heavy. The excessive hardness of the wood,
and my having no other way, made me a long while upon
this machine: for I worked it effectually, by little and
little, into the form of a shovel or spade; the handle exact-
ly shaped like ours in England, only that the broad part
having no iron shod upon it at bottom, it would not last
jne so Jong: however, it served well enough for the uses
which 1 had occasion to put it to; but never was a shovel,
I believe, made after that fashion, or so long in making.
I was still deficient; for 1 wanted a basket, or a wheel-
Wrow. A basket I could not make b"any means, ha?-
iug uo such things as twigs that would bend to
63 bobistsok cittrscE.
wicker ware; at least, none yet found out: and as to the
wheelbarrow, I fancied 1 could make all but the wheel, but
that 1 had no notion of; neither did I know how to go
about it: besides, I had no possible way to make iron gud-
geons for the spindle or axle of the wheel to run in; so I
gave it over: and, for carrying away the earth which 1 dug
out of the cave, I made me a thing like a hod, which the
laborers carry mortar in for the bricklayers. This was not
so difficult to me as the making the shovel: and yet this
and the shovel, and the attempt which 1 made in vain to
make a wheelbarrow, took me up no less than four days; I
mean, always excepting my morning walk with my gun,
which I seldom omitted, and very seldom failed also bring-
ing home something fit to eat.
Nov. 23. My other work having now stood still, because
of my making these tools, when they were finished I went
on; and working every day, as my strength and time
allowed, 1 sperft eighteen days entirely in widening and
deepening my cave, that it might hold my goods commodl. ,
ously.
Note. During all this time, I worked to make this room
or cave, spacious enough to accommodate me as a ware-
house, or magazine, a kitchen, a dining-room, and a cellar.
As for a lodging, 1 kept to the tent: except that some-
times, in the wet season of the year, it rained so hard that
1 could not keep myself dry; which caused me afterward
to cover all my place within my pale with long poles, and
in the form of rafters, leaning against the rock, and load
them with flags and large leaves of trees, like a thatch.
December 10. I began now to think my cave or vault
finished; when on a sudden (it seems 1 had made it too
large) a great quantity of earth fell down from the top and
one side; so much, that, in short, it frightened me, and
not without reason too; for if I had been under it, I should
never have wanted a grave-digger. Upon this disaster, I
had a great deal of work to do over again, for 1 had the
loose earth to carry out; and, which was of more import-
ance, 1 had the ceiling to prop up, so that I might be sure
no more would come down.
Dec. 11. This day 1 went to work with it accordingly:
and got two shores or posts pitched upright to the top,
with two pieces of board across over each post: this I
finished the next day; and setting more posts up with
BOBINBON CRUSOE. fiti
boards, in about a week more I had the roof secured; and
the posts, standing in rows, served me for partitions to
part off my house.
Dec. 17. From this day to the 30th, I placed shelves, and
knocked up nails on the posts, to hang everything up that
could be hung up: and now I began to be in some order
within doors.
Dec. 20. I carried everything into the cave, and began to
furnish my house, and set up some pieces of boards, like a
dresser, to order my victuals upon; but boards began to be
very scarce with Hie: also I made me another table.
Dec. 24. Much rain all night and all day: no stirring
out.
Dec. 25. Rain all day.
Dec. 26. No rain; and the earth much cooler than be-
fore, and pleasanter.
Dec. 27. Killed a young goat; and lamed another, so
that 1 catched it, and led it home in a string: when I had
it home, 1 bound and splintered up its leg, which was
broke.
N. B. 1 took such care of it that it lived; and the leg
grew well, and as strong as ever: but, by nursing it so
long, it grew tame, and fed upon the little green at my
door, and would not go away. This was the first time that
I entertained a thought of breeding up some tame creat-
ures, that I might have food when my powder and shot was
all spent.
Dec. 28, 29, 30, 31. Great heats, and ho breeze; so that
there was no stirring abroad, except in the evening, for
food; this time I spent in putting all my things in order
within doors.
January 1. Very hot still; but I went abroad early and
late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of the day.
This evening, going further into the valleys which lay
toward the center of the island, I found there was plenty
oi! goats, though exceeding shy, and hard to come at; how-
ever, I resolved to try if I could not bring my dog to hunt
ihem down. Accordingly, the next day, I went out with
my dog, and set him upon the goats: but 1 was mistaken,
x'or they all faced about upon the dog: aud he knew his
danger too well, for he would not come near them.
Jan. 3. 1 began my fence or wall; which, being stiH
jealous of my being attacked by somebody, I resolved t«
make very thick and strong.
N. B. This wall being described before, 1 purposely
omit what was said in the journal; it is sufficient to ob-
serve, that I was no less time than from the 3d of January
to the 14th of April, working, finishing, and perfecting
this wall; though it was no more than about twenty-five
yards in length, being a half circle, from one place in the
rock to another place, about twelve yards from it, the door
i the cave being in the center, behind it.
All this time 1 worked very hard; the rains hindering
me many days, nay, sometimes weeks together: but I
thought 1 should never be perfectly secure till this wall was
finished; and it is scarce credible what inexpressible labor
everything was done with, especially the bringing piles out
of the woods, and driving them into the ground; for I
made them much bigger than I needed to have done.
When this wall was finished, and the outside double
fenced, with a turf wall raised up close to it, 1 persuaded
myself that if any people were to come on shore there they
would not perceive anything like a habitation: and it was
very well I did so, as may be observed hereafter, upon a
very remarkable occasion.
During this time, I made my rounds in the woods for
same every day, when the rain permitted me, and made
frequent discoveries, in these walks, of something or other
to my advantage; particularly, I found a kind of wild
pigeons, who build, not as wood-pigeons, in a tree, but
rather as house-pigeons, in the holes of the rocks: and,
taking some young ones, I endeavored to breed them up
tame, and did so; but when they grew older, they flew all
away; which, perhaps, was, at first, for want of feeding
them, for 1 had nothing to give them; however, I fre-
quently found their nests, and got their young ones, which
were very good meat. And now, in the managing my
household affairs, I found myself wanting in many things,
which I thought at first it was impossible for me to make;
as indeed, as to some of them, it was: for instance, 1 could
never make a cask to be hooped. 1 had a small runlet or
two, as 1 observed before; but I could never arrive et the
capacity of making one by them, though 1 spent many
weeks about it: I could neither put in the heads, nor join
uiy staves so true to one another as to make them bold
ROBINSON CRUSOK. 71
water; so 1 gave that also over. In the next place, I was
at a great loss for candle; so that as soon as it was dark,
which was generally by seven o'clock, I was obliged to go
to bed. 1 remember the lump of bees-wax with which I
made candles in my African adventure; but 1 had none of
that now: the only remedy I had was, that when I had
killed a goat, 1 saved the tallow; and with a little dish
made of clay, which I baked in the sun, to which 1 added
a wick of some oakum, I made me a lamp; and this gave
me light, though not a clear steady light like a candle. In
the middle of all my labors it happened, that in rummag-
ing my things, I found a little bag; which, as I hinted be-
fore, had been filled with corn, for the feeding of poultry;
not for this voyage, but before, as I suppose, when the ship
came from Lisbon. What little remainder of corn had
been in the bag was all devoured by the rats, and I saw
nothing in the bag but husks and dust; and being willing
to have the bag for some other use (1 think it was to put
powder in, when I divided it for fear of the lightning, or
some such use), I shook the husks of corn out of it, on one
side of my fortification, under the rock.
It was a little before the great rain just now mentioned,
that I threw this stuff away; taking no notice of auythiug,
and not so much as remembering that I had thrown any-
thing there, when, about a month after, 1 saw some few
blades of something green, shooting out of the ground,
which I fancied, might be some plant 1 had not seen; but I
was surprised, and perfectly astonished, when, after a little
longer time, I saw about ten or twelve ears come out,
which were perfect green barley, of the same kind as our
European, nay, as our English barley.
It is impossible to express the astonishment and confu-
sion of my thoughts on this occasion. 1 had hitherto acted
upon no religious foundation at all: indeed, I had very few
notions of religion in my head, nor had entertained any
sense of any things that had befallen me, otherwise than as
chance, or, as we lightly say, what pleases God; without so
much as inquiring into the end of Providence in these
things, or his order in governing events in the world. But
after I saw barley grow there, in a climate which I knew
was not proper for corn, and especially as I knew not how
it came there, it startled me strangely; and I began to sug-
gest, that God had miraculously caused this grain tr. grow
12 ROBINSON CRUSOE.
without any help of seed sown, and that it was so directed
purely for my sustenance, on that wild miserable place.
This touched my heart a little, and brought tears out ol
my eyes; and I began to bless myself that such a prodigy
of nature should happen upon my account: and this was
the more strange to me, because 1 saw near it still, all
along by the side of the rock, some other straggling stalks,
which proved to be stalks of rice, and which 1 knew, be*
cause I had seen it grow in Africa, when I was ashore
there.
1 not only thought these the pure productions of Provi-
dence for my support, but, not doubting that there was
more in the place, 1 went over all that part of the island
where I had been before, searching in every corner, and
under every rock, for more of it; but 1 could not find any.
At last it occurred to my thoughts, that I had shook out a
bag of chicken's-meat in that place, and then the wonder
began to cease; and 1 must confess, my religious thankful-
ness to God's providence began to abate too, upon the dis-
covering that all this was nothing but what was common:
though I ought to have been as thankful for so strange and
unforeseen a providence, as if it had been miraculous: for
it was really the work of Providence, as to me, that should
order or appoint that ten or twelve grains of corn should
remain unspoiled, when the rats had destroyed all the rest,
as if it had been dropped from heaven; as also, that I
should throw it out in that particular place, where, it be-
ing in the shade of a high rock, it sprung up immediately;
whereas, if 1 had thrown it anywhere else, at that time, it
Would have been burned up and destroyed.
1 carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be sure,
in their season, which was about the end of June; and,
laying up every corn, 1 resolved to sow them all again:
hoping, in time, to have some quantity sufficient to supply
me with bread. But it was not till the fourth year that I
could allow myself the least grain of this corn to eat, and
even then but sparingly, as 1 shall show afterward in ita
order; for I lost all that 1 sowed the first season, by no ob-
serving the proper time; as 1 sowed just before the dry
season, so that it never came up at all, at least not as it
would have done; of which in its place.
Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or
thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved with the same care;
And whose use was of the same kind, or to the same pur-
pose, viz., to make me bread, or rather food; for I found
ways to cook it up without baking, though I did that also
after some time. But to return to my journal.
I worked excessively hard these three or four months, to
get my wall done; and the 14th of April 1 closed it up;
contriving to get into it, not by a door, but over the wall,
by a ladder, that there might be no sign on the outside of
my habitation.
April 16. I finished the ladder; so I went up with the
ladder to the top, and then pulled it up after me, and let
it down in the inside: this was a complete enclosure to me;
for within I had room enough, and nothing could come at
me from without, unless it could first mount my wall.
The very next day after this wall was finished, 1 had
almost all my labor overthrown at once, and myself killed;
the case was thus:—As I was busy in the inside of it, be-
hind my tent, just at the entrance into my cave, 1 was ter-
ribly frightened with a most dreadful surprising thing in-
deed; for, all on a sudden, 1 found the earth come crumb-
ling down from the roof of my cave, and from the edge of
the hill over my head, and two of the posts 1 had set up in
the cave cracked in a frightful manner. I was heartily
scared; but thought nothing of what really was the cause,
only thinking that the top of my cave was falling in, as
some of it had done before: and for fear 1 should be buried
in it, I ran forward to my ladder, and not thinking myself
safe there neither, I got over my wall for fear of the pieces
of the hill which I expected might roll down upon me. I
had no sooner stepped down upon the firm ground, than I
plainly saw it was a terrible earthquake: for the ground I
stood on shook three times at about eight minutes' dis-
tance, with three such shocks as would have overturned the
strongest building that could be supposed to have stood on
the earth; and a great piece of the top of a rock, which
stood about half a mile from me, next the sea, fell down
with such a terrible noise as I never heard in all my life.
1 perceived also that the very sea was put into a violent
motion by it; and I believe the shocks were stronger under
the water than on the island.
I was so much amazed with the thing itself (having
never felt the like, nor discoursed with any one that had)
that I was like one dead or stupefied; and the motion of
the earth made my stomach sick, like one that was tossed
at sea: but the noise of the falling of the rock awaked me,
as it were; and rousing me from the stupefied condition I
was in, filled me with horror, and 1 thought of nothing but
the hill falling upon my tent and my household goods, and
burying all at once; this sunk my very soul within me a
second time.
After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for
some time, I began to take courage; yet I had not heart
enough to go over my wall again, for fear of being buried
alive; but sat still upon the ground greatly cast down, and
disconsolate, not knowing what to do. All this while I
had not the least serious religious thought; nothing but
the common " Lord, have mercy upon me!" and when it
was over that went away too.
While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow
cloudy, as if it would rain; and soon after the wind rose by
little and little, so that in less than half an hour it blew a
most dreadful hurricane: the sea was, all on a sudden,
covered with foam and froth; the shore was covered with a
breach of the water; the trees were torn up by the roots;
and a terrible storm it was. This held about three hours,
and then began to abate; and in two hours more it was
quite calm, and began to rain very hard. All this while 1
sat upon the ground, very much terrified and dejected;
when, on a sudden, it came into my thoughts that these
winds and rain being the consequence of the earthquake,
the earthquake itself was spent and over, and I might vent-
ure into my cave again. With this thought my spirits be-
gan to revive; and the rain also helping to persuade me, 1
went in, and sat down in my tent; but the rain was so vio-
lent, that my tent was ready to be beaten down with it;
and 1 was forced to get into my cave, though very much
afraid and uneasy, for fear it should fall on my head.
This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz., to cut a
hole through my new fortification, like a sink, to let the
water go out, which would else have drowned my cave.
After I had been in my cave for some time, and found no
more shocks of the earthquake follow, 1 began to be more
composed. And now, to support my spirits, which indeed
wanted it very much, I went to my little store, and took a
small cup of rum; which, however, I did then, and always,
very sparingly, knowing I could have no more when that
was gone. It continued raining all that night and great
part of the next day, so that I could not stir abroad: but
my mind being more composed, I began to think of what I
had best do; concluding, that if the island was subject to
these earthquakes, there would be no living for me in a
cave, but I must consider of building me some little hut in
an open place, which I might surround with a wall, as 1
had done here, and so make myself secure from wild beasts
or men: for if I stayed where I was, I should certainly,
one time or other, be buried alive.
With these thoughts, I resolved to remove my tent from
the place where it now stood, being just under the hanging
precipice of the hill, and which, if it should be shaken
again, would certainly fall upon my tent. I spent the next
two days, being the 19th and 20th of April, in contriving
where and how to remove my habitation.. The fear of be-
ing swallowed alive affected me so that I never slept in
quiet; and yet the apprehension of lying abroad, without
any fence, was almost equal to it; but still, when I looked
about, and saw how everything was put in order, how
pleasantly 1 was concealed, and how safe from danger, it
made me very loath to remove. In the meantime, it
occurred to me that it would require a vast deal of time
for me to do this; and that I must be contented to run the
risk where I was, till I had formed a convenient camp,
and secured it so as to remove to it. With this conclusion
I composed myself for a time; and resolved that 1 would
go to work with all speed to build me a wall with piles and
cables, etc., in a circle as before, and set up my tent in it
when it was finished; but that I would venture to stay
where 1 was till it was ready, and fit to remove to. This
was the 21st.
April 22. The next morning I began to consider of
means to put this measure into execution; but 1 was at. a
great loss about the tools. I had three large axes, and
abundance of hatchets (for we carried the hatchets for
traffic with the Indians); but with much chopping and
cutting knotty hard wood, they were all full or notches,
and dull: and though I had a grindstone, I could not turn
it and grind my tools too. This caused me as much
thought as a statesman would have bestowed upon a grand
point of politics, or a judge upon the life ana death of a
man. At length I contrived a wheel with a string, to turn
it with my foot, that I might, have both my hands at lib«
erty.
Note. I had never seen any such thing in Eugland, or
at least not to take notice how it was done, though since 1
have observed it is very common there: besides that, my
grindstone was very large and heavy. This machine cost
me a full week's work to bring it to perfection.
April 28, 29. These two whole days 1 took up in grind-
ing my tools, my machine for turning my grindstone per-
forming very well.
April 30. Having perceived that my bread had been low
a great while, I now took a survey of it, and reduced my-
self to one biscuit-cake a day, which made my heart very
heavy.
SECTION IX.
Robinson obtains more Articles from the Wreck.—His Illness and
Affliction.
May 1. In the morning, looking toward the sea-side,
the tide being low, 1 saw something lie on the shore bigger
than ordinary, and it looked like a cask; when I came to
it 1 found a small barrel, and two or three pieces of the
wreck of the ship, which were driven on shore by the late
hurricane; and looking toward the wreck itself, I thought
it seemed to lie higher out of the water than it used to do.
I examined the barrel that was driven on shore, and soon
found it was a barrel of gunpowder; but it had taken
water, and the powder was caked as hard as a stone; how-
ever, I rolled it further on the shore for the present, and
went on upon the sands, as near as I could to the wreck of
the ship, to look for more.
When 1 came down to the ship I found it strangely re-
moved. The forecastle, which lay before buried in the
sand, was heaved up at least six feet; and the stern (which
was broke to pieces, and parted from the rest, by the force
of the sea, soon after I had left rummaging of her) was
tossed, as it were, up, and cast on one side; and the sand
was thrown so high on that side next her stern, that I could
now walk quite up to her when the tide was out; whereas
there was a great piece of water before, so that I could not
come within a quarter of a mile of the wreck without swim-
ming. I was surprised with thia at first, but soon con-
ROBINSOST CRUSOE. 77
nluded it must be done by the earthquake; and as by this
violence the ship was more broken open than formerly, so
mauy things came daily on shore, which the sea had
loosened, and which the winds and water rolled by degrees
to the land.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of re-
moving my habitation; and 1 busied myself mightily, that
day especially, in searching whether 1 could make any way
into the ship; but I found nothing was to be expected of
that kind, for all the inside of the ship was choked up with
sand. However, as I had learned not to despair of any-
thing, 1 resol' ed to pull everything to pieces that I could
of the ship- concluding that everything I could get from
her would r ;of some use or other to me.
May 3. 1 began with my saw, and cut a piece of a
beam though, which I thought held some of the upper
part or juarter-deck together; and when I had cut it
through, 1 cleared away the sand as well as I could from
th<j sK/e which lay highest; but the tide coming in, I was
obliged to give over for that time.
l/.ay 4. 1 went a-fishing, but caught not one fish that
I <7,nrst eat of, till 1 was weary of my sport; when, just go-
i'ig to leave off, I caught a young dolphin. I had made
ne a long line of some rope-yarn, but I had no hooks; yet
I frequently caught fish enough, as much as I cared to eat;
all which I dried in the sun and eat them dry.
May 5. Worked on the wreck; cut another beam
asunder, and brought three great fir planks off from the
decks, which I tied together, and made swim on shore
when the tide of flood came on.
May 6. Worked on the wreck; got several iron bolts
out of her, and other pieces of iron work; worked very
bard, and came home very much tired, and had thoughts
of giving it over.
May 7. Went to the wreck again, but not with an in-
tent to work; but found the weight of the wreck had broke
itself down, the beams being cut; that several pieces of the
ship seemed to lie loose; and the inside of the hold lay so
open that I could see into it; but almost full of water and
sand.
May 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron crow
to wrench up the deck, which lay now quite clear of the
-water and sand. I wrenched up two planks, and brought
78 ROBINSON CRUSOE.
them on shore also with the tide. I left tke iron crow in
the wreck for next day.
May 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crow made
way into the body of the wreck, and felt several casks, and
loosened them with the crow, but could not break them
up. I felt also a roll of English lead, and could stir it;
but it was too heavy to remove.
May 10 to 14. Went every day to the wreck, and got
a great many pieces of timber, and boards, or plank, and
two or three hundredweight of iron.
May 15. I carried two hatchets, to try if 1 could not
cut a piece off the roll of lead, by placing the edge of one
hatchet, and driving it with the other; but as it lay about
a foot and a half in the water, I could not make any blow
to drive the hatchet.
May 1C. It had blown hard in the night, and the
wreck appeared more broken by the force of the water;
but I stayed so long in the woods, to get pigeons for food,
that the tide prevented my going to the wreck that day.
May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on
shore, at a great distance, two miles off me, but resolved
to see what they were, and found it was a piece of the head,
but too heavy for me to bring away.
May 24. Every day, to this day, I worked on the
wreck; and with hard labor I loosened some things so
much, with the crow, that the first blowing tide several
casks floated out, and two of the seamen's chests; but the
wind blowing from the shore, nothing came to land that
day but pieces of timber, and a hogshead, which had some
Brazil pork in it; but the salt-water and the sand had
spoiled it. I continued this work every day to the 15 th of
June, except the time necessary to get food; which 1 always
appointed, during this part of my employment, to be
when the tide was up, that I might be ready when it was
ebbed out; and by this time I had got timber, and plank,
and iron-work enough to have built a good boat, if I had
known how; and I also got, at several times, and in several
pieces, near one hundred-weight of the sbeet-lead.
June 16. Going down to the sea-side, I found a large
tortoise, or turtle. This was the first I had seen, which,
it seems, was only my misfortune, not any defect of the
place, or scarcity, for had 1 happened to be on the other side
of the island, I might have had hundreds of them every
\
ROBINSON CUC8OE. 79
day, as I found afterward; bai perhaps have paid dear
enough for them.
June 17. 1 spent in cooking ihe turtle. I found in
her three-score eggs, and her flesh was to me, at that time,
the most savory and pleasant that I ever tasted in my life,
having had no flesh but of goats and fowls since I landed
in this horrid place.
June 18. Pained all that day, and I stayed within. 1
thought, at this time, the rain felt cold, and I was some-
what chilly, which I knew was not usual in that latitude.
June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather
had been cold.
June 20. No rest all night; violent pains in my head,
and feverish.
June 21. Very ill; frightened almost to death with
apprehensions of my sad condition, to be sick and no help;
prayed to God for the first time since the storm off Hull;
but scarce knew what I said, or why, my thoughts being
all confused.
June 22. A little better, but under dreadful appre-
hensions of sickness.
June 23. Very bad again; cold and shivering, and
then a violent headache.
June 24. Much better.
June 25. An ague very violent; the fit held me seven
hours; cold fit, and hot, with faint sweats after it
.
June 26. Better; and having no victuals to eat, took
my gun, but found myself very weak; however, 1 killed a
she goat, and with much difficulty got it home, and broiled
some of it, and eat. I would fain have stewed it, and
made some broth, but had no pot.
June 27. The ague again so violent that I lay abed all
day and neither eat nor drank. 1 was ready to perish for
thirst; but so weak 1 had not strength to stand up or to
get myself any water to drink. Prayed to God again, but
was light-headed; and when I was not, 1 was so ignorant
that I knew not what to say, only lay and cried, Lord,
look upon me! Lord, pity me! Lord, have mercy upon
me! 1 suppose 1 did nothing else for two or three hours,
till the fit wearing off, 1 fell asleep, and did not wake till
far in the night. When 1 awoke, I found myself much re-
freshed, but weak and exceeding thirsty; however, as I
had no water in my whole habitation, I was forced to Ha
till moming, and went to sleep again. In this second sleep
I had thfs terrible dream: I thought that 1 was sitting on
the ground, on the outside of my wall, where 1 sat when
the storm blew after the earthquake, and that I saw a man
descend from a great black cloud, in a bright flame of fire,
and light upon the ground; he was all over as bright as a
flame, so that 1 could but just bear to look toward him;
his countenance was most inexpressibly dreadful, impossi-
ble for words to describe; when he stepped upon the
ground with his feet, I thought the earth trembled, just as
it had done before in the earthquake; and all the air
looked, to my apprehension, as if it had been filled with
flashes of fire. He had no sooner landed upon the earth,
but he moved forward toward me with a long spear or
weapon in his hand, to kill me; and when he came to a
rising ground, at some distance, he spoke to me, or I heard
a voioe so terrible that it is impossible to express the ter-
ror of it; all that 1 can say I understood was this: Seeing
all these things have not brought thee to repentance, now
thou shalt die; at which words I thought he lifted up the
spear that was in his hand to kill me.
No one that shall ever read this account will expect that
I should be able to describe the horrors of my soul at this
terrible vision; 1 mean, that even while it was a dream, I
even dreamed of those horrors; nor is it any more possible
to describe the impression that remained upon my mind
when 1 awaked, and found it was but a dream.
I had, alas! no divine knowledge; what I had received
by the good instruction of my father was then worn out,
by an uninterrupted series, for eight years, of seafaring
wickedness, and a constant conversation with none but such
as were, like myself, wicked and profane to the last de-
gree. I do not remember that 1 had, in all that time, one
thought that so much as tended either to looking upward
toward God, or inward toward a reflection upon my own
ways; but a certain stupidity of soul, without desire of
good: or consciousness of evil, had entirely overwhelmed
me, and I was all that the most hardened, unthinking,
wicked creature among our common sailors can be sup-
posed to be; not having the least sense, either of the fear
of God, in danger, or of thankfulness to Him. in deliver-
ances.
In the relating what is already part of my story, this will
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 81
be the more easily believed, when 1 shall add, that through
all the variety of miseries that had to this day befallen me,
I never had so much as one thought of its being the hand
of God, or that it was a just punishment for my sin;
either my rebellious behavior against my father, or my
present sins, which were great; or even as a punishment
for the general course of my wicked life. When 1 was on
the desperate expedition on the. desert shores of Africa, I
never had so much as one thought of what would become
of me, or one wish to God to direct me whither 1 should
go, or to keep me from the danger which apparently sur-
rounded me, as well from voracious creatures as cruel sav-
ages; but I was quite thoughtless of a God or a Providence;
aoted like a mere brute, from the principles of nature, and
by the dictates of common sense only, and indeed hardly
that. When 1 was delivered and taken up at sea by the
Portuguese captain, well used, and dealt with justly and
honorably, as well as charitably, 1 had not the least thank-
fulness in my thoughts. When, again, I was shipwrecked,
ruined, and in danger of drowning, on this island, 1 was as
far from remorse, or looking on it as a judgment; I only
said to myself often that 1 was an unfortunate dog, and
born to be always miserable.
It is true, when I first got on shore here, and found all
my ship's crew .drowned, and myself spared, 1 was sur-
prised with a kind of ecstasy, and some transports of soul,
which, had the grace of God assisted, might have come up
to true thankfulness; but it ended where it began, in a
mere common flight of joy; or, as I may say, being glad I
was alive, without the least reflection upon the distin-
guished goodness of the hand which had preserved me, and
had singled me out to be preserved when all the rest were
destroyed, or any inquiry why Providence had been thus
merciful to me; just the same common sort of joy which
seamen generally have, after they are got safe ashore from
a shipwreck; which they drown all in the next bowl of
punch, and forget almost as soon as it is over; and all the
rest of my life was like it. Even when 1 was, afterward,
on due consideration, made sensible of my condition—how
1 was cast on this dreadful place, out of the reach of hu-
man kind, out of all hope of relief, or prospect of redemp-
tion—%b soon as I saw but a prospect of living, and thai 1
Bhoala dot starve and perish for hunger, all the ^euse of
B« ROBINSON CRUSOB.
my affliction wore off, and I began to bo very easy, applied
myself to the works proper for my preservation and supply,
and was far enough from being afflicted at my condition,
as a judgment from Heaven, or as the hand of God against
me; these were thoughts which very seldom entered into
my head.
The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my journal,
had at first some little influence upon me, and began to
affect me with seriousness, as long as I thought it had
something miraculous in it; but as soon as that part of the
thought was removed, all the impression which was raised
from it wore off also, as 1 have noted already. Even the
earthquake, though nothing could be more terrible in its
nature, or more immediately directing to the invisible
Power which alone directs such things, yet no sooner was
the fright over, but the impression it had made went off
also. I had no more sense of God or His judgments, much
less of the present affliction of my circumstances being
from His hand, than if I had been in the most prosperous
condition of life. But now, when I began to be sick, and
a leisure view of the miseries of death came to place itself
before me; when my spirits began to sink under the bur-
den of a strong distemper, and nature was exhausted with
the violence of the fever; conscience, that had slept so
long, began to awake, and 1 reproached myself with my
past life, in which 1 had so evidently, by uncommon
wickedness, provoked the justice of God to lay me under
uncommon strokes, and to deal with me in so vindictive a
manner. These reflections oppressed me for the second
or third day of my distemper; and, in the violence as well
of the fever as of the dreadful reproaches of my conscience,
extorted from me some words like praying to God; though
I can not say it was a prayer attended either with desires
or with hopes; it was rather the voice of mere fright and
distress. My thoughts were confused; the convictions great
upon my mind, and the horror of dying in such a miserable
condition, raised vapors in my head with the mere appre-
hension; and, in these hurries of my soul, I knew not what
my tongue might express; but it was rather exclamation,
such as, Lord, what a miserable creature am 1! If I should
be sick, I shall certainly die for want cf help; and what
will become of me? Then the tears burst out of my eyes,
and I could say no more for a good while. In this interval
EOBINSON CRUSOE. 89
the good advice of my father came to my mind, and pres-
ently his prediction, which I mentioned at the beginning of
this story, viz., that if 1 did take this foolish step, God
would not bless me; and 1 should have leisure hereafter to
reflect upon having neglected his counsel, when there might
be none to assist in my recovery. Now, said 1, aloud, my
dear father's words are come to pass. God's justice has
overtaken me, and I have none to help or hear me. 1 re>
jected the voice of Providence, which had mercifully put
me in a station of life wherein I might have been happy
and easy; but I would neither see it myself nor learn from
my parents to know the blessing of it. I left them to
mourn over my folly; and now 1 am left to mourn under
the consequences of it. I refused their help and assistance,
who would have pushed me in the world, and would have
made everything easy to me; and now I have difficulties to
struggle with, too great for even nature itself to support;
and no assistance, no comfort, no advice. Then I cried
out, Lord, be my help, for I am in great distress. This
was the first prayer, if I may call it so, that I had made
for many years. But I return to my journal.
SECTION X.
His Recovery.—His Comfort in Reading the Scriptures.—Makes an
Excursion into the Interior of the Island.—Forms his " Bower."
June 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with the
sleep I had had, and the fit being entirely off, I got up;
and though the fright and terror of my dream were very
great, yet I considered that the fit of the ague would re-
turn again the next day, and now was my time to get some-
thing to refresh and support myself when I should be ill.
The first thing 1 did was to fill a large square case-bottle
with water, and set it upon my table, in reach of my bed;
and to take off the chill or aguish disposition of the water,
I put about a quarter of a pint of rum into it, and mixed
them together. Then 1 got me a piece of the goat's flesh,
and broiled it on the coals, but could eat very little, I
walked about, but was very weak, and withal very sad and
heavy-hearted in the sense of my miserable condition,
dreading the return of my dist' mper the next day. At
night, I made my supper of three of the turtle's eggs,
84 ««ai*fsdc cEusoar
which I roasted in the ashes, and eat, as we call it, in the
shell; and this was the first bit of meat 1 had ever asked
God's blessing to, as I could remember, in my whole life.
After I had eaten I tried to walk; but found myself so
Weak that I could hardly carry the gun (for 1 never went
out without that); so I went but a little way, and sat down
upon the ground, looking out upon the sea, which was just
before me, and very calm and smooth. As I sat here,
some such thoughts as these occurred to me: What is this
earth and sea, of which I have seen so much? Whence is
it produced? And what am I, and all the other creatures,
wild and tame, human and brutal? Whence are we?
Surely, we are all made by some secret powei, who
formed the earth and sea, the air and sky. And who is
that? Then it followed most naturally, It is God that has
made all. Well, but then, it came on, if God has made all
these things, He guides and governs them all, and all
things that concern them, for the power that could make
all things must certainly have power to guide and direct
them; if so, nothing can happen in the great circuit of His
works, either without His knowledge or appointment.
And if nothing happens without His knowledge He
knows that I am here, and am in this dreadful condition;
and if nothing happens without His appointment, He has
appointed all this to befall me. Nothing occurred to my
thought to contradict any of these conclusions; and there-
fore it rested upon me with the greatest force that it must
needs be that God had appointed all this to befall me; that
I was brought to this miserable circumstance by His direc-
tion, He having the sole power, not of me only, but of
everything that happens in the world. Immediately it
followed, Why has God done this to me? What have I
done to be thus used? My conscience presently checked
me in that inquiry, as if 1 had blasphemed; and methought
it spoke to me like a voice! Wretch, dost thou ask what
thou hast done? Look back upon a dreadful misspent life,
and ask thyself what thou hast not done. Ask why is it
that thou wert not long ago destroyed? Why wert thou
not drowned in-Yarmouth Roads; killed in the fight when
the ship was taken by the Bailee man-of-war; devoured by
the wild beasts on the coast of Africa, or drowned here,
when all the crew perished but thyself? Dost thou ask
what thou hast done? 1 was struck dumb with these re-
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 85
flections, as one astonished, and had not a word to say; no,
not to answer to myself; and, rising up pensive and sad,
walked back to my retreat, and went over my wall, as if 1
had been going to bed; but my thoughts were sadly dis-
turbed, and I had no inclination to sleep; so I sat down in
the chair, and lighted my lamp, for it began to be dark.
Now, as the apprehension of the return of my distemper
terrified me very much, it occurred to my thought, that
the Brazilians take no physic but their tobacco for almost
all distempers; and 1 had a piece of a roll of tobacco in one
of the chests, which was quite cured; and some also that
was green, and not quite cured.
1 went, directed by Heaven, no doubt; for in this chest
I found a cure both for soul and body. 1 opened the chest,
and found what 1 looked for, viz., the tobacco; and as the
few books I had saved lay there too, 1 took out one of the
Bibles which 1 mentioned before, and which, to this time,
I had not found leisure, or so much as inclination, to look
into. I say I took it out, and brought both that and the
tobacco with me to the table. What use to muke of the
tobacco I knew not, as to my distemper, nor whether it
was good for it or not; but 1 tried several experiments
with it, as if I was resolved it should hit one uay or other.
I first took a piece of .a leaf, aud chewed it in my mouth,
which indeed at first almost stupefied my brain, the tobac-
co being green and strong, and such as I had not been
much used to. Then I took some and steeped it an hour
or two in some rum and resolved to take a dose of it when
I lay down; and lastly, I burned some upon a pan of coals,
and held my nose close over the smoke of it as long as I
could bear it, as well for the heat as almost for suffocation.
In the interval of this operation I took up the Bible and
began to read; but my head was too much disturbed by
the tobacco to bear reading, at least at that time; only,
Having opened the book casually, the first words that oc-
curred to me were these: "Call on Me in the day of
trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify
Me." These words were very apt to my case, and made
some impression upon iny thoughts at the time of reading
them, though not so much as they did afterward; for, as
for being delivered, the word had no sound, as I may say,
to me; the thing was so remote, so impossible in my appre-
hension of things, that, as the children of Israel said when
J
86 BOBINSON CRUSOBL
they were promised flesh to eat, " Can God spread a table
in the wilderness?" so 1 began to say, Can even God him-
self deliver me from this place? And as it was not for
many years that any hopes appeared, this prevailed very
often uppn my thoughts; but, however, the words made a
great impression upon me, and 1 mused upon them very
often. It now grew late, and the tobacco had, as I said,
dazed my head so much that I inclined to sleep; so 1 left
my lamp burning in the cave, lest 1 should want anything
in the night, and went to bed. But before I lay down 1
did what I never had done in all my life; I knelt down,
and prayed to God to fulfill the promise to me, that if 1
called upon Him in the day of trouble He would deliver
me. After my broken and imperfect prayer was over 1
drank the rum in which 1 had steeped the tobacco, which
was so strong and rank of the tobacco that indeed I could
scarce get it down; immediately upon this I went to bed.
I found presently the rum flew up into my head violently,
but I fell into a sound sleep, and waked no more till, by
the sun, it must necessarily be near three o'clock in the
afternoon the next day; nay, to this hour, 1 am partly of
opinion that I slept all the next day and night, and till
almost three the day after; for otherwise I know not how
I should lose a day out of my reckoning in the days of the
week, as it appeared some years after 1 had done; for if I
had lost it by crossing and recrossing the Line, I should
have lost more than one day; but certainly 1 lost a day in
my account, and never knew which way. Be that, how-
ever, one way or the other, when 1 awaked 1 found myself
exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful;
when I got up 1 was stronger than 1 was the day before,
and my stomach better, for I was hungry; and, in short, 1
had no fit the next day, but continued much altered for
the better. This was the 29th.
The 30th was my well day, of course; and I went abroad
with my gun, but did not care to travel too far. I killed
a sea-fowl or two, something like a brand goose, and
, brought them home; but was not very forward to eat them;
so 1 eat some more of the turtle's eggs, which were very
good. This evening I renewed the medicine, which I had
supposed did me good the day before, viz., the tobacco
steeped in rum; only I did not take so much as before, nor
did 1 chew any of the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke;

however, I was not so well the next day, which was the 1st
of July, as 1 hoped I should have been, for I had a little
of the cold fit, but it was not much.
July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three ways; and
dosed myself with it as at first, and doubled the quantity
which I drank.
July 3. I missed the fit for good and all, though I did
not recover my full strength for some weeks after. While
I was thus gathering strength, my thoughts ran exceeding-
ly upon this Scripture, "I will deliver thee;" and the im-
possibility of my deliverance lay much upo^ my mind, in
bar of my ever expecting it; but as I was discouraging my-
self with such thoughts, it occurred to my mind that I
pored so much upon my deliverance from the main afflic-
tion, that 1 disregarded the deliverance 1 had received; and
I was, as it were, made to ask myself such questions as
these, viz.: Have I not been delivered, and wonderfully,
too, from sickness, from the most distressed condition that
could be and that was so frightful to me? and what notice
have 1 taken of it? Have I done my part? God has de-
livered me, but I have not glorified Him; that is to say, I
have not owned and been thankful for that as a deliver-
ance; and how can I expect a greater deliverance? This
touched my heart very much, and immediately I knelt
down and gave God thanks aloud for my recovery from my
sickness,
July 4. In +he morning I took the Bible; and beginning
at the New Testament, 1 began seriously to read it; and
imposed upon myself to read awhile every morning and
every night; not binding myself to the number of chapters,
but as long as my thoughts should engage me. It was not
long after I set seriously to this work, that I found my
heart more deeply and sincerely affected with the wicked-
ness of my past life. The impression of my dream re-
vived; and the words, All these things have not brought
thee to repentance, ran seriously in my thoughts. 1 was
earnestly begging of God to give me repentance, when it
happened providentially, the very same day, that, reading
the Scripture, I came to these words, "He is exalted a
Prince and a Saviour; to give repentance and to give remis-
sion." 1 threw down the book; and with my heart as well
as my hands lifted up to heaven, in a kind of ecstasy of
joy, 1 cried out aloud, Jesus, thou son of Davidl Jesus,
88 ROBINSON CRUSOE.
thou exalted Prince and Saviour! give me repentance! This
was the first time in all my life I could say, in the tme
sense of the words, that I prayed; for now I prayed with a
sense of my condition, and with a true scripture view of
hope, founded on the encouragement of the word of God:
and from this time, I may say, 1 began to have hope that
God would hear me.
Now 1 began to construe the words mentioned above,
"Call on Me, and 1 will deliver thee," in a different sense
from what I had ever done before; for then I had no notion
of anything being called deliverance, but my being deliv-
ered from the captivity I was in: for though I was indeed
at large in the place, yet the island was certainly a prison
to me, and that in the worst sense of the word. But now
I learned to take it in another sense: now I looked back
upon my past life with such horror, and my sins appeared
so dreadful, that my soul sought nothing of God but deliv-
erance from the load of guilt that bore down all my com-
fort. As for my solitary life, it was nothing; I did not so
much as pray to be delivered from it, or think of it; it was
all of no consideration, in comparison with this. And I
add this part here, to hint to whoever shall read it, that
whenever they come to a true sense of things, they will
find deliverance from sin a much greater blessing than de-
liverance from affliction.
My condition began now to be, though not less miserable
as to my way of living, yet much easier to my mind: and
my thoughts being directed, by constantly reading the
Scripture and praying to God, to things of a higher nature,
I had a great deal of comfort within, which, till now, I
knew nothing of; also, as my health and strength re-
turned, 1 bestirred me to furnish myself with everything
that I wanted, and make my way of living as regular as 1
could.
From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly employee,
in walking about with my gun in my hand, a little and u
little at a time, as a man that was gathering up hh
strength after a fit of sickness: for it is hardly to be im>
agined how low I was, and to what weakness 1 was reduced
The application which I made use of was perfectly new,
and perhaps what had never cured an ague before: neithei-
oan I recommend it to any one to practice, by this experi-
ment: and though it did carry off the fit, yet it rather con^
KOBINSON CKUSOE. 89
tributed to weakening me; for 1 had frequent convulsions
in my nerves and limbs for some time: I learned from it
also this, in particular; that being abroad in the rainy sea-
son was the most pernicious thing to my health that could
be, especially in those rains which came attended with
storms and hurricanes of wind; for as the rain which came
in the dry season was almost always accompanied with such
storms, so 1 found that this rain was much more dangerous
than the rain which fell in September and October.
1 had now been in this unhappy island above ten months:
all possibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to
be entirely taken from me; and 1 firmly believed that no
human shape had ever set foot upon that place. Having
secured my habitation, as I thought, fully to my mind, I
had a great desire to make a more perfect discovery of the
island, and to see what other productions 1 might find,
which I yet knew nothing of.
It was on the 15th of July that 1 began to take a more
particular survey of the island itself. 1 went up the creek
first, where, as I hinted, I brought my rafts on shore. I
found, after 1 came about two miles up, that the tide did
not flow any higher; and that it was no more than a little
brook of running water, very fresh ajid good: but this be-
ing the dry season, there was hardly any water in some
parts of it; at least, not any stream. On the banks of this
brook 1 found many pleasant savannas or meadows, plain,
smooth, and covered with grass; and on the rising parts of
them, next to the higher grounds (where the water, as it
might be supposed, never overflowed), 1 fouud a great deal
of tobacco, green, and growing to a very great and strong
stalk: and there were divers other plants, which I had no
knowledge of, or understanding about, and that might,
perhaps, have virtues of their own, which I could not find
out. I searched for the cassava root, which the Indians,
in all that climate, make their bread of; but I could find
none. I saw large plants of aloes, but did not understand
them. I saw several sugar-caues, but wild; and, for want
of cultivation, imperfect. I contented myself with these
discoveries for this time; and came back, musing with my-
self what course I might take to know the virtue and good-
ness of any of the fruits or plants which I should dicover;
but could bring it to no conclusion; for, in short, I had
made so little observation while I was in the Brazils, that 1
knew little of the plants in the field; at least, very little
that might serve me to any purpose now in my distress.
The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again;
and after going something further than 1 had gone the day
before, I found the brook and the savannas begin to
cease, aud the country become more woody than before.
In this part I found different fruits; and particularly I
found melons upon the ground in great abundance, and
grapes upon the trees: the vines, indeed, had spread over
the trees, and the clusters of grapes were now just in their
prime, very ripe and rich. This was a surprising discov-
ery, and I was exceedingly glad of them, but I was warned
by my experience to eat sparingly of them; remembering
that when I was ashore in Barbary, the eating of grapes
killed several of our Englishmen, who were slaves there,
by throwing them into fluxes and fevers. I found, how-
ever, an excellent use for these grapes; and that was to
cure or dry them in the sun, and keep them as dried grapes
or raisins are kept; which I thought would be (as indeed
they were) as wholesome and as agreeable to eat, when no
grapes were to be had.
I spent all that evening there, and went not back to my
habitation; which, by ttie way, was the first night, as I
might say, 1 had lain from home. At night, I took my
first contrivance, and got up into a tree, where 1 slept well;
and the next morning proceeded on my discovery, travel-
ing near four miles, as I might judge by the length of the
valley, keeping still due north, with a ridge of hills on the
south and north sides of me. At the end of this march I
came to an opening, where the country seemed to descend
to the west; and a little spring of fresh water, which issued
out at the side of the hill by me, ran the other way, that
is, due east; and the country appeared so fresh, so green,
so flourishing, everything being in a constant verdure, or
flourish of spring, that it looked like a planted garden. I
descended a little on the side of that delicious vale, survey-
ing it with a secret kind of pleasure (though mixed with
other afflicting thoughts), to think that this was all my
own; that 1 was king and lord of all this country indefeas-
ibly, and had a right of possession; and, if I could convey
it, 1 might have it in inheritance as completely as any lord
of a manor in England. I saw here abundance of cocoa-
trees, and orange, lemon, and citron-trees, but all wild.
ROBIXSON CRUSOE. 91
1
and very few bearing any fruit; at least not then. How-
ever, the green limes that 1 gathered were not only pleas-
ant to eat, but very wholesome; and I mixed their juice
afterward with water, which made it very wholesome, and
very cool and refreshing. 1 found now 1 had business
enough, to gather and carry home; and I resolved to lay
up a store, as well of grapes as limes and lemons, to fur-
nish myself for the wet season, which I knew was approach-
ing. In order to do this, I gathered a great heap of grapes
in one place, a lesser heap in another place; and a great
parcel of limes and lemons in another place; and taking a
few of each with me, I traveled homeward; and resolved
to come again, and bring a bag or sack, or what I could
make, to carry the rest home. Accordingly, having spent
three days in this journey, I came home (so I must now
call my tent and my cave): but before I got fchither, the
grapes were spoiled; the richness of the fruita, and the
weight of the juice, having broken and bruised them, they
were good for little or nothing: as to the limes, they were
good, but I could bring only a few.
The next day being the 19th, I went back, having made
me two small bags to bring home my harvest; but I was
surprised, when coming to my heap of grapes, which were
so rich and fine when I gathered them, 1 found them all
spread about, trod to pieces, and dragged about, some
here, some there, and abundance eaten and devoured. By
this 1 concluded there were some wild creatures thereabouts
which had done this, but what they were I knew not.
However, as I found there was no laying them up in heaps
and no carrying them away in a sack; but that one way
they would be destroyed, and the other way they would be
crushed with their own weight; 1 took another course: 1
then gathered a large quantity of the grapes, and hung
them upon the out-branches of the trees, that they might
cure and dry in the sun; and as for the limes and lemons,
I carried as many back as 1 could well stand under.
When I came home from this journey, 1 contemplated
with great pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley, and the
pleasantness of the situation; the security from storms on
that side; the water and the wood; and concluded that I
had pitched upon a place to fix my abode in, which was by
far the worst part of the country. Upon the whole, I be-
gan to consider of removing my habitation, and to look out
for a place equally safe as where I was now situated; if pos-
sible, in the pleasant fruitful part of the island.
This thought ran long in my head; and 1 was exceeding
fond of it for some time, the pleasantness of the place tempt-
ing me: but when I came to a nearer view of it, 1 consid-
ered that I was now by the sea-side, where it was at least
possible that something might happen to my advantage,
and, by the same ill-fate that brought me hither, might
bring some other unhappy wretches to the same place; and
though it was scarce probable that any such thing should
e^er happen, yet to inclose myself among the hills and
woods in the center of the island, was to anticipate my
bondage, and to render such an affair not only improbable,
but impossible; and that therefore I ought not by any
means to remove. However, I was so enamored of this
place, that I spent much of my time there for the whole
remaining part of the month of July; and though, upon
second thoughts, I resolved, as above stated, not to re-
move, yet 1 built me a little kind of a bower, and sur-
rounded it at a distance with a strong fence, being a double
hedge, as high as 1 could reach, well-staked, and filled be-
tween with brushwood. Here I lay very secure sometimes
two or three nights together; always going over it with a
ladder, as before: so that 1 fancied now I had my country
and my sea-coast house. This work took me up till the
beginning of August.
I had but newly finished my fence, and began to enjoy
my labor, when the rains came on, and made me stick
close to my first habitation: for though I had made a tent
like the other, with a piece of sail, and spread it very well,
yet I had not the shelter of a hill to keep me from storms,
nor a cave behind me to retreat into when the rains were
extraordinary.
About the beginning of August, as I said, 1 had finished
my bower, and began to enjoy myself. The 3d of August,.
1 found the grapes I had hung up were perfectly dried, and
indeed were excellent good raisins of the sun; so I began to
take them down from the trees; and it was very happy
that 1 did so, as the rains which followed would have
spoiled them, and I should have lost the best part of my
winter food; for I had above two hundred large bunches of
them. No sooner had I taken them all down, and carried
most of them home to my cave, but it began to rain: and
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 93
from hence, which was the 14th of August, io rained, more
or less, every day till the middle of October; and some-
times so violently, that I could not stir out of my cave for
several days.
In this season, I was much surprised with the increase of
my family. I had been concerned for the loss of one of
my cats, who ran away from me, or, as I thought, had
been dead; and I heard no more of her, till, to my aston-
ishment, she came home with three kittens. This was the
more strange to me, because, about the end of August,
though I had killed a wild cat, as 1 called it, with my gun,
yet I thought it was quite a different kind from our Euro-
pean cats: yet the young cats were the same kind of house-
breed as the old one; and both of my cats being females, I
thought it very strange. But from these three, 1 afterward
came to be so pestered with cats that 1 was forced to kill
them like vermin, or wild beasts, and to drive them from
my house as much as possible.
From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant rain; so
that I could not stir, and was now very careful not to be
much wet. In this confinement, I began to be straitened
for food; but venturing out twice, 1 one day killed a goat,
and the last day, which was the 24th, found a very large
tortoise, which was a treat to me. My food was now regu-
lated thus; I eat a bunch of raisins for my breakfast; a
piece of the goat's flesh, or of the turtle, broiled, for my
dinner (for, to my great misfortune, I had no vessel to boil
or stew anything;) and two or three of the turtle's eggs for
my supper.
During this confinement in my cover from the rain, I
worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave; and
by degrees worked it on toward one side, till 1 came to the
outside of the hill; and made a door, or way out, which
came beyond my fence or wall; and so I came in and out
this way. But I was not perfectly easy at lying so open: for
as 1 had managed myself before, 1 was in a perfect enclos-
ure; whereas now, I thought I lay exposed; and yet I
could not perceive that there was any living thing to fear,
the biggest creature that I had as yet seen upon the island
being a goat.
September 30. I was now come to the unhappy anniver-
sary of my landing: I cast up the notches on my post, and
found 1 had been on shore three hundred and sixty-five
days. 1 kept this day as a solemn fast! setting it apart
for leligious exercise, prostrating myself on the ground
with the most serious humiliation, confessing my sins to
God, acknowledging His righteous judgments upon me, and
praying to Him to have mercy on me through Jesus Christ,
and having not tasted the least refreshment for twelve
hours, even till the going down of the sun. I then eat a
biscuit and a bunch of grapes, and went to bed, finishing
the day as I began it. 1 had all this time observed no
Sabbath-day; for as at first I had no sense of religion upon
my mind, 1 had, after some time, omitted to distinguish
the weeks, by making a longer notch than ordinary for the
Sabbath-day, and so did not really know what any of the
days were: but now having cast up the days, as above, I
found I had been there a year; so I divided it into weeks,
and set apart every seventh day for a Sabbath; though 1
found, at the end of my account, I had lost a day or two
in my reckoning. A little after this, my ink beginning to
fail me, 1 contented myself to use it more sparingly; and
to write down only the most remarkable events of my life,
without continuing a daily membrandum of other things.
The rainy season and the dry season began now to ap-
pear regular to me, and 1 learned to divide them so as to
provide for them accordingly; but 1 bought all my experi-
ence before I had it; and what I am going to relate was
one of the most discouraging experiments that I had made
at all.
1 have mentioned that I had saved a few ears of barley
and rice, which 1 had so surprisingly found sprung up, as
I thought, of themselves. I believe there were about
thirty stalks of rice, and about twenty of barley; and now
I thought it a proper time to sow it after the rains; the sun
being in its southern position, going from me. Accord-
ingly I dug a piece of ground, as well as 1 could., with my
wooden spade; and dividing it into two parts, I sowed my
grain; but as I was sowing, it casually occurred to my
thoughts that I would not sow it all at first, because I did
not know when was the proper time for it; so 1 sow? ti
about two thirds of the seed, leaving about a handful of
each: and it was a great comfort to me afterward that 1
did so, for not one grain of what I sowed this time came te
anything; for the dry month following, and the earth haw
ing thus had no rain after the seed was sown, it had no
ROBINSON CRUSOE. M
moisture to assist its growth, and never came up at all till
the wet season had como again, and then it grew as if it
had been but newly sown. Finding my first seed did not
grow, which I easily imagined was from the drought, 1
sought for a moister piece of ground to make another trial
in; and I dug up a piece of ground near my new bower,
and sowed the rest of my seed in February, a little befora
the vernal .equinox. This having the rainy months of
March and April to water it, sprung up very pleasantly,
and yielded a very good crop; but having only part of the
seed left, and not daring to sow all that I had, 1 got but a
small quantity at last, my whole crop not amounting to
above half a peck of each kind. But by this experiment I
was made master of my business, and knew exactly when
was the proper time to sow; and that I might expect two
seed-times, and two harvests, every year.
While this corn was growing, I made a little discovery,
which was of use to me afterward. As soon as the rains
were over, and the weather began to settle, which was
about the month of November, 1 made a visit up the coun-
try to my bower; where, though I had not been for some
months, yet I found all things just as I had left them.
The circle or double hedge that 1 had made was not only
firm and entire, but the stakes which 1 had cut out of
some trees that grew thereabouts, were all shot out and
grown with long branches, as much ai a willow-tree usual-
ly shoots the first year after lopping its head; but 1 could
not tell what tree to call it that these stakes were cut from.
I was surprised, and yet very well pleased, to see the young
trees grow; and 1 pruned them, and led them to grow as
much alike as I could: and it is scarce credible how beau-
tiful a figure they grew into in three years: so that, though
the hedge made a circle of about twenty-five yards in diam-
eter, yet the trees, for such I might now call them, soon
covered it, and it was a complete shade, sufficient to lodge
under all the dry season. This made me resolve to cut
some more stakes, and make me a hedge like this, in a
semicircle round my wall (I mean that of my first dwell-
ing), which 1 did: and placing the trees or stakes in a
double row, at about eight yards distance from my first
fence, they grew presently; and were at first a fine cover
to my habitation, and afterward served for a defense also,
as I shall observe in its order.
SECTION XI.
Robinson Makes a Tour to Explore his Island.—Employed In
Basket-making.
I found now that the seasons of the year might general-
ly be divided, not into summer and winter as in Europe,
but into the rainy seasons and the dry seasons, which were
generally thus; From the middle of February to the mid-
dle of April, rainy; the sun being then on or near the
equinox. From the middle of April till the middle of
August, dry; the sun being then north of the Line. From
the middle of August till the middle of October, rainy; the
sun being then come back to the Line. From the middle
of October till the middle of February, dry; the sun being
then to the south of the Line.
The rainy seasons held sometimes longer and sometimes
shorter, as the winds happened to blow; but this was the
general observation I made. After I had found, by experi-
ence, the ill consequences of being abroad in the rain, 1
took care to furnish myself with provisions beforehand,
that I might not be obliged to go out; and I sat within
doors as much as possible during the wet months. This
time I found much employment, and very suitable also to
the time; for I found great occasion for many things which
I had no way to furnish myself with but by hard labor and
constant application: particularly, I tried many ways to
make myself a basket: but all the twigs I could get for the
purpose proved so brittle that they would do nothing. It
proved of excellent advantage to me now, that when 1 was
a boy, 1 used to take great delight in standing at a basket-
maker's in the town where my father lived, to see them
make their wicker-ware; and being, as boys usually are,
very officious to help, and a great observer of the manner
how they worked those things, and sometimes lending a
hand, I had by these means full knowledge of the methods
of it, so that I wanted nothing but the materials; when it
came into my mind, that the twigs of that tree from
whence I cut my stakes that grew might possibly be as
tough as the sallows, willows, and osiers, in England; and
1 resolved to try. Accordingly, the next day, I went to
my country-house, as I called it; and cutting some of the
smaller twigs, 1 found them to my purpose as much as I
could desire: whereupon 1 came the next time prepared
with a hatchet to cut down a quantity, which I soon found,
for there was great plenty of them. These 1 set up to dry
within my circle or hedge: and when they were fit for use,
I carried them to my cave: and here, during the next sea-
son, I employed myself in making, as well as I could, sev-
eral baskets; both to carry earth, or to carry or lay up any-
thing as I had occasion for. Though I did not finish them
very handsomely, yet 1 made them sufficiently serviceable
for my purpose: and thus, afterward, 1 took care never to
be without them; and as my wicker-ware decayed, I made
more; especially strong deep baskets, to place my corn in,
instead of sacks, when I should come to have any quantity
of it.
Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a world
of time about it, 1 bestirred myself to see, if possible, how
to supply two other want?. I had no vessel to hold any-
thing that was liquid, except two runlets, which were almost
full of rum; and some glass bottles, some of the common
size, and others (which were case bottles) square, for the
holding of waters, spirits, etc. I had not so much as a pot
to boil anything; except a great kettle, which I saved out
of the ship, and which was too big for such use as I desired
it, viz., to make broth, and stew a bit of meat by itself.
The second thing I would fain have had, was a tobacco-
pipe; but it was impossible for me to make one; however,
I found a ccntrivauce for that too at last. 1 employed
myself in planting my second row of stakes or piles, and
also in this wicker-working all the summer or dry season;
when another business took me up more time than it could
be imagined I could spare.
I mentioned before, that I had a great mind to see the
whole island; and that I had traveled up the brook, and so
on to where 1 had built my bower, and where I had an
opening quite to the sea, on the other side of the island. I
now resolved to travel quite across to the seashore, on that
side: so taking my gun, a hatchet, and my dog, and a
larger quantity of powder and shot than usual; with two
biscuit-cakes, and a great bunch of raisins in my pouch,
for my store; I began my journey. When I had passed the
vale where my bower stood, as above, I came within view
of the sea, to the west; and it being a very clear day, I
fairly descried land, whether an island or continent 1 could
not tell; but it lay very high, extending from W. to W.S.-
W. at a very great distance; by my guess, it could not be
less than fifteen or twenty leagues off.
I could not tell what part of the world this might be;
otherwise than that I knew it must be part of America;
and, as I concluded, by all my observations, must be near
the Spanish dominions; and perhaps was all inhabited by
savages, where, if 1 should have landed, 1 had been in a
worse condition than I was now. I therefore acquiesced in
the dispositions of Providence, which I began now to own
and to believe ordered everything for the best; I say, 1
quieted my mind with this, and left off afflicting myself
with fruitless wishes of being there. Besides, after some
pause upon this affair, I considered that if this land was
the Spanish coast, 1 should certainly, one time or other,
see some vessel pass or repass one way or other; but if not,
then it was the savage coast between the Spanish country
and the Brazils, whose inhabitants are indeed the worst of
savages; for they are cannibals, or men-eaters, and fail not
to murder and devour all human beings that fall into their
hands.
With these considerations, walking very leisurely for-
ward, I found this side of the island, where 1 now was,
much pleasanter than mine; the open or savanna fields
sweetly adorned with flowers and grass, and full of very
fine woods. 1 saw abundance of parrots, and fain would
have caught one, if possible, to have kept it to be tame,
and taught it to speak to me. I did, after taking some
pains, catch a young parrot; for I knocked it down with a
stick, and having recovered it, I brought it home, but
it was some years before 1 could make him speak; how-
ever, at last 1 taught him to call me by my name very fa-
miliarly. But the accident that followed, though it be a
trifle, will be very diverting in its place.
1 was exceedingly amused with this journey. I found in
the low grounds hares, as 1 thought them to be, and foxes;
but they differed greatly from all the other kinds I had
met with; nor could I satisfy myself to eat them, though
I killed several. But I had no need to be venturous; for
1 had no want of food, and of that which was very good
too; especially these three sorts, viz.. goats, pigeons, and
turtle, or tortoise. With these, added to my grapes,
ROBINSON cursor. 99

Leadeuhall Market could not have furnished a table better
than I, in proportion to the company; and though my case
was deplorable enough, yot I had great cause for thankful-
ness; as I was not driven to any extremities for food, but
had rather plenty, even to dainties.
I never traveled on this journey above two miles outright
in a day, or thereabout; but I took so many turns and re-
turns to see what discoveries 1 could make, that I came
weary enough to the place where I resolved to sit down for
the night; and then 1 either reposed myself in a tree, or
surrounded myself with a row of stakes, set upright in the
ground, either from one tree to another, or so as no wild
creature could come at me without waking me.
As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised to
see that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of the
island; for here indeed the shore was covered with innum-
erable turtles; whereas, on the other side, 1 had found but
three in a year and a half. Here was also an infinite num-
ber of fowls of many kinds; some of which I had seen, and
some of which I had not seen before, and many of them
very good meat; but such as I knew not the names of, ex-•
cept those called penguins.
1 could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very
sparing of my powder and shot; and therefore had more
mind to kill a she-goat, if I could, which 1 could better'
feed on. But, though there were many goats here, more*
than on my side the island, yet it was with much more
difficulty that I could come near them; the country being
flat and even, and they saw me much sooner than when I
was upon a hill.
1 confess this side of the country was much pleasanter
than mine; yet 1 had not the least inclination to remove,
for as I was fixed in my habitation, it became natural to
me, and I seemed all the while I was here to be, as it were,
upon a journey and from home. However, 1 traveled along
the sea-shore toward the east, I suppose about twelve miles;
and then setting up a great pole upon the shore for a mark,
I concluded I would go home again, and that the next
journey I took should be on the other side of the island,
east from my dwelling, and so round till I came to my
post agliin; of which in its place.
I tooK another way to come back than that I went,
thinking I could easily keep so much of the island in my
view, that I could net miss my first dwelling by viewing
the country; but r found myself mistaken; for being come
about two or three miles, I found myself descended into a
very large valley, but so surrounded with hills, and those
hills covered with wood, that I could not see which was my
way by any direction but that of the sun, nor even then,
unless I knew very well the position of the sun at that time
of the day. And it happened to my further misfortune
that the weather proved hazy for three or four days while
I was in this valley; and not being able to see the sun, I
wandered about very uncomfortable, and at last was obliged
to find out the sea-side, look for my post, and come back
the same way I went; and then by easy journeys I turned
homeward, the weather being exceeding hot, and my gun,
ammunition, hatchet, and other things very heavy.
SECTION XII.
He Returns to his Cave.—His Agricultural Labors and Success.
In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and
seized upon it; and running to take hold of it, I caught it
and saved it alive from the dog. I had a great mind to
bring it home if I could; for I had often been musing
whether it might not be possible to get a kid or two, and
so raise a breed of tame goats, which might supply me
when my powder and shot should be all spent. I made a
collar for this little creature, and with a string which I had
made of some rope-yarn, which I always carried about me,
I led him along, though with some difficulty, till I came to
my bower, and there I inclosed him and left him; for 1 was
very impatient to be at home, from whence I had been ab-
sent above a month.
I can not express what a satisfaction it was to me to
come into my old hutch, and lie down in my hammock-
bed. This little wandering journey, without a settled place
of abode, had been so unpleasant to me that my own
house, as I called it to myself, was a perfect settlement to
me, compared to that; and it rendered everything about
me so comfortable that 1 resolved I would never go a great
way from it again while it should be my lot to stay on the
island.
1 reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale myself
BOBINSON CRUSOE. iJl
ifter my long journey; during which, most of the time
was taken up in the weighty affair of making a cage for
my Poll, who began now to be more domestic, and to be
mighty well acquainted with me. Then I began to think
of the poor kid which I had penned within my little circle,
and resolved to fetch it home, or give it some food; accord
ingly 1 went, and found it where I left it (for indeed ii
could not get out), but was almost starved for want of
food. I went and cut boughs of trees, and branches of
such shrubs as I could find, and threw it over, and having
fed it, I tied it as 1 did before, to lead it away; but it was
so tame with being hungry that I had no need to have tied
it, for it followed me like a dog; and as I continually fed
it, the creature became so loving, so gentle, and so fond,
that it was from that time one of my domestics also, and
would never leave me afterward.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now come,
and I kept the 30th of September in the same solemn man-
ner as before, being the anniversary of my landing on the
island, having now been there two years, and no more
frospect of being delivered than the first day I came there,
spent the whole day in humble and thankful acknowl-
edgments for the many wonderful mercies which my soli-
tary condition was attended with, and without which it
might have been infinitely more miserable. I gave hum-
ble and hearty thanks to God for having been pleased to
discover to me that it was possible I might be more happy
even in this solitary condition, than I should have been in
the enjoyment of society, and in all the pleasures of the
world; that He could fully make up to me the deficiencies
of my solitary state, and the want of human society, by
His presence, and the communications of His grace to my
soul, supporting, comforting, and encouraging me to de-
pend upon His Providence here, and to hope for His eter
nal presence hereafter.
It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much more
kappy the life I now led was, with all its miserable circum-
jtances, than the wicked, cursed, abominable life I led all
she past part of my days; and now 1 changed both my
arrows and my joys; my very desires altered, my affec-
tions changed their gusts, and my delights were perfectly
pew from what they were at my first coming, or indeed for
the two years past. Before, as 1 walked about, either on
my hunting, or for viewing the country, tho angnish of
my soul at my condition would break out upon me on a
eudden, and my verv heart would die within me, to think
of the woods, the mountains, the deserts 1 was in; and
how 1 was a prisoner, locked up with the eternal bars and
bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness, without
redemption. In the midst of the greatest composures of
my mind, this would break out upon me like a storm, and
make me wring my hands and weep like a child; some-
times it would take me in the middle of my work- and I
would immediately sit down and sigh, and look upo.-i the
ground for an hour or two together; this was still worse to
me; but if I could burst into tears or give vent to my feel-
ings by words, it would go off, and my grief being ex
hausted, would abate.
-But now I began to exercise myself with new thouglitsj
I daily read the word of God, and applied all the comforts
of it to my present state. One morning, being very sad, .
I opened the Bible upon these words, " I will never Itave
thee, nor forsake thee;" immediately it occurred that these
words were to me, why else should they be directed in such
a manner, just at the moment when I was mourning over
my condition, as one forsaken of God and man? Well,
then, said I, if God does not forsake me, of what ill conse-
quence can it be, or what matters it, though the world
should forsake me; seeing, on the other hand, if 1 had all
the world, and should lose the favor and blessing of God,
there would be no comparison in the loss?
Prom this moment I began to conclude in my mind that
it was possible for me to be more happy in this forsaken,
solitary condition than it was probable 1 should ever have
been in any other particular state of the world; and with
ihis thought 1 was going to give thanks to God for bring-
ing me to this place. I know not what it was, but some-
thing shocked my mind at that thought, and I durst not
speak the words. How canst thou be such a hypocrite,
said I, even audibly, to pretend to be thankful for a con-
dition, which, however thou mayest endeavor to be con-
tented with, thou wouldst rather pray heartily to be de-
livered from? Here 1 stopped; but though I could not
say I thanked God for being here, ytt 1 sincerely gave
thanks to God for opening my eyes, by whatever afflicting
providences, to see the former condition of mj life, and to
ROBINSON' CRUSOE. 103
ttiourn for my wickedness, and repent. I never opened
the Bible, or shut it, but my very soul within me blessed
God for directing my friend in England, without any order
of mine, to pack it up among my goods; and for assisting
me afterward to save it out of the wreck of the ship.
Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third
year; and though 1 have not given the reader the trouble
of so particular an account of my works this year as the
first, yet in general it may be observed, that I was very
seldom idle; but having regularly divided my time, accord-
ing to the several daily employments that were before me;
such as, first, My duty to God, and the reading the Script-
ures, which 1 constantly set apart some time for, thrice
every day; secondly, Going abroad with my gun for food,
which generally took me up three hours every morning,
when it did not rain; thirdly, Ordering, curing, preserv-
ing, and cooking what I had killed or catched for my sup-
ply; these took up great part of the day; also it is to be
considered, that in the middle of the day, when the sun
was in the zenith, the violence of the heat Was too great to
stir out; so that about four hours in the evening was all
the time 1 could be supposed to work in; with this excep-
tion, that sometimes I changed my hours of hunting and
working, and went to work in the morning, and abroad
with my gun in the afternoon.
To this short time allowed for labor, 1 desire may be
added the exceeding laboriousness of my work; the many
hours which, for want of tools, want of help, and want of
skill, everything I did took up out of my time; for ex-
ample, 1 was full two-and-forty days making me a board
for a long shelf, which 1 wanted in my cave; whereas, two
sawyers, with their tools and a sawpit, would have cut six
of them out of the same tree in half a day.
My case was this: it was a large tree that was to be cut
down, because my board was to be a broad one. This tree
I was three days cutting down, and two more in cutting off
the boughs, and reducing it to a log, or piece of timber.
With inexpressible hacking and hewing, I reduced both the
sides of it into chips till it was light enough to move; then
I turned it, and made one side of it smooth and flat as a
board, from end to end; then turning that side downward,
cut the other side, till I brought the plank to be about
three inches thick, and smooth on both sides. Any one
may judge the labor of my hands in such a piece of work;
but labor and patience carried me through that, and many
other things; 1 only observe this in particular, to show the
reason why so much of my time went away with so little
work, viz., that what might be a little to be done with help
and tools, was a vast labor, and required a prodigious time
to do alone, and by hand. Notwithstanding this, with
patience and labor I went through many things; and, in-
deed, everything that my circumstances made necessary for
me to do, as will appear by what follows.
I was now in the months of November and December,
expecting my crop of barley and rice. The ground I had
manured or dug up for them was not great; for, as 1 ob-
served, my seed of each was not above the quantity of half
a peck, having lost one whole crop by sowing in the dry
season; but now my crop promised very well; when, on a
sudden, I found 1 was in danger of losing it all again bj
enemies of several sorts, which it was scarce possible to
keep from it as, first, the goats, and wild creatures which
I called hares, who, tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay
in it night and day, as soon as it came up, and eat it so
close, that it could get no time to shoot up into stalk.
I saw no remedy for this, but by making an inclosure
about it with a hedge, which I did with a great deal of toil
and the more because it required speed. However, as my
arable land was but small, suited to my crop, I got it tol-
erably well fenced in about three weeks' time; and shoot-
ing some of the creatures in the day-time, I set my dog to
guard it in the night, tying him up to a stake at the gate,
where he would stand and bark all night long; so in a lit-
tle time the enemies forsook the place, and the corn grew
very strong and well, and began to ripen apace.
But as the beasts ruined me before, while my corn was
in the blade, so the birds were as likely to ruin me now,
when it was in the ear; for going along by the place to see
how it throve, 1 saw my little crop surrounded with fowls,
I know not of how many sorts, who stood, as it were,
watching till I should be gone. I immediately let fly
among them (for I always had my gun with me); I had no
sooner shot but there rose up a little cloud of fowls, which
I had not seen at all, from among the corn itself.
This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that in a few
days they would devour all my hopes; that I should be
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 105
starved, and never be able to raise a crop at all; and what
to do I could not tell; however, I resolved not to lose my
corn, if possible, though I should watch it night and day.
In the first place, 1 went among it to see what damage was
already done, and found they had spoiled a good deal of it;
but that as it was yet too green for them the loss was not
so great, but that the remainder was likely to be a good
crop, if it could be saved.
I stayed by it to load my gun, and then coming away I
could easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees about
me, as if they only waited till 1 was gone away; and the
event proved it to be so; for as 1 walked off, as if gone, I
was no sooner out of their sight than they dropped down,
one by one, into the corn again. 1 was so provoked that I
could not have patience to stay till more came on, know-
ing that every grain they eat now was, as it might be said,
a peck loaf to me in the consequence; so coming up to the
hedge 1 fired again and killed three of them. This was
what I wished for; so 1 took them up and served them as
we serve notorious thieves in England, viz., hanged them
in chains, for a terror to others. It is impossible to im-
agine that this should have such an effect as it had, for the
fowls not only never came to the corn, but, in short, they
forsook all that part of the island, and I could never see a
bird near the place as long as my scare-crows hung there.
This I was very glad of, you may be sure, and about the
latter end of December, which was our second harvest ol
the year, 1 reaped my corn.
I was sadly put to for a scythe or sickle to cut it down;
and all I could do was to make one as well as I could, out
of one of the broad swords or cutlasses, which I saved
among the arms out of the ship. However, as my first
crop was but small, I had no great difficulty to cut it down;
in short, 1 reaped it my way, for 1 cut nothing off but the
ears, and carried it away in a great basket which 1 had
made, and so rubbed it out with my hands; and at the end
of all my harvesting I found that out of my half peck of
seed I had near two bushels of rice, and above two bushels
and a half of barley; that is to say, by my guess, for 1 had
no measure.
However, this was great encouragement to me, and I
't-psaw that, in time, it would please God to supply mo
With bread; and yet here 1 was perplexed again, for 1
neither knew how to grind or make meal of my corn, ot
indeed how to clean it and part it; nor if made into meal,
how to make bread of it; and if how to make it, yet I
knew not how to bake it; these things being added to my
desire of having a good quantity for store, and to secure a
constant supply, I resolved not to taste any of this crop,
but to preserve it all for seed against the next season; and,
in the meantime, to employ all my study and hours of
working to accomplish this great work of providing myself
with^corn and bread.
It might be truly said that now 1 worked for my bread.
It is a little wonderful, and what I believe few people have
thought much upon, viz., the strange multitude of little
things necessary in the providing, producing, curing,
dressing, making, and finishing this one article of bread.
I, that was reduced to a mere state of nature, found this
to my daily discouragement, and was made more sensible
of it every hour, even after I had got the first handful of
seed-corn which, as 1 have said, came up unexpectedly, and
indeed to a surprise.
First, I had no plow to turn up the earth; no spade or
shovel to dig it; well, this I conquered by making a wooden
spade, as I observed before; but this did my work in but a
wooden manner; and though it cost me a great many days
to make it, yet, for want of iron, it not only wore out the
Booner, but made my work the harder, and performed it
much worse. However, this 1 bore with, and was content
to work it out with patience, and bear with the badness of
the performance. When the corn was sown I had no har-
row, but was forced to go over it myself, and drag a great
heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch it, as it may be
called, rather than rake or harrow it. When it was grow-
ing and grown, I have observed already how many things
1 wanted to fence it, secure it, mow or reap it, cure and
carry it home, thresh, part it from the chaff, and save it;
then 1 wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast
and salt to make it into bread, and an oven to bake it; and
yet all these things I did without, as will be observed; and
the corn was an inestimable comfort and advantage to me;,
all this, as I said, made everything laborious and tedious to
me, but that there was no help for; neither was my time
so much loss to me, because, as I had divided it, a certain
part of it was every day appointed to these works; and as I
ROBINSOU CRUSOE. 107
resolved to use none of the corn for bread till I had a
greater quantity by me, I had the next six months to apply
myself wholly, by labor and invention, to furnish myself
with utensils proper for performing all the operations nec-
essary for making corn fit for my use.
SECTION XIII.
His Manufacture of Pottery, and Contrivance for Baking Bread.
But now I was to prepare more land, for I had seed
enough to sow above an acre of ground. Before I did this
I bad a week's work at least to make me a spade, which,
when it was done, was but a sorry one indeed, and very
heavy, and required double labor to work with it; however,
I went through that, and sowed my seed in two large flat
pieces of ground, as near my house as I could find them to
my mind, and fenced them in with a good hedge; tha
stakes of which were all cut off that wood which I had set
before, and knew it would grow; so that in one year's time
1 knew 1 should have a quick or living hedge, that would
want but little repair. This work took me up full three
months, because a great part of the time was in the wet
season, when 1 could not go abroad. Within doors, that
is, when it rained, and I could not go out, I found em-
ployment on the following occasions, always observing that
while I was at work I diverted myself with talking to my
parrot and teaching him to speak; and I quickly taught
him to know his own name, and at last to speak it out
pretty loud, Poll, which was the first word 1 ever heard
spoken in the island by any mouth but my own. This,
therefore, was not my work, but an assistant to my work;
for now, as I said, I had a great employment upon my
hands, as follows: I had long studied, by some means or
other, to make myself some earthen vessels, which indeed
I wanted much, but knew not where to come at them;
however, considering the heat of the climate, I did not
doubt but if 1 could find out any clay, I might botch up
some such pot as might, being dried in the sun, be hard
and strong enough to bear handling, and to hold anything
that was dry, and required to be kept so; and as this was
necessary in the preparing corn, meal, etc., which was (he
thing I was upon, I resolved to make some as large a^I
oould, and fit only to stand like jars, to hold what should
be put into them.
It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at
me, to tell how many awkwarcl ways 1 took to raise this
pastil; what odd, misshapen, ugly things I made; how
many of them fell in, and how many fell out, the clay not
being stiff enough to bear its own weight; how many
cracked by the overviolent heat of the sun, being set out
too hastily, and how many fell in pieces with only remov-
ing, as well before as after they were dried; and, in a word,
how, after having labored hard to find the clay, to dig it,
to temper it, to bring it home, and work it, I could not
make above two large earthen ugly things (I can not call
them jars) in about two months' labor.
However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard,
I lifted them very gently up, and set them down again in
two great wicker baskets, which I had made on purpose for
them, that they might not break; and as between the pot
and the basket there was a little room to spare, I stuffed it
full of the rice and barley straw, and these two pots being
to stand always dry, I thought would hold my dry corn,
and perhaps the meal, when the corn was bruised.
Though I miscarried so much in my design for large
pots, yet I made several smaller things with better success;
such as little pound pots, flat dishes, pitchers, and pipkins,
and anything my hand turned to, and the heat of the sun
baked them very hard.
But all this would not answer my end, which was to get
an earthen pot to hold liquids, and bear the fire, which
none of these could do- It happened some time after,
making a pretty large fire for cooking my meat, when I
went to put it out after I had done with it, 1 found a
broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels in the fire,
burned as hard as a stone and red as a tile. I was agreea-
bly surprised to see it, and said to mystlf that certainly
they might be made to burn whole if they would burn
broken.
This set me to study how to order my fire, so as to make
it burn some pots. 1 had no notion of a kiln, such as the
potters burn in, or of glazing them with lead, though I
Had some lead to do it with; but I placed three large pip
kins and two or three pots in a pile, one upon another, and
placed my fire-wood all round it, with a great heap of em.
bers under them. I plied the fire with fresh fuel round
the outside, and upon the top," till I saw the pots in the in-
side red-hot quite through, and observed that they did not
crack at all; when I saw them clear red, I let them stand
in that heat about five or six hours, till I found one of
them, though it did not crack, did melt or run; for the
sand which was mixed with the clay melted by the violence
of the heat, and would have run into glass, if I had gone
on; so 1 slacked my fire gradually, till the pots began to
abate of the red color; and watching them all night, that
] might not let the fire abate too fast, in the morning 1
had three very good, 1 will not say handsome, pipkins, and
two other earthen pots, as hard burned as could be de-
sired; and one of them perfectly glazed with the running
of the sand.
After this experiment I need not say that I wanted no
sort of earthenware for my use; but I must needs say, as
to the shapes of them, they were very indifferent, as any
one may suppose, as I had no way of making them but as
the children make dirt-pies, 6r as a woman would make
pies that never learned to raise paste. No joy at a thing
of so mean a nature was ever equal to mine, when 1 found
I had made an earthen pot that would bear the fire, and I
had hardly patience to stay till they were cold, before 1 set
one on the fire again, with some water in it, to boil me
some meat, which it did admirably well; and with a piece
of a kid I made some very good broth, though 1 wanted oat-
meal and several other ingredients requisite to make it so
good as 1 would have had it been.
My next concern was to get a stone mortar to stamp or
beat some corn in; for as to the mill, there was no thought
of arriving to that perfection of art with one pair of hands.
To supply this want I was at a great loss; for, of all trades
in the world, I was as perfectly unqualified for a stone-cut-
ter as for any whatever; neither had 1 any tools to go about
it with. I spent many a day to find out a great stone big
enough to cut hollow, and make fit for a mortar; but could
find none at all, except what was in the solid rock, and
which 1 had no way to dig or cut out; nor, indeed, were
the rocks in the island of sufficient hardness, as they were
all of a sandy crumbling stone, which would neither bear
the weight of a heavy pestle, nor would break the corn
without filling it with sand: so, after a great deal of thne
lost in searching for a stone, I gave it over, and resolved
to look out a great block of hard wood, which I found in-
deed much easier; and getting one as big as 1 had strength
to stir, I rounded it, and formed it on the outside'with my
ax and hatchet; and then, with the help of the fire, and
infinite labor, made a hollow place in it, as the Indians in
Brazil make their canoes. After this, I made a great
heavy pestle, or beater, of the wood called iron-wood: and
this 1 prepared and laid by against I had my next crop of
corn, when I proposed to myself to grind, or rather pound,
my corn into meal, to make my bread.
My next difficulty was to make a sieve, or search, to
dress my meal, and to part it from the bran and the husk,
without which I did not see it possible 1 could have any
bread. This was a most difficult thing, even but to think
'On; for 1 had nothing like the necessary thing to make it;
I mean fine thin canvas or stuff, to search the meal
through. Here 1 was at a full stop for many months; nor
lid I really know what to do: linen I had none left, but
what was mere rags; I had goats' hair, but neither knew
how to weave it nor spin it; and had I known how, here
were no tools to work it with: all the remedy I found for'
this was, at last recollecting I had, among the seamen's
clothes which were saved out of the ship, some neckcloths
of calico or muslin; with some pieces of these I made three
small sieves, proper enough for the work; and thus I made
shift for some years: how I did afterward, I shall show in
its place.
The baking part was the next thing to be considered,
and how I should make bread when 1 came to have corn:
for, first, I had no yeast: as to that part, there was no sup-
plying the want, so I did not concern myself much about
it; but for an oven I was indeed puzzled. At length 1
found out an expedient for that also, which was this: I
made some earthen vessels, very broad, but not deep, that
is to say, about two feet diameter, and not above nine
inches deep: these 1 burned in the fire, as I had done the
others, and laid them by; and when I wanted to bake, I
made a great fire upon my hearth, which I had paved with
some square tiles, of my own making and burning also;
but 1 should not call them square. When the firewood
was burned into embers, or live coals, I drew them forward
upon the hearth, so as to cover it all over, and there let
ROBINSON- CRUSOE. Ill
tl..i,m lie till the hearth was very hot; then sweeping away
all the embers, I set down my loaf, or loaves, and covering
them with the earthen pot, drew the embers all round the
outside of the pot, to keep in and add to the heat; and
thus, as well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my
barley loaves, and became, in a little time, a good pastry-
cook into the bargain; for 1 made myself several cakes and
puddings of the rice; but made no pies, as 1 had nothing
to put into them except the flesh of fowls or goats.
It need not be wondered at, if all these things took ma
up most part of the third year of my abode here; for, it is
to be observed, in the intervals of these things, I had my
new harvest and husbandry to manage: I reaped my corn
in its season, and carried it home as well as I could, and
Jaid it up in the ear, in my large baskets, till 1 had time
to rub it out; for I had no floor to thresh it on, or instru-
ment to thresh it with.
And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, 1 really
wanted to build my barns bigger: I wanted a place to lay
it up in; for the increase of the corn now yielded me so
much, that 1 had of the barley about twenty bushels, and
of rice as much, or more, insomuch that now I resolved to
begin to use it freely; for my bread had been quite gone a
great while: 1 resolved also to see what quantity would be
sufficient for me a whole year, and to sow but once a year.
Upon the whole, 1 found that the forty bushels of barley
and rice were much more than 1 could consume in a year;
so I resolved to sow just the same quantity every year that
I sowed the last, in hopes that such a quantity would fully
provide me with bread, etc.
SECTION XIV.
Meditates his Escape from the Island.—Builds a Canoe.—Failure of
his Scheme.—Resignation to his Condition.—Makes Himself a
New Dress.
All the while these things were doing, you may be sure
my thoughts ran many times upon the prospect of land
which I had seen from the other side of the island; and 1
was not without some secret wishes that I was on shore
there; fancying, that seeing the main-land, and an inhab-
ited countrj, 1 might find some way or other to convej
112 ROBINSON" CRUSOE.
myself farther, and perhaps at last find some means of
escape.
But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers
of such a condition, and that I might fall into the hands of
savages, and perhaps such as I might have reason to think
far worse than the lions and tigers of Africa, that if I once
came in their power, 1 should run a hazard Of more than a
thousand to one of being killed, and perhaps of being
eaten; for 1 had heard that the people of the Carribean
coast were cannibals, or man-eaters; and I knew, by the
latitude, that I could not be far off from that shore.
Then supposing they were not cannibals, yet that they
might kill me, as they had many Europeans who had fallen
into their hands, even when they were ten or twenty
together; much more 1, who was but one, and could make
little or no defense; all these things, I say, which I ought
to have considered well of, and did cast up in my thoughts
afterward, took up none of my apprehensions at first; yet
my head ran mightily upon the thought of getting over to
the shore.
Now 1 wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat with
the shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed above a
thousand miles on the coast of Africa: but this was in
vain: then I thought I would go and look at our ship's
boat, which, as I have said, was blown up upon the shore a
great way, in the storm, when we were first cast away.
She lay nearly where she did at first, but not quite; having
turned, by the force of the waves and the winds, almost
bottom upward, against a high ridge of beachy rough sand;
but no water about her, as before. If I had had hands to
have refitted her, and to have launched her into the water,
the boat would have done very well, and I might have gone
back into the Brazils with her easily enough; but I might
have foreseen that I could no more turn her and set her
upright upon her bottom, than I could remove the island:
however, I went to the woods, and cut levers and rollers,
and brought them to the boat, resolving to try what 1 could
do; suggesting to myself, that if I could but turn her
down, and repair ine damage she had received, she would
be a very good boat, and 1 might venture to sea in her.
I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless toil,
and spent, I think, three or four weeks about it: at last,
finding it impossible to heave her up with my little
itrength, I fell to digging away the sand, to undermine
her, and to as to mate her fall down, setting pieces of
wood to thrust and guide her right in the fall. But when
1 had done ohis, I was unable to' stir her up again, or to
get under her, much less to move her forward toward the
water; so 1 was forced to give it over: and yet, though I
gave over the hopes of the boat, my desire to venture over
the main increased, rather than diminished, as the means
for it seemed impossible.
At length, I began to think whether it was not possible
to make myself a canoe, or periagua, such as the natives of
those climates make, even without tools, or, as I might
say, without hands, of the trunk of a great tree. This I
not only thought possible, but easy, and pleased myself ex-
tremely with the idea of making it, and with my having
much more convenience for it than any of the Negroes or
Indians; but not at all considering the particular incon-
veniences which 1 lay under more than the Indians did,
Hz., the want of hands to move it into the water when it
*as made, a difficulty much harder for me to surmount
than all the consequences of want of tools could be to
them: for what could it avail me, if, after I had chosen
my tree, and with much trouble cut it down, and might be
able with my tools to hew and dub the outside into the
proper shape of a boat, and burn or cut out the inside to
make it hollow, so as to make a boat of it—if, after all
this, I must leave it just where 1 found it, and was not able
to launch it into the water?
One would imagine, if 1 had had the least reflection
upon my mind of my circumstances while I was making
this boat, I should have immediately thought how 1 was
to get it into the sea: but my thoughts were so intent upon
my voyage in it, that I never once considered how 1 should
get it off the land; and it was really, in its own nature,
more easy for me to guide it over forty-five miles of sea,
than the forty-five fathoms of land, where it lay, to set it
afloat in the water.
I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that
ever man did, who had any of his senses awake. I pleased
myself with the design, without determining whether I was
able to undertake it; not but that the difficulty of launch-
ing my boat came often into my head; but I put a stop to
my own inquiries into it, by this foolish answer: Let us
first make it; I warrant I will find some way or other to
get it along when it is done.
This was a most preposterous method; but the eagerness
of my fancy prevailed, and to work 1 went. I felled a
cedar-tree, and I question much whether Solomon ever had
such a one for the building of the Temple at Jerusalem; it
was five feet ten inches diameter at the lower part next the
stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter at the end of
twenty-two feet, where it lessened and then parted into
branches. It was not without infinite labor that I felled this
tree; 1 was twenty days hacking and hewing at the bottom,
and fourteen more getting the branches and limbs, and the
vast spreading head of it, cut off: after this, it cost me a
month to shape it and dub it to a proportion, and to some-
thing like the bottom of a boat, that it might swim upright
as it ought to do. It cost me near three months more to
clear the inside, and work it out so as to make an exact
boat of it: this I did, indeed, without fire, by mere mallet
and chisel, and by the dint of hard labor, till I had brought
it to be a very handsome periagua, and big enough to have
carried six-and-twenty men, and consequenty big enough
to have carried me and all my cargo.
When I had gone through this work, I was extremely
delighted with it. The boat was really much bigger than
ever 1 saw a canoe or a periagua that was made of one tree,
in my life. Many a weary stroke it had cost, you may be
sure; and there remained nothing but to get it into the
water; which, had 1 accomplished, 1 make no question but
1 should have begun the maddest voyage, and the most un-
likely to be performed, that ever was undertaken.
But all my devices to get it into the water failed me;
though they cost me inexpressible labor too. It lay about
one hundred yards from the water, and not more; but the
first inconvenience was, it was up hill toward the creek.
Well, to take away this discouragement, 1 resolved to dig
into the surface of the earth, and so make a declivity; this
I began, and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains; (but
who grudge pains that have their deliverance in view?)
when this was worked through, and this difficulty man-
aged, it was still much the same, for 1 could no more stir
the canoe than I could the other boat. Then I measured
the distance of ground, and resolved to cut a dock, or
canal, to bring the water up to the canoe, seeing I could
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 115
not bring the canoe down to the water. Well, I began this
work; and wnen I began to enter upon it, and calculate
now deep it was to be dug, how broad, how the stuff wai
ito be thrown out, 1 found by the number of hands 1 had,
having none but my own, that it must have been ten or
twelve years before I could have gone through with it; for
the shore lay so high, that at the upper end it must have
beer, at least twenty feet deep; this attempt, though with
great reluctaucy, I was at length obliged to give ever also.
This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though too
late, the folly of beginning a work before we count the
cost, and before we judge rightly of our own strength to
go through with it.
In the middle of this work, 1 finished my fourth year in
this place, and kept my anniversary with the same devo-
tion, and with as much comfort as before; for, by a con-
stant study and serious application to the word of God, and
by the assistance of His grace, 1 gained a different knowl-
edge from what I had before; 1 entertained different no-
tions of things; I looked now upon the world as a thing re-
mote, which I had nothing to do with, no expectation
from, aud, indeed, no desires about: in a word, I had noth-
ing to do with it, nor was ever likely to have; I thought it
looked, as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter, viz., as
a place I had lived in, but was come out of it; and well
might I say, as Father Abraham fo Dives, "Between me
aud thee is a great gulf fixed."
In the first place, I was here removed from all the wick-
edness of the world; I had neither the lust of the flesh, the
lust of the eye, nor the pride of life. I had nothing to
covet, for 1 had all that I was now capable of enjoying: I
was lord of the whole manor, or, if I pleased, I might call
myself king or emperor over the whole country which I
had possession of; there were no rivals; I had no competi-
tor, none to dispute sovereignty or command with me: 1
might have raised ship-loadings of corn, but I had no use
for it; so I let as little grow as I thought enough for my
occasion. 1 had tortoise or turtle enough, but now and
then one was as much as I could put to any use; I had
timber enough to have built a fleet of ships; and 1 had
grapes enough to have mads wine, or to have cured into
raisins, to have loaded that fleet when it had been built.
Put all I could make use of was all that was valuable: J
had enough to eat and supply my wants, and what was th«
rest to me? If I killed more flesh than I could eat, the dog
mtist eat it, or vermin; if 1 sowed more corn than I could
eat, it must be spoiled; the trees that I cut down were lying
to rot on the ground; I could make no more use of them than
for fuel, and that 1 had no other occasion for but to dress
my food.
In a word, the nature and experience of things dictated
to me, upon just reflection, that all the good things of this
world are of no further good to us than for our use; and
that whatever we may heap up to give others, we enjoy
only as much as we can use, and no more. The most cov-
etous gripiug miser in the world would have been cured of
the vice of covetousness, if he had been in my case; for I
possessed infinitely more than I knew what to do with. I
had no room for desire, except it was for things which 1
had not, and they were comparatively but trifles, though
indeed of great use to me. 1 had, as I hinted before, a
parcel of money, as well gold as silver, about thirty-six
pounds sterling. Alas! there the nasty, sorry, useless stuff
lay: I had no manner of business for it; and I often
thought within myself, that I would have given a handful
of it for a gross of tobacco-pipes, or for a hand-mill to
grind my corn; nay, I would have given it all for sixpenny-
worth of turnip and carrot seed from England, or for a
handful of pease and beans, and a bottle of ink. As it was,
1 had not the least advantage by it, or benefit from it; but
there it lay in a drawer, and grew moldy with ttie damp of
the cave in the wet seasons; and if 1 had had the drawer
full of diamonds, it had been the same case—they would
have been of no manner of value to me, because of no use.
I had now brought my state of life to be much more
comfortable in itself than it was at first, and much easier
to my mind, as well as to my body. I frequently sat down
to meat with thankfulness, and admired the hand of God's
providence, which had thus spread my table in the wilder-
ness: I learned to look more upon the bright side of my
condition, and less upon the dark side, and to consider
what I enjoyed, rather than what I wanted: and this gave
me sometimes such secret comforts, that 1 can not express
them; and which 1 take notice of here, to put those dis-
contented people in mind of it, who can not enjoy comfort-
ably what God has given them, because they see and covet
KOBINSON CRUSOE. 11?
something thai he has not given them. All our discon-
tents about what we want appeared to me to spring from
the want of thankfulness for what we have.
Another reflection was of great use to me, and doubtless
would be so to any one that should fall into such distress
as mine was; and this was, to compare my present con-
dition with what 1 at first expected it would be: nay, with
what it would certainly have been, if the good providence
of God had not wonderfully ordered the ship to be cast up
near to the shore, where 1 not only could come at her, but
could bring what I got out of her to the shore, for my re-
lief and comfort: without which, I had wanted for tools to
work, wef^iffns for defense, and gunpowder and shot for
getting my food.
1 spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in represent-
ing to myself, in the most lively colors, how 1 must have
acted if 1 had got nothing out of the snip. 1 could not
have so much as got any food, except fish and turtles; and
that, as it was long before I found any of them, I must
have perished; that I should have lived, if I had not per-
ished, like a mere savage; that if 1 had killed a goat or a
fowl, by any contrivance, I had no way to flay or open it,
or part the flesh from the skin and the bowels, or to cut it
up, but must gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it with my
claws, like a beast.
These reflections made me very sensible of the goodness
of Providence to me, and very thankful for my present
condition, with all its hardships and misfortunes; and this
part also I can not but recommend to the reflection of
those who are apt, in their misery, to say, Is any affliction
like mine? Let them consider how much worse the cases
of some people are, and their case might have been, if
Providence had thought fit.
1 had another reflection, which assisted me also to com-
fort my mind with hopes; and this was, comparing my
present condition with what I had deserved, and had there-
fore reason to expect from the hand of Providence. I had
lived a dreadful life, perfectly destitute of the knowledge
and fear of God. I had been well instructed by my father
and moftier; neither had they been wanting to me, in their
endeavors to infuse an early religious awe of God into my
mind, a sense of my duty, and what the nature and end of
jny being required of me. But, alas! falling early into the
118 BOBrsrsoN crusob.
seafaring life, which, of ail lives, is the most destitute of
the fear of God, though his terrors are always before them;
I say, falling early into the seafaring life, and into seafar-
ing company, all that little sense of religion which I had
entertained was laughed out of me by my messmates; by a
hardened despising of dangers, and the Views of death,
which grew habitual to me; by my long absence from all
manner of opportunities to converse with anything but
what was like myself, or to hear anything that was good,
or tending toward it.
So void was I of everything that was good, or of the
least sense of what 1 was, or was to be, that in the greatest
deliverances I enjoyed (such as my escape from Sallee, my
being taken up by the Portuguese master of a ship, my be-
ing planted so well in the Brazils, my receiving the cargo
from England, and the like) I never had once the words,
Thank God, so much as on my mind or in my mouth; nor
in the greatest distress had 1 so much as a thought to pray
to him, or so much as to say, Lord, have mercy upon me!
no, nor to mention the name of God, unless it was to swea]
by, and blaspheme it.
1 had terrible reflections upon my mind for many
months, as I have already observed, on account of mj
wicked and hardened life past; and when 1 looked about
me, and considered what particular providences had attend-
ed me since my coming into this place, and how God had
dealt bountifully with me—had not only punished me less
than my iniquity had deserved, but had so plentifully pro-
vided for me—this gave me great hopes that my repent-
ance waB accepted, and that God had yet mercies in store
for me.
With these reflections I worked my mind up, not only to
a resignation to the will of God in the present disposition
of my circumstances, but even to a sincere thankfulness
for my condition; and that I, who was yet a living man.
ought not to complain, seeing I had not the due punish
ment of my sins; that I enjoyed so many mercies which >
had no reason to have expected in that place, that I ought
never more to repine at my condition, but to rejoice, and
to give daily thanks for that daily bread, which nothing
but a crowd of wonders could have brought; that I ought
to consider 1 had been fed bv a miracle, even as great as
that of feeding Elijah by ravens; nay, by a long series of
ROBINSON CRUSOE. lit
miracles: and that 1 could hardly have named a place in
the uninnabitable part of the world where 1 could have
been cast more to my advantage; a place where, as I had
no society, which was my affliction on one hand, so I found
no ravenous beasts, no furious wolves or tigers, to threaten
my life; no venomous or poisonous creatures, which I
might feed on to my hurt; no savages, to murder and de-
vour me. 1u a word, as my life was a life of sorrow one
way, so it was a life of mercy another; and I wanted noth-
ing to make it a life of comfort, but to make myself sensi-
ble of God's goodness to me, and care over me in this con-
dition; and after I did make a just improvement of these
things, 1 went away, and was no more sad.
I had now been here so long, that many things which I
brought on shore for my help were either quite gone, or
very much wasted, and near spent.
My ink, as 1 observed, had been gone for some time, all
but a very little, which I eked out with water, a little and
a little, till it was so pale, it scarce left any appearance of
black upon the paper. As long as it lasted, I made use of
it to minute down the days of the month on which any re-
markable thing happened to me: and, first, by casting up
times past, I remember that there was a strange concur-
rence of days in the various providences which befell me,
and which, if I had been superstitiously inclined to observe
days as fatal or fortunate, I might have had reason to have
looked upon with a great deal of curiosity.
First, I had observed, that the same day that 1 broke
away from my father and my friends, and ran away to
Hull, in order to go to sea, the same day afterward 1 was
taken by the Sallee man-of-war, and made a slave; the
same day of the year that I escaped out of the wreck of
the ship in Yarmouth Roads, that same day, years after-
ward, I made my escape from Sallee in the boat: and the
same day of the year 1 was born on, viz., the 30th of Sep-
tember, that same day I had my life so miraculously saved
twenty-six years after, when I was cast on shore in this
island: so that my wicked life and my solitary life began
both on one day.
The next thing to my ink being wasted, was that of my
bread, 1 mean the biscuit which I brought out of the ship:
this I had husbanded to the last degree, allowing myself
but one cake of bread a day for above a year; and yet J
was quite without bread for near a year before i got anj
corn of my own; and great reason I had to be thankful
that I had any at all, the getting it being, as has been al-
ready observed, next to miraculous.
My clothes, too, began to decay mightily: as to linen, I
had none for a great while, except some checked shirtg
which I found in the chests of the other seamen, and which
1 carefully preserved, because many times 1 could bear no
clothes on but a shirt, and it was a very great help to me
that I had, among all the men's clothes of the ship, almost
three dozen of shirts. There were also, indeed, several
thick watchcoats of the seamen's which were left, but they
were too hot to wear: and though it is true that the
weather was so violently hot that there was no need of
clothes, yet 1 could not go quite naked, no, though I had
been inclined to it, which 1 was not, nor could 1 abide the
thought of it, though I was all alone. The reason why I
could not go quite naked was, 1 could not bear the heat of
the sun so well when quite naked as with some clothes on;
nay, the very heat frequently blistered my skin: whereas,
with a shirt on, the air itself made some motion, and whist-
ling under the shirt, was twofold cooler than without it. No
more could 1 ever bring myself to go out in the heat of the
sun without a cap or hat; the heat of the sun beating with
Buch violence as it does in that place, would give me the
headache presently, by darting so directly upon my head,
without a cap or hat on, so that 1 could not bear it,
whereas, if I put on my hat, it would presently go away.
Upon these views, I began to consider about putting the
few rags I had, which I called clothes, into some order. I
had worn out all the waistcoats 1 had, and my business
was now to try if I could not make jackets out of the great
watch-coats that 1 had by me, and with such other materials
as I had; so 1 set to work a-tailoring, or rather, indeed, a
botching, for I made most piteous work of it. However,
1 made shift to make two or three new waistcoats, which I
hoped would serve me a great while. As for breeches, or
drawers, I made but a very sorry shift indeed, till after-
ward.
I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the creat-
ures that I killed, I mean four-footed ones; and 1 had
hung them up, stretched out with sticks in the sun, by
which means some of them were so dry and hard that they
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 121
!
were fit for little, but others 1 found very useful. The
first thing 1 made of these was a great cap for my head,
with the hair on the outside, to shoot off the rain; and this
I performed so well, that after this I made me a suit of
clothes wholly of the skins, that is to say, a waistcoat, and
breeches open at the knees, and both loose; for they were
rather wanting to keep me cool than warm. 1 must not
omit to acknowledge that they were wretchedly made, for
if I was a bad carpenter, I was a worse tailor. However,
they were such as 1 made very good shift with, and when I
was abroad, if it happened to rain, the hair of my waist-
coat and cap being uppermost, 1 was kept very dry.
After this I spent a great deal of time and pains to make
me an umbrella; I was indeed in great want of one, and
had a great mind to make one; 1 had seen them made in
the Brazils,, where they were very useful in the great heats
which are there, and I felt the heats every jot as great
here, and greater too, being nearer the equator; besides,
as 1 was obliged to be much abroad, it was a most useful
thing to me, as well for the rains as the heats. 1 took a
world of pains at it, and was a great while before I could
make anything likely to hold; nay, after 1 thought.1 had
hit the way, I spoiled two or three before I made one to
my mind; but at last I made one that answered indiffer-
ently well; the main difficulty I found was to make it to
let down; 1 could make it spread, but if it did not let down
too, and draw in, it was not portable for me any way but
just over my head, which would not do. However, at last,
as I said, 1 made one to answer, and covered it with skins,
the hair upward, so that it cast off the rain like a pent-
house, and kept off the sun so effectually that 1 could walk
out in the hottest of the weather with greater advantage
than 1 could before in the coolest; and when I had no need
of it, could close it and carry it under my arm.
Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being entire-
ly composed by resigning to the will of God, and throwing
myself wholly upon the disposal of His providence. This
made my life better than sociable, for when I began to re-
gret the want of conversation, 1 would ask myself whether
thus conversing mutually with my own thoughts, and, as
I hope I may say, with even God Himself, by ejaculations,
was not better than the utmost enjoyment of human «h
oiety in the world?
183 B0BIN60N CRU80B.
SECTION XV.
He makes a Smaller Canoe, in which he Attempts to Cruise Round
the Island.—His perilous Situation at Sea.—He returns Home.
1 can not say that after this, for five years, any ex-
traordinary thing happened to me, but I lived on in the
same course, ia the same posture and place, just as before;
the chief things I was employed in, besides my yearly labor
of planting my barley and rice, and curing my raisins, of
both which 1 always kept up just enough to have sufficient
stock of one year's provision beforehand; I say, besides
this yearly labor, and my daily pursuit of going out with
my gun, I had one labor, to make me a canoe, which at
last 1 finished; so that by digging a canal to it of six feet
wide and four feet deep, I brought it into the creek almost
half a mile. As for the first, which was so vastly big, as
1 made it without considering beforehand, as I ought to
do, how I should be able to launch it, so, never being able
to bring it into the water, or bring the water to it, I was
obliged to let it lie where it was, as a memorandum to teach
me to be wiser the next time; indeed, the next time,
though 1 could not get a tree proper for it, and was in a
place where I could not get the water to it at any less dis-
tance than, as I have said, near half a mile, yet as I saw it
was practicable at last, 1 never gave it over; and though 1
was near two years about it, yet I never grudged my labor,
in hopes of having a boat to go off to sea at last.
However, though my little periagua was finished, yet the
size of it was not at all answerable to the design which 1
had in view when I made the first; I mean, of venturing
over to the terra firma, where it was above forty miles
broad; accordingly, the smallness of my boat assisted to
put an end to that design, and now I thought no more of
it. As I had a boat, my next design was to make a cruise
round the island; for as 1 had been on the other side in
one place, crossing, as I have already described it, over the
land, so the discoveries I made in that little journey made
me very eager to see other parts of the coast; and now I
bad a boat, I thought of nothing but sailing round the
island.
For this purpose, that 1 might do everything with die..
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 123
cretioa and consideration, I fitted up a little mast in my
boat, and made a sail to it out of some of the pieces of the
ship's sails which lay in store, and of which I had a great
stock by me. Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried
the boat, I found she would sail very well; then I made lit-
tle lockers, or boxes, at each end of my boat, to put pro*
visions, necessaries, ammunition, etc., into, to be kept dry,
either from rain or the spray of the sea; and a little long
hollow place I cut in the inside of the boat, where I could
lay my gun, making a flap to hang down over it, to keep
it dry.
1 fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like a
mast, to stand over my head, and keep the hent of the sun
off me, like an awning; and thus every now ,md then took
a little voyage upon the sea, but never went, far out, nor
far from the little creek. At last, being eagor to view the
circumference of my little kingdom, I resolved upon my
cruise; and accordingly, 1 victualed my ship for the voy-
age, putting in two dozen of loaves (cakes I should rather
call them) of barley bread, an earthen pot full of parched
rice (a food I eat a great deal of), a little bottle of rum,
half a goat, and powder and shot for killing more, and two
large watch-coats, of those which, as I mentioned before, I
had saved out of the seamen's chests; these 1 took, one to
lie upon, and the other to cover me in the night.
It was the sixth of November, in the sixth year of my
reign, or my captivity, which you please, that 1 set out on
this voyage, and I found it much longer than 1 expected;
for though the island itself was not very large, yet when I
came to the east side of it, I found a great ledge of rocks
lie out about two leagues into the sea, some above water,
some under it, and beyond that a shoal of sand, lying dry
half a league more, so that I was obliged to go a great way
out to sea to double the point.
When first I discovered them, I was going to give over
my enterprise, and come back again, not knowing how far
it might oblige me to go out to sea, and, above all, doubt-
ing how I should get back again; so 1 came to an anchor;
for I had made me a kind of anchor with a piece of a
broken grappling which I got out of the ship.
Having secured my boat, 1 took ray gun and went on
shore, climbing up on a hill, which seemed to overlook that
point, where 1 saw the full extent of it, and resolved to
venture.
In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, 1
perceived a strong, and indeed a most furious current,
which ran to the east, and even came close to the point;
and 1 took the more notice of it, because 1 saw there might
be some danger that, when I came into it, I might be car-
ried out to sea by the strength of it, and not be able to
make the island again; and indeed, had I not got first
upon this hill, I believe it would have been so; - for there
was the same current on the other side the island, only
that it set off at a further distance, and I saw there was a
strong eddy under the shore; so I had nothing to do but
to get out of the first current, and 1 should presently be in
an eddy.
I lay here, however, two days, because the wind blowing
pretty fresh at E.S.E., and that being just contrary to the
said current, made a great breach of the sea upon the
point; so that it was not safe for me to keep too close to the
shore, for the breach, nor to go too far ofl, because of the
stream.
The third day, in the morning, the wind having abated
overnight, the sea was calm, and I ventured; but I am a
warning-piece again to all rash and ignorant pilots; for no
sooner was I come to the point, when I was not even my
boat's length from the shore, but 1 found myself in a great
depth of water, and a current like the sluice of a mill; it
carried my boat along with it with such violence that all I
, could do could not keep her so much as on the edge of it;
but I found it hurried me further and further out from
the eddy, which was on my left hand. There was no wind
stirring to help me, and all I could do with my paddles
signified nothing; and now 1 began to give myself over for
lost; for as the current was on both sides of the island, I
knew in a few leagues' distance they must join again, and
then 1 was irrecovei'ably gone; nor did I see any possibility
of avoiding it; so that I had no prospect before me but of
perishing, not by the sea, for that was calm enough, but of
starving for hunger. 1 had indeed found a tortoise on the
shore, as big almost as I could lift, and had tossed it into
the boat; and 1 had a great jar of fresh water, that is to
say, one of my earthen pots; but what was all this to being
driven into the vast ocean, where, to be sure, there was n«
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 125
shore, no mainland or island, for a thousand leagues at
least?
And now I saw how easy it was for the Providence of
God to make even the most miserable condition of man-
kind worse. Now I looked back upon my desolate, solitary
island as the most pleasant place in the world; and all the
happiness my heart could wish for was to be but there
again. 1 stretched out my hands to it, with eager wishes:
Oh, happy desert! said 1, I shall never see thee more. Oh,
miserable creature! whither am I going? Then 1 re-
proached myself with my unthankful temper, and how I
had repined at my solitary condition; and now what would
1 give to be on shore there again! Thus we never see the
true state of our condition till it is illustrated to us by its
contraries, nor know how to value what we enjoy, but by
the want of it. It is scarce possible to imagine the con-
sternation I was now in, being driven from my beloved
island (for so it appeared to me now to be) into the wide
ocean, almost two leagues, and in the utmost despair of
ever recovering it again. However, I worked hard, till in-
deed my strength was almost exhausted, and kept my boat
as much to the northward, that is, toward the side of the
current which the eddy lay on, as possibly 1 could; when
about noon, as the sun passed the meridian, I thought I
felt a little breeze of wind in my face, springing up from
S.S.E. This cheered my heart a little, and especially when,
in about half an hour more, it blow a pretty gentle gale.
By this time I was got at a frightful distance trom the
island, and had the least cloudy or hazy weather inter-
vened, I had been undone another way too; for 1 had no
compass on board, and should never have known how to
have steered toward the island, if I had but once lost sight
of it; but the weather continuing clear, I applied myself
'to get up my mast again, and spread my sail, standing
away *fe the north as much as possible, to get out of the
current
.
Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began
to stretch away, I saw even by the clearness of the water
some alteration of the current was near; for where the cur-
rent was so strong the water was foul; but perceiving the
water clear, 1 found the current abate, and presently I
found to the east, at about half a mile, a breach of the sea
upon some rocks; these rocks 1 found caused the current
to part again, and as the main stress of it ran away utora
southerly, leaving the rocks to the north-east, so the other
returned by the repulse of the rocks, and made a wrong
eddy, which ran back again to the north-west, witL a very
sharp stream.
They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to
them upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thitves just
going to murder them, or who have been in sucli-like ex-
tremities, may guess what my present surprise of joy was,
and how gladly I put my boat into the stream of this eddy;
and the wind also freshening, how gladly I spread my sail
to it, running cheerfully before the wind, and with a strong
tide or eddy under foot.
This eddy carried me about a league in my way back
again, directly toward the island, but about two leagues
more to the northward than the current which carried me
away at first; so that when I came near the island, I found
myself open to the northern shore of it, that is to say, the
other end of the island, opposite to that which I went out
from.
When 1 had made something more than a league of way
by the help of this current or eddy, 1 found it was spent,
and served me no further. However, I found that being
between two great currents, viz., that on the south side,
which had hurried me away, and that on the north, which
lay about a league on the other side; I say, between theso
two, in the wake of the island, I found the water at least
still, and running no way; and having still a breeze of wind
fair for me, I kept on steering directly for the island,
though not making such fresh way as I did before.
About four o'clock in the evening, being then within a
league of the island, I found the point of the rocks which
occasioned this disaster stretching out, as is described be-
fore, to the southward, and casting off the current more
southerly, had, of course, made another eddy to the north;
and this 1 found very strong, but not directly setting the
way my course lay, which was due west, but almost full
north. However, having a fresh gale I stretched across
this eddy, slanting north-west; and in about an hour came
within about a mile of the shore, where, it being smooth
water, I soon got to land.
When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God
thanks for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside al?
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 127
i
tfumehts of deliverance by my boat; and refreshing
myself with such things as I had. 1 brought my boat close
to the shore, in a little cove that 1 had spied under some
trees, and laid me down to sleep, being quite spent wiih
the labor and fatigue of the voyage.
I was now at a great loss which way to get home with
my boat; I had run so much hazard, and knew too much
of the case, to thins of attempting it by the way 1 went
out; and what might be at the other side (I mean the west
side) I knew not, nor had I any mind to run any more
ventures; so 1 only resolved in the morning to make my
way westward along the shore, and see if there was no creek
where I might lay up my frigate in safety, so as to have
her again, if I wanted her. In about three miles, or there-
about, coasting the shore, I came to a very good inlet oi-
bay, about a mile over, which narrowed till it came to a
very little rivulet or brook, where 1 found a very conveni-
ent harbor for my boat, and where she lay as if she had
been in a little dock made on purpose for her. Here I put
in, and having stowed my boat very safe, I went on shore,
to look about me, and see where I was.
1 soon found 1 had but a little passed by the place where
I had been before, when I traveled on foot to that shore;
so taking nothing out of my boat but my gun and um-
brella, for it was exceeding hot, I began my march. The
way was comfortable enough after such a voyage as I had
been upon, and I reached my old bower in the evening,
where I found everything standing as 1 had left it; for I
always kept it in good order, being, as 1 said before, my
country-house.
I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade to
rest my limbs, for I was very weary, and fell asleep; but
i'udge you, if you can, that read my story, what a surprise
must be in, when I was awaked out of my sleep by a
voice, calling me by my name several times, Robin, Robin,
Robin Crusoe; poor Robin Crusoe! Where are you, Robin
Crusoe? Where are you? - Where have you been?
I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with rowing,
or paddling, as it is called, the first part of the day, and
with walking the latter part, that 1 did not wake thor-
oughly; but dozing between sleeping and waking, thought
J dreamed that somebody spoke to me; bat as the voice
continued to repeat Robin Crusoe, Robin Crusoe, at last I
began to wake more perfectly, and was at first dreadfully
frightened, and started up in the utmost consternation;
but no sooner were my eyes open, but I saw my Poll sit-
ting on the top of the hedge; and immediately knew it was
he that spoke to me; for just in such bemoaning language
I had used to talk to him and teach him, and he had
learned it so perfectly that he would sit upon my finger,
and lay his bill close to my face, and cry, Poor Robin
Crusoe! Where are you? Where have you been? How
came you here? and such things as 1 had taught him.
However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and
that indeed it could be nobody else, it was a good while be-
fore I could compose myself. First, I was amazed how
the creature got thither; and then how,he should just keep
about the place, and nowhere else; but as I was well satis-
fied it could be nobody but honest Poll, I got over it; and
holding out my hand, and calling him by his name, Poll,
the sociable creature came to me and sat upon my thumb,
as he used to do, and continued talking to me, Poor Robin
Crusoe! and how did 1 come here? and where had I been?
just as if he had been overjoyed to see me again; and so 1
carried him home along with me.
I now had enough of rambling to sea for some time, and
had enough to do for many days to sit still, and to reflect
upon the danger I had been in. 1 would have been very
glad to have had my boat again on my side of the island;
but I knew not how it was practicable to get it about. As
to the east side of the island, which I had gone round, I
knew well enough there was no venturing that way; my
very heart would shrink, and my very blood run chill, but
to think of it; and as to the other side of the island, 1 did
not know how it might be there, but supposing the current
ran with the same force against the shore at the east as it
passed by it on the other, I might run the same risk of be-
ing driven down the stream, and carried by the island, as
I had been before of being carried away from it; so, with
these thoughts, I contented myself to be without any boat,
though it had been the product of so many months' labor
to make it, and of so many more to get it into the sea.
In this government of my temper I remained near a
year, lived a very sedate, retired life, as you may well sup-
pose; and my thoughts being very much composed, as to
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1S9
my condition, and fully comforted in resigning myself to
the dispositions of Providence, 1 thought 1 lived really very
happily in all things, except that of society.
I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic ex-
ercises which my necessities put me upon applying myself
to; and I believe I could, upon occasion, have made a very
good carpenter, especially considering how few tools I had.
Besides this, 1 arrived ac an unexpected perfection in my
earthenware, and contrived well enough to make them with
a wheel, which I found infinitely easier and better; because
I made things round and shapable, which before were
filthy things indeed to look upon. But 1 think 1 was
never more vain of my own performance, or more joyful
for anything I found out, than for my being able to make
a tobacco-pipe; and though it was a very ugly, clumsy
thing when it was done, and only burned red, like other
earthenware, yet as it was hard and firm, and would draw
the smoke, I was exceedingly comforted with it, for I had
been always used to smoke; and there were pipes in the
ship, but 1 forgot them at first, not thinking that there
was tobacco in the island; and afterward, when I searched
the ship again, I could not come at any pipes at all.
In my wickerware also 1 improved much, and made
abundance of necessary baskets, as well ap my invention
showed me; though not very handsome, yet they were such
as were very handy and convenient for my laying things up
in, or fetching things home. For example, if I killed a
goat abroad, 1 could hang it up in a tree, flay it, dress it,
and cut it in pieces, and bring it home in a basket; and
the like by a turtle; I could cut it up, take out the eggs,
and a piece or two of the flesh, which was enough for me,
and bring them home in a basket, and leave the rest be-
hind me. Also large deep baskets were the receivers of
my corn, which I always rubbed out as soon as it was dry,
and cured, and kept it in great baskets.
I began now to perceive my powder abated considerably;
this was a want which it was impossible for me to supply,
and I began seriously to consider what 1 must do when I
should have no more powder, that is to say, how I should
do to kill any goats. 1 had, as is observed, in the third
year of my being here, kept a young kid, and bred her up
tame, and 1 was in hopes of getting a he-goat; but 1 could
not by any means bring it to pass, till my kid grew an old
goat; and as I could never find in my heart to kill her, the
died At last of mere age.
SECTION XVI.
He wars a Flock of Goats.—His Dairy.—His Domestic Habits and
Style of Living.—Increasing Prosperity.
Being now in the eleventh year of my residence, and as
1 have said, my ammunition growing low, I set myself to
study some art to trap and snare the goats, to see whether
I could not catch some of them alive; and particularly, I
wanted a she-goat great with young. For this purpose I
made snares to hamper them; and I do believe they were
more than once taken in them; but my tackle was not
good, for I had no wire, and 1 always found them broken,
and my bait devoured. At length I resolved to try a pit-
fall; so I dug several large pits in the earth, in places where
I had observed the goats used to feed, and over those pits I
placed hurdles, of my own making too, with a great weight
upon them; and several times I put ears of barley and dry
rice, without setting the trap; and 1 could easily perceive
that the goats had gone in and eaten up the corn, for 1
could see the marks of their feet. At length I set three
traps in one night, and going the next morning, 1 found
them all standing, and yet the bait eaten and gone. This
was very discouraging; however, I altered my traps, and,
not to trouble you with particulars, going one morning to
eee my traps, 1 found in one of them a large old he-goat,
and in one of the others three kids, a male and two females.
As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him; he
was so fierce, I durst not go into the pit to him; that is to
iay, to go about to bring him away alive, which was what
1 wanted; 1 could have killed him, but that was not my
business, nor would it answer my end; so 1 even let him
out, and he ran away, as if he had been frightened out of
his wits. But 1 had forgot then what 1 learned after-
ward, that hunger will tame a lion. If I had let him stay
there three or four days without food, and then have car-
ried him some water to drink, and then a little corn, he
would have been as tame as one of the kids; for they are
mighty sagacious, tractable creatures, where they are well
used. However, for the present I let him go, knowing no
better at that time; then I want to the three kids, and
taking them one by one, 1 tied them with strings together,
and with some difficulty brought them all home.
It was a good while before they would feed; but throw-
ing them some sweet corn, it tempted them, and they be-
gan to be tame. And now I found that if I expected to
supply myself with goat's flesh when I had no powder or
shot left, breeding some up tame was my only way; when,
perhaps, I might have them about my house like a flock
of sheep. But then it occurred to me that 1 must keep
the tame from the wild, or else they would always run wild
when they grew up; and the only way for this was, to have
some iuclosed piece of ground, well fenced, either with
hedge or pale, to keep them in so effectually, that those
within might not break out, or those without break in.
This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands; yet
as I saw there was an absolute necessity .for doing it, my
first work was to find out a proper piece of ground, where
there was likely to be herbage for them to eat, water for
them to drink, and cover to keep them from the sun.
Those who understand such inclosures will think 1 had
very little contrivance, when I pitched upon a place very
proper for all these (being a plain open piece of meadow
land, or savanna, as our people call it in the western col-
onies) which had two or three little drills of fresh water in
it, and at one end was very woody; 1 say, they will smile
at my forecast, when I shall tell them, 1 began my inclos-
ing this piece of ground in such a manner that my hedge
or pale must have been at least two miles about. Nor was
the madness of it so great as to the compass, for if it was
ten miles about, I was like to have time enough to do it in;
but I did not consider that my goats would be as wild in
so much compass as if they had had the whole island, and
I should have so much room to chase them in, that I
should never catch them.
My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe about fifty
yards, when this thought occurred to me; so I presently
stopped short, and, for the first beginning, 1 resolved to in-
close a piece of about one hundred and fifty yards in length,
and one hundred yards in breadth; which, as it would main-
tain as many as I should have in any reasonable time, so,
as my stock increased, I could add more ground to my in-
ilosiire.
This was acting with some prudence, and 1 went to work
132 R0BIN80N CRUSOB.
with courage. I was about three months hedging in the
first piece; and, till I had done it, I tethered the three kids
in the best part of it, and used them to feed as near me as
possible, to make them familiar; and very often 1 would
go and carry them some ears of barley, or a handful of
rice, and feed them out of my hand, so that after my in-
closure was finished, and I let them loose, they would fol-
low me up and down, bleating after me for a handful of
corn.
This answered my end; and in about a year and a half I
had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all; and in two
years more, I had three and forty, beside several that I
cook and killed for my food. After that 1 inclosed five
several pieces of ground to feed them in, with little pens to
drive them into, to take them as I wanted, and gates out
of one piece of ground into another.
But this was not all; for now I not only had goat's fles'n
to feed on when 1 pleased, but milk too; a thing which, in-
deed, in the beginning, I did not so much as think of, and
which, when it came into my thoughts, was really an agree-
able surprise; for now I set up my dairy, and had some-
times a gallon or two of milk in a day. And as Nature,
who gives supplies of food to every creature, dictates even
naturally how to make use of it, so I, that had never
milked a cow, much less a goat, or seen butter or cheese
made, only when I was a boy, after a great many essays
and miscarriages, made me both butter and cheese at last,
and also salt (though I found it partly made to my hand
by the heat of the sun upon some of the rocks of the sea),
and never wanted it afterward. How mercifully can our
Creator treat His creatures, even in those conditions in
which they seemed to be overwhelmed in destruction!
How can He sweeten the bitterest providences, and give us
cause to praise him for dungeons and prisons! What a
table was here spread for me in a wilderness, where I saw
nothing, at first, but to perish for hunger!
It would have made a stoic smile to have seen me and
my little family sit down to dinner. There was my
majesty, the prince and lord of the whole island; I had the
lives of all my subjects at my absolute command; I could
hang, draw, give liberty, and take it away; and no rebels
among all my subjects.
Then to see how like a king I dined too, all alone, at.
tended by my servants: Toll, as if he had been my favorite,
was the only person permitted to talk to me. My dog,
who was now grown very old and crazy, and had found no
species to multiply his kind upon, sat always at my right
hand; and two cats, one on one side of the table, and one
on the other, expecting now and then a bit from my hand,
as a mark of special favor.
But these were not the two cats which I brought on
shore at first, for'they were both of them dead, and had
been interred near my habitation by my own hand; but
one of them having multiplied by 1 know not what kind of
creature, these were two which I had preserved tame;
whereas the rest ran wild in the woods, and became indeed
troublesome to me at last; for they would often come into
my house, and plunder me too, till at last I was obliged to
shoot them, and did kill a great many; at length they left
me.—With this attendance, and in this plentiful manner,
I lived: neither could 1 be said to want anything but soci-
ety; and of that, some time after this, 1 was like to have
too much.
1 was something impatient, as I have observed, to have
the use of my boat, though very loath to run any more
hazards; and therefore sometimes 1 sat contriving ways to
get her about the island, and at other times I sat myself
down contented enough without her. But I had a strange
uneasiness in my mind to go down to the point of the
island, where, as I have said, in my last ramble, I went up
the hill to see how the shore lay, and how the current set,
that 1 might see what I had to do: this inclination in-
creased upon me every day, and at length 1 resolved to
travel thither by land, following the edge of the shore. 1
did so; but had any one in England been to meet such a
man as 1 was, it must either have frightened him, or raised
a great deal of laughter; and as I frequently stood still to
look at myself, I could not but smile at the notion of my
traveling through Yorkshire, with such an equipage, and
in such a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch of my figure,
as follows. ,j
I had a great high shapeless cap, made of a goat's skin,
with a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep the sun
from me as to shoot the rain off from running into my
neck; nothing being so hurtful in these climates as the rain
upon the flesh, under the clothes.
f 1 had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming
down to about the middle of the thighs, and a pair of open-
kneed breeches of the same; the breeches were made of
the skin of an old he-goat, whose hair hung down such a
length on either side, that, like pantaloons, it reached to
the middle of my legs: stockings and shoes I had none,
but had made me a pair of somethings, I scarce know what
,to call them, like buskins, to flap over my legs, and lace
on either side like spatterdashes, but of a -most barbarous
shape, as indeed were all the rest of my clothes.
I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which 1 drew
together with two thongs of the same, instead of buckles;
and in a kind of a frog on either side of this, instead of a
sword and dagger, hung a little saw and a hatchet; one on
one side, and one on the other. I had another belt, not so
broad, and fastened in the same manner, which hung over
my shoulder; and at the end of it, under my left arm,
hung two pouches, both made of goat's skin too: in one of
which hung my powder, in the other my shot. At my
back J carried my basket, and on my shoulder my gun;
and over my head a great clumsy ugly goat's-skin um-
brella, but which, after all, was the most necessary thing I
had about me, next to my gun. As for my face, the color
of it was really not so mulatto-like as one might expect
from a man not at all careful of it, and living within nine
or ten degrees of the equator. My beard 1 had once
suffered to grow till it was about a quarter of a yard long;
but as I had both scissors and razors sufficient, I had cut it
Eretty short, except what grew on my upper lip, which 1
ad trimmed into a large pair of Mohammedan whiskers,
such as I had seen worn by some Turks at Sallee; for the
Moors did not wear such, though the Turks did: of these
mustachios or whiskers, 1 will not say they were long
enough to hang my hat upon them, but they were of a
length and shape monstrous enough, and such as, in Eng-
land, would have passed for frightful. s
But all this is by the by; for, as to my figure, I had so
few to observe me that it was of no manner of conse-
quence; so I say no more to that part. In this kind of
figure I went my new journey, and was out five or six
days. I traveled first along the seashore, directly to the
place where 1 first brought my boat to an anchor, to get
upon the rocks; and having no boat now to take care of, I
went over the land, a nearer way, to the same height that
I was upon before; when lookiug forward to the point of
the rocks which lay out, and which I was obliged to double
with my boat, as is said above, I was surprised to see the
sea all smooth and quiet; no rippling, no motion, no cur-
rent, any more than in any other places. I was at s
strange loss to understand this, and resolved to spend some
time in observing it, to see if nothing from the sets of
the tide had occasioned it; but I was presently convinced
how it was, viz., that the tide of ebb, setting from the
west, and joining with the current of waters from some
great river on the shore: must be the occasion of this cur-
rent; and that according as the wind blew more forcibly
from the west, or from the north, this current came nearer,
or went further from the shore: for waiting thereabouts
till evening, I went up to the rock again, aud then the
tide of ebb being made, 1 plainly saw the current again as
before, only that it ran further off, being near half a league
from the shore; whereas, in my case, it set close upon the
shore, and hurried me and my canoe along with it, which,
at another time, it would not have done.
This observation convinced me, that 1 had nothing to do
but to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the tide, and
I might very easily bring my boat about the island again:
but when I began to think of putting it in practice, I had
such a terror upon my spirits at the remembrance of the
danger I had been in, that I could not think of it again
with any patience; but, on the contrary, I took up another
resolution, which was more safe, though more laborious;
and this'was, that I would build, or rather make me
another periagua or canoe; and so have one for one side of
the island, and one for the other.
You are to understand, that now I had, as I may call it,
two plantations in the island; one, my little fortification or
tent with the wall about it, under the rock, with the cave
behind me, which, by this time, I bad enlarged into sev-
eral apartments or caves, one within another. One of
these, which was the driest and largest, and had a door out
beyond my wall or fortification, that is to say, beyond
where my wall joined to the rock, was all filled up with the
large earthen pots, of which I have given an account, and
with fourteen or fifteen great baskets, which would hold
five ©r six bushels each, where 1 laid up my stores of pro*
136 ROBINSON CRUSOE.
vision, especially my corn, some in the ear, cut off short
from the straw, and the other rubbed out with my hand.
As for my wall, made, as before, with long stakes or
piles, those piles grew all like trees, and were by this time
grown so big, and spread so very much, that there was not
the least appearance, to any one's view, of any habitation
behind them.
Near this dwelling of mine, but a little further within
the land, and upon lower ground, lay my two pieces of
corn land, which I kept duly cultivated and sowed, and
which duly yielded me their harvest in its season; and
whenever 1 had occasion for more corn, 1 had more land
adjoining as fit as that.
Besides this, 1 had my country seat; and I had now a
tolerable plantation there also: for, first, 1 had my little
bower, as I called it, which 1 kept in repair; that is to say,
I kept the hedge which encircled it constantly fitted up
to its usual height, the ladder standing always in the in-
side: I kept the trees, which at first were no more than my
stakes, but were now grown very firm and tall, always cut
so, that they might spread and grow thick and wild, and
make the more agreeable shade, which they did effectually
to my mind. In the middle of this 1 had my tent always
standing, being a piece of a sail spread over poles, set up
ior that purpose, and which never wanted any repair or re-
newing; and under this 1 had made me a squab or couch,
with the skins of the creatures I had killed, and with other
.soft things; and a blanket laid on them, such as belonged
to our sea bedding, which I had saved, and a great watch-
coat to cover me; and here, whenever 1 had occasion to be
absent from my chief seat, 1 took up my country habita-
tion.
Adjoining to this I had my inclosures for my cattle, that
is to say, my goats; and as I had taken an inconceivable
deal of pains to fence and inclose this ground, I was so
anxious to see it kept entire, lest the goats should break
through, that I never left off, till, with infinite labor, I
had stuck the outside of the hedge so full of small stakes,
and so near to one another, that it was rather a pale than
a hedge, and there was scarce room to put a hand through
between them; which afterward, when those stakes grew,
as they all did in the next rainy season, made the inclosura
strong, like a wall—indeed, stronger than any wall.
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 13?
This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that I
spared no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared neces-
sary for my comfortable support; for 1 considered the
keeping up a breed of tame creatures thus at my hand
would be a living magazine of flesh, milk, butter, and
cheese for me as long as I lived in the place, if it were to
be forty years; and that keeping them in my reach depend-
ed entirely upon my perfecting my inclosures to such a de-
gree, that I might be sure of keeping them together;
which, by this method, indeed, I so effectually secured,
that when these little stakes began to grow, I had planted
them so very thick, that I was forced to pull some of them
np again.
In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I
principally depended on for my winter store of raisins, and
which I never failed to preserve very carefully, as the best
and most agreeable dainty of my whole diet; and, indeed,
they were not only agreeable, but medicinal, wholesome,
nourishing, and refreshing to the last degree.
As this was also about half-way between my other habi-
tation and the place where I had laid up my boat, I gener-
ally stayed and lay here in my way thither: for 1 used fre-
quently to visit my boat; and I kept all things about or
belonging to her, in very good order: sometimes I went
out in her to divert myself, but no more hazardous voyages
would 1 go, nor scarce ever above a stone's cast or two
from the shore, 1 was so apprehensive of being hurried out
of my knowledge again by the currents or winds, or any
other accident. But now 1 come to a new scene of my
life.
SECTION XVII.
Unexpected Alarm and Cause for Apprehension.—He Fortifies his
Abode.
It happened one day, about noon, going toward my
boat, I was exceedingly surprised with the print of a man's
naked foot on the shore, which was very plain to be seen
in the sand. I stood like one thunderstruck, or as if I had
seen an apparition: 1 listened, I looked round me, but I
could hear nothing, nor see anything; I went up to a ris-
ing ground, to look further; 1 went up the shore and down
188 ROBINSON CRUSOE.
the shore, but it was all one; 1 could see no other impres-
sion but that one. 1 went to it again to see if there were
any more, and to observe if it might not be my fancy; but
there was no room for that, for there was exactly the print
of a foot, toes, heel, and every part of a foot: how it came
thither 1 knew not, nor could 1 in the least imagine; but,
after innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a man perfectly
confused and out of myself, I came home to my fortifica-
tion, not feeling, as we say, the ground 1 went on, but ter-
rified to the last degree; looking behind me at every two
or three steps, mistaking every bush and tree, and fancy-
ing every stump at a distance to be a man. Nor is it pos-
sible to describe bow many various shapes my affrighted
imagination represented things to me in, how many wild
ideas were found every moment in my fancy, and what
strange unaccountable whimsies came into my thoughts by
the way.
When I came to my castle (for so 1 think 1 called it ever
after this), I fled into it like one pursued; whether I went
over by the ladder, as first contrived, or went in at the
hole in the rock, which I had called a door, I can not re-
member; no, nor could 1 remember the next mornmg; tor
never frightened hare fled to cover, or fox to earth with
more terror of mind than 1 to this retreat.
I slept none that night: the further I was from the occa-
sion of my fright, the greater my apprehensions were;
which is something contrary to the nature of such things,
and especially to the usual practice of all creatures in fear;
but I was so embarrassed with my own frightful ideas of
the thing, that 1 formed nothing but dismal imaginations
to myself, even though I was now a great way off it.
Sometimes I fancied it must be the devil, and reason
joined in with me upon this supposition; for how should
any other thing in human shape come into the place?
Where was the vessel that brought them? What marks
were there of any other footsteps? And how was it possi-
ble a man should come there? But then to think that
Satan should take human shape upon him in such a place,
where there could be no manner of occasion for it, but to
leave the print of his foot behind him, and that even for
no purpose too, for he could not be sure I should see it—
this was an amusement the other way. I considered that
the devil might have found out abundance of other wars to
*«ve terrified me than this of the single print of a foot;
that as 1 lived quite on the other side of the island, he
would never have been, so simple as to leave a mark in a
place where it was ten thousand to one whether I should
ever see it or not, and in the sand too, which the first
surge of the sea, upon a high wind, would have defaced
entirely: all this seemed inconsistent with the thing itself,
and with all the notions we usually entertain of the sub-
tlety of the devil.
Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue me
out of all apprehensions of its being the devil; and I pres-
ently concluded, then, that it must be some more danger-
ous creature, viz., that it must be some of ihe savages of
the main land over against me, who had wandered out to
sea in their canoes, and, either driven by the currents or
by contrary winds, had made the island, and had been ou
shore, but were gone away again to sea; being as loath, per-
haps, to have stayed on this desolate island as 1 would have
been to have had them.
While these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was
very thankful in my thoughts that I was so happy as not
to be thereabouts at that time, or that they did not see my
boat, by which they would have concluded that some in-
habitants had been in the place, and perhaps have searched
further for me: then terrible thoughts racked my imagina-
tion about their having found my boat, and that there were
people here; and that if so, I should certainly have them
come again in greater numbers, and devour me: that if it
should happen so that they should not find me, yet they
would find my inclosure, destroy all my corn, and carry
away all my flock of tame goats, and I should perish at
last for mere want.
Thus my fear banished all my religious hope, all that
former confidence in God, which was founded upon such
wonderful experience as I had had of His goodness, as if He
that had fed me by miracle hitherto could not preserve, by
His power, the provision which he had made for me by His
goodness. I reproached myself with my laziness, that
would not sow any more corn one year than would just
ierve me till the next season, as if no accident would inter-
vene to prevent my enjoying the crop that was upon the
ground; and this I thought so just a reproof, that 1 re-
140 ROBINSON CKUSOK.
,
solved for the future to have two or three years' corn be.
forehand, so that, whatever might come, I might not per-
ish for want of bread.
How strange a checker-work of Providence is the life of
man! and by wbat secret different springs are the affec-
tions hurried about, as different circumstances present!
To-day we love what to-morrow we hate; to-day we seek
what to-morrow we shun; to-day we desire what to-morrow
we fear, nay, even tremble at the apprehensions of; this
was exemplified in me, at this time, in the most lively
manner imaginable; for I, whose only affliction was that L
seemed banished from human society, that I was alone,
circumscribed by. the boundless ocean, cut off from man-
kind, and condemned to what 1 called silent life; that I
was as one whom Heaven thought not worthy to be num-
bered among the living, or to appear among the rest of His
creatures; that to have seen one of my own species would
have seemed to me a raising me from death to life, and
the greatest blessing that Heaven itself, next to the
supreme blessing of salvation, could bestow; I say, that I
should now tremble at the very apprehensions of seeing a
man, and was ready to sink into the ground at but the
shadow or silent appearance of a man's having set his foot
on the island.
Such is the uneven state of human life; and it afforded
me a great many curious speculations afterward, when 1
had a little recovered my first surprise. I considered that
this was the station of life the infinitely wise and good
providence of God had determined for me; that as I could
not foresee what the ends of divine wisdom might be in all
this, so I was not to dispute His sovereignty, who, as I was
His creature, had an undoubted right, by creation, to gov-
ern and dispose of me absolutely as He thought fit; and
who, as I was a creature that had offended Him, had like-
wise a judicial right to condemn me to what punishment
He thought fit; and that it was my part to submit to bear
His indignation, because I had sinned against Him. I
then reflected, that as God, who was not only righteous,
but omnipotent, had thought fit thus to punish and afflict
me, so He was able to deliver me; that if He did not think
fit to do so, it was my unquestioned duty to resign myself
absolutely and entirely to His will; and, on the other
hand, it wag my duty also to hope in Him? pray to Him,
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 141
trod quietly to attend the dictates and directions of His i
daily providence.
These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, I
may say, weeks and months; and one particular effect of
my cogitations on this occasion I can not omit. One1
morning early, lying in my bed, and filled with thoughts;
about my danger from the appearance of savages, 1 found
it discomposed me very much; upon which these words of
the Scripture came into my thoughts: "Call upon me in
the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt;
glorify me." Upon this, rising cheerfully out of my bed,
my heart was not only comforted, but I was guided and
encouraged to pray earnestly to God for deliverance: when
1 had done praying, I took up my Bible, and opening it to
read, the first words presented to me were, "Wait on
the Lord, and be of good cheer, and He shall strengthen
thy heart; wait, 1 say, on the Lord." It is impossible to
express the comfort this gave me. In answer, I thankfully
laid down the book, and was no more sad, at least on that
occasion.
In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and
reflections, it came into my thoughts one day, that all this
might be a mere chimera of my own, and that this foot
might be the print of my own foot, when 1 came on shore
from my boat: this cheered me up a little too, and I began
to persuade myself it was all a delusion; that it was noth-
ing else but my own foot: and why might I not come that
way from the boat, as well as I was going that way to the
boat? Again, 1 considered also, that I could by no means
tell, for certain, where 1 had trod, and where 1 had not;
and that if, at last, this was only the print of my own foot,
I had played the part of those fools who try to make
stories of specters and apparitions, and then are fright'
ened at them more than anybody.
Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again,
for 1 had not stirred out of my castle for three days and
nights, so that I began to starve for provisions; for I had
little or nothing within doors but some barley cakes and
water: then 1 knew that my goats wanted to be milked
too, which usually was my evening diversion; and the poor
creatures were in great pain and inconvenience for want of
it: and, indeed, it almost spoiled some of them, and almost
dried up their milk. Encouraging myself, therefore, with
H2 HQBIiiSON CKUSOE.
the belief that this was nothing but the print of one of my
own feet, and that 1 might be truly said to start at my own
shadow, I began to go abroad again, and went to my coun-
try house to milk my flock: but to see with what fear I
went forward, how often 1 looked behind me, how I was
ready, overy now and then, to lay down my basket, and
run for my life, it would have made any one think 1 was
haunted with an evil .conscience, or that I had been lately
most terribly frightened; and so, indeed, I had. How-
ever, as I went down thus two or three days, and having
seen nothing, 1 began to be a little bolder, and to think
there was really nothing in it but my own imagination; but
I could not persuade myself fully of this till I should go
down to the shore again, and see this print of a foot, and
measure it by my own, and see if there was any similitude
or fitness, that I might be assured it was my own foot: but
when 1 came to the place, first, it appeared evidently to
me, that when I laid up my boat, I could not possibly be
on shore anywhere thereabout: secondly, when I came to
measure the mark with my own foot, 1 found my foot not
so large by a great deal. But these things filled my head
with new imaginations, and gave me the vapors again to
the highest degree, so that 1 shook with cold like one in an
ague; and I went home again, filled with the belief that
some man or men had been on shore there; or, in short,
that the island was inhabited, and 1 might be surprised be-
fore I was aware; and what course to take for my security
1 knew not.
Oh, what ridiculous resolutions men take when possessed
with fear! It deprives them of the use of those means
which reason offers for their relief. The first thing 1 pro-
posed to myself was, to throw down my inclosures, and
turn all my tame cattle wild into the woods, lest the enemy
should find them, and then frequent the island in prospect
of the same or the like booty: then to the simple thing of
digging up my two corn fields, lest they should find such a
grain there, and still be prompted to frequent the island:
then to demolish my bower and tent, that they might not
see any vestiges of habitation, and be prompted to look
further, in order to find out the persons inhabiting.
These were the subject of the first night's cogitations
after I was come home again, while the apprehensions
which had so overrun my mind were fresh upon me, and
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 148
my head was full of vapors, as above. Thus fear of dan-
ger is ten thousand times more terrifying than danger itself
when apparent to the eyes; and we find the burden of anx-
iety greater, by much, than the evil which we are anxious
about: and, which was worse than all this, 1 had not that
relief in this trouble from the resignation I used to prac-
tice, that 1 hoped to have. I looked, I thought, like Saul,
who complained not only that the Philistines were upon
him, but that God had forsaken him; for 1 did not now
take due ways to compose my mind, by crying,to God in
my distress, and resting upon his providence, as I had done
before, for my defense and deliverance; which, if 1 had
done, I had at least been more cheerfully supported under
this new surprise, and perhaps carried through it with
more resolution.
This confusion of my thoughts kept me awake all night:
but in the morning I fell asleep; and having, by the
amusement of my mind, been as it were tired, and my
spirits exhausted, I slept very soundly and waked much
better composed than I had ever been before. And now I
began to think sedately; and, upon the utmost debate with
myself, 1 concluded that this island, which was so exceed-
ing pleasant, fruitful, and no further from the main land
than as I had seen, was not so entirely abandoned as I
.might imagine; that although there were no stated inhabit-
ants who lived on the spot, yet that there might sometimes
come boats off from the shore, who, either with design, or
perhaps never but when they were driven by cross winds,
might come to this place; that 1 had lived here fifteen
years now, and had not met with the least shadow or figure
of any people yet; and that if at any time they should be
driven here, it was probable they went away again as soon
as ever they could, seeing they had never thought fit to fix
here upon any occasion; that the most 1 could suggest any
danger from, was from any casual accidental landing of
straggling people from the main, who, as it was likely, if
they were driven hither, were here against their wills, so
they made no stay here, but went off again with all possi-
ble speed; seldom staying one night on shore, lest they
should not have the help of the tides and daylight back
again; and that, therefore, I had nothing to do but to con-
sider of some safe retreat, in case I should see any
land upon the spot.
144 ROBINSON CRCSOE.
Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave m
large as to bring a door through again, which door, as 1
said, came out beyond where my fortification joined to the
rock: upon maturely considering this, therefore, I resolved
to draw me a second fortification, in the same manner of a
semicircle, at a distance from my wall, just where I had
planted a double row of trees about twelve years before, of
which 1 made mention: these trees having been planted so
thick before, they wanted but few piles to be driven be-
tween them, that they might be thicker and stronger, and
my wall would be soon finished: so that 1 had now a double
wall; and my outer wall was thickened with pieces of tim-
ber, old cables, and everything I could think of, to make
it strong, having in it seven little holes about as big as 1
might put my arm out at. In the inside of this, 1 thick-
ened my wall to about ten feet thick, with continually
bringing earth out of my cave, and laying it at the foot of
the wall, and walking upon it; and through the seven holes
I contrived to plant the muskets, of which I took notice
that 1 had got seven on shore out of the ship: these I
Elanted like my cannon, and fitted them into frames, that
eld them like a carriage, so that I could fire all the seven
guns in two minutes' time: this wall I was many a weary
month in finishing, and yet never thought myself safe till
it was done.
When this was done, 1 stuck all the ground without my
wall, for a great length every way, as full with stakes, or
sticks, of the osier-like wood, which 1 found so apt to
grow, as they could wejl stand; insomuch, that 1 believe I
might set in near twenty thousand of them, leaving a
pretty large space between them and my wall, that I might
have room to see an enemy, and they might have no shelter
from the young trees, if they attempted to approach my
outer wall.
Thus, in two years' time, I had a thick grove; and in
five or six years' time 1 had a wood before my dwelling,
growing so monstrous thick and strong, that it was indeed
perfectly impassable; and no men, oi what kind soever,
would everi imagine that there was anything beyond it,
much less a habitation. As for the way which I proposed
to myself to go in and out (for I left no avenue,) it was by
setting two ladders, one to a part of the rock which was
low, and then broke in, and left the room to place another
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 145
..
madder upon that: so when the two ladders were taken
down, no man living could come down to me without do-
ing himself mischief; and if they had come down, they
were still on the outside of my outer wall.
Thus I took all the measures human prudence could
suggest for my own preservation; and it will be seen, at
length, that they were not altogether without just reason,
though I foresaw nothing at that time more than my mere
fear suggested to me.
While this was doing, 1 was not altogether careless of
my other affairs: for 1 had a great concern upon me for
my little herd of goats; they were not only a ready supply
to me on every occasion, and began to be sufficient for me,
without the expense of powder and shot, but also without
ihe fatigue of hunting after the wild ones; aud I was loath
to lose the advantage of them, and to have them all to
nurse up over again.
For this purpose, after long consideration, I could think
of but two ways to preserve them: one was, to find another
convenient place to dig a cave under ground, and to drive
them into it every night; and the other was, to inclose two
or three little bits of land, remote from each other, and as
much concealed as I oulu, where I might keep about half
a dozen young goats in each place: so that if any disaster
happened to the flock in general, I might be able to raise
them again with little trouble and time; and this, though
it would require a great deal of time and labor, I thought
was the most rational design.
Accordingly, I spent some time to find out the most re-
tired parts of the island; and 1 pitched upon one, which
was as private, indeed, as my heart could wish for: it was
a little damp piece of ground, in the middle of the hollow
and thick woods, where, as is observed, 1 almost lost my-
self once before, endeavoring to come back that way from
the eastern part of the island. Here I found a clear piece
of land, near three acres, so surrounded with woods that
it was almost an inclosure by nature; at least, it did not
want near so much labor to make it so as the other pieces
»f ground 1 had worked so hard at.
SECTION xvin.
Precautions against Surprise.—Bobinson discovers that his Island
has been visited by Cannibals.
I immediately went to work with this piece of ground,
and in less than a month's time I had so fenced it round,
that my flock, or herd, call it which you please, who were
not so wild now as at first they might be supposed to be,
were well enough secured in it: so, without any further de-
lay, I removed ten young she-goats and two he-goats to
this piece; and when they were there, I continued to per-
feet the fence, till 1 had made it as secure as the other,
which, however, I did at more leisure, and it took me up
more time by a great deal. All this labor 1 was at the ex-
pense of purely from my apprehensions on account of the
print of a man's foot which I had seen; for, as yet, I never
saw any human creature come near the island; and 1 had
now lived two years under this uneasiness, which, indeed,
made my life much less comfortable than it was before, as
may be well imagined by any who knows what it is to live
in the constant snare of the fear of man. And this I must
observe, with grief too, that the discomposure of my mind
had too great impressions also upon the religious part of
my thoughts: for the dread and terror of falling into the
hands of savages and cannibals lay so upon my spirits, that
1 seldom found myself in a due temper for application to
my Maker, at least not with the sedate calmness and resig-
nation of soul which 1 was wont to do: I rather prayed to
God as under great affliction and pressure of mind, sur-
rounded with danger, and in expectation every night of
being murdered and devoured before morning; and I must
testify from my experience, that a temper of peace, thank-
fulness, love and affection, is much the more proper frame
for prayer than that of terror and discomposure; and that
under the dread of mischief impending, a man is no more
fit for a comforting performance or the duty of praying to
God, than he is for a repentance on a sick-bed; for these
discomposures affect the mind, as the others do the body;
and the discomposure of the mind must necessarily be as
great a disability as that of the body, and much greater;
praying to God being properly an act of the mind, not
of the body.
But to go on: after I had thus secured one part of my
little living stock, I went about the whole island, searching
for another private place to make such another deposit;
when, wandering more to the west point of the island than
I had ever done yet, and looking out to- sea, 1 thought I
saw a boat upon the sea, at a great distance.. I had found
a perspective glass or two in one of the seamen's chests,
which I saved out of our ship, but I had it not about me;
and this was so remote, that I could not tell what to make
of it, though I looked at it till my eyes were not able to
hold to look any longer: whether it was a boat or not, I do
not know, but as 1 descended from the hill 1 could see no
more of it; so I gave it over; only I resolved to go no more
out without a perspective glass in my pocket. When 1
was come down the hill to the end of the island, where, in-
deed, 1 had never been before, I was presently convinced
that the seeing the print of a man's foot was not such a
strange thing in the island as I imagined: and, but that it
was a special providence that 1 was cast upon the side of
the island where the savages never came, I should easily
have known that nothing was more frequent than for the
canoes from the main, when they happened to be a little
too far out air sea, to shoot over to that side of the island
for harbor: likewise, as they often met and fought in their
canoes, the victors, having taken any prisoners, would
bring them over to this shore, where, according to their
dreadful customs, being all cannibals, they would kill and
eat them; of which hereafter.
When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said
above, being the south-west point of the island, 1 was per-
fectly confounded and amazed; nor is it possible for me to
express the horror of my mind, at seeing the shore spread
with skulls, hands, feet, and other bones of human bodies;
and, particularly, 1 observed a place where there had been
a fire made, and a circle dug in the earth, like a cockpit,
where 1 supposed the savage wretches had sat down to
their inhuman feastings upon the bodies of their fellow-
creatures.
I was so astonished with the sight of these things that I
entertained no notions of any danger to myself from it tot
a long while: all my apprehensions were buried in the
thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman, hellish brutality, and
the horror of the degeneracy of human nature, which,
though I had heard of it often, yet I never had so near a
view of before: in short, I turned away my face from the
horrid spectacle; my stomach grew sick, and I was just at
the point of fainting, when nature discharged the disorder
from my stomach: and having vomited with uncommon
violence, 1 was a little relieved, but could not bear to stay
in the place a moment; so 1 got me up the hill again with
all the speed 1 could, and walked on toward my own habi-
tation.
When 1 came a little out of that part of the island, 1
stood still awhile, as amazed, and then recovering myself,
I looked up with the utmost affection of my soul, and,
with a flood of tears in my eyes, gave God thanks, that had
cast my first lot in a part of the world where I was distin-
guished from such dreadful creatures as these; and that,
though I had esteemed my present condition very miser-
able, had yet given me so many comforts in it, that I had
still more to give thanks for than to complain of: and this,
above all, that 1 had, even in this miserable condition,
been comforted with the knowledge of Himself, and the
hope of His blessing, which was a felicity more than suffi-
ciently equivalent to all the misery which 1 had suffered or
could suffer.
In this frame of thankfulness, I went home to my castle,
and began to be much easier now, as to the safety of my
circumstances, than ever I was before: for I observed that
these wretches never came to this island in search of what
they could get; perhaps not seeking, not wanting, or not
expecting, anything here, and having often, no doubt, been
up in the covered woody part of it, without finding any-
thing to their purpose. I knew 1 had been here now
almost eighteen years, and never saw the least footsteps of
human creature there before; and I might be eighteen
years more as entirely concealed as 1 was now, if I did not
discover myself to them, which I had no manner of occa-
sion to do; it being mv only business to keep myself en-
tirely concealed where 1 was, unless 1 found a better sort
of creatures than cannibals to make myself known to. Yet
1 entertained such an abhorrence of the savage wretches
that I have been speaking of, and of the wretched inhu-
man custom of their devouring and eating each Other up,
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 149
that I continued pensive and sad, and kept close within my
own circle, for almost two years after this; when I say my
own circle, I mean by it my three plantations, viz., my
castle, my country seat, which 1 called my bower, and my
inclosure in the woods: nor did I look after this for any
other use than as an inclosure for my goats; for the aver-
sion which nature gave me to these hellish wretches was
such, that I was as fearful of seeing them as of seeing the
devil himself. I did not so much as go to look after mj
boat all this time, but began rather to think of making me
another; for 1 could not think of ever making any more
attempts to bring the other boat round the island to me,
lest 1 should meet with some of these creatures at sea, in
which if 1 happened to have fallen into their hands, I
knew what would have been my lot.
Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that 1 was in
no danger of being discovered by these people, began to
wear off my uneasiness about them; and I began to live
just in the same composed manner as before, only with
this difference, that I used more caution, and kept my eyes
more about me, than I did before, lest 1 should happen to
be seen by any of them; and particularly, I was more cau-
tious of firing my gun, lest any of them being on the
island should happen to hear it. It was therefore a very
good providence to me that I had furnished myself with a
tame breed of goats, and that 1 had no need to hunt any
more about the woods, or shoot at them; and if I did catch
any of them after this, it was by traps and snares, as I had
done before: so that for two years after this, I believe I
never fired my gun once off, though 1 never went out with-
out it; and, which was more, as I had saved three pistols
out of the ship, I always carried them out with me, or at
least two of them, sticking them in my goat's-skin belt. 1
also furbished up one of the great cutlasses that I had out
of the ship, and made me a belt to hang it on also; so that
I was now a most formidable fellow to look at when I went
abroad, if you add to the former description of myself, the
particular of two pistols, and a great broadsword hanging
at my side in a belt, but without a scabbard.
Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time, I
seemed, excepting these cautions, to be reduced to my
former calm sedate way of living. All these things tended
to show me, more and more, how far my condition was
150 ROBINSON CRU90B.
from being miserable, compared to some others; nay, to
many other particulars of life, which it might have pleased
God to have made my lot. It put me upon reflecting how
little repining there would be among mankind at any con-
dition of life, if people would rather compare their condi-
tion with those that were worse, in order to be thankful,
than be always comparing them with those which are bet-
ter, to assist their murmurings and complainings.
As in my present condition there were not really many
things which I wanted, so, indeed, 1 thought that the
frights I had been in about these savage wretches, and the
concern 1 had been in for my own preservation, had taken
off the edge of my invention for my own conveniences; and
1 had dropped a good design, which I had once bent my
thoughts too much upon, and that was, to try if 1 could
not make some of my barley into malt, and then try to
brew myself some beer. This was really a whimsical
thought, and I reproved myself often for the simplicity of
it; for I presently saw there would be the want of several
things necessary to the making my beer, that it would be
impossible for me to supply; as, first, casks to preserve it
in, which was a thing that, as I had observed already, 1
could never compass; no, though 1 spent not only many
days, bat weeks, nay, months, in attempting it, but to no
purpose. In the next place, 1 had no hops to make it
keep, no yeast to make it work, no copper or kettle to
make it boil; and yet, with all these things wanting, I
verily believe, had not the frights and terrors 1 was in
about the savages intervened, 1 had undertaken it, and
perhaps brought it to pass too; for I seldom gave anything
over without accomplishing it, when once 1 had it in my
head to begin it. But my invention now ran quite another
way; for, night and day, I could think of nothing but how
I might destroy some of these monsters in their cruel,
bloody entertainment, and, if possible, save the victim they
should bring hither to destroy. It would take up a large
volume than this whole work is intended to be, to set down
all the contrivances 1 hatched, or rather brooded upon, in
my thoughts, for the destroying these creatures, or at least
frightening them so as to prevent their coming hither any
more; but all this was abortive; nothing could be possible
to take effect, unless I was to be there to do it myself; and
what could one man do among them, when perhaps there
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 151
.
might be twenty or thirty of them together, with their
darts, or their bows and arrows, with which they could
shoot as true to a mark as I could with my gun?
Sometimes I thought of digging a hole under the place
where they made their fire, and putting in five or six
pounds of gun-powder, which, when they kindled their
fire, would consequently take fire, and blow up all that was
near it; but, as, in the first place, I should be unwilling to
waste so much powder upon them, my store being now
within the quantity of one barrel, so neither could be sure
of its going off at any certain time, when it might surprise
<hem: and, at best, that it would do little more than just
blow the fire about their ears and fright them, but not
sufficient to make them forsake the place: so I laid it
aside; and then proposed that 1 would pkce myself in am-
bush in some convenient place, with my three guns all
double-loaded, and, in the middle of their bloody cere-
mony, let fly at them, when 1 should be sure to kill or
wound perhaps two or three at every shot: and then fall-
ing in upon them with my three pistols, and my sword, I
made no doubt but that if there were twenty I should kill
them all. This fancy pleased my thoughts for some weeks;
and 1 was so full of it, that I often dreamed of it, and
sometimes that I was just going to let fly at them in my
sleep. I went so far with it in my imagination, that 1 em-
ployed myself several days to find out proper places to put
myself in ambuscade, as I said, to watch for them; and I
went frequently to the place itself, which was now grown
more familiar to me: but while my mind was thus filled
with thoughts of revenge, and a bloody putting twenty or
thirty of them to the sword, as I may call it, the horror I
had at the place, and at the signals of the barbarous
wretches devouring one another, abetted my malice.
Well, at length, I found a place in the side of the hill,
where I was sastisfied I might securely wait till I saw any
of their boats coming; and might then, even before they
would be ready to come on shore, convey myself, unseen,
into some thickets of trees, in one of which there was a
hollow large enough to conceal me entirely; and there 1
might sit and observe all their bloody doings, and take my
full aim at their heads, when they were so close together
as that it would be next to impossible that I should miss
my shot, or that I could fail wounding three or four el
them at the first shot. In this place, then, I resolved to
fix my design; and, accordingly, I prepared two muskets
and my ordinary fowliug-piece. The two muskets I loaded
with a brace of slags each, and four or five smaller bullets,
about the size of pistol-bullets; and the f owling-pieoe I loaded
with near a handful of swan-shot, of the largest size: 1 also
loaded my pistols with about four bullets each; and in this
posture, well provided with ammunition for a second and
third charge, I prepared myself for my expedition.
After 1 had thus laid the scheme of my design, and, in
my imagination, put it in practice, I continually made my
tour every morning up to the top of the hill, which was
from my castle, as 1 called it, about three miles, or more,
to see if 1 could observe any boats upon the sea, coming
near the island, or standing over toward it: but 1 began to
tire of this hard duty, after I had, for two or three months,
constantly kept my watch, but came always back without
any discovery: there having not, in all that time, been the
least appearance, not only on or near the shore, but on the
whole oce'tfi, so far as my eyes or glasses could reach every
way.
As long is 1 kept my daily tour to the hill to look out,
so long also I kept up the vigor of my design, and my
spirits seemed to be all the while in a suitable form for so
outrageous an execution as the killing twenty or thirty
naked savages, for an offense, which I had not at all en-
tered into a discussion of in my thoughts, any further than
my passions were at first fired by the horror 1 conceived at
the unnatural custom of the people of that country; who,
it seems, had been suffered by Providence, in His wise dis-
position of the world, to have no other guide than that of
their own abominable and vitiated passions; and, conse-
quently, were left, and perhaps had been so for some ages,
to act such horrid things, and receive such dreadful cus-
toms, as nothing but nature, entirely abandoned by
Heaven, and actuated by some hellish degeneracy, could
have run them into. But now, when, as I have said, I
began to be weary of the fruitless excursion, which 1 had
made so long and so far every morning in vain, so my
opinion of the action itself began to alter; and 1 began,
with cooler and calmer thoughts, to consider what I was
going to engage in: what authority or call 1 had to pretend
to be judge and executioner upon these men as criminals,.
BOBINSON CRUSOE. 153
whom Heaven had thought fit, for so many ages, to suffer,
unpunished, to go on, and to be, as it were, the execution-
ers of His judgments one upon another. How far these
people were offenders against me, and what right I had to
engage in the quarrel of that blood which they shed pro-
miscuously one upon another, I debated this very often,
with myself, thus: How do I know what God Himself
judges in this particular case? It is certain these people
do not commit this as a crime; it is not against their own
consciences reproving, or their light reproaching them;
they do not know it to be an offense, and then commit it
in defiance of divine justice, as we do in almost all the sins
we commit . They think it no more a crime to kill a cap-
tive taken in war, than we do to kill an ox; nor to eat hu-
man flesh, than we do to eat mutton.
When 1 considered this a little, it followed necessarily
that I was certainly in the wrong in it; that these people
were not murderers in the sense that I had before con-
demned them in my thoughts, any more than those Chris-
tians were murderers who often put to death the prisoners
taken in battle; or more frequently, upon many occasions,
put whole troops of men to the sword, without giving
quarter, though they threw down their arms and submit-
ted. In the next place, it occurred to me, that although
the usage they gave one another was thus brutish and in-
human, yet it was really nothing to me; these' people had
done me no injury: that if they attempted me, or I saw it
necessary, for my immediate preservation, to fall upon
them, something might be said for it; but that I was yet
out of their power, and they really had no knowledge of
me, and consequently no design upon me; and therefore it
could not be just for me to fall upon them: that this
would justify the conduct of the Spaniards in all their bar-
barities practiced in America, where they destroyed mil-
lions of these people: who, however they were idolaters and
barbarians, and had several bloody and barbarous rites in
their customs, such as sacrificing human bodies to their
idols, were yet, as to the Spaniards, very innocent people;
and that the rooting them cut of the country is spoken of
with the utmost abhorrence and detestation by even the
Spaniards themselves at Ibis time, and by all other Chris-
tian nations in Europe, as a mere butchery, a bloody and
unnatural piece of cruelty, unjustifiable either to God oi
164 BOBINSON CRUSOE.
man, and for which the very name of a Spaniard is reck*
oned to be frightful and terrible to all people of humanity,
or of Christian compassion—as if the kingdom of Spain
were particularly eminent for the produce of a race of men
who were without principles of tenderness, or the common
bowels of pity to the miserable, which is reckoned to be a
mark of generous temper in the mind.
These considerations really put me to a pause, and to a
kind of a full stop; and I began, by little and little, to be
off my design, and to conclude I had taken wrong meas-
ures in my resolution to attack the savages; and that it
was not my business to meddle with them, unless they
first attacked me, and Chat it was my business, if possible,
to prevent; but that if 1 were discovered and attacked by
them, I knew my duty. On the other hand, I argued with
myself, that this really was the way not to deliver myself,
but entirely to ruin and destroy myself; for unless I was
sure to kill every one that not only should be on shore at
that time, but that should ever come on shore afterward,
if but one of them escaped to tell their country-people
what had happened, they would come over again by thou-
sands to revenge the death of their fellows, and I should
only bring upon myself a certain destruction, which, at
present, I had no manner of occasion for. Upon the
whole, I concluded, that neither in principle nor in policy
I ought, one way or other, to concern myself in this affair;
that my business was, by all possible means, to conceal
myself from them, and not to leave the least signal to them
to guess by that there were any living creatures upon the
island, I mean of human shape. Religion joined in with
this prudential resolution, and I was convinced now, many
ways, ,that I was perfectly out of my duty when I was lay-
ing all my bloody schemes for the destruction of innocent
creatures, I mean innocent as to me. As to the crimes
ihey were guilty of toward one another, 1 had nothing to
do with them; they were national, and I ought to leave
them to the justice of God, who is the Governor of na-
tions, and knows how, by national punishments, to make
a just retribution for national offenses, and to bring public
judgments upon those who offend in a public manner, by
such ways as best please Him. This appeared so clear to
me now that nothing was a greater satisfaction to me than
that I had not been suffered to do a thing which 1 now saw
ROBINSON CRUSOE. , 155
bo much reason to believe would have been no leas a sin
than that of willful murder, if I had committed it; and I
gave most humble thanks on my knees to God, that had
thus delievered me from blood-guiltiness; beseeching Him
to grant me the protection of His Providence, that I might
not fall into the hands of the barbarians, or that 1 might
not lay my hands upon them, unless 1 had a more clear
call from Heav« i to do it, in defense of my own life.
SECTION XIX.
Robinson d'scovers a Cave, which serves him as a Butrwt against
the Savages.
In this disposition 1 continued for near a year after this;
mnd so far was I from desiring an occasion for falling upon
shese wretches, that in all that time I never once went up
the hill to see whether there were any of them in sight, or
to know whether any of them had been on shore there or
Dot, that I might not be tempted to renew any of my con-
trivances against them, or be provoked, by any advantage
which might present itself, to fall upon them; only this I
didy I went and removed my boat, which 1 had on the
other side of the island, and carried it down to the east end
of the whole island, where I ran it into a little cove, which
1 found under some high rocks, and where 1 knew, by rea-
son of the currents, the savages durst not, at least would
not, come with their boats upon any account whatever.
With my boat I carried away everything that I had left
there belonging to her, though not necessary for the bare
going thither, viz., a mast and sail which I had made for
her, and a thing like an anchor, but which, indeed, could
not be called either anchor or grapnel; however, it was the
best I could make of its kind; all these I removed, that
there might not be the least shadow of any discovery, or
any appearance of any boat, or of any human habitation,
upon the island. Besides this, I kept myself, as I said,
more retired than ever, and seldom went from my cell,
other than upon my constant employment, viz., to milk
my she-goats, and manage my little flock in the wood,
which, as it was quite on the other part of the island, was
quaite out of danger; for certain it is, that these savage peo-
pie, who sometimes haunted this island, never came with
any thoughts of finding anything here, and consequently
never wandered off from the coast; and I doubt not but
they might have been several times on shore after my ap-
prehensions of them had made me cautious, as well as be-
fore. Indeed, I looked back with some horror upon the
thoughts of what my condition would have been if I had
popped upon them and been discovered before that, when,*
naked and unarmed, except with one gun, and that loaded
often only with small shot, I walked everywhere, peeping
and peering about the island to see what 1 could get; what
a surprise should I have been in, if, when I discovered the
print of a man's foot, I had, instead of that, seen fifteen
or twenty savages, and found them pursuing me, and by
the swiftness of their running, no possibility of my escap-
ing them? The thoughts of this sometimes sunk my very
soul within me, and distressed my mind so much that I
could not soon recover it, to think what I should have
done, and how 1 should not only have been unable to resist
them, but even should not have had presence of mind
enough to do what 1 might have done, much less what
now, after so much consideration and preparation, I might
be able to do. Indeed, after serious thinking on these
things, I would be very melancholy, and sometimes it would
last a great while; but I resolved it all at last, into thank-
fulness to that Providence which had delivered me from so
many unseen dangers, and had kept from me those mis-
chiefs which 1 could have no way been the agent in deliver-
ing myself from, because 1 had not the least notion of any
such thing depending, or the least supposition of its being
possible. This renewed a contemplation which often had
come to my thoughts in former time, when first 1 began to.
see the merciful dispositions of Heaven, in the dangers we
run through in this life; how wonderfully we are delivered
when we know nothing of it; how, when we are in a quan-
dary, as we call it, a doubt or hesitation, whether to go this
way, or that way, a secret hint shall direct us this way,
when wo intonded to go that way; nay, when sense, our
own inclination, and perhaps business, has called to go the
other way, yet a strange impression upon the mind, from
we know not what springs, and by we know not what
power, shall overrule us to go this way; and it shall after-
ward appear that had we gone that way which we should
*iiave gone, and even to our imagination ought to have
gone, we should have been ruined and lost. Upon these,
- and many like reflections, I afterward made it a certain
rule with me, that whenever I found those secret hints or
pressings of mind, to doing or not doing anything that
presented, or going this way or that way, I never failed to
obey the secret dictate; -though 1 knew no other reason for
it than that such a pressure, or such a hint, hung upon
my mind. I could give many examples of the success of
this conduct in the course of my life, but more especially
in the latter part of my inhabiting this unhappy island, be-
sides many occasions which it is very likely 1 might have
taken notice of it, if 1 had seen with the same eyes then
that I see with now. But it is never too late to be wise;
and I can not but advise all considering men, whose lives
are attended with such extraordinary incidents as mine, or
even though not so extraordinary, not to slight such secret
intimations of Providence, let them come from what invisi-
ble intelligence they will. That I shall not discuss, and
perhaps can not account for; but certainly they are a proof
of the converse of spirits, and a secret communication be-
tween those embodied and those unembodied, and such a
proof as can never be withstood; of which 1 shall have oc-
casion to give some very remarkable instances in the re-
mainder of my solitary residence in this dismal place.
I believe the reader of this will not think it strange if I
confess that these anxieties, these constant(dangers 1 lived
in, and the concern that was now upon me, put an end to
,all invention, and to all the contrivances that I had laid
ior my future accommodations and conveniences. 1 had
the care of my safety more now upon my hands than that
of my food. I cared not to drive a nail, or chop a stick of
wood now, for fear the noise I might make should be heard;
much less would I fire a gun, for the same reason; and,
.above all, 1 was intolerably uneasy at making any fire, lest
the smoke, which is visible at a great distance in the day,
should betray me. For this reason 1 removed that part of
my business which required fire, such as burning of pots
and pipes, etc., into my new apartment in the woods,
where, after I had been some time, I found, to my un-
speakable consolation, a mere natural cave in the earth,
which went in a vast way, and where, I dare say, no sav-
age, had he been at the mouth of it, would be so hardy as
158 ROBINSON CRUSUB.
to venture in; nor, indeed, would any man else, but one
who, like me, wanted nothing so much as a safe retreat.
The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a greal
rock, where by mere accident (I would say, if 1 did not see
abundant reason to ascribe all such things now to Provi-
dence), I was cutting down some thick branches of treeB to
make charcoal; and, before I go oh, I must observe the
reason of my making this charcoal, which was thus: 1 was
afraid of making a smoke about my habitation, as I said
before; and yet I could not live there without baking my
bread, cooking my meat, etc.; so I contrived to burn some
wood here, as I had seen done in England, under turf, till
it became chark, or dry coal; and then putting the fire
out, I preserved the coal to carry home, and perform the
other services for which fire was wanting, without danger
of smoke. But this is by the by. While I was cutting
down some wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick
branch of low brushwood, or underwood, there was a kind
of hollow place; I was curious to look in it, and getting
with difficulty into the mouth of it, I found it was pretty
large; that is to say, sufficient for me to stand upright in
it, and perhaps another with me; but I must confess to
you that I made more haste out than 1 did in, when, look-
ing further into the place, and which was perfectly dark, I
saw two broad shining eyes of some creature, whether devil
or man 1 knew not, which twinkled like two stars, the dim
light from the cave's mouth shining directly in, and mak-
ing the reflection. However, after some pause, I recovered
myself, and began to call myself a thousand fools, and to
think that he that was afraid to see the devil was not fit to
live twenty years in an islaud all alone; and that I might
well think there was nothing in this cave that was more
frightful than myself. Upon this, plucking up my cour-
age, I took up a fire-brand, and in 1 rushed again, with the
stick flaming in my hand; I had not gone three steps in
but I was almost as much frightened as I was before; for I
heard a very loud sigh, like that of a man in some pain,
and it was followed by a broken noise, as of words half ex-
pressed, and then a deep sigh again. 1 stepped back, and
was indeed struck with such a surprise, that it put me into
a cold sweat; and if I had had a hat on my head, I will not
answer for it, that my hair might not have lifted it off.
But still plucking up my spirits as well as I could, and en*
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 109
1
couraging myself a little with considering that the power
and presence of God was everywhere, and was able to pro-
tect me, upon this I stepped forward again, and by the
light of the fire-brand, holding it up a little over my head,
I saw lying on the ground a most monstrous, frightful, old
he-goat, just making his will, as we say, and gasping for
life, and dying, indeed, of mere old age. I stirred him a
little to see if I could get him out, and he essayed to get
up, but was not able to raise himself; and I thought with
myself he might even lie there; for if he had frightened
me, so he would certainly frighten any of the savages, if
any of them should be so hardy as to come in there while
he had any life in him.
I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to look
round me, when 1 found the cave was but very small, that
is to say, it might be about twelve feet over, but in no man-
ner of shape, neither round nor square, no hands having
ever been employed in making it but those of mere Nature.
I observed also that there was a place at the further side of
it that went in further, but was so low that it required me
to creep upon my hands and knees to go into it, and whither
it went I knew not; so having no candle, I gave it over for
that time, but resolved to come again the next day, pro-
vided with candles and a tinder-box, which I had made of
the lock of one of the muskets, with some wild-fire in the
pan.
Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six large
candles of my own making (for 1 made very good candles
now of goat's tallow, but was hard set for candle-wick,
using sometimes rags or rope-yarn, and sometimes the
dried rind of a weed like nettles); and going into this low
place, I was obliged to creep upon all fours, as I have said,
almost ten yards; which, by the way, I thought was a
venture bold enough, considering that I knew not how far
it might go, nor what was beyond it. When I had got
through the strait, I found the roof rose higher up, I be-
lieve near twenty feet; but never was such a glorious sight
seen in the island, I dare say, as it was, to look round the
sides and roof of this vault or cave; the wall reflected a
hundred thousand lights to me from my two candles.
What it was in the rocK, whether diamonds, or any other
{recious stones, or gold, which I rather supposed it to be,
knew not. The place I was in was a most delightful
oavity or grotto of its kind, as could be expected, though
perfectly dark; the floor was dry and level, and had a sort
of small loose gravel upon it, so that there was no nauseous
•r venomous creature to be seen, neither was there any
damp or wet on the sides or roof; the only difficulty in it
was the entrance; which, however, as it was a place of
secuiity, and such a retreat as I wanted, 1 thought that
was a convenience; so that I was really rejoiced at the dis-
covery, and resolved, without any delay, to bring some of
those things which I was most anxious about to this place;
particularly, I resolved to bring hither my magazine of
powder, and all my spare arms, viz., two fowling-pieces,
for I had three in all, and three muskets, for of them I
had eight in all; so 1 kept at my castle only five, which
stood ready mountea like pieces of cannon, on my outmost
fence, and were ready also to take out upon any expedition.
Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition, I hap-
pened to open the barrel of powder which 1 took up out of
the sea, and which had been wet; and I found that the
water had penetrated about three or four inches into the
powder on every side, which caking and growing hard, had
preserved the inside like a kernel in the shell; so that 1 had
near sixty pounds of very good powder in the center of the
cask; this was a very agreeable discovery to me at that
time; so I carried all away thither, never keeping above
two or three pounds of powder with me in my castle, for
fear of a surprise of any kind; I also carried thither all the
lead I had left for bullets.
I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants,.
which were said to live in caves and holes in the rocks,
where none could come at them; for 1 persuaded myself,
while I was here, that if five hundred savages were to hunt
me, they could never find me out; or, if they did, they
would not venture to attack me here. The old goat, whom
I found expiring, died in the mouth of the cave the next
day after I made this discovery; and I found it much easier
to dig a great hole there, and throw him in and cover him
with earth than to drag him out; so I interred him
there, to prevent offense to my nose.
1 was now in the twenty-third year of my residence in
this island; and was so naturalized to the place, and the
manner of living, that could I have but enjoyed the cer-
tainty that no savages would come to the place to disturb
me, I could have been content to have capitulated lor
spending the rest of my time there, even to the last mo-
ment, till I had laid me down and died, like the old goat
in the cave. 1 had also arrived to some little diversions
<*nd amusements, which made the time pass a great deal
more pleasantly with me than it did before; as, first, I had
taught my Poll, as 1 noted before, to speak; and he did it
so familiarly, and talked so articulately and plain, that it
was very pleasant to me; for I believe no bird ever spoke
plainer, and he lived with me no less than six-and-twenty
years; how long he might have lived afterward I know not,
though I know they have a notion in the Brazils that they
live a hundred years. My dog was a very pleasant and
loving companion to me for no less than sixteen years of
my time, and then died of mere old age. As for my cats,
they multiplied, as I have observed, to that degree, that I
was obliged to shoot several of them at first, to keep them
from devouring me and all 1 had; but, at length, when
the two old ones I brought with me were gone, and after
some time continually driving them from me, and letting
them have no provision with me, they all ran wild into the
woods, except two or three favorites, which I kept tame,
and whose young, when they had any, 1 always drowned;
and these were part of my family. Besides these, I always
kept two or three household kids about me, whom I taught
to feed out of my hand; and I had two more parrots, which
talked pretty well, and would all call Robin Crusoe, but
none like my first; nor, indeed, did I take the pains with
any of them that I had done with him. 1 had also several
tame sea-fowls, whose names I knew not, that I caught
upon the shore, and cut their wings; and the little stakes
which 1 had planted before my castle wall being now grown
up to a good thick grove, these fowls all lived among these
low trees, and bred there, which was very agreeable to me;
so that, as I said above, I began to be very well contented
with the life I led, if 1 could have been secured from the
dread of the savages. But it was otherwise directed; a?id
it may not be amiss for all people who shall meet with my
«tory to make this just observation from it, viz., How fre-
quently, in the course of our lives, the evil which in itself
we seek most to shun, and which, when we are fallen into,
is the most dreadful to us, is oftentimes the very means or
door of our deliverance, by which alone we can be raised
again from the affliction we are fallen into. I could give
many examples of this in the course of my unaccountable
life, but in nothing was it more particularly remarkable
than in the circumstances of my last years of solitary resi-
dence in this island.
SECTION XX.
Another Visit of the Savages.—Robinson sees them Dancing.—Pet.
ceives the Wreck of a Vessel.
It was now the month of December, as I said above, In
my twenty-third year; and this being the southern solstice
(for winter 1 can not call it), was the particular time of my
harvest, and required my being pretty much abroad in the
fields; when going out pretty early in the morning, even
before it was thorough daylight, 1 was surprised with see-
ing a light of some fire upon the shore, at a distance from
me of about two miles, toward the end of the island where
I had observed some savages had been, as before; and not
on the other side, but, to my great affliction, it was on my
side of the island. -
I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped
short within my grove, not daring to go out, lest 1 might
be surprised; and yet I had no more peace within, from
the apprehensions I had that if these savages, in rambling
over the island, should find my corn standing or cut, or
any of my works and improvements, they would immedi-
ately conclude that there were people in the place, and
would then never give over till they had found me out
.
In this extremity I went back directly to my castle, pulled
up the ladder after me, and made all things without look
as wild and natural as I could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a
posture of defense; I loaded all my cannon, as 1 called
them, that is to say, my muskets, which were mounted
upon my new fortification, and all my pistols, and resolved
to defend myself to the last gasp; not forgetting seriously
to commend myself to the Divine protection, and earnestly
to pray to God to deliver me out of the hands of the bar-
barians. I continued in this posture about two hours, and
began to be mighty impatient for intelligence abroad, for
1 had no spies to send out. After sitting awhile longer,
and musing what I should do in this, 1 was not able to beai
KOBIKSOK CRC80E. 163
•Itting fn ignorance any longer; so setting up my ladder to
the side of the hill, vhere there was a flat place, as I ob-
served before, and then pulling the ladder up after me, I
set it up again, and mounted to the top of the hill; and
pulling out my perspective glass, which I had taken on
purpose, 1 laid me down flat on my belly on the ground,
and began to look for the place. I presently found there
were no less than nine naked savages, sitting round a small
fire they had made, not to warm them, for they had no
need of that, the weather being extremely hot, but, as I
supposed, to dress some of their barbarous diet of human
flesh, which they had brought with them, whether alive or
dead 1 could not tell.
They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled
up upon the shore; and as it was then tide of ebb, they
seemed to me to wait for the return of the flood to go
away again. It is not easy to imagine what confusion this
sight put me into, especially seeing them come on my side
of the island, and so near me too; but when 1 considered
their coming must be always with the current of the ebb,
1 began, afterward, to\be more sedate in my mind, being
satisfied that 1 might go abroad with safety all the time of
the tide of flood, if they were not on shore before; and
having made this observation, I went abroad about my
harvest work with the more composure.
As I expected, so it proved; for aa soon as the tide made
to the westward, I Baw them all take boat, and row (or
paddle, as we call it), away. I should have ooserved, that
for an hour or more before they went off, they went
a-dancing; and I could easily discern their postures and
gestures by my glass. 1 could not perceive, by my nicest
observation, but that they were stark naked, and bad not
the least covering upon them; but whether they were men
or women, I could not distinguish.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two
guns upon my shoulders, and two pistols in my girdle, and
my great sword by my side, without a scabbard, and with
all the speed 1 was able to make, went away to the hill
where 1 had discovered the first Appearance of all; and as
soon as I got thither, which was not in less than two hours
(for I could not go apace, being so loaden with arms as 1
was), 1 perceived there had been three canoes more of sav-
ages at that place; and looking out further, I saw they
184 B0BIN30N CBUSOR
were all at sea together, making over for the main. This
was a dreadful sight to me, especially as, going down to
the shore, I could see the marks of horror, which the dis-
mal work they had been about had left behind it, viz., the
blood, the bones, and part of the flesh, of human bodies,
eaten and devoured by those wretches with merriment and
sport. I was so filled with indignation at the sight that I now
began to premeditate the destruction of the next that I saw
there, let them be whom or how many soever. It seemed
evident to me that the visits which they made thus to this
island were not very frequent, for it was above fifteen
months before any more of them came on shore there again;
that is to say, I neither saw them, nor any footsteps or
signals of them, in all that time; for, as to the rainy sea-
sons, then they are sure not to come abroad, at least not so
far; yet all this while I lived uncomfortably, by reason of
the constant apprehensions of their coming upon me by
surprise; from whence I observe, that the expectation of
evil is more bitter than the suffering, especially if there is
no room to shake off that expectation, or those apprehen-
sions.
During all this time I was in the murdering humor, and
took up most of my hours, which should have been better
employed, in contriving how to circumvent and fall upon
them, the very next time 1 should see them; especially if
they should be divided, as they were the last time, into two
parties; nor did I consider at all that if 1 killed one party,
suppose ten or a dozen, 1 was still the next day, or week,
or month, to kill another, and so another, even ad infini-
tum, till 1 should be at length no less a murderer than they
wers in being man-eaters, and perhaps much more so. I
spent my days now in great perplexity and anxiety of mind,
expecting that I should, one day or other, fall into the
hands of these merciless creatures; and if I did at any
time venture abroad, it was not without looking round me
with the greatest care and caution imaginable. And now
1 found, to my great comfort, how happy it was that I
provided for a tame flock or herd of goats; for 1 durst not,
upon any account, fire my gun, especially near that side of
the island, where they usually came, lest I should alarm
the savages; and if they had fled from me now, I was sure
to have them come again, with perhaps two or three hun-
dred canoes with them, in a few days, and then 1 knew
what to expect. However, I wore out a year and three
months more before I ever saw any more of the savages, and
then I found them again, as I shall soon observe. It is true,
they might have been there once or twice, but either they
maae no stay, or at least I did not see them; but in the
month of May, as near as 1 could calculate, and in my
four-and-twentieth year, I had a very strange encounter
with them, of which in its place.
The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or six-
teen months' interval, was very great; I slept unquiet,
dreamed always frightful dreams, and often started out of
my sleep in the night; in the day great troubles over-
whelmed my mind, and in the night I dreamed often of
killing the savages and of the reasons why I might justify
the doing of it. But to waive all this for awhile. It was
in the middle of May, on the sixteenth day, 1 think, as
well as my poor wooden calendar would reckon, for 1
marked all upon the post still; I say, it was ou the six-
teenth of May that it blew a very great storm of wind all
day, with a great deal of lightning and thunder, and a very
foul night it was after it. 1 knew not what was the par-
ticular occasion of it, but as I was reading in the Bible,
and taken up with very serious thoughts about my present
condition, I was surprised with the noise of a gun, as I
thought, fired at sea. This was, to be sure, a surprise
quite of a different nature from any I had met with before;
for the notions this put into my thoughts were quite of an-
other kind. 1 started up in the greatest haste imaginable,
and, in a trice, clapped my ladder to the middle place of
the rock, and pulled it after me; and mounting it the
second time, got to the top of the hill the very moment
that a flash of fire bid me listen for a second gun, which
accordingly, in about half a minute, I heard, and, by the
sound, knew that it was from that part of the sea where I
was driven down the current in my boat. I immediately
considered that this must be some ship in distress, and
that they had some comrade, or some other ship in com-
pany, and fired these guns for signals of distress, and to
obtain help. 1 had the presence of mind at that minute
to think that though 1 could not help them, it might be
they might help me; so I brought together all the dry
wood I could get at hand, and making a good handsome
pile, 1 set it on fire upon the hill. The wood was dry, and
166 BOBINSCW CRUSOl.
biased freely; and though the wind blew very hard, yet it
burned fairly out; so that I was certain, if there was any
«uch thing as a ship, they must needs see it; and no doubt
they did, for as soon as ever my fire blazed up 1 heard an-
other gun, and after that several others, all from the same
quarter. I plied my fire all night long till day-break; and
when it was broad day, and the air cleared up, I saw some-
thing at a great distance at sea, full east of the island,
whether a sail or a hull I could not distinguish, no, not
with my glass; the distance was so great, and the weather
still something hazy also; at least it was so out at sea.
I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon perceived
that it did not move; so 1 presently concluded that it was
a ship at anchor; and being eager, you may be sure, to be
satisfied, I took my gun in my hand, and ran toward the
south side of the island, to the rocks where 1 had formerly
been carried away with the current; and getting up there,
the weather by this time being perfectly clear, 1 could
plainly see, to my great sorrow, the wreck of a ship, cast
away in the night upon those concealed rocks which I
found when I was out in my boat; and which rocks, as
they checked the violence of the stream, and made a kind
of counter-stream, or eddy, were the occasion of my re-
covering from the most desperate, hopeless condition that
ever 1 had been in in all my life. Thus, what is one man's
safety is another man's destruction; for it seems these
men, whoever they were, being out of their knowledge,
and the rocks being wholly under water, had been driven
upon them in the night, the wind blowing hard at E.N.E.
Had they seen the island, as I must necessarily suppose
they did not, they must, as I thought, have endeavored to
have saved themselves on shore by the help of their boat;
but their firing oft guns for help; especially when they saw,
as 1 imagined, my fire, filled me with many thoughts:
first, I imagined that upon seeing my light, they might
have put themselves into their boat, and endeavored to
make the shore; but that the sea going very high, they
might have been cast away; other times 1 imagined that
they might have lost their boat before, as might be the case
many ways; as particularly, by the breaking of the sea
upon their ship, which many times obliges men to stave,
or take in pieces, their boat, and sometimes to throw it
overboard with their own hands; other tines I imagined
they had some other ship or ships in company, who, upon
the signals of distress they had made had taken them up
and carried them off; other times I fancied they were all
gone off to sea in their boat, and being hurried away by
the current that I had been formerly in, were carried out
into the great ocean, where there was nothing but misery
and perishing; and that perhaps, they might oy this time
be starving, and in a condition-io think of eating one an-
other.
As all these were but conjectures at best, so, in the con-
dition I was in, I could do no more than look on upon the
misery of the poor men, and pity them; which had still
this good effect on my side, that it gave me more and more
cause to give thanks to God, who had so happily and com-
fortably provided for me in my desolate condition; and
that of two ship's companies who were now cast away upon
this part of the world, not one life should be spared but
mine. I learned here again to observe, that it is very rare
that the Providence of God casts us into any condition of
life so low, or any misery"so great, but we may see some-
thing or other to be thankful for, and may see others in
worse circumstances than our own. Such certainly was
the case of these men, of whom I could not so much as see
room to suppose any of them were saved; nothing could
make it rational so much as to wish or expect that they did
not all perish there, except the possibility only of their be-
ing taken up by another ship in company; and this was
but mere possibility indeed, for I saw not the least sign or
appearance of any such thing. 1 can not explain, hy any
possible energy of words, what a strange longing or han--
teri^g of desires I felt in my soul upon this sight, break-
ing out sometimes thus—Oh, that there had been but one
or two, nay, or but one soul saved out of this ship, to hare
escaped to me, that I might but have had one companion,
one fellow-creature to have spoken to me, and to have con-
versed with! In all the time of my solitary life I never
i'elt so earnest, so strong a desire after the society of my
fellow-creatures, or so deep a regret at the want of it
J«8 BOBIMSON 6BCWB.
SECTION XXL
He Visits the Wreck and Obtains many Stores from It.—Agaii
thinks of Quitting the Island.—Has a Remarkable Dream.
There are some secret moving springs in the affections,
which, when they are set a-going by some object in view,
or, though not in view, yet rendered present to the mind
by the power of imagination, that motion carries out the
soul, by its impetuosity, to such violent, eager embracings
of the object that the absence of it is insupportable. Such
were these earnest wishings that but one man had been
saved. I believe 1 repeated the words, "Oh, that it had
been but one!" a thousand times; and my desires were m
moved by it, that when I spoke the words my hands would
clinch together, and my fingers would press the palms of
my hands so, that if 1 had had any soft thing in my hand
\t would have crushed it involuntarily; and the teeth in
my head would strike together, and set against one an-
other so strong that for some time I could not part them
again. Let the naturalists explain these things, and the
reason and manner of them; all I can say to them is to
describe the fact, which was even surprising to me, when
I found it, though 1 knew not from whence it proceeded;
it was doubtless the effect of ardent wishes, and of strong
ideas formed in my mind, realizing the comfort which the
conversation of one of my fellow-Christians would have
been to me. But it was not to be; either their fate or
mine, or both, forbade it; for till the last year of my being
on this island, I never knew whether any were saved out of
that ship or no; and had only the affliction, some days
after, to see the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore at
the end of the island which was next the shipwreck. He
had no clothes on but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair of open-
kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but nothing to
direct me so much as to guess what nation he was of; he
had nothing in his pockets but two pieces-of-eight and a
tobacco-pipe—the last was to me of ten times more value
than the first.
It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out
in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might find
something on board that might be useful to me; but that
ROBINSON CHUSOE. 169
did not altogether press me so much as the possibility that
there might be yet some living creature on board, whose
life I might not only save, but might, by saving that life,
comfort my own to the last degree. And this though*1
clung so to my heart that I could not be quiet night or day,
but I must venture out in my boat on board this wreck;
and committing the rest, to God's Providence, I thought
the impression was so strong upon my mind that it could
not be resisted, that it must come from some invisible
direction, and that I should be wanting to myself if 1 did
not go.
Under the power of this impression, I hastened back to
my castle, prepared everything for my voyage, took a
quantity of bread, a great pot of fresh water, a compass to
steer by, a bottle of rum (for 1 had still a great deal of
that left), and a basket of raisins; and thus loading myself
with everything necessary, I went down to my boat, got
the water out of her, put her afloat, loaded all my cargo in
her, and then went home again for more. My second cargo
was a great bag of rice, the umbrella to set up over my
head for a shade, another large pot of fresh water, and
about two dozen of my small loaves, or barley-cakes, more
than before, with a bottle of goat's milk and a cheese; all
which, with great labor and sweat, I carried to my boat,
and praying to God to direct my voyage, I put out; and
rowing or paddling the canoe along the shore, came at last
to the utmost point of the island on the north-east side.
And now I was to launch out into the ocean, and either to
venture or not to venture. I looked on the rapid currents
which ran constantly on both sides of the island at a dis-
tance, and which were very terrible to me, from the re-
membrance of the hazard I had been in before, and my
heart began to fail me; for I foresaw that if 1 was driven
into either of those currents 1 should be carried a great
way out to sea, and perhaps out of my reach, or sight of
the island again; and that, then, as my boat was but
small, if any little gale of wind should rise, 1 should be
inevitably lost.
These thoughts so oppressed my mind that I began to
give over my enterprise; and having hauled my boat into
a little creek on the shore, I stepped out, and sat me down
upon a rising bit of ground, very pensive and anxious, be-
tween fear and desire, about my voyage; when, m I was
musing, I could perceive that the tide was turned, and the
flood came on; upon which my going was impracticable
for so many hours. Upon this, presently, it occurred to
me that I should go up to the highest piece of ground 1
could find, and observe, if I could, how the sets of the
tide, or currents, lay when the flood came in, that 1 might
judge whether, if 1 was driven one way out, I might not
expect to be driven another way home, with the same
rapidness of the currents. This thought was no sooner in
my head than I cast my eyes upon a little hill, which suffi-
ciently overlooked the sea both ways, and from whence I
had a clear view of the currents, or sets of the tide, and
which way I was to guide myself in my return. Here I
found, that as the current of the ebb was set out close by
the south point of the island, so the current of the flood
set in close by the shore of the north side; and that I had
nothing to do but to keep to the north side of the island in
my return, and 1 should do well enough.
Encouraged with this observation, I resolved the next
morning to set out with the first of the tide; and reposing my-
self for the night in my canoe, under the great watch-coat I
mentioned, 1 launched out. 1 first made a little out to
sea, full north, till I began to feel the benefit of the cur-
rent, which set eastward, and which carried me at a great
rate, and yet did not so hurry me as the current on the
south side had done before, so as to take from me all gov-
ernment of the boat; but having a strong steerage with my
paddle, I went at a great rate directly for the wreck, and
in less than two hours I came up to it. It was a dismal
sight to look at; the ship, which, by its building, was
Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in between two rocks; all the
stern and quarter of her were beaten to pieces with the sea;
and as her forecastle, which stuck in the rocks, had run
on with great violence, her mainmast and foremast were
brought by the board, that is to say, broken short off; but
her bowsprit was sound, and the head and bow appeared
firm. W.hen I came close to her, a dog appeared upon her,
who, seeing me coming, yelped, and cried; and as soon as
I called him jumped into the sea to come to me. 1 took
him into the boat, but found him almost dead with hunger
and thirst. I gave him a cake of my bread, and he de.
voured it like a ravenous wolf that had been starving a fort-
night in the snow. 1 then gave the poor creature some
171
fresh water, with which, if I would have let him, he would
have burst himself. After this, I went on board; but the
first sight I met with was two men drowned in the cook-
room, or forecastle of the ship, with their arms fast about
each other. 1 concluded, as is indeed probable, than
when the ship struck, it being in a storm, the sea broke so
high, and so continually over her, that the men were not
able to bear it, and were strangled with the constant rush-
ing in of the water, as much as if they had been under
water. Besides the dog, there was nothing left in the ship
that had life; nor any goods, that I could see, but what
were spoiled by the water. There were some casks of
liquor, whether wine or brandy I knew not, which lay
lower in the hold, and which, the water being ebbed out,
I could see; but they were too big to meddle with. I saw
several chests, which I believed belonged to some of the
seamen; and I got two of them into the boat, without ex-
amining what was in them. Had the stern of the ship been
fixed, and the forepart broken off, I am persuaded I might
have made a good voyage; for, by what I found in these
two chests, 1 had room to suppose the ship had a great
deal of wealth on board; and, if I may guess from the
course she steered, she must have been bound from
Buenos Ayres, or the Bio de la Plata, in the south part of
America, beyond the Brazils, to the Havanna, in the Gulf
of Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain. She had, no doubt,
a great treasure in her, but of no use, at that time, to any-
body; and what became of her crew, I then knew not.
I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of liquor,
of about twenty gallons, which I got into my boat with
much difficulty. There were several muskets in the cabin,
and a great powder-horn, with about four pounds of pow-
der in it; as for the muskets, 1 had no occasion for them,
so 1 left them, but took the powder-horn. 1 took a fire-
shovel and tongs, which 1 wanted extremely; as also two
little brass kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate, and a
gridiron; and with this cargo, and the dog, I came away,
the tide beginning to make home again; and the same
evening, about an hour within night, 1 reached the island
again, weary and fatigued to the last degree. I repose I
that night in the boat; and in the morning I resolved t >
harbor what I had got in my new cave, and not carry it
home to my castle. After refreshing myself, I got nil uij
17$ BOBINSON CRUSOE.
cargo on shore, and began to examine the particulars.
The cask of liquor 1 found to be a kind of rum, but not,
such as we had at the Brazils, and, in a word, not at all
good; but when I came to open the chests, I found several
things of great use to me; for example, 1 found in one a
fine case of bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and filled
with cordial waters, fine and very good; the bottles held
about three pints each, and were tipped with silver. I
found two pots of very good succades or sweetmeats, so
fastened also on the top, that the salt-water had not hurt
them; and two more of the same, which the water had
spoiled. I found some very good shirts, which were very
welcome to me; and about a dozen and a half of white
linen handkerchiefs and colored neck-cloths; the former
were also very welcome, being exceeding refreshing to wipe
my face in a hot day. Besides this, when 1 came to the
till in the chest, 1 found there three great bags of pieces-
of-eight, which held about eleven hundred pieces in all;
and in one of them, wrapped up in a paper, six doubloons
of gold and some small bars or wedges of gold; 1 suppose
they might all weigh near a pound. In the other chests
were some clothes, but of little value; but, by the circum-
stances, it must have belonged to the gunner's mate;
though there was no powder in it, except two pounds of
fine glazed powder, in three small flasks, kept, I suppose,
for charging their fowling-pieces on occasion. Upon the
whole, 1 got very little by this voyage that was of any use
to me; for, as to the money, 1 had no manner of occasion
for it; it was to me as the dirt under my feet; and I would
have given it all for three or four pair of English shoes and
stockings, which were things I greatly wanted, but had
none on my feet for many years. I had indeed got two
pair of shoes now, which I took off the feet of the two
drowned men whom 1 saw in the wreck, and I found two
pair more in one of the chests, which were very welcome
to me; but they were not like our English shoes, eithar for
ease or service, being rather what we call pumps than
shoes. I found in this seaman's chest about fifty pieces-
of-eight in rials, but no gold; 1 suppose this belonged to a
poorer man than the other, which seemed to belong to
some officer. Well, however, I lugged this money home
to my cave, and laid it up, as 1 had clone that before which
I brought from our own ship; but it was a great pity, as I
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 173
said, that the other part of this ship had not come to my
share; for I am satisfied I might have loaded my canoe
several times over with money; and, thought 1, if 1 ever
escape to England, it may lie here safe enough till I come
again and fetch it.
Having now brought all my things on shore, and secured
them, I went back to my boat, and rowed or paddled her
along the shore, to her old harbor, where I laid her up,
and made the best of my way to my old habitation, where
I found everything safe and quiet. I began now to repose
myself, live after my old fashion, and take care of my
family affairs; and, for awhile, 1 lived easy enough, only
that I was more vigilant than I used to be, looked out
oftener, and did not go abroad so much; and if at any time
I did stir with any freedom, it was always to the east part
of the island, where 1 was pretty well satisfied the savages
never came, and where I could go without so many pre-
cautions, and such a load of arms and ammunition as I
always carried with me if I went the other way. I lived in
this condition near two years more; but my unlucky head,
that was always to let me know it was born to make my
body miserable, was all these two years filled with projects
and designs, how, if it were possible, 1 might get away
from this island; for sometimes I was for making another
voyage to the wreck, though my reason told me that there
was nothing left there worth the hazard of my voyage;
sometimes for a ramble one way, sometimes another; and
1 believe verily, if I had had the boat that I went from
Sallee in, 1 should have ventured to sea, bound anywhere,
I knew not whither. I have been, in all my circumstances,
a memento to those who are touched with the general
plague of mankind, whence, for aught 1 know, one half
of their miseries flow; I mean that of not being satisfied
with the station wherein God and nature hath placed them;
for, not to look back upon my primitive condition, and the
exoellent advice of my father, the opposition to which was,
as I may call it, my original sin, my subsequent mistakes
of the same kind had been the means of my coming into
this miserable condition; for had that Providence which to
happily seated me at the Brazils as a planter blessed me
with confined desires, and 1 could have been contented to
have gone on gradually, I might have been, by this time,
I mean in the time of my being in this island, one of the
most considerable planters in the Brazils; nay, i am per.
,suaded that by the improvements 1 had made in that little
time I lived there, and the* increase 1 should probably have
made if 1 remained, 1 might have been worth a hundred
thousand moidores. And what business had I to leave a
settled fortune, a well-stocked plantation, improving and
increasing, to turn supercargo to Guinea to fetch negroes,
when patience and time would have so increased our stock
at home that we could have bought them at our own door
from those whose business it was to fetch them; and though
it had cost us something more, yet the difference of that
price was by no means worth saving at so great a hazard!
But as this is usually the fate of young heads, so reflection
upon the folly of it is as commonly the exercise of more
years, or of the dear-bought experience of time; so it was
with me now, and yet so deep had the mistake taken root
in my temper, that I could not satisfy myself in my sta-
tion, but was continually poring upon the means and pos-
sibility of my escape from this place. And that I may,
with the greater pleasure to the reader, bring on the re-
maining part of my story, it may not be improper to give
some account of my first conceptions on the subject of this
foolish scheme for my escape, and how, and upon what
foundation I acted.
1 am now to be supposed retired into my castle, after my
late voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up and secured
under water, as usual, and my condition restored to what
it was before; 1 had more wealth, indeed, than I had be-
fore, but was not at all the richer; for 1 had no more use
for it than the Indians of Peru had before the Spaniards
came there.
It was one of the nights in the rainy season in March,
the four-and-twentieth year of my first setting foot in this
island of solitude, I was lying in my bed or hammock,
awake; very well in health, had no pain, no distemper, no
uneasiness of body, nor any uneasiness of mind, more than
ordinary, but could by no means close my eyes, that is, so
as to sleep; no, not a wink all night long, otherwise than
as follows: It is impossible to set down the innumerable
crowd of thoughts that whirled through that great thor-
oughfare of the brain, the memory, in this night's time; I
ran over the whole history of my life in miniature, or hy
abridgment, as I may call it, to my comma to this island)
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 175
and also of that part of my life since I came to this island.
In my reflections upon the state of my case since I came on
shore on this island, I was comparing the happy posture of
my affairs in the first years of my habitation here, com-
pared to the life of anxiety, feari and care which 1 had
lived in, ever since I had seen the print of a foot in the
sand; not that I did not believe the savages had frequented
the island even all the while, and might have been several
hundreds of them at times on shore there; but I had never
known it, and was incapable of any apprehensions about
it; my satisfaction was perfect, though my danger was the
same, and I was as happy in not knowing my danger as if
1 had never really been exposed to it. This furnished my
thoughts with many very profitable reflections, and par-
ticularly this one: How infinitely good that Providence is,
which has provided, in its government of mankind, such
narrow bounds to his sight and knowledge of things; and
though he walks in the midst of so many thousand dan-
gers, the sight of which, if discovered to him, would dis-
tract his mind and sink his spirits, he is kept serene and
calm, by having the events of things hid from his eyes,
and knowing nothing of the dangers which surround him.
After these thoughts had for some time entertained me,
I came to reflect seriously upon the real danger I had been
in for so many years in this very island, and how I had
walked about in the greatest sacurity, and with all possible
tranquillity, even when perhaps nothing but the brow of a
hill, a great tree, or the casual approach of night, had
been between me and the worst kind of destraction, viz.,
that of falling into the hands of cannibals and savages,
who would have seized on me with the same view as 1
would on a goat or a turtle, and have thought it no more
a crime to kill and devour me than I did a pigeon or cur-
lew. I would unjustly slander myself, if I should say I
was not sincerely thankful to my great Preserver, to whose
singular protection I acknowledged, with great humility,
all these unknown deliverances were due, and without
which I must inevitably have fallen into their merciless
hands.
When these thoughts were over, my head was for some
time taken up in considering the nature of these wretched
creatures, I mean the savages, and how it came to pass in
the world, that the wise Governor of all things should give
up any of His creatures to such inhumanity, nay, to some-
thing so much below even brutality itself, as to devour its
own kind; but as this ended in some (at that time) fruit-
less speculations, it occurred to me to inquire what part of
the world these wretches lived in; how far off the coast was
from whence they came; what they ventured over so far
from home for; wbat kind of boats they had; and why I
might not order myself and my business so, that I might
be as able to go over thither as they were to come to me.
I never so much as troubled myself to consider what 1
should do with myself when I went thither, what would
become of me, if I fell into the hands of the savages; or
how I should escape from them, if they attacked me: no.
nor so much as how it was possible for me to reach the
coast, and not be attacked by some or other of them, with-
out any possibility of delivering myself; and if I should not
fall into their hands, what I should do for provision, or
whither I should bend my course: none of these thoughts,
I say, so much as came in my way; but my mind was
wholly bent upon the notion of my passing over in my boat
to the main land. I looked upon my present condition as
the most miserable that could possibly be; that I was not
able to throw myself into anything, but death, that could
be called worse; and if I reached the shore of the main, I
might perhaps meet with relief, or 1 might coast along, as
I did on the African shore, till I came to some inhabited
country, and where I might find some relief; and after all,
perhaps, I might Eall in with some Christian ship that
might take me in; and if the,worst came to the worst, I
could but die, which would put an end to all these miseries
at once. Pray note, all this was the fruit of a disturbed
mind, an impatient temper, made desperate, as it were, by
the long continuance of my troubles, and the disappoint-
ments I had met in the wreck I had been on board of, and
where I had been so near obtaining what 1 so earnestly
longed for, viz., somebody to speak to, and to learn some
knowledge from them of the place where I was, and of the
probable means of my deliverance. I was agitated wholly
by these thoughts; all my calm of mind, in my resignation
to Providence, and waiting the issue of the dispositions of
Heaven, seemed to be suspended; and I had, as it were, no
power to turn my thoughts to anything but to the project
Of a voyage to the main, which came upon me with sucb
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 177
force, and such an impetuosity of desire, that it was not to
6e resisted.
When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or
more, with such violence that it set my very blood into a
ferment, and my pulse beats as if I had been in a fever,
merely with the extraordinary fervor of my mind about
it, nature, as if I had been fatigued and exhausted with
the very thought of it, threw me into a sound sleep. One
would have thought I should have dreamed of it, but I did
not, nor of anything relating to it: but I dreamed that as
1 was going out in the morning, as usual, from my castle, I
saw upon the shore two canoes and eleven savages coming
to land, and that they brought with them another savage,
whom they were going to kill, in order to eat him; when,
on a sudden, the savage that they were going to kill
jumped away, and ran for his life; and I thought, In my
sleep, that he came running into my little thick grove be-
fore my fortification, to hide himself; and that I, seeing
him alone, and not perceiving that the others sought him
that way, showed myself to him, and smiling upon him,
encouraged him: that he knelt down to me, seeming to
pray me to assist him; upon which 1 showed him my lad-
der, made him go up, and carried him into my cave, and
he became my servant: and that as soon as I had got this
man, I said to myself, Now I may certainly venture to the
main land; for this fellow will serve me as a pilot, and will
tell me what to do, and whither to go for provisions, and
whither not to go for fear of being devoured; what places
to venture into, and what to shun. I waked with this
thought; and was under such inexpressible impressions of
joy at the prospect of my escape in my dream, that the dis-
appointments which 1 felt upon coming to myself, and
finding that it was no more than a dream, were equally ex-
travagant the other way, and threw me into a very great
Rejection of spirits.
Upon this, however, I made this conclusion: that my
only way to go about to attempt an escape was, if possible,
eo get a savage into my possession; and, if possible, it
mould be one of their prisoners whom they bad condemned
to be eaten, and should bring hither to kill. But these
thoughts still were attended with this difficulty, that it was
impossible to effect this without attacking a whole caravan
of them, and killing them all: and this was not Only a very
r
178
desperate attempt, and might miscarry: but, on the othef
hand, I had greatly sci upled the lawfulness nf it to myself,
and my heart trembled at the thought of stiedding so much
blood, though it was for my deliverance. I need not re-
peat the arguments which occurred to me against this, they
being the same mentioned before: but though I had other
reasons to offer now, viz., that those men were enemies to
my life, and would devour me if they could; that it was
self-preservation, in the highest degree, to deliver myself
from this death of a life, and was acting in my own defense
as much as if they were actually assaulting me, and the
like; I say, though these things argued for it, yet the
thoughts of shedding human blood for my deliverance were
very terrible to me, and such as I could by no means re-
concile myself to for a great while. However, at last-
after many secret disputes with myself, and after great
perplexities about it (for all these arguments, one way and
another, struggled in my head a long time), the eager pre
vailing desire of deliverance at length mastered all the rest'
and 1 resolved, if possible, to get one of those savages inte
my hands, cost what it would. My next thing was to con*
trive how to do it, and this indeed was very difficult to re-
solve on: but as I could pitch upon no probable means for
it, so I resolved to put myself upon the watch, to see them
when they came on shore, and leave the rest to the event,
taking such measures as the opportunity should present,
let what would be.
With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself upop
the scout as often as possible, and indeed so often that ]
was heartily tired of it; for it was above a year and a halt
that I waited; and for great part of that time went out to
the west end, and to the south-west corner, of the island,
almost every day, to look for canoes, but none appeared.
This was very discouraging, and began to trouole me
much, though I can not say that it did in this case (as it
had done some time before) wear off the edge of my desire
to the thing; but the longer it seemed to be delayed, the
more eager I was for it: in a word, I was not at first so
careful to shun the sight of these savages, and avoid being
seen by them, as I was now eager to be upon them. Be-
sides, I fancied myself able to manage one, nay, two or
three savages, if 1 had them, so as to make them entirely
slaves to me, to do whatever 1 should direct them, and tn
prevent their being able at any time to do me any hurt. It
was a great while that I pleased myself with this affair; but
nothing still presented; all my fancies and schemes came
to nothing, for no savages came near me for a great while.
SECTION XXII.
Robinson Rescues one of Their Captives from the Savages, Whom he
names Friday, and makes his Servant.
About a year and a half after 1 entertained these notions
(and by long musing had, as it were, resolved them all into
nothing, for want of an occasion to put them into execu-
tion), X was surprised, one morning early, with seeing no
less than five canoes all on shore together on my side the
island, and the people who belonged to them all landed,
and out of my sight. The number of them broke all my
measures; for seeing so many, and knowing that they
always came four or six, or sometimes more, hi a boat, I
could not tell what to think of it, or how to take my meas-
ures, to attack twenty or thirty men single-handed; so lay
still in my castle, perplexed and discomforted: however, I
put myself into all the same postures for an attack that I
had formerly provided, and was just ready for action, if
anything had presented. Having waited a good while, list-
ening to hear if they made any noise, at length, being very
impatient, I set my guns at the foot of my ladder, and
clambered up to the top of the hill, by my two stages, as
usual; standing so, however, that my head did not appear
above the hill, so that they could not perceive me by any
means. Here 1 observed, by the help of my perspective
glass, that they were no less than thirty in number; that
they had a fire kindled, and that they had meat dressed.
How they had cooked it 1 knew not, or what it was; but
they were all dancing, in I know not how many barbarous
gestures and figures, their own way, round the fire.
While I was thus looking on them, I perceived, by my
Eerspective, two miserable wretches dragged from the
oats, where, it seems they were laid by, and were now
brought out for the slaughter. 1 perceived one of them
immediately fall, being knocked down, 1 suppose, with a
club or wooden sword, for that was their way, and two or
three others were at work immediately, cutting him open
for their cookery, while the other victim was left standing
by himself, till they should be ready for him. In that very
moment, this poor wretch seeing himself a little at liberty,
and unbound, nature inspired him with hopes of life, and
he started away from them, and ran with incredible swift-
ness along the sands, directly toward me, I mean toward
that part of the coast where my habitation was. 1 was
dreadfully frightened, I must acknowledge, when I per-
ceived him run my way, and especially when, as I thought,
I saw him pursued by the whole body: and now 1 expected
that part of my dream was coming to pass, and that he
would certainly take shelter in my grove; but 1 could not
depend, by any means, upon my dream for the rest of it,
viz., that the other savages would not pursue him thither,
and find him there. However, I kept my station, and my
spirits began to recover, when I found that there was not
above three men that followed him; and still more was 1
encouraged when I found that he outstripped them exceed-
ingly in running, and gained ground of them, so that if he
could but hold it for half an hour, 1 saw easily he would
fairly get away from them all.
There was between them and my castle the creek, which
I mentioned often in the first part of my story, where 1
landed my cargoes out of the ship; and this 1 saw plainly
he must necessarily swim over, or the poor wretch would
be taken there: but when the savage escaping came
thither, he made nothing of it, though the tide was then
up; but plunging in, swam through in about thirty strokes,
or thereabouts, landed, and ran on with exceeding strength
and swiftness. When the three persons came to the creek,
I found that two of them could swim, but the third could
not, and that, standing on the other side, he looked at the
others, but went no further, and soon after went softly
back again; which, as it happened, was very well for him
in the end. I observed, that the two who swam were yet
more than twice as long swimming over the creek as the
fellow was that fled from them. It came now very warmly
upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now was
the time to get me a servant, and perhaps a companion or
assistant, and that I was called plainly by Providence to
save this poor creature's life. I immediately ran down the
ladders with all possible expedition, fetched my two guns,
to %ey were both at the foot of the ladders, as I observed
above, and getting up again, with the same haste, to the
top of the hill, I crossed toward the sea, and having a very
short cut, and all down hill, placed myself in the way be-
tween the pursuers and the pursued, hallooing aloud to
him that fled, who, looking back, was at first, perhaps, as
much frightened at me as at them; but 1 beckoned with
my hand to him to come back; and, in the meantime, I
slowly advanced toward the two that followed: then rush-
ing at once upon the foremost, I knocked him down with
the stock of my piece. 1 was loath to fire, because I would
not have the rest hear; though, at that distance, it would
not have been easily heard, and being out of sight of the
smoke too, they would not have easily known what to
make of it. Having knocked this fellow down; the other
who pursued him stopped, as if he had been frightened,
and I advanced apace toward him: but as I came nearer, 1
perceived presently he had a bow and arrow, and was fit-
ting it to shoot at me: so I was then necessitated to shoot
at him first, which 1 did, and killed him at the first shot.
The poor savage who fled but had stopped, though he saw
both his enemies fallen and killed, as he thought, yet was
so frightened with the fire and noise of my piece that he
stood stock still, and neither came forward nor went back-
ward, though he seemed rather inclined still to fly than to
come on. I hallooed again to him, and made signs to
come forward, which he easily understood, and came a
little way; then stopped again, and then a little further,
and stopped again; and I could then perceive that he stood
trembling, as if he had been taken prisoner, and had just
been to be killed, as his two enemies were. I beckoned to
him again to come to me, and gave him all the signs of en-
couragement that 1 could think of; and he came nearer
and nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve steps, in
token of acknowledgment for saving his life. I smiled at
him, and looked pleasantly, and beckoned to him to come
still nearer: at length he came close to me; and then he
knelt down again, kissed the ground, and laid his head
upon the ground, and taking me by the foot, set my foot
upon his head: this, it seems, was in token of swearing to
be my slave forever. 1 took him up, and made much of
him, and encouraged him all I could. But there was more
work to do yet; for I perceived the savage whom I knocked
down was not killed but stunned with the blow, and began
to come to himself: so I pointed to him, ard showed him
the savage, that he was not dead: upou this he spoke some
words to me, and though I could not understand them, yet
1 thought they were pleasant to hear; for they were the
first sound of a man's voice that I had heard, my own ex-
cepted, for above twenty-five years. But there was no
time for such reflections now; the savage who was knocked
down recovered himself so far as to sit up upon the
fround, and 1 perceived that my savage began to be afraid;
ut when I saw that, I presented my other piece at the
man, as if I would shoot him: upon this my savage, for so
I call him now, made a motion to me to lend him my
sword which hung naked in a belt by my side, which I did.
He no sooner had it, but he ran to his enemy, and, at one
blow, cut off his head so cleverly, no executioner in Ger-
many could have done it sooner or better; which I thought
rery strange for one who, I had reason to believe, never
saw, a sword in his life before, except their own wooden
swords: however, it seems, as I learned afterward, they
made their wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood
was so hard, that they will cut off headseven with them, ay
and arms, and that at one blow too. When he had done
this, he came laughing to me, in sign of triumph, and
brought me the sword again, and with abundance of gest-
ures, which I did not understand, laid it down, with the
head of the savage that he had killed, just before me. But
that which astonished him most was to know how I killed
the other Indian so far off: so pointing to him, he made
signs to me to let him go to him; so 1 bade him go, as well
as I could. When he came to him, he stood like one
amazed, looking at him, turning him first on one side,
then on the other, looked at the wound the bullet had
made, which, it seems, was just in his breast where it hai
made a hole, and no great quantity of blood had followed,
but he had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead. He took
up his bow and arrows, and came back; so 1 turned to go
away, and beckoned him to follow me, making signs to
him that more might come after them. Upon this, he
made signs to me that he should bury them with sand,
that they might not be seen by the rest, if they followed;
and so I made signs to him again to do so. He fell to
work; and, in an instant, he had scraped a hole in the
sand with his hands, big enough to bury the first in, and
then dragged him into it, and covered him; and did so by
the other also: I believe he had buried them both in a
quarter of an hour. Then calling him away, I carried
him, not to my castle, but quite away, to my cave, on the
further part of the land: so I did not let my dream come
to pass in that part, viz., that he came into my grove for
shelter. Here 1 gave him bread and a bunch of raisins
to eat, and a draught of water, which I found he was in-
deed in great distress for, by his running; and having re-
freshed him, I made signs for him to go and lie down to
sleep, showing him a place where I had laid some rice
straw, and a blanket upon it, which I used to sleep upon
myself sometimes; so the poor creature lay down, and went
to sleep.
He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well made,
with straight, strong limbs, not too large, tall, and well-
shaped, and, as I reckon, about twenty-six years of age.
He had a very good countenance, not a fierce and surly
aspect; but seemed to have something very manly in his
face; and yet he had all the sweetness and softness of a
European in his countenance too, especially when he
smiled. His hair was long and black, not curled like
wool; his forehead ve-y high and large; and a great vivac-
ity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes. The color of his
skin was not quite black, but very tawny; and yet not an
ugly yellow, nauseous tawny, as the Brazilians and Virgin-
tans, and other natives of America are, but of a bright kind
of a dun olive color, that had in it something very agree-
able, though not very easy to describe. His face was
round and plump; his nose small, not flat like the Ne-
groes; a very good mouth, thin lips, and his fine teeth
well set, and as white as ivory.
After he had slumbered, rather than slept, about half an.
hour he awoke again, and came out of the cave to me, for
I had been milking my goats, which 1 had in the inclosure
just by: when he espied me, he came running to me, lay-
ing himself down again upon the ground, with all the pos-
sible signs of an humble, thankful disposition, making a
great many antic gestures to show it. At last, he lays his
head flat upon the ground, close to my foot, and sets my
other foot upon bis head, as he had done before; and after
this made all the signs to me of subjection, servitude, and
submission imaginable, to let me know how he would serve
m
184 n<KOTSClT C-.-3CZ-3.
me as long at lie lived. I understood him in many things,
and let him know I was very well pleased with him. In a
little time I began to speak to him and teach him to speak
to me; and, first, I let him know his name should be
Friday, which was the day 1 saved his life: I called him so
for the memory of the time. I likewise taught him to say
Master: and then let him know that was to be my name: 1
likewise taught him to say yes and no, and to know the
meaning of them. I gave him some milk in an earthen
pot, and let him see me drink it before him, and sop my
bread in it; and gave him a cake of bread to do the like,
which he quickly complied with, and made signs that it
was very good for him. I kept there with him all that
night; but as soon as it was day, I beckoned to him to
come with me, and let him know 1 would give him some
clothes: at which he seemed very glad, for he was stark
naked. As we went by the place where he had buried the
two men, he pointed exactly to the place, and showed me
the marks that he had made to find them again, making
signs to me that we should dig them up again, and eat
them. At this 1 appeared very angry, expressed my ab-
horrence of it, made as if I would vomit at the thoughts of
it, and beckoned with my hand to him to come away, which
he did immediately, with great submission. 1 then led him
up to the top of the hill, to see if his enemies were gone;
and pulling out my glass, I looked, and saw plainly the
place where they had been, but no appearance of them or
their canoes: so that it was plain that they were gone, and
had left their two comrades behind them, without anj
search after them.
But I was not content with this discovery; but having
now more courage, and consequently more curiosity, I took
my man Friday with me, giving him the sword in his
hand, with the bow and arrows at his back, which I found
he could use very dexterously, making him carry one gun
for me, and I two for myself; and away we marched to the
place where these creatures had been, for I had a mind now
to get some fuller intelligence of them. When 1 came to
tne place, my very blood ran chill in my veins, and my
heart sunk within me, at the horror of the spectacle: in-
deed, it was a dreadful sight, at least it was so to me,
though Friday made nothing of it . The place was covered
with numan bones, the ground dyed with *,heir blood, and
great pieces of flesh left here and there, half-eaten,
mangled, and scorched; and, in short, all the tokens of
the triumphant feast they had been making there, after a
victory over their enemies. I saw three skulls, five hands
and the bones of three or four legs and feet, and abun-
dance of other parts of the bodies; and Friday, by his signs,
made me understand that they brought over four prisoners
to feast upon; that three of them were eaten up, and that
he, pointing to himself, was the fourth; that there had
been a great battle between them and their next king,
whose subjects, it seems, he had been one of, and that they
had taken a great number of prisoners; all which were car-
ried to several places by those who had taken them in the
fight, in order to feast upon them, as was done here by
these wretches upon those they brought hither.
I caused Friday to gather up all the skulls, bones, flesh,
and whatever remained, and lay them together in a heap,
and make a great fire upon it, and burned them all to ashes.
I found Friday bad still a hankering stomach after some of
the flesh, and was still a cannibal in his nature; but 1 dis-
covered so much abhorrence, at the very thoughts of it,
and at the least appearance of it, that he durst not discover
it: for 1 had, by some means, let him know that I would
kill him if he offered it.
When he had done this, we came back to our castle; and
there I fell to work for my man Friday: and, first of all, 1
gave him a pair of linen drawers, which I had out of the
poor gunner's chest I mentioned which I found in the
wreck; and which, with a little alteration, fitted him very
well, and then 1 made him a jerkin of goat's skin, as weil
as my skill would allow (for 1 was now grown a tolerable
good tailor); and 1 gave him a cap, which 1 made of hare's
skin, very convenient and fashionable enough; and thus he
was clothed for the present, tolerably well, and was mighty
well pleased to see himself almost as well clothed as his
master. It is true, he went awkwardly in those clothes at
first: wearing the drawers was very awkward to him, and
the sleeves of the waistcoat galled his shoulders, and the in-
side of his arms; but after a little easing them where he
complained they hurt him, and using himself to them, he
took to them at length very well.
The next day after 1 came home to my hutch with hinie
I began to consider where I should lodge him; and that J
might do well for him, and yet be perfeotly easy myself, 1
made a little tent for him in the vacant plane between my
two fortifications, in the inside of the last and in the out-
side of the first. As there was a door or entrance there
mto my cave, I made a formal framed door-case, and a
door to it of boards, and set it up in the passage, a little
within the entrance; and causing the door to open in the
inside, 1 barred it up in the night, taking in my ladders
too; so that Friday could no way come at me in the inside
of my innermost wall, without making so much noise in
getting over that it must needs waken me: for my first
wall had now a complete roof over it of long poles, cover-
ing all my tent, and leaning up to the side of the hill;
which was again laid across with smaller sticks, instead of
laths, and then thatched over a great thickness with the
rice-straw, which was strong, like reeds; and at the hole or
place which was left to go in or out by the ladder, I had
placed a kind of trap-door, which, if it had been attempted
on the outside, would not have opened at all, but would
have fallen down, and made a great noise: as to weapons,
I took them all into my side every night. But I needed
none of all this precaution; for never man had a more
faithful, loving, sincere servant than Friday was to me;
without passions, sullenness, or designs, perfectly obliged
and engaged—his very affections were tied to me, like those
of a child to a father; and I dare say, he would have sacri-
ficed his life for the saving mine upon any occasion whatso-
ever: the many testimonies he gave me of this put it out
of doubt, and soon convinced me that 1 needed to use no
precautions, as to my safety on his account.
This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that
with wonder, that however it had pleased God, in His
providence, and in the government of the works of His
hands, to take from so great a part of the world of His
creatures the best, uses to which their faculties and the
powers of their souls are adapted, yet that He has be-
stowed upon them the same powers, the same reason, the
same affections, th» same sentiments of kindness and obli-
gation, the same passions and resentments of wrongs, the
same sense of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, and all the ca-
pacities of doing good, and receiving good, that He has
given to us; and that when He pleases to offer them occa-
sions of exerting these, they are as ready, nay, more, ready,
to apply them to the right uses for which they were be-
stowed, than we are. This made me very melancholy
sometimes, in reflecting, as the several occasions presented,
how mean a use we make of all these, even though we have
these powers enlightened by the great lamp of instruction,
the Spirit of God, and by the knowledge of His word added
to our understanding; and why it has pleased God to hide
the like saving knowledge from so many millions of souls,
who, if I might judge by this poor savage, would make a
much better use of it than we did. Prom hence, I some-
times was led too far, to invade the sovereignty of Provi-
dence, and as it were arraign the justice of so arbitrary a
disposition of things, that should hide that light from
some, and reveal it to others, and yet expect a Tike duty
from both; but I shut it up, and checked my thoughts
with this conclusion: first, That we did not know by what
light and law these should be condemned: but that as God
was necessarily, and, by the nature of His being, infinitely
holy and just, so it could not be, but if these creatures
were all sentenced to absence from himself, it was on ac-
count of sinning against that light, which, as the Scripture
says, was a law to themselves, and by such rules as their
consciences would acknowledge to be just, though the
foundation was not discovered to us; and, secondly, That
still, as we all are the clay in the hand of the potter, no
vessel could say to him, Why has thou formed me thus?
Bat to return to my new companion: I was greatly de-
lighted with him, and made it my business to teach him
everything that was proper to make him useful, handy, and
helpful; but especially to make him speak, and understand
me when I spoke: and he was the aptest scholar that ever
was; and particularly was so merry, so constantly diligent,
and so pleased when he could but understand me, or make
me understand him, that it was very pleasant to me to talk
to him. Now my life began to be so easy, that I began to
say to myself, that could I but have been safe from more
savages, I cared not if I was never to remove from the
place where I lived.
SECTION XXIII.
Robinson Instructs and Civilizes his Man Friday.—Endeavors t«
give Him an Idea of Christianity.
After I had been two or three days returned to mv
castle, I thought that, in order to bring Friday off from
his horrid way of feeding, and from the relish of a canni-
bal's stomach, I ought to let him taste other flesh; so I
took him out with me one morning to the woods, 1 went,
indeed, intending to kill a kid out of my own flock, and
bring it home and dress it; but as I was going, I saw a she-
goat lying down in the shade, and two young kids sitting
by her. 1 catched hold of Friday: Hold, said I; stand
still; and made signs to him not to stir: immediately I
presented my piece, shot, and killed one of the kids. The
poor creature, who had, at a distance, indeed, seen me kill
the savage, his enemy, but did not know, nor could imag-
ine, how it was done, was sensibly surprised, trembled and
shook, and looked so amazed, that 1 thought he would have
sunk down. He did not see the kid I shot at, or perceive
I had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat, to feel whether
he was not wounded, and, as I found presently, thought I
was resolved to kill him: for he came and knelt down
to me, and embracing my knees, said a great many things
I did not understand; but 1 could easily see the meaning
was, to pray me not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince hia that I would do him
no harm; and taking him up by the hand, laughed at him,
and pointing to the kid which 1 had killed, beckoned to him
to run and fetch it, which he did; and while he was won-
dering and looking to see how the creature was killed, I
loaded my gun again. By and by, I saw a great fowl, like
a hawk, sitting upon a tree, within shot; so, to let Friday
understand a little what 1 would do, I called him to me
again, pointed at the fowl, which was indeed a parrot,
though I thought it had been a hawk; I say, pointing to
the parrot, and to my gun, and to the ground under the
parrot, to let him see I would make it fall, I made him
understand that I would shoot and kill that bird: accord-
ingly, 1 tired, and bade him look, and immediately he saw
the parrot fall. He stood like one frightened agaiD, not.
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 189
withstanding all I had said to him; and I found he was the
more amazed, because he did not see me put anything into
the gun, but thought that there must be some wonderful
fund of death and destruction in that thing, able to kill
man, beast or bird, or anything near or far off; and the
astonishment this created in him was such, as could not
wear off for a long time; and 1 believe, if I would have let
him, he would have worshiped me and my gun. As for
the gun itself, he would not so much as touch it for several
days after; but he would speak to it, and talk to it, as if
it had answered him, when he was by himself; which, as I
afterward learned of him, was to desire it not to kill him.
Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this, 1
pointed to him to run and fetch the bird 1 had shot, which
he did, but stayed some time; for the parrot, not being
quite dead, had fluttered away a good distance from the
place where she fell: however, he found her, took her up,
and brought her to me; and as I had perceived his igno-
rance about the gun before, I took this advantage to charge
the gun again, and not to let him see me do it, that I
might be ready for any other mark that might present;
but nothing more offered at that time: so I brought home
the kid, and the same evening 1 took the skin off, and cut
it out as well as I could; and having a pot fit for that pur-
pose, 1 boiled or stewed some of the flesh, and made some
very good broth. After I had begun to eat some, I gave
some to my man, who seemed very glad of it, and liked it
very well: but that which was strangest to him, was to see
me eat salt with it. He made a sign to me that the salt
was not good to eat; and putting a little into his mouth,
he seemed to nauseate it, and would spit and sputter at it,
washing his mouth with fresh water after it: on the other
hand, I took some meat into my mouth without salt, and
I protended to spit and sputter for want of salt, as fast as
he had done at the salt; but it would not do; he would never
care for salt with his meat or in his broth; at least, not for
a great while, and then but very little.
Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was
resolved to feast him the next day with roasting a piece of
the kid: thisl did, by hanging it before the fire on a string,
as I had seen many people do in England, setting two poles
up, one on each side of the fire, and one across on the top,
and tying the string to the cross stick, letting the mea*
tarn continually. This Friday admired very much: but
when he came to taste the flesh, he took so many ways to
tell me how well he liked it, that I could not but under-
stand him; and at last he told me, as well as he could, he
would never eat man's flesh any more, which 1 was very
glad to hear.
The next day 1 set him to work to beating some corn
out, and sifting it in the manner I used to do, as I observed
before; and he soon understood how to do it as well as I,
especially after he had seen what the meaning of it was,
and that it was to make bread of it: for after that I let
him see me make my bread, and bake it too; and in a lit-
tle time Friday was able to do all the work for me, as well
as I could do it myself.
1 began now to consider, that having two mouths to feed
instead of one, 1 must provide more ground for my harvest,
and plant a larger quantity of corn than I used to do: so 1
marked out a larger piece of land, and began the fence in
the same manner as before, in which Friday worked not
only very willingly and very hard, but did it very cheer-
fully: and 1 told him what it was for; that it was for corn
to make more bread, because he was now with me, and
that 1 might have enough for him and myself too. He ap-
peared very sensible of that part, and let me know that he
thought I had much more labor upon me on his account
than I had for myself; and that he would work the harder
for me, if 1 would tell him what to do.
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this
place. Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand
the names of almost everything I had occasion to call for,
and of every place I had to send him to, and talked a great
deal to me; so that, in short, I began now to hare some
use for my tongue again, which, indeed, 1 had very little
occasion for before, that is to say, about speech. Besides
the pleasure of talking to him, 1 had a singular satisfaction
in the fellow himself: his simple, unfeigned honesty ap-
peared to me more and more every day, and I began really
to love the creature; and, on his side, I believe he loved
me more than it was possible for him ever to love anything
before.
I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering inclin-
ation for his own country again; and having taught him
English so well that he could answer me almost any ques.
tion, I asked him whether the nation that he belonged to
never conquered in battle? At which he smiled, and said.
Yes, yes, we always tight the better: that is, he m: ant, al-
ways get the better in light; and so we began the following
discourse:
Master: You always fight the better? how came you to
be taken prisoner then, Friday?
Friday: My nation beat much, for all that.
Master: How beat? If your nation beat them, how
came you to be taken?
Friday: They more many than my nation in the place
where me was; they take one, two, three, and me; my na-
tion overheat them in the yonder place, where me no was;
there my nation take one, two, great thousand.
Master: But why did not your side recover you from the
hands of your enemies, then?
Friday: They run one, two, three, and me, and make go
in the canoe; my nation have no canoe that time.
Master: Well, Friday, and what does your nation do
with the men they take? Do they carry them away and
eat them, as these did?
Friday: Yes, my nation eat mans too; eat all np.
Master: Where do they carry them?
Friday: Go to other place, where they think.
Master: Do they come hither?
Friday: Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else
place.
Master: Have you been here with them?
Friday: Yes, I have been here; (points to the north-west
side of the island, which, it seems, was their side).
By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly
been among the savages who used to come on shore on the
further part of the island, on the same man-eating occa-
sions he was now brought for: and some time after, when
I took the courage to carry him to that side, being the same
I formerly mentioned, he presently knew the place, and
told me he was there once when they eat up twenty men,
two women, and one child: he could not tell twenty in
English, but he numbered them, by laying so many stones
in a row, and pointing to me to tell them over.
I have told this passage, because it introduces what fol-
lows, that after I had this discourse with him, 1 asked him
how far it was from our island to the shore, and whether
W2 BOBINSCOT CBU90B.
the canoes were not often lost. He told me there was no
danger, no canoes ever lost; but that, after a little way out
to sea, there was a current and wind, always one way in
the morning, the other in the afternoon. This 1 under-
stood to be no more than the sets of the tide, as going out
or coming in; but I afterward understood it was occa-
sioned by the great draft and reflux of the mighty river
Oroonoko, in the mouth or gulf of which river, as I found
afterward, our island lay; and that this land which I per-
ceived to the west and north-west was the great island Trin-
idad, on the north point of the mouth of the river. 1 asked
Friday a thousand questions about the country, the inhab-
itants, the sea, the coast, and what nations were near: he
told me all he knew, with the greatest openness imagin-
able. 1 asked him the names of the several nations of his
sort of people, but could get no other name than Caribs:
from whence 1 easily understood, that these were the Car-
ibbees, which our maps place on the part of America which
reaches from the mouth of the river Oroonoko to Guinea,
and onward to St. Martha. He told me that up a great
way beyond the moon, that was, beyond the setting of the
moon, which must be west from their country, there dwelt
white bearded men, like me, and pointed to my great whis-
kers, which I mentioned before; and that they had killed
much mans, that was his word: by all which I understood,
he meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties in America had
been spread over the whole country, and were remembered
by all the nations, from father to son.
I inquired if he could tell me how I might go from this
island and get among those white men: he told me, Yes,
yes, you may go in two canoe. I could not understand
what he meant, or make him describe to me what he meant
by two canoe; till, at last, with great difficulty, I found he
meant it must be in a large boat, as big as two canoes.
This part of Friday's discourse began to relish with me very
well; and from this time 1 entertained some hopes that,
one time or other, 1 might find an opportunity to make
my escape from this place, and that this poor savage might
be a means to help me.
During the long time that Friday had now been with me,
and that he began to speak to me, and understand me, I
was not wanting to lay a foundation of religioui knowledge
in hu mind: particularly I asked him, one time, who made
SOBINSON CRUSOE. 198
him? The poor creature did not understand me at all, but
thought I had asked him who was his father; but I took it
up by another handles, and asked him who made the sea,
the ground we walked on, and the hills and woods? He
told me, it was one old Benamuckee, that lived beyond all;
he could describe nothing of this great person, but that he
was very old, much older, he said, than the sea or the land,
than the moon or the stars. I asked him then, if this old
Eerson had made all things, why did not all things worship
im? He looked very grave, and with a perfect look of
innocence said, All things say oh to him. 1 asked him if
the people who die in his country went away anywhere?
He said, Yes; they all went to Benamuckee: then I asked
him whether these they eat up went thither too? He said,
Yes.
From these things I began to instruct him in the knowl-
edge of the true God: I told him that the great Maker of
all things lived up there, pointing up toward heaven; that
He governed the world by the same power and providence
by which He made it; that He was omnipotent, and could
do everything for us, give everything to us, take every-
thing from us; and thus, by degrees, 1 opened his eyes.
He listened with great attention, and received with pleasure
the notion of Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us, and of
the manner of making our prayers to God, and His being
able to hear us, even in heaven. He told me one day, that
if our God could hear us up beyond the sun, He must needs
be a greater God than their Benamuckee, who lived but a
little way off, and yet could not hear till they went up to
the great mountains where he dwelt to speak to him. I
asked him if ever he went thither to speak to him? He
said, No; they never went that were young men: none
went thither but' the old men, whom he called their
Oowokakee; that is, as 1 made him explain it to me, their
religious, or clergy; and that they went to say oh (so he
called saying prayers), and then came back, and told them
what Benamuckee said. By this I observed that there ie
priestcraft even among the most blinded, ignorant paganB
in the world; and the policy of making a secret of religion,
in order to preserve the veneration of the people to the
clergy, is not only to be found in the Roman, but perhapi
among all religions in the world, even among the most
brutish and barbarous savages.
1 endeavored to clear up this fraud to my man Friday,
and told him, that the pretense of their old men going up
to the mountains to say oh to their god Benamuckee was a
cheat; and their bringing word from thence what he said
was much mere so; that if they met with any answer, or
spoke with any one there, it must be with an evil spirit;
and then I entered into a long discourse with him about
the devil, the original of him, his rebellion against God,
his enmity to man, the reason of it, his setting himself up
in the dark parts of the world to be worshiped instead of
God, and as God, and the many stratagems he made use of
to delude mankind to their ruin; how he had a secret ac-
eeis to our passions and to our affections, and to adapt his
snares to our inclinations, so as to cause us even to be our
own tempters, and run upon our destruction by our own
choice.
I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions in his
mind about the devil, as it was about the being of a God:
nature assisted all my arguments to evidence to him even
the necessity of a great First Cause and overruling, gov-
erning Power, a secret, directing Providence, and of the
equity and justice of paying homage to Him that made us,
and the like; but there appeared nothing of this kind in
the notion of an evil spirit; of his origin, his being, his
nature, and, above all, of his inclination to do evil, and to
draw us in to do so too: and the poor creature puzzled me
once in such a manner, by a question merely natural and
innocent, that I scarce knew what to say to him. I had
be«n talking a great deal to him of the power of God, His
omnipotence, His aversion to sin, His being a consuming
fire to the workers of iniquity; how, as He had made us all,
He could destroy us and all the world in a mqment; and
he listened with great seriousness to me all the while. After
this, I had been telling him how the devil was God's enemy
in the hearts of men, and used all his malice and skill to
defeat the good designs of Providence, and to ruin the
kingdom of Christ in the world, and the like. Well, says
Friday, but you say God is so strong, so great; is He not
much strong, much might as the devil?—Yes, yes, says 1.
Friday, God is stronger than the devil: God is above the
devil, and therefore we pray to God to tread him down
under our feet, and enable us to resist his temptations, and
quench his fiery darts. But, says he again, if God much
BGBINSOK CRT/SOB 11%
stronger, much might as the devil, why God no kill tht
devil, so make him no more do wicked? I was strangely
surprised at this question; and, after all, though I was
now an old man, yet I was but a young doctor, and ill
qualified for a casuist, or a solver of difficulties,; and, at
first, I could not tell what to say; so 1 pretended not to
hear him, and asked him what he said; but he was too
earnest for an answer to forget his question, so that he re-
peated it in the very same broken words as above. By this
time I had recovered myself a little, and 1 said, God will
at last punish him severely; he is reserved for the judg-
ment, and is to be cast into the bottomless pit, to dwell
with everlasting fire. This did not satisfy Friday; but he
>ituriis upon me, repeating my words, Reserve, at last: me
no uuderstaiid; but why not kill the devil now; not kill
great ago?—You may as well ask me, said 1, why God
does not kill you and me, when we do wicked things here
that offend Him? We are preserved to repent and be par-
doned. He mused some time on this. Well, well, says
he, mighty affectionately, that well: so you, 1, devil, all
wicked, all preserve, repent, God pardon all. Here I was
run down again by him to the last degree; and it was a
testimony to me, how the mere notions of nature, though
they will guide reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a
God, and of a worship or homage due to the supreme being
of God, as the consequence of our nature, yet nothing but
divine revelation can form the knowledge of Jesus Christ,
and of redemption purchased for us, of a Mediator of the
new covenant, and of an Intercessor at the footstool of
God's throne: 1 say, nothing but a revelation from Heaven
can form these in the soul; and that, therefore, the gospel
of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, 1 mean the Word of
God, and the Spirit of God, promised for the guide and
sanctifier of His people, are the absolutely necessary in-
structors of the souls of men in the saving knowledge of
G id and the means of salvation.
I therefore diverted the present disoourse between me
and my man, rising up hastily, as upon some sudden occa-
sion of going out: then sending him for something a good
way off, 1 seriously prayed to God that He would enable
me to instruct savingly this poor savage; assisting, by His
'.^-lirit, the heart of the poor ignorant creature to rsceivs
viae light of the knowledge of God in Christ, reconciling
194 BOBINSON CRUSOE.
him to himself, and would guide me to speak so to hin
from the word of God, as his conscience might be convinced,
his eyes opened, and his soul saved. Wben he came again
to me, I entered into a long discourse with him upon the
subject of the redemption of man by the Saviour of the
world, and of the doctrine of the gospel preached from
heaven, viz., of repentance toward God, and faith in our
blessed Lord Jesns. I then explained to him, as well as 1
could, why our blessed Redeemer took not on Him the
nature of angels, but the seed of Abraham; and how, for
that reason, the fallen angels had no share in the redemp-
tion; that He came only to the lost sheep of the house of
Israel, and the like.
1 had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in all
the methods I took for this poor creature's instruction, and
must acknowledge, what I believe all that act upon the
same principle will find, that in laying things open to him,
I really informed and instructed myself in many things
that either I did not know, or had not fully considered be-
fore, but which occurred naturally to my mind upon search-
ing into them, for the information of this poor savage; and
1 had more affection in my inquiry after things upon this
occasion than ever I felt before: so that, whether this poor
wild wretch was the better for me or no, 1 had great reason
to be thankful that ever he came to me; my grief sat lighter
upon me; my habitation grew comfortablo to me beyond
measure; and when I reflected, that in this solitary life
which I had been confined to, I had not only been moved
to look up to Heaven myself, and to seek the hand that had
brought me here, but was now to be made an instrument,
nnder Providence, to save the life, and, for aught 1 knew,
the soul, of a poor savage, and bring him to the true knowl-
edge of religion, and of the Christian doctrine, that ho
might know Christ Jesus, in whom is life eternal; 1 say,
when I reflected upon all these things, a secret joy ran
through every part of my soul, and 1 frequently rejoiced
that ever I was brought to this place, which I had so often
thought the most dreadful of all afflictions that could pos-
sibly have befallen me.
I continued in this thankful frame all the remainder of
my time; and the conversation which employed the hours
between Friday and me was such as made the three years
which we lived there together perfectly and completely
happy, it any such thing as complete happiness can be
formed in a sublunary state. This savage was now a good
Christian, a much better than I; though I have reason to
hope, and bless God for it, that we were equally penitent,
and comforted, restored penitents. We had here the word
of God to read, and no further off from His Spirit to in-
struct, than if we had been in Englaud. 1 always applied
myself, in reading the Scriptures, to let nim know, as well
as I could, the meaning of what 1 read; and he again, by
his serious inquiries and questionings, made me, as 1 said
before, a much better scholar in the Scripture knowledge
than I should ever have been by my own mere private read-
ing. Another thing I can not refrain from observing here
also, from experience in this retired part of my life, viz.,
how infinite and inexpressible a blessing it is that the
knowledge of God, and of the doctrine of salvation by
Christ Jesus, is so plainly laid down in the word of God,
so easy to be received and understood, that, as the bare
reading the Scripture made me capable of understanding
enough of my duty to carry me directly on to the great
work of sincere repentance for my sins, and laying hold of
a Saviour for life and salvation, to a stated reformation in
practice, and obedience to all God's commands, and this
without any teacher or instructor, 1 mean human; so, the
same plain instruction sufficiently served to the enlighten-
ing this savage creature, and bringing him to be such a
Christian, as! have known few equal to him in my life.
As to all the disputes, wrangling, strife, and contention,
which have happened in the world about religion, whether
niceties in doctrines, or schemes of church government,
they were all perfectly useless to ns, and for aught 1 can
Vet see, they have been so to the rest of the world. We
had the sure guide to heaven, viz., the Word of God; and
we had, blessed be God, comfortable views of the Spirit oi
God teaching and instructing us by His Word, leading us
into all truth, and making us both willing and obedient to
the instructions of His Word. And 1 can not see the least
use that the greatest knowledge of the disputed points of
religion, which have made such confusions in the world,
would have been to us, if we could have obtained it. But
I must go on with the historical part of things, a&d take
avory part in its order.
lift JWB1MSON CtLVt
SECTION XXIV.
Build a Canoe to Can
Country.—Their Scheme Prevented by the Arrival of a Partyoi
Sfcffihuon and Friday Build a Canoe to Carry Than to Friday1*
After Friday and 1 became more intimately acquainted,
and that he could understand almost all I said to him, and
speak pretty fluently, though in broken English, to me, I
acquainted him with my own history, or at least so much
of it as related to my coming to this place; how I had lived
uere, and how long; I let him into the mystery, for such
it was to him, of gunpowder and bullet, and taught him
flow to shoot. I gave him a knife, which he was wonder-
fully delighted with, and I made him a belt with a frog
hanging to it, such as in England we wear hangers in; and
in the frog, instead of a hanger, 1 gave him a hatchet,
which was not only as good a weapon, in some cases, but
much more useful upon other occasions.
1 described to bim the country of Europe, particularly
England, which I came from; how we lived, how we wor-
shiped God, how we behaved to one another, and how we
traded in ships to all parts of the world. I gave him an
account of the wreck which I had been on board of, and
showed him, as near as I could, the place where she lay;
but she was all beaten in pieces before, and gone. 1
showed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when I
escaped, and which I could not stir with my whole strength
then; but was now fallen almost all to pieces. Upon see-
ing this boat, Friday stood musing a great while, and said
nothing. I asked him what it was he studied upon? At
last, says he, Me see such boat like come to place at my
nation. 1 did not understand him a good while; but at
last when I had examined further into it, 1 understood by
him, that a boat, such as that had been, came on shore
upon the country where he lived; that is, as he explained
it, was driven thither by stress of weather. I presently
imagined that some European ship must have been cast
away upon their coast, and the boat might get loose, and
drive ashore; but was so dull that I never once thought of
men making their escape from a wreck thither, much leu
whence they might come; so I only inquired after a de-
scription of the boat.
Friday described the boat to me well enongh; but
brought me better to understand bim when he added, with
Bome warmth, We save the white mans from drown. Then
I presently asked him if there were any white mans, as he
called them, in the boat. Yes, he said; the boat full of
white mans. I asked him how many. Ho told me upon
his fingers seventeen. 1 asked him then what became of
them. He told me, They live, they dwell at my nation.
This put new thoughts into my head, for I presently im-
agined that these might be the men belonging to the ship
that was cast away in the sight of my island, as I now called
it; and who, after the ship was struck on the rock, and
they saw her inevitably lost, had saved themselves in their
boat, and were landed upon that wild shore among the sav-
ages. Upon'this, 1- inquired of him more critically what
was become of them; he assured me they lived still there;
that they had been there about four years; that the sav-
ages let them alone, and gave them victuals to live on. 1
asked him how it came to pass they did not kill them, and
eat them? He said, No, they make brother with them;
that is, as 1 understood him, a truce; and then he added,
They no eat mans but when make the war fight; that is to
say, they never eat any men but such as come to fight
with them, and are taken in battle.
It was after this some considerable time that, being
upon the top of the hill, at the east side of the island, from
whence, as 1 have said, I had, in a clear day, discovered
the main or continent of America, Friday, the weather be-
ing very serene, looks very earnestly toward the main land,
and, in a kind of surprise, falls a jumping and dancing,
and calls out to me, for 1 was at some distance from him.
I asked him what was the matter. Oh, joy, says he! oh,
glad! there see my country, there my nation! I observed
an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared in his face, and
his eyes sparkled, and his countenance discovered a strange
eagerness, as if he had a mind to be in his own country
again. This observation of mine put a great many thought!
into me, which made me at first not so easy about my new
man Friday as I was before; and I made no doubt but that
if Friday could get back to his own nation again, he would
not only forget all his religion, but all his obligation to me,
800 BOBINSON CRUSOE.
and would be forward enough to give his countrymen an
account of me, aud come back perhaps with a hundred or
two of them, and make a feast upon me, at which he
might be as merry as he used to be with those of his
enemies, when they were taken in war. But I wronged
the poor honest creature very much, for which 1 was very
sorry afterward. However, as my jealousy increased, and
held me some weeks, I was a little more circumspect, and
not so familiar and kind to him as before; in which I was
certainly in the wrong too; the honest, grateful creature
having no thought about it, but what consisted with the
best principles, both as a religious Christian, aud as a
grateful friend, as appeared afterward to my full satisfac-
tion.
While my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I was
every day pumping him, to see if he would discover any of
the new thoughts which 1 suspected were in him; but J
found everything he said was so honest and so innocent,
that I could find nothing to nourish my suspicion; and, in
spite of all my uneasiness, he made me at last entirely his
own again; nor did he, in the least, perceive that I was
uneasy, and therefore I could not suspect him of deceit.
One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather be-
ing hazy at sea, so that we could not see the continent, I
called to him and said, Friday, do not you wish yourself in
your own country, your own nation? Yes, he said, I be
much oh, glady, to be at my own nation. What would
you do there? said 1; would you turn wild again, eat men's
flesh again, and be a savage, as you were before? He
looked full of concern, and shaking his head, saul, No, no;
Friday tell them to live good, tell them to pray God, tell
them to eat corn-bread, cattle-flesh, milk; no eat man
again. Why, then, said I to him, they will kill you. He
looked grave at that, and then said, No, no; they no kill
me, they willing love learn. He meant by this they would
be willing to learn. He added, they learned much of the
bearded mans that came in the boat. Then I asked him if
he would go back to them. He smiled at that, and told
me that he could not swim so far. 1 told him I would
make a canoe for him. He told me he would go, if I
would go with him. 1 go! says I; why, they will eat me,
if I come there. No, no, says he; me make they no eat
you; me make they much love you. He meant he would
tell them how 1 had killed his enemies and saved his life,
and so he would make them love me. Then he told me,
as well as he could, how kind they were to seventeen white
men, or bearded men, as he called them, who came on
shore there in distress.
From this time I confess I had a mind to venture over,
and see if I could possibly join with those bearded men,
who, 1 made no doubt, were Spaniards and Portuguese;
not doubting but if 1 could, we might find some method
to escape from thence, being upon the continent, and a
good company together, better than I could from an island
forty miles off the shore, and alone, without help. So,
after some days, 1 took Friday to work again, by way of
discourse, and told him 1 would give him a boat to go back
to his own nation; and accordingly 1 carried him to my
frigate, which lay on the other side of the island, and hav-
ing cleared it of water (for I always kept it sunk in water)
I brought it out, showed it him, and we both went into it.
I found he was a most dexterous fellow at managing it,
and would make it go almost as swift again as I could.
So when he was in I said to him, Well, now, Friday, shall
we go to your nation? He looked very dull at my saying
so; which, it seems, was because he thought the boat too
small to go so far; I then told him 1 had a bigger; so the
next day I went to the place where the first boat lay which
1 had made, but which I could not get into the water. He
said that was big enough; but then, as I had taken no care
of it, and it had lain two or three-and-twenty years there,
the sun had split and dried it, that it was in a manner rot-
ten. Friday told me such a boat would do very well, and
would carry much enough vittle, drink, bread; that wai
his way of talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my de-
sign of going over with him to the continent, that I told
him we would go and make one as big as that, and he
should go home in it. He answered not one word, but
looked very grave and sad. I asked him what was the
matter with him. He asked me again, Why you angry
mad with Friday? What me done? 1 asked him what he
meant. I told him I was not angry with him at all. No
angry? says he, repeating the words several times. Why
send Friday home away to my nation? Why, says I, Fri-
day, did not you say you wished you were there? Yes, yes,
aays he, wish be both there; no wish Friday there, no mas-
ter there. In a word, he would not think of going there
without me. I go there, Friday! says I; what shall I do
there? He returned very quick upon me at this: You do
great'deal much good, says he, you teach wild mans be
good, sober, tame mans; you tell them know God, pray
God, and live new life. Alas! Friday, says I, thou knowest
not what thou sayest; I am but an ignorant man myself.
Yes, yes, says he, you teachee me good, you teachee them
good. No, no, Friday, says I, you shall go without me;
leave me here to live by myself, as I did before. He
looked confused again at that word; and running to one of
the hatchets which he used to wear, he takes it up hastily,
and gives it to me. What must I do with this? says I to
him. You take kill Friday, says he. What must I kill
you for? said 1 again. He returns very quick: What you
send Friday away for? Take kill Friday, no send Friday
away. This he spoke so earnestly, that 1 saw tears stand
in his eyes; in a word, 1 so plainly discovered the utmost
affection in him to me, and a firm resolution in him, that
I told him then, and often after, that I would never send
him away from me, if he was willing to stay with me.
Upon the whole, as I found, by all his discourse, a set-
tled affection to me, and that nothing should part him
from me, so 1 found all the foundation of his desire to go
to his own country was laid in his ardent affection to the
people, and his hopes of my doing them good; a thing
which, as I had no notion of myself, so I had not the
least thought, or intention, or desire of undertaking it.
But still I found a strong inclination to my attempting an
escape, as above, founded on the supposition gathered from
the discourse, viz., that there were seventeen bearded men
there; and therefore, without any more delay, 1 went to
work with Friday, to find out a great tree proper to fell,
and make a large periagua, or canoe, to undertake the voy-
age. There were trees enough in the island to have built a
little fleet, not of periaguas, or canoes, but even of good
large vessels; but the main thing I looked at was, to get
one so near the water that we might launch it when it was
made, to avoid the mistake I committed at first. At last,
Friday pitched upon a tree, for I found he knew much
better than 1 what kind of wood was fittest for it; nor can
I tell, to this day, what wood to call the tree we cut down,
except that it was very like the tree we call fustic, or be-
tween that and the Nicaragua wood; for it was much of the
same color and smell. Friday was for burning the hollow
or cavity of this tree out, to make it for a boat, but 1
showed him how to cut it with tools, which, after 1 had
showed him how to use, he did very handily; and in about
a month's hard labor we finished it and made it very hand-
some; especially when, with our axes, which I showed him
how to handle, we cut and hewed the outside into the true
shape of a boat. After this, however, it cost us near a
fortnight's time to get her along, as it were, inch by inch,
upon great rollers, into the water; but when she was in
«he would have carried twenty men with great ease.
When she was in the water, and though she was bo big,
it amazed me to see with what dexterity, and how swift my
man Friday would manage her, turn her, and paddle her
along. So I asked him if he would, and if we might vent-
ure over in her. Yes, he said; we venture over in her
very well, though great blow wind. However, 1 had a
further design, that he knew nothing of, and that was to
make a mast and a sail, and to fit her with an anchor and
cable. As to a mast, that was easy enough to get; so I
pitched upon a straight young cedar-tree, which I found
near the place, and which there were great plenty of in the
island; and I set Friday to work te cut it down, and gave
him directions how to shape and order it. But as to the
sail, that was my particular care. I knew I had old sails,
or rather pieces of old sails, enough; but as I had had them
now six-and-twenty years by me, and had not been very
careful to preserve them, not imagining that I should ever
have this kind of use for them, 1 did not doubt but they
were all rotten, and, indeed, most of them were so. How-
ever, I found two pieces, which appeared pretty good, and
with these I went to work; and with a great deal of pains,
and awkward stitching, you may be sure, for want of
needles, I at length made a three-cornered ugly thing, like
what we call in England a shoulder-of-mutton sail, to go
with a boom at bottom, and a little short sprit at the top,
suoh as usually our ship's long-boats sail with, and such as
1 best knew how to mauage, as it was such a one I had to
the boat in which 1 made my escape from Barbary, as re-
lated in the first part of my story.
I was near two month* performing this last work, via.,
204 ROBINSON CRUSOE.
rigging and fitting my mast and sails; for I finished them
very complete, making a small stay, and a sail, or foresail
to it, to assist, if we should turn to windward; and, which
was more than all, 1 fixed a rudder to the stern of her to
steer with. I was but a bungling shipwright, yet, as I
knew the usefulness, and even necessity of such a thing, I
applied myself with so much pains to do it, that at last I
brought it to pass; though, considering the many dull con-
trivances 1 had for it that failed, I think it cost me almost
as much labor as making the boat.
After all this was done, I had my man Friday to teach
as to what belonged to the navigation of my boat; for,
though he knew very well how to paddle a canoe, he knew
nothing what belonged to a sail and a rudder, and was the
most amazed when he saw me work the boat to and again
in the sea by the rudder, and how the sail jibed, and filled
this way, or that way, as the course we sailed changed; 1
say, when he saw this, he stood like one astonished and
amazed. However, with a little use, I made all these
things familiar to him, and he became an expert sailor, ex-
cept that, as to the compass 1 could make him understand
very little of that. On the other hand, as there was very
little cloudy weather, and seldom or never any fogs in
those parts, there was the less occasion for a compass, see-
ing the stars were always to be seen by night, and the
shore by day, except in the rainy seasons, and then nobody
cared to stir abroad, either by land or sea.
I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year of my
captivity in this place; though the three last years that 1
had this creature with me ought rather to be left out of
the account, my habitation being quite of another kind
than in all the rest of the time. 1 kept the anniversary of
my landing here with the same thankfulness to God for
His mercies as at first; and if I had such cause of acknowl-
edgment at first, 1 had much more so now, having such
additional testimonies of the care of Providence over me,
and the great hopes I had of being effectually and speedily
delivered; for I had an invincible impression upon my
thoughts that my deliverance was at hand and that I should
not be another year in this place. I went on, however,
with my husbandry; digging, planting, and fencing, as
usual. 1 gathered and cured my grapes, and did every
fceoessgry thing as before.
The rainy season/Was, in the meantime, upon me, when
I kept more within doors than at other times. We had
stowed our own vessel as secure as we could, bringing her
up into the creek, where, as 1 said in the beginning, 1
landed my rafts from the ship; and hauling her up to the
shore, at high-water mark, I made my man Friday dig a
little dock, just big enough to hold her, and just deep
enough to give her water enough to float in; and then,
when the tide was out, we made a strong dam across the
end of it, to keep the water out; and so she lay dry, as to
the tide, from the sea; and to keep the rain off, we laid a
great many boughs of trees, so thick, that she was as well
thatched as a house; and thus we waited for the months of
November and December, in which I designed to make my
adventrue.
When the settled season began to come in, as the thought
of my design returned with the fair weather, I was prepar-
ing daily for the voyage, and the first thing 1 did was to
lay by a certain quantity of provisions, being the stores for
our voyage; and intended, in a week or a fortnight's time,
to open the dock, and launch out our boat. 1 was busy
one morning upon something of this kind, when I called
on Friday, and bid him go to the sea-shore, and see if he
could find a turtle, or tortoise, a thing which we generally
got once a week, for the sake of the eggs as well as the
flesh. Friday had not been long gone, when he came run-
ning back, and flew over my outer wall, or fence, like one
that felt not the ground, or the steps he set his feet on;
and before 1 had time to speak to him, he cries out to me,
Oh, master! oh, master! oh, sorrow! oh, bad! What's
the matter, Friday? says I. Oh, yonder, there, says he,
one, two, three canoe; one, two, three! By this way of
speaking, I concluded there were six; but, on inquiry, I
found it was but three. Well, Friday, says I, do not be
frightened! So I heartened him up as well as I could;
however, 1 saw the poor fellow was most terribly scared.-
for nothing ran in his head but that they were come to look
for him and would cut him in pieces and eat him; and the
poor fellow trembled so that 1 scarce knew.what to do with
him. 1 comforted him as well as 1 could, and told him I
was in as much danger as he, and that they would eat me
as well as him. But, says I, Friday, we must resolve to
fight them. Can you fight, Friday? Me shoot, says he;
206 BOBINSOST CRUSOE.
but there come many great number. No matter for that,
said I, again; our guns will fright them that we do not kill.
So I asked him whether, if 1 resolved to defend him he
would defend me, and stand by me; and do just as I bid
him. He said, Me die when you bid die, master. So 1
went and fetched a good dram of rum and gave him; for 1
had been so good a husband of my rum, that I had a great
deal left. When he drank it, 1 made him take the two
fowling-pieces, which we always carried, and loaded them
with large swan-shot, as big as small pistol-bullets; then I
took four muskets, and loaded them with two slugs and
five small bullets each; and my two pistols I loaded with a
brace of bullets each; 1 hung my great sword, as usual,
naked by my side, and gave Friday his hatchet. When 1
bad thus prepared myself, I took my perspective glass, and
went up to the side of the hill, to see what i could dis-
cover; and I found quickly, by my glass, that there were
one-and-twenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes;
and that their whole business seemed to be the trinmphant
banquet upon these three human bodies; a barbarous feast
indeed! but nothing more than, as I had observed, was
usual with them. I observed also that they were lauded,
not where they had done when Friday made his escape, but
nearer to my creek; where the shore was low, and where a
thick wood came almost close down to the sea. This, with
the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these wretches came
about, filled me with such indignation, that I came down
again to Friday, and told him 1 was resolved to go down to
them and kill them all; and asked him if he would stand
by me. He had now got over his fright, and his spirits be-
ing a little raised with the dram I had given him, he was
very cheerful, and told me, as before, he would die when I
bid die.
In this fit of fury, 1 took and divided the arms which I
had charged, as before, between us; I gave Friday one pis-
tol to stick in his girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder;
and I took one pistol, aud the other three guns myself;
and in this posture we marched out. I took a small bottle
of rum in my pocket, aud gave Friday a large bag with
more powder and bullets; and, as to orders, I charged him
to keep close behind me, and not to stir, or shoot, or do
anything, till 1 bid him; and in the meantime not to speak
a word. In this posture, 1 fetched a compass to my right
hand of near a mile, as well to get over the creek as to gel
into the wood, so that I might come within shot of them
before 1 should be discovered, which 1 had seen by my
glass it was easy to do.
While I was making this march, my former thoughts re-
turning, I began to abate my resolution; I do not mean
that I entertained any fear of their number; for, as they
were naked, unarmed wretches, it is certain I was superior
to them; ay, though 1 had been alone. But it occurred
to my thoughts, what call, what occasion, much less what
necessity 1 was in, to go and dip my hands in blood, to
attack people who had neither done nor intended me any
wrong? Who, as to me, were innocent, and whose bar-
barous customs were their own disaster; being, in them, a
token indeed of God's having left them, with the other
nations of that part of the world, to such stupidity, and to
such inhuman courses; but did not call me to take upon
me to be a judge of their actions, much less an executioner
of His justice; that, whenever He thought fit, He would
take the cause into His own hands, and, by national venge-
ance, punish them, as a people, for national crimes; but
that, in the meantime, it was none of my business; that, it
was true, Friday might justify it, because he was a declared
enemy, and in a state of war with those very particular
people, and it was lawful for him to attack them; but I
could not say the same with respect to myself. These
things were so warmly pressed upon my thoughts all the
way as 1 went, that I resolved I would only go and place
myself near them, that I might observe their barbarous
feast, and that I would act then as God should direct; but
that, unless something offered that was more a call to me
than yet I knew of, I would not meddle with them.
With this resolution I entered the wood; and, with all
possible.wariness and silence, Friday following close at my
heels, I marched till I came to the skirt of the wood, on
the side which was next to them, only that one corner of
the wood lay between me and them. Here I called softly
to Friday, and showing him a great tree, which was just at
the corner of the wood, I bade him go to the tree, and
bring me word if he could see there plainly what they were
doing. He did so; and came immediately back to me, and
told me they might be plainly viewed there; that they we*e
all about their fire, eating the flesh of one of their pri*
oners, and that another lay bound upon the sand, a little
from them, which, he said, they would kill next, and which
flred all the very soul within me. He told me it was not
one of their nation, but one of the bearded men he had
told me of, that came to their country in the boat. I was
filled with horror at the very naming the white-bearded
man; and, going to the tree, I saw plainly, by my glass, a
when man, who lay upon the beach of the sea, with his
hands and his feet tied with flags, or things like rushes, and
that he was a European, and had clothes on.
There was another tree and a little thicket beyond it,
about fifty yards nearer to them than the place where I
was, which, by going a little way about, I saw I might
come at undiscovered, and that then I should be within
half a shot of them; so I withheld my passion, though I
was indeed enraged to the highest degree; and going back
about twenty paces, 1 got behind some bushes, which held
all the way till I came to the other tree; and then came to
a little rising ground, which gave me a full view of them,
at the distance of about eighty yards.
SECTION XXV.
Robinson Releases a Spaniard.—Friday Discovers his Father.—Ac-
commodation Provided for These New Guests.—Who are After-
ward sent to Liberate the other Spaniards.—Arrival of an English
Vessel.
1 had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the
dreadful wretches sat upon the ground, all close-huddled
together, and had just sent the other two to butcher the
poor Christian, and bring him, perhaps, limb by limb, to
their fire; and they were stooping down to untie the bands
at his feet. I turned to Friday—Now, Friday, said 1, do
as 1 bid thee. Friday said he would. Then, Friday, says
1, do exactly as you see me do, fail in nothing. So I set
down one of the muskets and the fowling-piece upon the
ground, and Friday did the like by his; and with the other
musket I took my aim at the savages, bidding him to do
the like: then asking him if he was ready, he said, Yes.
Then fire at them, said I; and the same moment I fired also.
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the
side that be shot, he killed two of them, and wounded three

4iore; and on my side I killed one, and wounded two.
They were, you may be sure, in a dreadful consternation;
and all of them who were not hurt jumped upon their feet,
but did not immediately know which way to run, or which
way to look, for they knew not from whence their destruc-
tion came. Friday kept his eyes close upon me that, as I had
bid him, he might observe what I did; so, as soon as the
first shot was made, I threw down the piece, and took up
the fowling-piece, and Friday did the like: he saw me cock
and present; he did the same again. Are you ready, Fri-
day? said I. Yes, says he. Let fly, then, says I, in the name
of God! And with that, 1 fired again among the amazed
wretches, and so did Friday; and- as our pieces were now
loaded with what I called swan-shot, or small pistol-bullets,
we found only two drop, but so many were wounded that
they ran about yelling and screaming like mad creatures,
all bloody, and most of them miserably wounded, whereof
three more fell quickly after, though not quite dead.
Now, Friday, says I, laying down the discharged pieces,
and taking up the musket which was yet loaded, follow me;
which he did,with a great deal of courage; upon which I
rushed aut of the wood, and showed myself, and Friday
close at my foot. As soon as 1 perceived they saw me, I
shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday do so too; and
running as fast as I could, which by the way, was not very
fast, being loaded with arms as I was, I made directly to-
ward the poor victim, who was, as I said, lying upon the
beach, or shore, between the place where they sat and the
sea. The two batchers, who were just going to work with
him, had left him at trie surprise of our first fire, and fled
in a terrible fright to the sea-side, and had jumped into s,
canoe, and three mora of the rest made the same way. I
turned to Friday, and bade him step forward, and fire at
them; he understood me immediately, and running about
forty yards, to be nearer them, he shot at them, and 1
thought he had killed them all, for 1 saw them all fall of a
heap into the boat, though 1 saw two of them up again
quickly: however, he killed two of them, and wounded the
third, so that he lay down in the bottom of the boat as if
he had been dead.
While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out my
knife, and cut the flags that bound the poor victim; and
loosing his hands and feet, 1 lifted him on, and asked hiia
in the Portuguese tongue, what he was. He answered in
Latin, Ghristianus; but was so weak and faint that he could
scarce stand or speak. I took iny bottle out of my pocket,
and gave it him, making signs that he should drink, which
he did; and I gave him a piece of bread, which he eat.
Then I asked him what countryman he was: and he said,
Espagnol; and being a little recovered, let me know, by
all the signs he could possibly make, how much he was(in
my debt for his deliverance. Signor, said I, with as much
Spanish as 1 could make up, we will talk afterward, but
we must fight now: if you have any strength left, take this
pistol and sword, and lay about you. He took them very
thankfully; and no sooner had he the arms in his hands,
but, as if they had put new vigor into him, he flew upon
his murderers like a fury, and had cut two of them in
pieces in an instant; for the truth is, as the whole, was a
surprise to him, so the poor creatures were so much fright-
ened with the noise of our pieces, that they fell down for
mere amazement and fear, and had no more power to at-
tempt their own escape than their flesh had to resist our
shot; and that was the case of those five that Friday shot
at in the boat; for as three of them fell with the hurts they
received, so the other two fell with the fright.
1 kept my piece in my hand still without firing, being
willing to keep my charge ready, because I had given the
Spaniard my pistol and sword: so 1 called to Friday, and
bade him run up to the tree from whence we first fired, and
fetch the arms which lay there that had been discharged,
which he did with great swiftness; and then giving him my
musket. I sat down myself to load all the rer:t again, and
bade them come to me when they wanted. While I was
loading these pieces, there happened a fierce engagement
between the Spaniard and one of the savages, who made at
him with one of their great wooden swords, the same-like
weapon that was to have killed him before, if I had not
prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as bold and brave
as could be imagined, though weak, had fought this Indian
a good while, and had cut him two great wounds on his
head; but the savage being a stout, lusty fellow, closing
in with him, had thrown him down, being faint, and was
wringing my sword out of his hand; v/hen the Spaniard,
though undermost- wisely quitting the sword, drew cne
pistol from his girdle, shot the savusre through the bod,.
and killed him on the spot, before 1, who was running to
help him, could come near him.
Friday, beiug now left to his liberty, pursued the flying
wretches, with no weapon in his hand but his hatchet; and
with that he dispatched those three, who, as I said before,
were wounded at first, and fallen, and all the rest he could
come up with: and the Spaniard coming to me for a gun,
I gave him one of the fowling-pieces, with which he pursued
two of the savages, and wounded them both; but, as he was
-not able to run, they both got from him into the wood,
where Friday pursued them, and killed one of them, but
the other was too nimble for him; and though he was
wounded, yet had plunged himself into the sea, and swam,
with all his might, off to those two who were left in the
canoe, which three in the canoe, with one wounded, that
we knew not whether he died or no, were all that escaped
our hands of one-andkrtwenty. The account of the whole
is as follows: three killed at our first shot from the tree;
two killed at the next shot; two killed by Friday in the
fcoat; two killed by Friday of those at first wounded; one
killed by Friday in the wood; three killed by the Spaniard;
four killed, being found dropped here and there of their
wounds, or killed -by Friday in his chase of them; four es-
caped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if not dead.—
Vwenty-one in all.
Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of
^an-shot, and though Friday made two or three shots at
tbem, I did not find that he hit any of them. Friday
would fain have had me take one of their canoes and pursue
them; and indeed, I was very anxious about their escape,
leit carrying the news home to their people, they should
cope back perhaps with two or three hundred of their
canoes, and devour us by mere multitude; so I consented
to pursue them by sea, and running to one of their canoes,
1 jqmped in, and bade Friday follow me; but when I was
in the canoe, I was surprised to find another poor creature lie
theie, bound hand and foot, as the Spaniard was, for the
slaughter, and almost dead with fear, not knowing what
was the matter; for he had not been able to look up over
the aide of the boat, he was tied so hard neck and neels,
and ^ad been tied so long, that he had really but little life
left i^ him.
I immediately cut the twisted flags or rashes, which they
Hi BOBXNSON CBCSOR,
had bound him with, and would have helped him up; but
he could not stand or speak, but groaned most piteously,
believing, it seems, still, that he was only unbound in
order to be killed. When Friday came to him, 1 bade him
to speak to him, and tell him of his deliverance; and,
pulling out my bottle, made him give the poor wretch a
dram; which, with the news of his being delivered, revived
him, and he sat up in the boat. But when Friday came to
hear him speak, and look in his face, it would have moved
any one to tears to have seen how Friday kissed him, em-
braced him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped
about, danced, sung; then cried again, wrung his hands,
beat his own face and head; and then sung and jumped
about again, like a distracted creature. It was a good
while before I could make him speak to me, or tell me
what was the matter; but when he came a little to him-
self, he told me that it was his fatlfer.
It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to see
what ecstasy and filial affection had worked in this poor
savage at the sight of his father, and of his being delivered
from death; nor, indeed, can 1 describe half the extrava-
gancies of his affection after this; for he went into the boat,
and out of the boat, a great many times: when he went in
to him, he would sit down by him, open his breast, and hold
his father's head close to his bosom for many minutes to-
gether, to nourish it; then he took his arms and ankles,
which were numbed and stiff with the binding, and chafed
and rubbed them with his hands; and I, perceiving what
the case was, gave him some rum out of my bottle to rub
them with, which did them a great deal of good.
This affair put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with
the other savages, who were got now almost out of sight;
and it was happy for us that we did not, for it blew so hard
within two hours after, and before they could be got a
quarter of their way, and continued blowing so hard all
night, and that from the north-west, which was against
them, that I could not suppose their boat could live, or
that they ever reached their own coast.
But, to return to Friday; he was so busy about his
father, that I could not find it in my heart to take him off
for some time: but after 1 thought he could leave him a
little, I called him to me, and he came jumping and laugh-
ing, and pleased to the highest extreme; then 1 asked him
if he had giveu his father any bread. He shook his head,
and said, None; ugly dog eat all up self. I then gave him
a cake of bread, out of a little pouch which I carried on
purpose; I also gave him a dram for himself, hut he.would
not taste it, but carried it to his father. I had in my
pocket two or three bunches of raisins, so I gave him a
handful of them for his father. He had no sooner given
his father these raisins, but I saw him come out of the
boat, and run away, as if he had been bewitched, he ran at
such a rate; for he was the swiftest fellow on his feet that
ever I saw: I say, he ran at such a rate, that he was out
of sight, as it were, in an instant; and though I called,
>nd hallooed out too, after him, it was all one, away he
vent; and in a quarter of an hour 1 saw him come back
again, though not so fast as he went; and as he came
nearer, 1 found his pace slacker, because he had some-
thing in his hand. When he came up to me, I found that
he had been quite home for an earthen jug or pot, to bring
his father some fresh water, and that he had two more
cakes or loaves of bread; the bread he gave me, but the
water he carried to his father; however, as I was very
thirsty too, I took a little sup of it. The water revived
hit father more than all the rum or spirits I had given him,
fot he was just fainting with thirst.
When his father had drunk, I called to him to know if
there was any water left: he said, Yes; and I bade him
give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as much want of
it as his father: and I sent one of the cakes that Friday
broBght to the Spaniard, too, who was indeed very weak,
and was reposing himself upon a green place uncer the
shade of a tree; and whose limbs were also very stiff, and
very much swelled with the rude bandage he. had been tied
with.! When I saw that, upon Friday's ooniing to him
with the water, he sat up and drank, and took the bread,
and bpgan to eat, I went to him and gave him a handful of
raising; he looked up in my face with all the tokens of
gratitude and thankfulness that could appear in any
countenance; but was so weak, notwithstanding he had so
exerted himself in the fight, that he could not stand upon
his teet\ he tried to do it two or three times, but was really
not ablel his ankles were so swelled and so painful to him;
so 1 bade him sit still, and caused Friday to rub his ankles,
and bathe them with rum, as he had done his father's.
214 EOBnrsoir crusob.
1 observed the poor affectionate creature, every twa
minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was here, turn hia
head about to see if his father was in the same place and
posture as he left him sitting: and at last he found he was
not to be seen; at which he started up, and, without speak-
ing a word, flew with that swiftness to him, that one could
scarce perceive his feet to touch the ground as he went: but
when he came, he only found he had lain himself down to
ease his limbs, so Friday came back to me presently; and
then 1 spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help him up, if
he could, and lead him to the boat, and then he should
carry him to our dwelling, where I would take care of
him: but Friday, a lusty strong feliow, took the Spaniard
quite up upon his back, and carried him away to the boat,
and set him down softly upon the side or gunnel of the
canoe, with his feet in the inside of it; and then, lifting
him quite in, he set himself close to his father; and pres-
ently stepping out again, he launched the boat oft
and paddled it along the shore faster than I could walk,
though the wind blew pretty hard too: so he brought them
both safe into our creek, and leaving them in the boat,
ran away to fetch the other canoe. As he passed me, I
spoke to him, and asked him whither he went. He told
me, Go fetch more boat: so away he went like the wind,
for sure never man or horse ran like him; and he had the
other canoe in the creek almost as soon as I got to it by
land; so he wafted me over, and then went to help our
new guests out of the boat, which he did; but they were
neither of them able to walk, so that poor Friday knew not
what to do.
To remedy this, 1 went to work in my thought, and call-
ing to Friday to bid them sit down on the bank while he
came to me, I soon made a kind of a hand-barrow to lay
them on, and Friday and I carried them both up together
upon it between us. But when we got them to the out-
side of our wall, or fortification, we were at a worse loss
than before, for it was impossible to get them over, and ]
was resolved not to break it down: so I set to work again;
and Friday and I, in about two hours' time, made a very
handsome tent, covered with old sails, and above that with
boughs of trees, being in the space without our outward
fence, and between that and the grove of young wood which
I had planted; and here we made them two beds of suck
things as 1 had, viz. of good rice straw, with blankets laid
upon it, to lie on, and another to cover them, on each bed.
My island was now peopled, and I thought myself rich in
subjects: and it was a merry reflection, which I fre-
quently made, how like a king I looked. First of all, the
whole country was my own mere property, so that I had an
undoubted right of dominion. Secondly, my people were
perfectly subjected; I was absolutely lord and law-giver;
they all owed their lives to me, and were ready to lay
down their lives, if there had been occasion for it, for me.
It was remarkable, too, I had but three subjects, and they
were of three different religions: my man Friday was a
Protestant, his father was a Pagan and a cannibal, and
the Spaniard was a Papist: however, I allowed liberty of
conscience throughout my dominions. But this is by the
way.
As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued prisoners,
and given them shelter, and a place to rest them upon, I
began to think of making some provision for them; and
the first thing 1 did, I ordered Friday to take a yearling
goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, out of my particular flock,
to be killed; when 1 cut off thb hinder quarter, and chop-
ping it into small pieces, 1 set Friday to work to boiling
and stewing, and made them a very good dish, I assure
you, of flesh and broth, having put some barley and rice
also into the broth: and as 1 cooked it without doors, for
1 made no fire within my inner wall, so I carried it all into
the new tent, and having set a table there for them, 1 sat
down, and eat my dinner also with them, and, as well as I
could, cheered them, and encouraged them. Friday was
my interpreter, especially to his father, and, indeed, to
the Spaniard too; for the Spaniard spoke the language of
the savages pretty well.
After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday
to take one of the canoes, and go and fetch our muskets
and other fire-arms, which, for the want of time, we had
left upon the place of battle: and, the next day, I ordered
him to go and bury the dead bodies of the savages, which
lay open to the sun, and would presently be offensive. 1
also ordered him to bury the horrid remains of their bar«
barous feast, which 1 knew were pretty much, and which 1
could not think of doing myself; nay, I could not bear U
see them, if I went that way; all which he punctually pur-
formed, and effaced the very appearance of the savages
being there; so that when I went again, I could scarce
know where it was, otherwise than by the corner of the
wood pointing to the place.
I then began to enter into a little conversation with
my two new subjects: and, first, I set Friday to inquire of
his father what he thought of the escape of the savages in
that canoe, and whether we might expect a return of
them, with a power too great for us to resist. His first
opinion was, that the savages in the boat could never live
out the storm which blew that night they went off, but
must of necessity be drowned, or driven south to those
other shores, where they were as sure to be devoured
as they were to be drowned, if they were cast away;
but, as to what they would do, if they came safe
on shore, he said he knew not; but it was his opinion,
that they were so dreadfully frightened with the man-
ner of their being attacked, the noise, and the fire,
that he believed they would tell the people they were all
killed by thunder and lightning, not by the hand of man;
and that the two which appeared, viz. Friday and I, were
two heavenly spirits, or furies, come down to destroy them,
anJ not men with weapons. This, he said, he knew: be-
cause he heard them all cry out so, in their language to one
another; for it was impossible for them to conceive that a
man could dart fire, and speak thunder, and kill at a dis-
tance, without lifting up the hand, as was done now: and
this old savage was in the right; for, as I understood since
by other hands, the savages never attempted to go over to
the island afterward, they were so terrified with the ac-
counts given by those three men (for, it seems, they did es-
cape the sea), that they believed whoever went to that
enchanted island would be destroyed by fire from the gods.
This, however, 1 knew not; and therefore was under con-
tinual apprehensions for a good while, and kept always
upon my guard, with all my army: for, as there were now
four of us, I would have ventured upon a hundred of them,
fairly in the open field, at any time.
In a little time, however, no canoes appearing, the fear
of their coming wore off; and I began to take my former
thoughts of a voyage to the main into consideration; being
likewise assured, by Friday's father, that 1 might depend
upon good usage from their nation, on his account, if 1
would go. But my thoughts were a little suspended when
I had a serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when 1
understood that there were sixteen more of his countrymen
and Portuguese, who, having been cast away, and made
their escape to that side, lived there at peace, indeed, with
the savages, but were very sore put to it for necessaries,
and indeed for life. I asked him all the particulars of their
voyage, and found they were a Spanish ship, bound from
the Kio de la Plata, to the Havanna, being directed to
leave their loading there, which was chiefly hides and sil-
ver, and to bring back what European goods they could
meet with there; that they had five Portuguese seaman on
board, whom they took out of another wreck; that five of
their own men were drowned, when first the ship was lost,
and that these escaped through infinite dangers and haz-
ards, and arrived, almost starved, on the cannibal coast,
where they expected to have been devoured every moment.
He told me they had some arms with them, but they were
perfectly useless, for that they had neither powder nor ball,
the washing of the sea having spoiled all their powder, but a
little, which they used at their first lauding, to provide
themselves some food.
I asked him what he thought would become of them
there, and if they had formed no design of making any
escape. He said they had many consultations about it;
but that having neither vessel, nor tools to build one, nor
provisions of any kind, their councils always ended in
tears and despair. I asked him how he thought they
would receive a proposal from me, which might tend to-
ward an escape; and whether if they were all here, it
might not be done. I told him tvith freedom, I feared
mostly their treachery and ill usage of me, if 1 put my
life in their hands, for that gratitude was no inherent virt-
ue in the nature of man, nor did men always square their
dealings by the obligations they had received, so much as
they did by the advantages they expected. 1 told him it
would be very hard that I should be the instrument of
their deliverance, and that they should afterward make
me their prisoner in New Spain, where an Englishman
was certain to be made a sacrifice, what necessity or what
accident soever brought him thither; and that I had rather
be delivered up to the savages, to be devoured alive, thaa
to fall into the merciless claws of the priests, and be car*
818 EOBINSOST CRUSO*
ried into the Inquisition. I added, that otherwise I was
Eersnaded, if they were all here, we might, with so many
ands, build a bark large enough to carry us all away,
either to the Brazils, southward, or to the islands, or the
Spanish coast, northward; but that if, in requittal, xney
should, when I had put weapons into their hands, carry
me by force among their own people, I might be ill used
for my kindness to them, and make my case worse that it
was before.
He answered with a great deal of candor and ingenuous-
ness, that their condition was so miserable, and they were
so sensible of it, that he believed they would abhor the
thought of using any man unkindly that should contribute
to their deliverance; and that, if 1 pleased, he would go to
them with the old man, and discourse with them about it,
and return again, and bring me their answer; that he would
make conditions with them upon their solemn oath, that
they should be absolutely under my leading, as their com-
mander and captain; and that they should swear, upon the
holy sacraments and gospel, to be true to me, and go to
such Christian country as that 1 should agree to, and no
other, and to be directed wholly and absolutely by my orders,
till they were landed safely in such country as I intend-
ed; and that he would bring a contract from them, under
their hands, for that purpose. Then he told me that he
would first swear to me himself, that he would never stir
from me as long as he lived, till I gave him orders; and
that he would take my side to the last drop of his blood,
if there should happen the least breach of faith among his
countrymen. He told me they were all of them very civil,
honest men, and they were under the greatest distress im-
aginable, having neither weapons, nor clothes, nor any food,
but at the mercy and discretion of the savages; out of all
hopes of ever returning to their own country; and that he
was sure, if 1 would undertake their relief, they would live
and die by me.
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture, to relieve
them, if possible, and to send the old savage and this Span-
iard over to them to treat. But when we had got all things
in readiness to go, the Spaniard himself started an objec-
tion, which had so much prudence in it, on one hand, and
so much sincerity, on the other hand, that 1 could not but
be very well satisfied in it, and, by his advice, pat off the
KOBINSOJT CRUSOE. 219
deliverance of his comrades for at least half a year. The
case was thus: He had been with us now about a month,
during which time I had let him see in what manner I had
provided, with the assistance of Providence, for my support;
and he saw evidently what stock of corn and rice I had
laid up; which, though it was more than sufficient for my.
self, yet it was not sufficient, without good husbandry, fcV
my family, now it was increased to four; but much less
would it be sufficient if his countrymen, who were, as ha
said, sixteen, still alive, should come over; and least of all
would it be sufficient to victual our vessel, if we should
build one, for a voyage to any of the Christiam colonies of
America; so he told me he thought it would be more, ad-
visable to let him and the other two dig and cultivate som«
more land, as much as 1 could spare seed to sow, and that
we should wait another harvest, that we might have a sup-
ply of corn for his countrymen, when they should come;
for want might be a temptation to them to disagree, or
not to think themselves delivered, otherwise than out of
one difficulty into another. You know, says he, the chil-
dren of Israel, though they rejoiced at first for their being
delivered out of Egypt, yet rebelled even against God
himself, that delivered them, when they came to want
bread in the wilderness.
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good
that I could not but be very well pleased with his proposal,
as well as \ was satisfied with his fidelity; so we fell to dig-
ging all four of us, as well as the wooden tools we wera
furnished with permitted; and in about a month's time, by
the end of which it was seed-time, we had got as much Jancf
cuied and trimmed up as we sowed two-and-twenty bushels
of barley on, and sixteen jars of rice; which was, in short,
all the seed we had to spare; nor, indeed, did we leave our-
selves barley sufficient for our own food, for the sis months
that we had to expect our crop; that is to say, reckoning
from the time we set our seed aside for sowing; for it is
not to be supposed it is six months in the ground in that
country.
Having now society enough, and our number being suffi-
cient to put us out of fear of the savages, if they had come,
unless their number had been very great, we went freely
all over the island, whenever we found occasion; and as
bare we had our escape or deliverance upon oar thoughts,
it was impossible, at least for me, to bare tbe means of it
out of mine. For this purpose 1 marked out several tnsea
which I thought fit for our work, and 1 set Friday and his
father to cutting them down; and then I caused the Span-
iard, to whom I imparted my thought on that affair, to
oversee and direct their work. 1 showed them with what
indefatigable pains I had hewed a large tree into single
planks, and 1 caused them to do the like, till they had
made about a dozen large flanks of good oak, near two
feet broad, thirty-five feet long, and from two inches to
four inches thick; what prodigious labor it took up, any
one may imagine.
At the same time, I contrived to increase my little flook
of tame goats as much as 1 could; and, for this purpose, I
made Friday and the Spaniard go out one day, and myself
with Friday the next day (for we took our turns), and by
this means we got about twenty young kids to breed up
with the rest; for whenever we shot the dam, we saved the
kids, and added them to our flock. But, above all, the
season for curing the grapes coming on, 1 caused aach a
prodigious quantity to be hung up in the sun, that, I be-
lieve, had we been at Alicant, where the raisins of the sun
are cured, we could have filled sixty or eighty barrels; and
these, with our bread, was a great part of our food, and
was very good living, too, I assure you, for it is exceeding-
ly nourishing.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order; it was
not the most plentiful increase I had seen in the island,
but, however, it was enough to answer our end; for from
twenty-two bushels of barley we brought in and threshed
out above two hundred and twenty bushels, and the like
in proportion of the rice; which was store enough for our
food to the next harvest, though all the sixteen Spaniards
bad been on shore with me; or if we had been ready for a
-voyage, it would very plentifully have victualed our ship
o have carried us to any part of the world, that is to say,
any part of America. When we had thus housed and
secured our magazine of corn, we fell to work to make
more wickerware, viz., great baskets in which we kept it;
and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous at this
part, and often blamed me that I did not make some things
for defense of this kind of work; but I saw no need of it.
And now, having a full supply of food for all the guests
ROBlNciOX CHL'SOE. 221
I expected, 1 gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the
main, to see what he could do with those he had left behind
him there. I gave him a strict charge not to bring any
man with him who would not first swear, in the presence
of himself and the old savage, that he would no way in-
jure, fight with, or attack the person he should find in the
island, who was so kind as to send for them to effect
their deliverance; but that they would stand by him, and
defend him against all such attempts, and wherever they
went, would be entirely under and subjected to his com-
mand; and that this should be put in writing, and signed
with their hands. How they were to have done this, when
I knew they had neither pen nor ink, was a question which
we never asked. Under these instructions, the Spaniard
and the old savage, the father of Friday, went away in one
of the canoes which they might be said to come in, or
rather were brought in, when they came as prisoners to be
devoured by the savages. I gave each of them a musket,
with a firelock on it, and about eight charges of powder
and ball, charging them to be very good husbands of both,
and not to use either of them but upon urgent occasions.
This was a cheerful work, being the first measures used
by me, in view of my deliverance, for now twenty-seven
years and some days. 1 gave them provisions of bread,
and of dried grapes, sufficient for themselves for many
days, and sufficient for all the Spaniards for about eight
days' time; and wishing them a good voyage, I saw them
go; agreeing with them about a signal they should hang
out at their return, by which I should know them again,
when they came back, at a distance, before they came on
shore. They went away with a fair gale, on the day that
the moon was at full, by my account in the month of Octo-
ber; but as for an exact reckoning of days, after I had
once lost it, I could never recover it again, nor had 1 kept
even the number of years so punctually as to be sure I was
right; though, as it proved, when I afterward examined
my account, I found I had kept a true reckoning of years.
It was no less than eight days I had waited for them,
when a strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of
which the like has not perhaps been heard of in history. I
was fast asleep in my hutch one morning, when my man
Friday came running in to me, and called aloud, Master,
master, the; are come, they are come! I jumped up,
tStt ROB IH SOW CRTTSOi,
and, regardlets of danger, I went ont ah soon «s I could
get my clothes on, through nay little grove, which, by the
way, was by this time grown to be a very thick wood; 1
eay, regardless of danger, 1 went without my arms, which
it was not my custom to do; but 1 was surprised when,
turning my eyes to the sea, I presently saw a boat about a
league and a half distant, standing in for the shore, with a
shoulder-of-mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind blow-
ing pretty fair to bring them in; also I observed presently
that they did not come from that side which the shore lay
on, but from the southernmost end of the island., Upon
this, I called Friday in, and bade him lie close, for these
were not the people we looked for, and that we might not
know yet whether they were friends or enemies. In the
next place, I went in to fetch my perspective glass, to see
what 1 could make of them; and having taken the ladder
out, I climbed up to the top of the hill, as I used to do
when 1 was apprehensive of anything, and to take my view
the plainer without being discovered. 1 had scarce set my
foot upon the hill, when my eye plainly discovered a ship
lying at anchor, at about two leagues and a half dis-
tant from me, S.S.E., but not above a league and a half
from the shore. By my observation, it appeared plainly to
be an English ship, and the boat appeared to be an En-
glish long-boat.
I can not express the confusion I was in; though the joy
of seeing a ship, and one that I had reason to believe was
manned by my own countrymen, and, consequently, friends,
was such as I can not describe; but yet 1 had some secret
doubts hang about me—I can not tell from whence they
came, bidding me keep upon my guard. In the first place,
it occurred to me to consider what business an English ship
could have in that part of the world, since it was not the
way to or from any part of the world where the English
had any traffic; and 1 knew there had been no storms to
drive them in there, as in distress; and that if they were
really English, it was most probable that they were here
upon no good design; and that I had better continue as I
was, than fall into the hands of thieves and murderers.
Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of dan-
ger which sometimes are given him when he may think
there is no possibility of its being real. That such hint*
and notices are given us, I belief V few that have made any
ROBINSON CRUSOE. ftt
observations of things can deny; that they are certain dis-
coveries of art invisible world, and a converse of spirits, we
can not doubt; and if the tendency of them seems to be to
warn us of danger, why should we not suppose they are
from some friendly agent (whether supreme, or inferior
and subordinate, is not the question), and that they are
given for our good?
The present question abundantly confirms me in the
justice of this reasoning; for had I not been made cautious
by this secret admonition, come it from whence it will, I
had been undone inevitably, and in a far worse condition
than before, as you will see presently. I had not kept my-
self long in thiB posture, but I saw the boat draw near the
shore, as if they looked for a creek to thrust in at, for the
convenience of landing; however, as they did not come
Suite far enough, they did not see the little inlet where I
ormerly landed my rafts, but run their boat on shore upon
the beach, at about half a mile from me, which was very
happy for me; for( otherwise they would have landed just
at my door, as I may say, and would soon have beaten me
out of my castle, and perhaps have plundered me of all I had.
When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied they were
Englishmen, at least most of them; one or two I thought
were Dutch, but it did not prove so; there were in all
eleven men, whereof three of them I found were unarmed,
and, as 1 thought, bound; and when the first four or five
of them were jumped on shore, they took those three out
of the boat, as prisoners; one of the three I could perceive
using the most passionate gestures of entreaty, affliction,
and despair, even to a kind of extravagance; the other
two, I could perceive, lifted up their hands sometimes, and
appeared concerned, indeed, but not to such a degree as
the first. 1 was perfectly confounded at the sight, and
knew not what the meaning of it should be. Friday called
out to me in English, as well as he could, Oh, master! you
see English mans eat prisoner as well as savage mans.
Why, Friday, says I, do you think they are going to eat
them then? Yes, says Friday, they will eat them. "No,
no, says I, Friday; I am afraid they will murder them, in-
deed, but you may be sure they will not eat them.
All this while I had no thought of what the matter really
was, but stood trembling with the horror of the sight, ex-
pecting every moment when the three prisoners should be
224 BOBUTSOH CRU8GB.
killed; nay, once I saw one of the villains lift up his arm
with a great cutlass, as the seamen call it, or sword, to
strike one of the poor men; and I expected to see him fall
every moment; at which all the blood in my body seemed
to run chill in my veins. 1 wished heartily now for my
Spaniard, and the savage that was gone with him, or that
I had any way to have come undiscovered within shot of
them, that I might have rescued the three men, for 1 saw
no fire-arms they had among them; but it fell out to my
mind another way. After I had observed the outrageous
usage of the three men by the insolent seamen, I observed
the fellows run scattering about the island, as if they
wanted to see the country. 1 observed that the three other
men had liberty to go also where they pleased; but they sat
down all three upon the ground, very pensive, and looked
like men in despair. This put me in mind of the first time
when I came on shore, and began to look about me: how
I gave myself over for lost; how wildly I looked around me;
what dreadful apprehensions I had, and how 1 lodged in the
tree all night, for fear of being devoured by wild beasts. As I
knew nothing that night of the supply I was to receive by
the providential driving of the ship nearer the land by the
storms and tide, by which 1 have since been so long nour-
ished and supported; bo these three poor, desolate men
knew nothing how uncertain of deliverance and supply
they were, how near it was to them, and how effectually
and really they were in a condition of safety, at the same
time that they thought themselves lost, and their case des-
perate. So little do we see before us in the world, and so
much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon the great
Maker of the world, that He does not leave His creatures
so absolutely destitute, but that, in the worst circum-
stances, they have always something to be thankful for,
and sometimes are nearer their deliverance than they im-
agine, nay, are even brought to their deliverance by the
means by which they seem to be brought to destruction.
SECTION XXVI.
Robinson Discovers Himself to the English Captain.—Assists him
in Reducing his Mutinous Crew.—Who Submit to Him.
It was just at the top of high water when these people
came on shore; and partly while they rambled about to see
what kind of a place they were in, they had carelessly
stayeu till the tide was spent, and the water was ebbed
considerably away, leaving their boat aground. They had
left two men in the boat, who, as I found afterward, hav-
ing drunk a little too much brandy, fell asleep; however,
one of them waking a little sooner than the other, and
finding the boat too fast aground for him to stir it, hal-
looed out for the rest, who were straggling about; upon
wkich they all soon came to the boat; but it was past alt
their strength to launch her, the boat being very heavy,
and the shore on that side being a soft, oozy sand, almost
like a quicksand. In this condition, like true seamen, who
are perhaps the least of all mankind given to forethought,
they gave it over, and away they strolled about the country
again; and I heard one of them say aloud to another, call-
ing them off from the boat, Why, let her alone, Jack,
can't you? she'll float next tide; by which I was fully con-
firmed in the main inquiry of what countrymen they were.
All this while I kept myself very close, not once daring to
stir out of my castle, any further than to my place of ob-
servation, near the top of the hill; and very glad I was to
think how well it was fortified. I knew it was bo less than
ten hours before the boat could float again, and by that
time it would be dark, and 1 might be at more liberty to
see their motions, and to hear their discourse, if they had
any. In the meantime, I fitted myself up for a battle, as
before, though with more caution, knowing I had to do
with another kind of enemy than I had at first . I ordered
Friday also, whom 1 had made an excellent marksman
with his gun, to load himself with arms. I took myself
two fowling-pieces, and 1 gave him three muskets. My
figure, indeed, was very fierce; 1 had my formidable goat<
3kin coat on, with the great cap I have mentioned, a naked
sword by my side, two pistols in my belt, and a gun upon
each shoulder.
It was my design, as I said above, not to have made any
attempt till it was dark; but about two o'clock, being the
heat A the day, 1 found that, in short, they were all gone
struggling into the woods, and, as 1 thought, laid down to
sleep. The three poor distressed men, too anxious for
their condition to get any sleep, were, however, sat down
under the shelter of a great tree, at about a quarter of a
mile from me, and, as 1 thought, out of sight of any of
%%H BOBINSOK CRUSOE.
the rest. Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them,
and learn something of their condition; immediately 1
marched in the figure as above, my man Friday at a good
distance behind me, as formidable for his arms as I, but
not making quite so staring a specter-like figure as I did.
1 came as near them undiscovered as 1 could, and then, be-
fore any of them saw me, I called aloud to them in Spanish,
What are ye, gentlemen? They started up at the noise;
but were ten times more confounded when they saw me,
and the uncouth figure that I made. They made no an-
swer at all, but I thought 1 perceived them just going to
fly from me, when 1 spoke to them in English. Gentle-
men, said 1, do not be surprised at me; perhaps you may
have a friend near, when you did not expect it. He must
be sent directly from Heaven, then, said one of them very
gravely to me, and pulling off his hat at the same time to
me, for our condition is past the help of man. All help is
from Heaven, sir, said I. But can you put a stranger in
the way how to help you? for you seem to be in some
great distress. I saw you when you landed, and when you
seemed to make supplication to the brutes that came with
you, I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill you.
The poor man, with tears running down his face, and
trembling, looking like one astonished, returned, Am I
talking to God or man? Is it a real man or an angel? Be
in no fear about that, sir, said I; if God had sent an angel
to relieve you, he would have come better clothed, and
armed after another manner than you see me; pray lay
aside your fears; 1 am a man, an Englishman, and dis-
posed to assist you; you see I have one servant only; we
have arms and ammunition; tell us freely, can we serve
you? What is your case? Our case, said he, sir, is too
long to tell you while our murderers are so near us; but,
in short, sir, I was commander of that ship, my men have
mutinied against me; tbey have been hardly prevailed on
not to murder me, and at last have set me on shore in this
desolate place, with these two men with me, one my mate,
the other a passenger, where we expected to perish, believ-
ing the place to be uninhabited, and know not yet what to
think of it. Where are these brutes, your enemies? said
X. Do you know where they are gone? There they lie,
sir, said he, pointing to a thicket of trees; my heart trem-
bles for fear they have seen us, and heard you speak; if
they have, they will certainly murder us alL Hvre they
any fire-arms? said I. He answered they had only two
pieces, one of which they left in the boat. Weil, then,
said 1, leave the rest to me; I see they are all asleep, it if
an easy thing to kill them all; but shall we rather take
them prisoners? He told me there were two desperate vil-
lains among them that it was scarce safe to show an;
mercy to; but if they were secured, he believed all the rest
would return to their duty. I asked him which they were.
He told me he could not at that distance distinguish them,
but he would obey my orders in anything I would direct.
Well, says I, let ia retreat out of their view or hearing,
lest they awake, and we will resolve further. So they
willingly went back with me, till the woods covered ua
from them.
Look you, sir, said I, if I venture upon yonr deliver-
ance, are you willing to make two conditions with me? He
anticipated my proposals, by telling me, that both he and
the ship, if recovered, should be wholly directed and com-
manded by me in everything- and, if the ship was not re-
covered, he would live and die with me in what part of the
world soever I would send him: and the two other men
said the same. Well, says 1, my conditions are but two;
first, that while you stay in this island with me you will
not pretend to any authority here; and if I put arms in .
your hands, you will, upon all occasions, give them up to
me, and do no prejudice to me or mine upon this island;
and, in the meantime, be governed by my orders; second-
ly, that if the ship is, or may be recovered, you will carry
me and my man to England passage free.
He gave me all the assurances that the invention or faith
of man could devise, that he would comply with these
most reasonable demands; and, besides, would owe his life
m me, and acknowledge it upon all occasions, as long as he
lived. - Well, then, said I, here are three muskets for you,
with powder and ball; tell me nott what you think is
Eroper to be done. He showed me all the testimonies of
is gratitude that he was able, but offered to be wholly
guided by me. 1 told him 1 thought it was hard venturing
anything; but the best method 1 coald think of was to fire
upon them at once, as they lay, and if any was not killed
at the first volley, and offered to submit, we might save
them, and so put it wholly upon God's Providence to djraet
the shot. He said very modestly that he was loath to kill
them, if he could help it; but that those two were incor-
rigible villains and had been the authors of all the mutiny
in the ship, and if they escaped, we should be undone still;
for they would go on board and bring the whole ship's
company, and destroy us all. Well, then, says I, necessity
legitimates my advice, for it is the only way to save our
lives. However, seeing him still cautious of shedding
blood, 1 told him they should go themselves and manage
as they found convenient.
In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them
awake, and soon after we saw two of them on their feet. I
asked him if either of them were the heads of the mutiny?
He said no. Well, then, said I, you may let them escape;
and Providence seems to have awakened them on purpose
to save themselves. Now, says I, if the rest escape you,
it is your fault. Animated with this, he took the musket
I had given him in his hand, a pistol in his belt, and his
two comrades with him, with each a piece in his hand; the
two men who were with him going first, made some noise,
at which one of the seamen who was awake turned about,
and seeing them coming, cried out to the rest; but it wag
too late then, for the moment he cried out they fired; I
mean the two men, the captain wisely reserving his own
piece. They had so well aimed their shot at the men they
knew, that one of them was killed on the spot, and the
other very much wounded; but not being dead, he started
up on his feet, and called eagerly for help to the others;
but the captain stepping to him, told him it was too late to
cry for help, he should call upon God to forgive his vil-
lainy; and with that word knocked him down with the
stock of his musket, so that he never spoke more; ther*
were three more in the company, and one of them was also
slightly wounded. By this time I was come; and when
they saw their danger, and that it was in vain to resist,
they begged for mercy. The captain told them he would
spare their lives, if they would give him any assurance of.
their abhorrence of the treachery they had been guilty of,
and would swear to be faithful to him in recovering the
ship, and afterward in carrying her back to Jamaica, from
whence they came. They gave him all the protestations
of their sincerity that could be desired, and he was willing
to believe them, and spare their lives, which 1 was not
BOBIKSOS CRU801. tO?
against, only that 1 obliged him to keep them bound hand
and foot while they were on the island.
While this was doing, 1 sent Friday with the captain's
mate to the boat, with orders to secure her, and bring
away the oars and sails, which they did; and by and bj
three straggling men, that were, happily for them, parted
from the rest, came back upon hearing the guns fired, and
teeing the captain, who before was their prisoner, now ther
conqueror, they submitted to be bound also; and 80 on /
Tictory was complete.
It now remained that the captain and I should inquire
into each other's circumstances. I began first, and told him
aiy whole history, which he heard with an attention even
to amazement; and particularly at the wonderful manner
of my being furnished with provisions and ammunition;
and, indeed, as my story is a whole collection of wonders,
it affected him deeply. But when he reflected from thence
upon himself, and how I seemed to hr.ve been preserved
there on purpose to save his life, the tears ran down his
face, and he could not speak a word more. After this
communication was at an end I curried hira and his two
men into my apartment, leading them in just where I
came out, viz., at the top of the honse, where I refreshed
them with such provisions as 1 had, and showed them all
the contrivances I had made during my long, long in-
habiting that place.
All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly
amazing; but, above all, the captain admired my fortifica-
tion, and how perfectly I had concealed my retreat with a
grove of trees, which, having been now planted near twenty
years, and the trees growing much faster than in England,
was become a little wood, and so thick, that it was im«
passable in any part of it, but at that one side where I had
reserved my little winding passage into it. I told him this
was my castle and my residence, but that I had a seat in
the country, as most princes have, whither 1 could retreat
apon occasion, and I would show him that too another
time; but at present our business was to consider how to
recover the ship. He agreed with me as to that; bnt told
me he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take, for
that there were still six-and-twenty hands on board, who
having entered into a oursed conspiracy, by which they had
BOBIKSOS CRU801. tO?
230 HOBINSON CBUSOB.
now by desperation, and would carry it on, Knowing that
if they were subdued, they would be brought to the gal-
lows, as soon as they came to England, or to any of tha
English colonies; and that, therefore, there would be no
attacking them with so small a number as we were.
I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found
it was a very rational conclusion, and that, therefore, some-
thing was to be resolved on speedily, as well to draw the
men on board into some snare for their surprise, as to pre-
vent their landing upon us, and destroying us. Upon this
it presently occurred to me that in a little while the ship's
crew, wondering what was become of their comrades, and
of the boat, would certainly come on shore in their other
boat, to look for them; and that then, perhaps, they might
come armed, and be too strong for us; this he allowed to
be rational. Upon this I told him the first thing we had
to do was to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, so
that they might not carry her oif; and taking everything
out of her, leave her so far useless as not to be fit to swim;
accordingly we went on board, took the arms which were
left on board out of her, and whatever else we found there,
which was a bottle of brandy, and another of rum, a few
biscuit-cakes, a horn of powder, and a great lump of sugar
in a piece of canvas (the sugar was five or six pounds); all
which was very welcome to me, especially the brandy and
sugar, of which I had none left for many years.
When we had carried all these things on shore (the oars,
mast, sail and rudder of the boat were carried away be-
fore, as above), we knocked a great hole in her bottom,
that if they had come strong enough to master us, yet they
could not carry off the boat. Indeed, it was not much in
my thoughts that we cotdd be able to recover the ship; but
my view was, that if they went away without the boat, I
did not much question to make her fit again to carry us to
the Leeward Islands, and call upon our friends the Span-
iards in my way; for I had them still in my thoughts.
While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first,
by main strength, heaved the boat upon the beach so high
that the tide would not float her off at high-water mark,
and besides, had broke a hole in her bottom too big to be
quickly stopped, and were set down musing what we should
do, we heard the ship fire a gun, and saw her make a waft
with her ensign as a signal for the boat to come on board;
but no boat stirred; and they fired several times, making
other signals for the boat. At last, when all their signals
and firing proved fruitless, and they found the boat did
not stir, we saw them, by the help of my glass, hoist an-
other boat out, and row toward the shore; and we found,
as they approached, that there were no less than ten men
in her, and that they had fire-arms with them.
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we
had a full view of them as they came, and a plain sight
even of their faces; because the tide having set them a lit-
tle to the east of the other boat, they rowed up under shore,
to come to the same place where the other had landed, and
where the boat lay; by this means, I say, we had a full view
of them, and the captain knew the persons and characters
of all the men in the boat, of whom, he said, there were
three very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led into
this conspiracy by the rest, being overpowered and fright-
ened; but that as for the boatswain, who, it seems, was the
chief officer among them, and all the rest, they were as
outrageous as any of the ship's crew, and were no doubt
made desperate in their new enterprise; and terribly ap-
frehensive he was that they would be too powerful for us.
smiled at him, and told him that men in our circum-
stances were past the operation of fear; that seeing almost
every condition that could be was better than that which
we were supposed to be in, we ought to expect that the
consequence, whether death or life, would be sure to be a
deliveranoe. 1 asked him what he thought of the circum-
stances of my life, and whether a deliverance were not
worth venturing for? And where, sir, said 1, is your be-
lief of my being preserved here on purpose to save your life,
which elevated you a little while ago; for my part, said 1,
there seems to me but one thing amiss in all the prospect
of it. What is that? says he. Why, says 1, it is, that as
you say there are three or four honest fellows among them,
which should be spared, had they been all of the wicked
part of the crew, I should have thought God's providence
had singled, them out to deliver them into your hands; for,
depend upon it, every man that comes ashore is our own,
and shall die cr live as they behave to us. As I spoke this
with a raised voice and cheerful countenance, I found it
greatly encouraged him} so we set vigorously to our busv
new.
We had, upon the first appearance of the boat*a coming
from the ship, considered of separating our prisoners; and
we had, indeed, secured them effectually. Two of them,
of whom the captain was less assured than ordinary, 1 seat
with Friday, aud one of the three delivered men, to my
cave, where they were remote enough, and out of danger
of being heard or discovered, or of finding their way out of
the woods if they could have delivered themselves: hero
they left them bound, but gave them provisions; and prom-
ised them if they continued there quietly, to give them their
liberty in a day or two; but that if they attempted their
escape, they should be put to death without mercy. They
promised faithfully to bear their confinement with patience,
and were very thankful that they had such good usage as
to have provisions and light left them; for Friday gave them
candles (such as we made ourselves) for their comfort; and
they did not know but that he stood sentinel over them at
the entrance.
The other prisoners had better usage: two of them were
kept pinioned, indeed, because the captain was not free to
trust them; but the other two were taken into my service,
upon the captain's recommendation, and upon their
solemnly engaging to live and die with us; so with them
and the three honest men we were seven men well armed;
and I made no doubt we should be able to deal well enough
with the ten that were coming, considering that the cap-
tain had said that there were three or four honest men
among them also. As soon as they got to the place where
their other boat lay, they ran their boat into the beach, and
came on shore, hauling the boat up after them, which 1
was glad to see; for 1 was afraid they would rather have
left the boat at anchor, some distance from the shore,
with some hands in her to guard her, and so we should not
be able to seize the boat. Being on shore, the first thing
they did, they ran all to their other boat; and it was easy
to see they were under a great surprise to find her strip-
Eed, as above, of all that was in her, and a great hole in
er bottom. After they had mused awhile upon this, they
set up two or three great shouts, hallooing with all their
might, to try if they could make their companions hear;
but all was to no purpose: then they came all close in a
ring, and fired a volley of their small arms, which, indeed,
w heard, and the echoes made the woods ring; but it was
all one: those in the cave we were sure could not hear; and
those in our keeping, though they heard it well enough,
yet durst give no answer to them. They were so aston-
ished at the surprise of this, that, as they told us after-
ward, they resolved to go all on board again to their ship,
and let them know that the men were all murdered, and
the long-boat staved; accordingly, they immediately
launched their boat again, and got all of ther m board.
The captain was terribly amazed and eve confounded
at this, believing they would go on board the ship again,
and set sail, giving their comrades over for lost, and so he
should still lose the ship, which he was in hopes we should
have recovered; but he was quickly as much frightened the
other way.
They had not been long put off with the boat, but we
perceived them all coming on shore again; but with this
new measure in their conduct, which it seems they con-
sulted together upon, viz., to leave three men in the boat,
and the rest to go on shore, and go up into the country to
look for tiieir fellows. This was a great disappointment to
us, for now we wer" at a loss what to do; as our seizing
those seven men r,.i shore would be no advantage to us, u
we let the boat escape; because they would then row away
to the ship, and then the rest of them would be sure to
weigh and set sail, and so our recovering the ship would be
lost. However, we had no remedy but to wait and see
what the issue of things might present. The seven men
came on shore, and the three who remained in the boat put
her oft to a good distance from the shore, and came to an
anchor to wait for them; so that it was impossible for us
to come at them in the boat. Those that came on shore
kept close together, marching toward the top of the little
hill under which my habitation lay; and we could see them
Elainly, though they could not perceive us. We could have
een very glad they would have come nearer to us, so that
we might have fired at them, or that they would have gone
further off, that we might have come abroad. But when
they were come to the brow of the hill, whtre they could
see a great way into the valleys and woods, which lay toward
the north-east part, and where the island lay lowest, they
shouted and hallooed till they were weary; and not caring,
it *eems, to venture far from the shore, nor far from each
other, they sat down together under a tree, to consider of
it. Had they thought fit to have gone to sleep there, as
the other part of them had done, they had done the job for
us; but they were too full of apprehensions of danger to
venture to go to sleep, though they could not tell what the
danger was they had to fear neither.
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this
consultation of theirs, viz., that perhaps they would all
fire a volley T;ain, to endeavor to make their fellows hear,
and that we , ould all sally upon them, just at the juncture
when their pieces were all discharged, and they would cer-
tainly yield, and we should have them without bloodshed.
I liked this proposal, provided it was done while we were
near enough to come up to them before they could load
their pieces again. But this even did not happen; and we
lay still a long time, very irresolute what course to take.
At length 1 told them there would be nothing done, in my
opinion, till night; and then, if they did not return to the
boat, perhaps we might find a way to get between them and
the shore, and so might use some stratagem with them in
the boat to get them on shore. We waited a great while,
though very impatient for their removing; and were very
uneasy, when, after long consultations, we saw them all
start up, and march down toward the sea: it seems they
had such dreadful apprehensions upon them of the danger
of the place, that they resolved to go on board the ship
again, give their companions over for lost, and so go on
with their intended voyage with the ship.
As soon as I perceived them go toward the shore, I imag-
ined it to be, as it really was, that they had given over their
search, and were for going back again; and the captain, as
soon as I told him my thoughts, was ready to sink at the
apprehensions of it: but I presently thought of a stratagem
to fetch them back again, and which answered my end to
s tittle. I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to go
over the little creek westward, toward the place where the
savages came on shore when Friday was rescued, and as
soon as they came to a little rising ground, at about half a
mile distance, 1 bade them halloo out, as loud as they could,
and wait till they found the seamen heard them; that as
soon as ever they heard the seamen answer them, they
should return it again; and then keeping out of sight, take
a round, always answering when the others hallooed, to
draw them as far into the island, and among the woods, m
possible, and then wheel about again to me, by sueh ways
as I directed them.
They were just going into the boat when Friday and the
mate hallooed: and they presently heard them, and answer-
ing, ran along the shore westward, toward the voice they
heard, when they were presently stopped by the creek,
where the water being up, they could not get over, and
called for the boat to come up and set them over; as, in-
deed, I expected. When they had set themselves over, I
observed that the boat being gone a good way into the
creek, and, as it were, in a harbor within the land, they
took one of the three men out of her, to go along with
them, and left only two in the boat, having fastened her
to the stump of a little tree on the shore. This was what
I wished for; and immediately leaving Friday and the cap-
tain's mate to their business, 1 took the rest with me, and
crossing the creek out of their sight, we surprised the two
men before they were aware; one of them lying on the
shore, and the other being in the boat. The fellow on
shore was between sleeping and waking, and going to start
up; the captain, who was foremost, ran in upon him, and
knocked him down; and then called out to him in the boat
to yield, or he was a dead man. There needed very few
arguments to persuade a single man to yield, when he saw
five men upon him, and his comrade knocked down; be-
sides, this was, it seems, one of the three who were not so
hearty in the mutiny as the rest of the crew, and therefore
was easily persuaded not only to yield, but afterward to
join very sincerely with us. In the meantime, Friday and
the captain's mate so well managed their business with the
rest, that they drew them, by hallooing and answering, from
one hill to another, and from one wood to another, till they
not only heartily tired them, but left them where they were
very sure they could not reach back to the boat before it
was dark; and, indeed, they were heartily tired themselves
also, by the time they came back to us.
We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in the
dark, and to fall upon them, so as to make sure work with
them. It was several hours after Friday came back to me
before they came back to their boat; and we could hear the
foremost of them, long before they came quite up, calling
to those behind to come along; and could also hear them
answer, and complain how laaie and tired they were, and
not able to come any faster, which was very welcome newi
to us. At length they came up to the boat: but it is im-
possible to express their confusion when they found the boat
fast aground in the creek, the tide ebbed out, and their two
men gone. We could hear them call to one another in a
most lamentable manner, telling one another they were got
into an enchanted island: that either there were inhabitants
in it, and they should all be murdered, or else there were
devils and spirits in it, and they should be all carried away
and devoured. They hallooed again, and called their tw»
comrades by their names a great many times; but no an-
swer. After some time, we could see them, by the little
light there was, run about, wringing their hands like men
in despair; and that sometimes they would go and sit down
in the boat, to rest themselves; then come ashore again, and
walk about again, and do the same thing over again. My
men would fain have had me give them leave to fall upon
them at once in the dark; but I was willing to take them
at some advantage, so to spare them, and kill as few of
them as I could; and especially I was unwilling to hazard
the killing of any of our men, knowing the others were
very well armed. I resolved to wait, to see if they did not
separate; and, therefore, to make sure of them, I drew my
ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday and the captain to
creep upon their hands and feet, as close to the ground as
they could, that they might not be discovered, and get as
aear them as they could possibly, before they offered to
fire.
They had not been long in that posture, when the boat-
swain, who was the principal ringleader of the mutiny, and
had now shown himself the most dejected and dispirited of
all the rest, came walking toward them, with two more of
the crew: the captain *was so eager at having this principal
rogue so much in his power, that he could hardly have
patience to let him come so near as to be sure of him, for
they only heard his tongue before: but when they came
nearer, the captain and Friday, starting up on their feet,
let fly at them. The boatswain was killed upon the spot;
the next man was shot in the body, and fell just by him,
though he did not die till an hour or two after; and the
third ran for it. At the noise of the fire, I immediately
advanced with my whole army, which was now eight men,
viz., myself, generalissimo; Friday, my lieutenant-general;
ROBINSON CBUSOE. 837
the captain and bis two men, and the three prisoners ot
war, whom we had trusted with arms. We came upon
them, indeed, in the dark, so that they could not see our
number; and 1 made the man they had left in the boat,
who was now one of us, to call them by name, to try if I
could bring them to a parley, and so might perhaps reduce
them to terms; which fell out just as we desired: for, in-
deed, it was easy to think, as their condition then was, they
would be willing to capitulate. So he calls out, as loud as
he could, to one of them, Tom Smith! Tom Smith! Tom
Smith answered immediately, Is that Eobinson? For it
seems he knew the voice. The other answered, Ay, ay;
for God's sake, Tom Smith, throw down your arms and
yield, or you are all dead men this moment. Who must
we yield to? Where are they? says Smith again. Here
they are, says he; here's our captain and fifty men with
him, have been hunting you these two hours: the boat-
swain is killed, Will Fry is wounded, and I am a prisoner;
and if you do not yield, you are all lost. Will they give
us quarter then? says Tom SmKi, and we will yield. I
will go ask, if you promise to yield, says Eobinson: so he
asked the captain; and the captain himself then calls out,
You, Smith, you know my voice; if you lay down your
arms immediately, and submit, you shall hare your lives,
all but Will Atkins.
SECTION XXVIL
Atkins Entreats the Captain to Spare his Life.—The Latter Recovers
his Vessel from the Mutineers.—And Robinson Leaves the Island.
Upon this Will Atkins cried out, For God's sake, cap-
tain, give me quarter; what have I done? They have all
been as bad as I: which, by the way, was not true neither;
for, it seems, this Will Atkins was the first man that laid
hold of the captain when they first mutinied, and used him
barbariously, in tying his hands, and giving him injurious
language. However, the captain told him he must lay
down his arms at discretion, and trust to the governor's
mercy: by which he meant me, for they all called me gov-
ernor. In a word, they all laid down their arms, and
begged their lives; and I sent the man that had parleyed
with them, and two more, who bound them all; and then
wy great army of fifty men, whioh particularly with thow
three were in all but eight, came up and seized upon them,
and upon their boat; only that I kept myself and ont
more out of sight for reasons of state.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of seiz-
ing the ship: and as for the captain, now he had leisure to
parley with them, he expostulated with them upon the
villainy of their practices with him, and at length upon the
further wickedness of their design, and how certainly it
must bring them to misery and distress in the end, and
perhaps to the gallows. They all appeared very penitent,
and begged hard for their lives. As for that, he told them
they were none of his prisoners, but the commander's of
the island; that they thought they had set him on shore on
a barren, uninhabited island; but it had pleased God so to
direct them, that it was inhabited, and that the governor
was an Englishman; that he might hang them all there,
if he pleased; but as he had given them all quarter, he
supposed he would send them to England, to be dealt with
there as justice required, except Atkins, whom he was com-
manded by the governor to advise to prepare for death, for
that he would be hanged in the morning.
Though all this was but a fiction of his own, yet it had
its desired effect: Atkins fell upon his knees, to beg the
captain to intercede with the governor for his life; and all
the rest begged of him, for God's sake, that they might
not be sent to England. .
It now occurred to me, that the time of our deliverance
was come, and that it would be a most easy thing to bring
these fellows in to be hearty in getting possession of the
ship; so 1 retired in the dark from them, that they might
not see what kind of a governor they had, and called the
captain to me: when 1 called, as at a good distance, one of
the men was ordered to speak again, and say to the cap-
tain, Captain, the commander calls for you; and presently
the captain replied, Tell his excellency I am just a-coming.
This more perfectly amused them, and they all believed
that the commander was just by with his fifty men. Upon
the captain's coming to me, 1 told him my project for seiz-
ing the ship, which he liked wonderfully well, and resolved
to put it in execution the next morning. But, in order to
execute it with more heart, and to be secure of success, I
told him we most divide the prisoners, and that he should
go and take Atkins and two more of the worst of them, and
send them pinioned to the cave where the others lay. This
was committed to Friday and the two men who came on
shore with the captain. They conveyed them to the cave
as to a prison: and it was, indeed, a dismal place, especi-
ally to men in their condition. The others 1 ordered to
my bower, as I called it, of which I have given a full de-
scription: and as it was fenced in, and they pinioned, the
place was secure enough, considering they were upon their
behavior.
To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was to
enter into a parley with them; in a word, to try them, and
tell me whether he thought they might be trusted or no to
,go on board and surprise the ship. He talked to them of
the injury done him, of the condition they were brought to,
and that though the governor had given them quarter for
their lives as to the present action, yet that if they were
sent to England they would all be hanged in chains, to
be sure; but that if they would join in so just an attempt
%a to recover the ship, he would have the governor's engage-
ment for their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily snch a proposal would be
accepted by men in their condition; they fell down on their
knees to the captain, and promised, with the deepest impre-
cations, that they would be faithful to him to the last drop,
and that they should owe their lives to him, and would go
with him all over the world; that they would own him as
a father as long as they lived. Well, says the captain, I
must go and tell the governor what you say, and see what
I can do to bring him to consent to it. So he brought me
an account of the temper he found them in, and that ho
verily believed they would be faithful. However, that we
might be very secure, I told him he should go back again
and choose out those five, and tell them, that they might
see he did not want men, that he would take out those five
to be his assistants, and that the governor would keep the
other two, and the three that were sent prisoners to the
castle (my cave) as hostages for the fidelity of those five;
and that if they proved unfaithful in the execution, the five
hostages should be hanged in chains alive on the shore.
This looked severe, and convinced them that the governor
was in earnest: however, they had no way left them but to
accept it; and it was now the business of the prisoners, M
much as of the captain, to persuade the other fire to do
their duty.
Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition:
first, the captain, his mate, and passenger; second, the
two prisoners of the first gang, to whom, having their
character from the captain, 1 had given their liberty, and
trusted them with arms: third, the other two that I had
kept till now in my bower pinioned, but, od the captain's
motion, had now released: fourth, these five released at
last, so that they were twelve in all, besides five we kept
prisoners in the cave for hostages.
I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with
these hands on board the ship: but as for me and my man
Friday, 1 did not think it was proper for us to stir, having
seven men left behind; and it was employment enough for
us to keep them asunder, and supply them with victuals.
As to the five in the cave, 1 resolved to keep them fast, but
Friday went in twice a day to them, to supply them with
necessaries; and 1 made the other two carry provisions to a
certain distance, where Friday was to take it.
When 1 showed myself to the two hostages, it was with
the captain, who told them 1 was the person the governor
had ordered to look after them; and that it was the gov-
ernor's pleasure they should not stir anywhere but by my
direction; that if they did, they would be fetched into the
castle, and be laid in irons; so that as we never suffered
them to see me as a governor, I now appeared as another
person, and spoke of the governor, the garrison, the
castle, and the like, upon all occasions.
The captain now had no difficulty before him, but to
furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one, and man
them. He made his passenger captain of one, with four
of the men; and himself, his mate, and five more, went in
the other; and they contrived their business very well, for
they came up to the ship about midnight. As soon as they
came within call of the ship, he made Robinson hail them,
and tell them they had brought off the men and the boat,
but that it was a long time before they had found them, and
the like, holding them in a chat till they came to the ship's
side; when the captain and mate entering first, with their
arms, immediately knocked down the second mate and
carpenter with the butt end of their muskets, being very
faithfully seconded by their men; they secured all the rest
that were npon the main and quarter-decks, and began to
fasten the hatches, to keep them down that were below;
when the other boat and their men, entering at the fore-
chains, secured the forecastle of the ship, and the scuttle
which went down into the cook-room, making three men
they found there prisoners. When this was done, and all safe
upon deck, the captain ordered the mate, with throe men,
to break into the round-house, where the new rebel captain
lay, who having taken the alarm, had got up, and with two
men and a boy had got fire-arms in their hands; and when
the mate, with a crow, split open the door, the new captain
and his men fired boldly among them, and wounded the
mate with a musket ball, which broke his arm, and
wounded two more of the men, but killed nobody. The
mate, calling for help, rushed, however, into the round-
house, wounded as he was, and with his pistol shot the new
captain through the head, the bullet entering at his mouth,
and came out again behind one of his ears, so that he
never spoke a word more: upon which the rest yielded,
and the ship was taken effectually, without any more lives
lost
.
As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered
seven guns to be fired, which was the signal agreed upon
with me to give me notice of his success, which you may be
sure I was very glad to hear, having sat watching upon the
shore for it till near two o'clock in the morning. Having
thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me down, and it having
been a day of great fatigue to me, I slept very sound, till 1
was something surprised with the noise of a gun; and pres-
ently starting up, I heard a man call me by the name of
Governor, Governor, and presently I knew the captain's
voice; when climbing up to the top of the hill, there he
"tood, and pointing to the ship, he embraced me in his
arms. My dear friend and deliverer, says he, there's
your ship, for she is all yours, and so are we, and all that
belong to her. I cast my eyes to the ship, and there she
rode within a little more than half of a mile of the shore;
for they had weighed her anchor as soon as they were
masters of her, and the weather being fair, had brought
her to anchor just against the mouth of the little creek;
and the tide being up, the captain had brought the pinnace
*42 BOinsHON cbusos.
with the surprise; for 1 saw my deliverance, indeed, visibly,
put into my hands, all things easy, and a large ship jusi
ready to carry me away whither I pleased to go. At first,
for some time, I was not able to answer him one word; but
as he had taken me in his arms, 1 held fast by him, or I
should have fallen to the ground. He perceived the sur-
prise, and immediately pulled a bottle out of his pocket, and
gave me a dram of cordial, which he had brought on pur-
pose for me. After I had drunk it, I had sat down upon
the ground; and though it brought me to myself, yet it was
a good while before 1 could speak a word to him. All this
time the poor man was in as great an ecstasy as 1, only
not under any surprise, as I was; and he said a thousand
kind and tender things to me, to compose and bring me to
myself: but such was the flood of joy in my breast, that it
put all my spirits into confusion; at last it broke out into
tears; and in a little while after I recovered my speech. 1
then took my turn, and embraced him as my deliverer, and
we rejoiced together. I told him 1 looked upon him as a
man sent from Heaven to deliver me, and that the whole
transaction seemed to be a chain of wonders; that such
things as these were the testimonies we had of a secret hand
of Providence governing the world, and an evidence that
the eye of an infinite Power could search into the remotest
corner of the world, and send help to the miserable when-
ever He pleased. 1 forgot not to lift up my heart in thank-
fulness to Heaven; and what heart could forbear to bless
Him, who had not only in a miraculous manner provided
for me in such a wilderness, and in such a desolate condi-
tion, but from whom every deliverance mast always be
acknowledged to proceed?
When we had talked awhile, the captain told me he had
brought some little refreshment, such as the snip afforded,
and such as the wretches that had been so long his masters
had not plundered him of. Upon this he called aloud to
the boat, and bade his men bring the things ashore that
were for the governor; and, indeed, it was a present as if
it had been one that was not to be carried away with them,
but as if I had been to dwell upon the island still. First,
he had brought me a case of bottles full of excellent cor-
dial waters, six large bottles of Maderia wine (the bottles
held two quarts each), two pounds of excellent good to-
bacco, twelve good pieces of ship's beef, and six pieces of
pork, with a bag of pease, and about a hundred-weight of
biscuit: he also brought me a box of sugar, a box of flour,
a bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime juice, aud
abundance of other things. But, besides these, and what
was a thousand times more useful to me, he brought me
sfe new clean shirts, six very good neck-cloths, two pairs of
gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one pair of stockings,
with a very good suit of clothes of his own, which had been
worn but very little; in a word, he clothed me from head to
foot. It was a very kind and agreeable present, as any one
may imagine, to one in my circumstances; but never was
anything in the world of that kind so unpleasant, awkward,
and uneasy as it was to me to wear such clothes at first.
After these ceremoinies were past, and after all these
good things were brought into my little apartment, we
Began to consult what was to be done with the prisoners we
had; for it was worth considering whether we might
venture to take them away with us or no, especially two of
them, whom we knew to be incorrigible and refractory to
the last degree; and the captain said he knew they
were such rogues, that there was no obliging them; and if
ha did carry them away, it must be in irons, as malefac-
tors, to be delivered over to justice at the first English col-
ony he could come at; and 1 found that the captain himself
was very anxious about it. Upon this I told him, that if
he desired it, I would undertake to bring the two men he
spoke of to make it their own request that he should leave
them upon the island. I should be very glad of that, says
the captain, with all my heart. Well, says I, I will send
them up, and talk with them for you. So 1 caused Friday
and the two hostages, for they were now discharged, there
comrades having performed their promise; I say, I caused
them to go to the cave, and bring up the five men, pin-
ioned as they were, to the bower, and keep them there till
1 came. After some time, I came thither dressed in my new
habit; and now I was called governor again. Being all
met, and the captain with me, I caused the men to be
brought before me, and I told them I had got a full ac-
count of their villainous behavior to the captain, and how
they had run away with the ship, and were preparing to
commit further robberies, but that Prolidence bad in-
snared them in their own ways, and that they were fallen
into the pit which they had dug for others. I let them
244 BOBINSON CRU80B.
know that by my direction the ship had been seized; and
that she now lay in the road; and they might see, by and
by, that their new captain had received the reward of his
villainy, and that they would see him hanging at the yard-
arm: that as to them, I wanted to know what they had to
say why I should not execute them as pirates, taken in the
fact, as by my commission they could not doubt but I had
authority to so do.
One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they
had nothing to say but this, that when they were taken,
the captain promised them their lives, and they humbly im-
plored my mercy. But I told them 1 knew not what mercy
to show them; for as for myself, I had resolved to quit the
island with all my men, and had taken passage with the
captain to go for England; and as for the captain, he could
not carry them to England other than as prisoners, in irons,
to be tried for mutiny, and running away with the ship;
the consequence of which, they must needs know, would
be the gallows; so that 1 could not tell what was best for
them, unless they had a miDd to take their fate in the isl-
and: if they desired that, as I had liberty to leave the island,
1 had some inclination to give them their lives, if they
thought they could shift on shore. They seemed very
thankful for it, and said they would much rather venture
to stay there than be carried to England to be hanged: so I
left it on that issue.
However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty of
it, as if he durst not leave them there. Upon this I seemed
a little angry with the captain, and told him that they were
my prisoners, not his; and seeing that I had offered them so
much favor, 1 would be as good as my word; and that if
he did not think fit to consent to it, 1 would set them at
liberty, as I found them; and if he did not like it, he
might take them again if he could catch them. Upon this
they appeared very thankful, and I accordingly set them at
liberty and bade them retire into the woods to the place
whence they came, and I would leave them some fire-arms,
some ammunition, and some directions how they should
live very well, if they thought fit. Upon this 1 prepared
to go on board the ship; but told tho captain I would stay
that night to prepare my things, and desired him to go on
board, in the meantime, and keep all right in the ship,
and send the boat on shore next day for me; ordering
him, at all events, to cause the new captain, who was killed,
to be hanged at the jard-arm, that these men might see
him.
When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up to
me to my apartment, and entered seriously into discourse
with them on their circumstances. 1 told them 1 thought
they had made a right choice; that if the captain had car-
ried them away, they would certainly be hanged. 1 showed
them the new captain hanging at the yard-arm of the ship,
and told them they had nothing less to expect.
When they had all declared their willingness to stay, I
then told them 1 would let them into the story of my liv-
ing there, and put them into the way of making it easy to
them: accordingly, I gave them the whole history of the
place, and,of my coming to it; showed them my fortifica-
tions, the way 1 made my bread, planted my corn, cured
my grapes; and, in a word, all that was necessary to make
them easy. I told them the story also of the seventeen
Spaniards that were to be expected, for whom 1 left a let-
ter, and made them promise to treat them in common with
themselves. Here it may be noted, that the captain, who
had ink on board, was greatly surprised that I never hit
upon a way of making ink of charcoal and water, or of
something else, as 1 had done things much more difficult.
1 left them my fire-arms, viz., five muskets, three fowl-
ing-pieces, and three swords. I had above a barrel and a
half of powder left; for after the first year or two I used
but little, and wasted none. I gave them a description of
the way I managed the goats, and directions to milk and
fatten them, and to make both butter and cheese: in a
word, 1 gave them every part of my own story, and told
them I should prevail with the captain to leave them two
barrels of gunpowder more, and some garden seeds, which
I told them I would have been very glad of: also I gave
them the bag of pease which the captain had brought me to
eat, and bade them be sure to sow and increase them.
Having done all this, I left them the next day, and went
on board the ship. We prepared immediately to sail, but
did not weigh that night. The next morning early, two of
the five men came swimming to the ship's side, and mak-
ing a most lamentable complaint of the other three, begged
to%e taken into the ship, for God's sake, for they should
be murdered, and begged the captain to take them on
24A robinsoit crusob.
board, though he hanged them immediately. Upon this,
the captain pretended to have no power without me; but
after some difficulty, and after their solemn promises of
amendment, they were taken on board, and were some
time after soundly whipped and pickled: after which they
proved very honest and quiet fellows.
Some time after this the boat was ordered on shore, the
tide being up, with the things promised to the men; to
which the captain, at my intercession, caused their chests
and clothes to be added, which they took, and were very
thankful for. I also encouraged them by telling them
that if it lay in my power to send any vessel to take them
in, I would not forget them.
When I took leave of this island, I carried on board, for
relics, the great goat-skin cap 1 uad made, my umbrella,
and one of my parrots; also 1 forgot not to take the money'
I formerly mentioned, which had laid by me so long useless
that it was grown rusty or tarnished, and could hardly pass
for silver till it had been a little rubbed and handled; as
also the money 1 found in the wreck of the Spanish ship.
And thus I left the island, the 19th of December, as I
found by the ship's account, in the year 1686, after I had
been upon it eight-and-twenty years, two months, and
nineteen days; being delivered from this second captivity
the same day of the month that I first made my escape in
the long-boat from among the Moors of Sallee. In this
vessel, after a long voyage, 1 arrived in England the 3 lth
of June, in the year 1687, having been thirty-five years
absent.
When I came to England I was as perfect a stranger to
all the world as if 1 had never been known there. My
benefactor and faithful steward, whom 1 had left my
money in trust with, was alive, but had had great misfort-
unes in the world; was become a widow the second time,
and very low in the world. 1 made her very easy as to
what »he owed me, assuring her 1 would give her no
trouble; but, on the contrary, in gratitude for her former
care and faithfulness to me, I relieved her as my little stock
would afford; which at that time would, indeed, allow me
to do but little for her; but I assured her I would never
forget her former kindness to me; nor did 1 forget her
when 1 had sufficient to help her. as shall be observed in
its proper place. 1 went down afterward into Yorkshire;
but my father was dead, and my mother and all the family
extinct, except that I found two sisters, and two of the
children of one of my brothers; and as 1 had been long ago
given over for dead, there had been no provision made for
me; so that, in a word, I found nothing to relieve or assist
me; and that the little money I had would not do much
for me as to settling in the world.
1 met with one piece of gratitude indeed, which I did
not expect; and this was, that the master of the ship
whom I had so happily delivered, and by the same means
saved the ship and cargo, having given a very handsome
account to the owners of the manner how I had saved the
lives of the men and the ship, they invited me to meet
them and some other merchants concerned, and all together
made me a very handsome compliment upon the subject,
and a present of almost two hundred pounds sterling.
But after making several reflections upon the circum-
stances of my life, and how little way this would go toward
settling me in the world, 1 resolved to go to Lisbon, and
see if 1 might not come at some information of the state of
my plantation in the Brazils, and of what was become of
my partner, who, I had reason to suppose, had some years
past given me over for dead. With this view I took ship-
ping for Lisbon, where I arrived in April following, my
man Friday accompanying me very honestly in all these
ramblings, and proving a most faithful servant upon all
occasions. When I came to Lisbon, I found out, by in-
quiry, and to my particular satisfaction, my old friend the
captain of the ship who first took me up at sea off the
shore of Africa. He was now grown old, and had left off
going to sea, having put his son, who was far from a young
man, into his ship, and who still used the Brazil trade.
The old man did not know me; and indeed, I hardly knew
him; but 1 soon brought him to my remembrance, and
as soon brought myself to his remembrance when I told
him who I was.
After some passionate expressions of the old acquaint-
ance between us, 1 inquired, you may be sure, after my
plantation and my partner. The old man told me he had
not been in the Brazils for about nine years; but that he
could assure me that when he came away my partner was
living; but the trustees whom I had joined with him to
take cognizance of my part were both dead: that, however,
he believed I would have a very good account of the Im-
provement of the plantation; for that, upon the general
belief of my being cast away and drowned, my trustees had
given in the account of the produce of my part of the
plantation to the procurator-fiscal, who had appropriated
it, in case I never came to claim it, one third to the king,
and two thirds to the monastery of St. Augustine, to be
expended for the benefit of the poor, and for the conver-
sion of the Indians to the Catholic faith: but that, if I ap-
peared, or any one for me, to claim the inheritance, it
would be restored; only that the improvement, or annual
production, being distributed to charitable uses, could not
be restored: but he assured me that the steward of the king's
revenue from lands, and the providore, or steward of the
monastery, had taken great care all along that the incum-
bent, that is to say, my partner, gave every year a faithful
account of the produce, of which they had duly received
my moiety. 1 asked him if he knew to what height of
improvement he had brought the plantation, and whether
he thought it might be worth looking after; or whether,
on my going thither, I should meet with any obstruction
to my possessing my just right in the moiety. He told me
he could not tell exactly to what degree, the plantation was
improved; but this he knew, that my partner was grown
exceeding rich upon the enjoying his part of it; and that,
to the best of his remembrance, he had heard that the
king's third of my part, which was, it seems, granted away
to some other monastery or religious house, amounted to
above two hundred moidores a year: that as to my being
restored to a quiet possession of it, there was no question
to be made of that, my partner, being alive to witness my
title, and my name being also enrolled in the register of
the country; also he told me that the survivors of my two
trustees were very fair, honest people, and very wealthy;
and he believed I would not only have their assistance for
putting me in possession, but would find a very consider-
able sum of money in their haDds for my account, being
the produce of the farm while their fathers held the trust,
and before it was given up, as above; which, as he remem-
bered, was for about twelve years.
I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this ac-
count, and inquired of the old captain how it came to pass
that the trustees should thus dispose of my effects, when
he knew that I had made my will, and had made him, the
Portuguese captain, my universal heir, etc.
He told me that was true; but that as there was no proof
of my being dead, he could not act as executor until some
certain account should come of my death; and, besides, he
was not willing to intermeddle with a thing so remote: that
it was true he had registered my will and put in his claim;
and could he have given any account of my being dead o1
alive, he would have acted by procuration, and taken pos
session of the ingenio (so they call the sugar-house), ana
have given his son, who was now at the Brazils, orders to
do it. "But," says the old man, "I have one piece of
news to tell you, which perhaps may not be so acceptable
to you as the rest; and that is, believing you were lost, and
all the world believing so also, your partner and trustees
did offer to account with me, in your name, for the first
six or eight years' profits, which I received. There being
at that time great disbursements for increasing the works,
building an ingenio, and buying slaves, it did not amount
to near so much as afterward it produced; however," says
the old man, "I shall give you a true account of what I
have received in all, and how 1 have disposed of it."
After a few days' further conference with this ancient
friend, he brought me an account of the first six years' in-
come of my plantation, signed by my partner and the
merchant-trustees, being always delivered in goods—viz.,
tobacco in rolls and sugar in chests, besides rum, molasses,
etc., which is the consequence of a sugar-work; and 1
found by this account that every year the income consider-
ably increased; but, as above, the disbursements behag
large, the sum at first was small: however, the old man
let me see that he was debtor to me four hundred and
seventy moidores of gold, besides sixty chests of sugar, and
fifteen double rolls of tobacco, which were lost in his ship,
he having been shipwrecked coming home to Lisbon, about
eleven years after my leaving the place. The good man
then began to complain of his misfortunes, and how he
had been obliged to make use of my money to recover his
iosse3, and buy him a share in a new ship. "However,
my old friend," says he, "you shall not want a supply in
your necessity; and as soon a3 my son returns you shall be
fully satisfied." Upon this he pulls out an old ponch,
and gives me one hundred and sixty Portugal moidores in
gold; and giving the writings of his title to the ship which
his son was gone to the Brazils in, of which he was quarter
part owner, and his son another, he puts them both into
my hands for security of the rest.
1 was too much moved with the honesty and kindness of
the poor man to be able to bear this; and remembering
what he had done for me, how he had taken me up at sea,'
and how generously he had used me on all occasions, and
particularly how sincere a friend he was now to me, I could
hardly refrain weeping at what he had said to me; there-
fore I asked him if his circumstances admitted him to spare
so much money at that time, and if it would not straiten
him? He told me he could not say but it might straiten
him a little; but, however, it was my money, and 1 might
want it more than he.
Everything the good man said was full of affection, and
1 could hardly refrain from tears while he spoke; in short,
I took one hundred of the moidores, and called for a pen
and ink to give him a receipt for them; then I returned
him the rest, and told him if ever 1 had possession of the
plantation I would return the other to him also (as, in-
deed, I afterward did); and that as to the bill of sale of
his part in his son's ship, I would not,take it by any means;
but that if 1 wanted the money, I found he was honest
enough to pay me; and if I did not, but came to receive
what he gave me reason to expect, I would never have a
penny- more from him.
When this was past, the old man asked me if he should
put me into a method to make my claim to my plantation.
1 told him I thought to go over to it myself. He said I
might do so if 1 pleased, but that if 1 did not, there were
ways enough to secure my right, and immediately to ap-
propriate the profits to my use; and as there were ships in
the river of Lisbon just ready to go away to Brazil, he
made me enter my name in a public register, with his
affidavit affirming, upon oath, that I was alive, and that
I was the same person who took up the land for the plant-
ing the said plantation at first . This being regularly
attested by a notary, and a procuration affixed, he directed
me to send it, with a letter of his writing, to a merchant
of his acquaintance at the place, and then proposed my
staying with him till an account came of the return.
Never was anything more honorable than the proceedings
span 8m proeturatlon; for in less than seven months 1 re-
ceived a large packet from the survivors of my trustees,
the merchants for whose account 1 went to sea, in which
were the following particular letters and papers inclosed:
First, there was the account-current of the produce of
my farm or plantation, from the year when their fathers
had balanced with my old Portugal captain, being for six
years; the balance appeared to be one thousand one hun-
dred and seventy-four moidores in my favor.
Secondly, there was the account of four years more,
while they kept the effects in their hands, before the gov-
ernment claimed the administration, as being the effects of
a person not to be found, which they called civil death;
and the balance of this, the value of the plantation increas-
ing, amounted to nineteen thousand four hundred and
forty-six crusadoes, being about three thousand two hun-
dred and forty moidores.
Thirdly, there was the Prior of St. Augustine's account,
who had received the profits for above fourteen years; but
not being able to account for what was disposed of by the
hospital, very honestly declared he had eight hundred and
seventy-two moidores not distributed, which he acknowl-
edged to my account. As to the king's part, that refunded
nothing.
There was a letter of my partner's, congratulating me
very affectionately upon my being alive, giving me an ac-
count how the estate was improved, and what it produced
a year; with the particulars of the number of squares or
acres that it contained, how planted, how many slaves
there were upon it: and making two-and-twenty crosses
for blessings, told me he had said so many Ave Marias to
thank the Blessed Virgin that 1 was alive; inviting me very
passionately to come over and take possession of my own,
and in the meantime to give him orders to whom he should
deliver my effects if 1 did not come myself; concluding
with a hearty tender of his friendship and that of his
family; and sent me as a present seven fine leopards'
skins which he had, it seems, received from Africa by
some other ship that he had sent thither, and which, it
seems, had made a better voyage than I. He sent me also
five chests of excellent sweetmeats, and a hundred pieces
of gold uncoined, not quite so large as moidores. By the
same fleet my two merchant-trustees shipped me one thoa*
sand two hundred chests of sugar, eight hundred rolls of
tobacco, and the rest of the whole account in gold.
I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of Job
was better than the beginning. It is impossible to express
the flutterings of my very heart when I found all my
wealth about me; for as the Brazil ships come all in fleets,
the same ships which brought my letters brought my
goods, and the effects were safe in the river before the let-
ters came to my hand. In a word, 1 turned pale and
grew sick; and, had not the old man run and fetched me
a cordial, I believe the sudden surprise of joy had overset
nature, and 1 had died upon the sixit* nay, after that I
continued very ill, and was so some hours, till a physician
being sent for, and something of the real cause of my ill-
ness being known, he ordered me to be let blood; after
which 1 had relief and grew well: but I verily believe, if I
had not been eased by a vent given in that manner to the
spirits, 1 should have died.
I was now master, all on a sudden, of above five thou-
sand pounds sterling in money, and had an estate, as I
might well call it, in the Brazils, of above a thousand
pounds a year, as sure as an estate of lands in England;
and, in a word, 1 was in a condition which I scarce knew
how to understand, or how to compose myself for the en-
joyment of it. The first thing 1 did was to recompense
my original benefactor, my good old captain, who had been
first charitable to me in my distress, kind to me in my be-
ginning, and honest to me at the end. I showed him all
that was sent to me; I told him that, next to the provi-
dence of Heaven, which disposed all things, it was owing to
him; and that it now lay on me to reward him, which I
would do a hundred fold: so I first returned to him the
hundred moidores I had received of him; then I sent for a
notary, and caused him to draw up a general lelease or dis-
charge from the four hundred and seventy moidores which
he had acknowledged he owed me, in the fullest and firm-
est manner possible. After which I caused a procuration
to be drawn, empowering him to be the receiver of the an-
wual profits of my plantation: and appointing my partner
to account with him and make the returns, by the usual
fleets, to him in my name; and by a clause in the end
made a grant of one hundred moidores a year to him dur-
ing his life, out of the effects, and fifty moidores a year to
his son after him, for his life: and thus 1 requited my old
man.
I had now to consider which way to steer my course next,
and what to do with the estate that Providence had thus
put into my hands; and, indeed, 1 had more care upon my
head now than I had in my state of life in the island,
where 1 wanted nothing but what I had, and had nothing
but what I wanted; whereas I had now a great charge upon
me, and my business was how to secure it I had not a
cave now to hide my money in, or a place where it might
lie without lock or key till it grew moldy and tarnished
before anybody would meddle with it; on the contrary, I
knew not where to put it or whom to trust with it. My
old patron the captain, indeed, was honest, and that was
the only refuge 1 had. In the next place, my interest in
the Brazils seemed to summon me thither; but now I
could not tell how to think of going thither till I had
settled my affairs, and left my effects in some safe hands
behind me. At first I thought of my old friend the widow,
who I knew was honest, and would be just to me; but
then she was in years, and but poor, and, for aught I
knew, might be in debt; so that, in a word, 1 had no way
but to go back to England myself and take my effects with
me. It was some months, however, before 1 resolved upon
this; and, therefore, as I had rewarded the old captain
fully, and to his satisfaction, who had been my former
benefactor, so I began to think of the poor widow, whose
husband had been my first benefactor, and she, while it
was in her power, my faithful steward and instructor. So,
the first thing 1 did, I got a merchant in Lisbon to write
to his correspondent in London, not only to pay a bill, but
to go find her out. and carry her, in money, a hundred
pounds from me, and to talk with her and comfort her in
her poverty, by telling her she should, if 1 lived, have a
further supply, at the same time I sent my two sisters in
the country a hundred pounds each, they being, though
not in want, yet not in very good circumstances; one hav-
ing been married and left a widow, and the other having
a husband not so kind to her as he should be. But among
all my relations or acquaintances 1 could not yet pitch
upon one to whom I durst commit the gross of my stock,
that 1 might go away to the Brazils and leave things safe
behind me; and this greatly perplexed me.
I bad once a mind to have gone to the Brazils and have
settled myself there, for 1 was, as it were, naturalized to
the place; but 1 had some little scruple in my mind about
religion, which insensibly drew me back. However, it was
not religion that kept me from going there for the present;
and as I had made no scruple of being openly of the re-
ligion of the country all the while I was among them, so
neither did I yet; only that, now and then, having of late
thought more of it than formerly, when 1 began to think
of living and dying among them, I began to regret having
professed myself a Papist, and thought it might not be the
best religion to die with.
But, as 1 have said, this was not the main thing that
kept me from going to the Brazils, but that really I did
not know with whom to leave my effects behind me; so I
resolved at last to go to England, where, if I arrived, I
concluded that I should make some acquaintance or find
some relations that would be faithful to me; and, accord-
ingly, I prepared to go to England with all my wealth.
In order to prepare things for my going home, I first (the
Brazil fleet being just going away) resolved to give answers
suitable to the just and faithful account of things "1 had
from thence; and, first, to the Prior of St. Augustine I
wrote a letter full of thanks for his just dealings, and the
offer of the eight hundred and seventy-two moidores which
were undisposed of, which I desired might be given, five
hundred to the monastery, and three hundred and seventy-
two to the poor, as the prior should direct; desiring the
good padre's prayers for me, and the like. I wrote next a
letter of thanks to my two trustees, with all the acknowl-
edgment that so much justice and honesty called for—as
for sending them any present, they were far above having
any occasion of it. Lastly, I wrote to my partner,
acknowledging his industry in the improving the planta-
tion, and his integrity in increasing the stock of the works;
giving him instructions for his future government of my
part, according to the powers I had left with my old
patron, to whom I desired him to send whatever became
due to me, till he should hear from me more particularly;
assuring him that it was my intention not only to come to
him, but to settle myself there for the remainder of my
life. To this I added a very handsome present of some
Italian silks for his wife and two daughters, for such the
captain's son informed me he had; with two pieces of line
English broadcloth, the best I could get in Lisbon, five
pieces of black baize, and some Flanders lace of a good
value.
Having thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and
turned all my effects into good bills of exchange, my next
difficulty was which way to go to England. I had been ac-
eustomed enough to the sea, and yet I had a [strange aver-
sion to go to England by sea at that time; and though I
could give no reason for it, yet the difficulty increased
upon me so much that though I had onoe shipped my
baggage in order to go, yet I altered my mind, and that
not once, but two or three times.
It is true 1 had been very unfortunate by sea, and this
imight be one of the reasons; but let no man slight the
: strong impulses of his own thoughts in cases of such mo-
iment: two of the ships which I had singled out to go in—I
; mean more particularly singled out than any other, having
i put my things on board one of them, and in the other hav-
i ing agreed with the captain—I say two of these ships mis-
, carried: one was taken by the Algerines, and the other
was lost on the Start, near Torbay, and all the people
^drowned except three; so that in either of those vessels I
i had been made miserable.
Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot,
to whom I communicated everything, pressed me earnestly
not to go by sea, but either to go by land to the Groyne,
i and cross over the Bay of Biscay to Rochelle, from whence,
it was but an easy and safe journey by land to Paris, and
i so to Calais and Dover; or to go up to Madrid, and so all
the way by land through France. In a word, I was so pre-
possessed against mv going by sea at all, except from Calais
to Dover, that 1 resolved to travel all the way by land;
which, as I was not in haste, and did not value the charge,
was by much the pleasanter way: and to make it more so,
my old captain brought an English gentleman, the son of
a merchant in Lisbon, who was willing to travel with me;
after which we picked up two more English merchants
also, and two young Portuguese gentlemen, the last going
to Paris only; so that in all there were six of us and five
servants; the two merchants aud the two Portuguese con-
tenting themselves with one servant between two, to save
the charge; and as for me, I got an English sailor to travel
with me as a servant, besides my man Friday, who was to»
much a stranger to be capable of supplying the place of a
servant on the road.
In this manner I set out from Lisbon; and our company
being very well mounted and armed, we made a little
troop, whereof they did me the honor to call me captain,
as well because 1 was the oldest man, as because I had two
servants, and, indeed, was the origin of the whole journey.
As I have troubled you with none of my sea journals, so
I shall trouble you now with none of my land journals; but
some adventures that happened to us in this tedious and
difficult journey I must not omit.
When we came to Madrid, we, being all of us strangers
to Spain, were willing to stay some time to see the court ol
Spain and what was worth observing; but it being the
latter part of the summer, we hastened away, and set out
from Madrid about the middle of October; but when we
came to the edge of Navarre we were alarmed, at several
towns on the way, with an account that so much snow was
falling on the French side of the .mountains that several
travelers were obliged to come back to Pampeluna, after
having attempted at an extreme hazard to pass on.
When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so in-
deed; and to me, that had been always used to a hot
climate, and to countries where I could scarce bear any
clothes on, the cold was insufferable; nor, indeed, was it
more painful than surprising to come but ten days before
out of Old Castile, where the weather was not only warm
but very hot, and immediately to feel a wind from the
Pyrenean Mountains so very keen, so severely cold, as to
be intolerable, and to endanger benumbing and perishing
•f our fingers and toes.
Poor Friday was really frightened when he saw th«
mountains all covered with snow and felt cold weather,
which he had never seen or felt before in his life. To
mend the matter, when we came to Pampeluna it continued
snowing with so much violence and so long, that the people
said winter was come before its time; and the roads, which
were difficult before, were now quite impassable; for, in a
word, the snow lay in some places too thick for us to
travel, and being not hard frozen, as is the case in the
northern countries, there was no going without being in
danger of being buried alive every step. We stayed no
less than twenty days at Pampeluna; when (seeing the
winter coming on, and no likelihood of its being better, for
it was the severest winter all over Europe that had been
known in the memory of man) 1 proposed that we should
go away to Fontarabia, and there take shipping for Bor-
deaux, which was a very little voyage. But, while 1 was
considering this, there came in four French gentlemen,
who, having been stopped on the French side of the passes,
as we were on the Spanish, had found out a guide, who,
traversing the country near the head of Languedoc, had
brought them over the mountains by such ways that they
were not much incommoded with the snow; for where they
met with snow in any quantity, they said it was frozen hard
enough to bear them and their horses. We sent for this
guide, who told us he would undertake to carry us the
same way, with no hazard from the snow, provided we were
armed sufficiently to protect ourselves from wild beasts-;
for, he said, in these great snows it was frequent for some
wolves to show themselves at the foot of the mountains,
being made ravenous for want of food, the ground being
covered with snow. We told him we were well enough
prepared for such creatures as they were, if he would in-
sure us from a kind of two-legged wolves, which, we were
told, we were in most danger from, especially on the
French side of the mountains. He satisfied us that there
was no danger of that kind in the way that we were to go;
so we readily agreed to follow him, as did also twelve other
gentlemen with their servants, some French, some Spanish,
who, as 1 said, had attempted to go, and were obliged te
come back again.
Accordingly, we set out from Pampeluna with our guide
on the 15th of November; and, indeed, I was surprised,
when, instead of going forward, he came directly back with
us on the same road that we came from Madrid, about
twenty miles; when, having passed two rivers, and come
into the plain country, we found ourselves in a warm
climate again, where the country was pleasant, and no
snow to be seen; but, on a sudden, turning to his left, he
approached the mountains another way; and though it is
true the hills and precipices looked dreadful, yet he made
so many tours, such meanders, and led us by such winding
ways, that we insensibly passed the height of the mount-
ains without being much encumbered with the snow; and
all on a sadden he showed us the pleasant and fruitful
provinces of Languedoc and Gascony, all green and flour-
ishing, though at a great distance, and we had some rough
way to pass still.
We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it
snowed one whole day and night so fast that we could not
travel; but he bid us be easy; we should soon be past it
all: we found, indeed, that we began to descend every day»
and to come more north than before; and so, depending:
upon our guide, we went on.
It was about two hours before night when, our guide
being something before us, and not just in sight, out
rushed three monstrous wolves, and after them a bear,
from a hollow way adjoining to a thick wood: two of the
wolves made at the guide, and had he been far before us,
he would have been devoured before we could have helped
him; one of them fastened upon his horse, and the other
attacked the man with such violence that he had not time
or presence of mind enough to draw his pistol, but hallooed
and cried out to us most lustily. My man Friday being
next me, I bade him ride up and see what was the matter.
As soon as Friday came in sight of the man, he hallooed
out as loud as the other, "Oh, master! Oh, master!"
but like a bold fellow, rode directly up to the poor man,
and with his pistol shot the wolf in the head that attacked
him.
It was happy for the poor man that it was my man
Friday; for, having bten used to such creatures in his
country, he had no fear upon him, but went close up to
him and shot him; whereas, any other of us would have
fired at a further distance, and have perhaps either missed
the wolf or endangered shooting the man.
But it was enough to have terrified a bolder man than I;
and, indeed, it alarmed all our company, when, with the.
noise of Friday's pistol, we heard on both sides the most.
dismal howling of wolves; and the noise, redoubled by the:
echo of the mountains, appeared to us as if there had been i
a prodigious number of them; and perhaps there was not.
such a few as that we had no cause of apprehension: how-
ever, as Friday had killed this wolf, the other that had!
fastened upon the horse left him immediately, and fled,,
without doing him any damage, having happily fastened;
upon his head, where the bosses of the bridle had stuck it.
hia teeth. Bat the man was most hurt; for the raging
creature had bit him twice, once in the arm, and the othei
time a little above his knee; and though he had made some
defense, he was just tumbling down by the disorder of hia
horse, when Friday came up and shot the wolf.
It is easy to suppose that at the noise of Friday's pistol
ve all mended our pace, and rode up as fast as the way,
which was very difficult, would give us leave, to see what
was the matter. As soon as we came clear of the trees,
which blinded us before, we saw clearly what had been the
case, and how Friday had disengaged the poor guide, though
we did not presently discern what kind of creature it was
he had killed.
SECTION XXVIIL
Strange Battle Between Friday and a Bear.—Terrible Engagement
with a Whole Array of Wolves.—Arrive in England safely, and
Settle my Affairs there. —I Marry, and Have a Family.
But never was a fight managed so hardily and in such
a surprising manner as that which followed between Friday
and the bear, which gave us all, though at first we were
surprised and afraid for him, the greatest diversion imag-
inable. As the bear is a heavy, clumsy creature, and does
not gallop as the wolf does, who is swift and light, so he
has two particular qualities which generally are the rule of
his actions: first, as to men, who are not his proper prey
(he does not usually attempt them, except they first attack
him, unless he be excessively hungry, which it is probable
might now be the case, the ground being covered with
snow), if you do not meddle with him, he will not meddla
with you; but then you must take care to be very civil tc
him, and give him the road, for he is a very nice gentle-
man; he will not go a step out of his way for a prince;
nay, if you are really afraid, your best way is to look
another way and keep going on; for sometimes if you stop,
and stand still, and look steadfastly at him, he takes it for
an affront; but if you throw or toss anything at him,
though it were but a bit of stick as big as your finger, he
thinks himself abused, and sets all other business aside to
pursue his revenge, and will have satisfaction in point of
honor—that is his first quality; the next is, if he be once
w, run ted, he will never leave you, night or day, till he hat
his revenge, but follows at a good round' rate till he over-
takes you.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we
came tip to him he was helping him off his horse, for the
man was both hurt and frightened, when on a sudden we
espied the bear come out of the wood; and a monstrous
one it was, the biggest by far that ever I saw. We were
all a little surprised when we saw him; but when Friday
saw him, it was easy to see joy and courage in the fellow's
countenance. "Oh, oh, oh!" says Friday, three times,
pointing to him. "Oh, master! you give me te leave, me
shakee te hand with him; me makee you good laugh."
I was surprised to see the fellow so well pleased. "You
fool," say s 1, "he will eat you up." "Eatee me up!
eatee me up!" says Friday, twice over again; "me eatee
him up; me makee you good laugh; you all stay here; me
show you good laugh." So down he sits, and gets off his
boots in a moment, and puts on a pair of pumps (as we
call the flat shoes they wear, and which he had in his
pocket), gives my other servant his horse, and with his
gun away he flew, swift like the wind.
The bear was walking softly on, and offered to meddle
with nobody, till Friday, coming pretty near, calls to him,
as if the bear could understand him: " Hark ye, hark ye,"
says Friday; " me speakee with you." We followed at a
distance, for now being down on the Qascony side of the
mountains, we were entered a vast forest, where the coun-
try was plain and pretty open, though it had many trees in
it scattered here and there. Friday, who had, as we say,
the heels of the bear, came up with him quickly, and took
up a great stone, and threw it at him, and hit him just on
the head, but did him no more harm than if he had thrown
it against a wall; but it answered Friday's end, for the
rogue was so void of fear that he did it purely to make the
bear follow him, and show us some lauih, as he called it,
As soon as the bear felt the blow, and saw him, he turns
about and comes after him, taking very long strides, and
shuffling on at a strange rate, so as would have put a horse
to a middling gallop; away runs Friday, and takes his
oourse as if he ran toward us for help; so we all resolved to
fire at once upon the bear, and deliver my man; though I
was angry at him for bringing the bear back upon us, when
he was going about his own business another way; and
•specially I was angry that he had turned the bear upon
us, and then ran away; and I called out, "You dog! is
this your making us laugh? Come away, and take your
Vxorse, that we may shoot the creature." He heard me,
and cried out, "No shoot, no shoot; stand still, and you
get much laugh:" and as the nimble creature ran two feet
for the bear's one, he turned on a sudden on one side of
us, and seeing a great oak-tree fit for his purpose, he beck-
oned to us to follow; and doubling his pace, he got nimbly
up the tree, laying his gun down upon the ground, at
about five or six yards from the bottom of the tree. The
bear soon came to the tree, and we followed at a distance:
the first thing he did he stopped at the gun, smelled at it,
but let it lie, and up he scrambles into the tree, climbing
like a cat, though so monstrous heavy. I was amazed at
the folly, as I thought it, of my man, and could not for
my life see anything to laugh at, till seeing the bear get
up the tree, we all rode near to him.
When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out to
the small end of a large branch, and the bear got about
half-way to him. As soon as the bear got out to that
part where the limb of the tree was weaker— "Ha!"
says he to us, " now you see me teachee the bear dance:"
so he began jumping and shaking the bough, at which the
bear began to totter, but stood still, and began to look be-
hind him to see how he should get back; then, indeed, we
did laugh heartily. But Friday had not done with him by
a great deal; when, seeing him stand still, he called out to
him again, as if he had supposed the bear could speak
English, " What, you come no further? pray you come
further;" so he left jumping and shaking the tree; and
the bear, just as if he understood what he said, did come a
little further; then he began jumping again, and the bear
stopped again. We thought now was a good time to knock
him in the head, and called to Friday to stand still and we
should shoot the bear; but he cried out earnestly, "Oh4
pray! oh, pray! no shoot; me shoot by and then;" he
would have said by and by. However, to shorten the
story, Friday danced so much, and the bear stood so tick-
lish, that we had laughing enough, but still could not im-
agine what the fellow would do: for first we thought he
depended upon shaking the bear off; and we found the
Wr W48 too canning for that too; for he would not go out
far enough to be thrown down, but clung fast with his
great broad claws and feet, so that we could not imagine
what would be the end of it, and what the jest would be
at lasi. But Friday put us out of doubt quickly: for see-
ing the bear cling fast to the bough, and that he would not
be persuaded to come auy further, "Well, well," says
triday, "you no come further, me go; you no come to
me, me come to you;" and upon this he went out to the
smaller end of the bough, where it would bend with his
weight, and gently let himself down by it, sliding down the
Dough till he came near enough to jump down on his feet,
and away he ran to his gun, took it up, and stood still.
"Well," said I to him, " Friday, what will you do now?
Why don't you shoot him?" "No shoot," says Friday,
"no yet; me shoot now, me no kill; me stay, give you one
more laugh:" and, indeed, so he did; for when the bear
saw his enemy gone, he came back from the bough where
he stood, but did it very cautiously, looking behind him
every step, and coming backward till he got into the body
of the tree; then, with the same hinder end foremost, he
came down the tree, grasping it with his claws, and mov-
ing one foot at a time, very leisurely. At this juncture,
and just before he could set his hind foot on the ground,
Friday stepped up close to him, clapped the muzzle of his
piece in his ear, and shot him dead. Then the rogue
turnod about to see if we did not laugh; and when he saw
we were pleased by our looks, he began to laugh very loud.
"So we kill bear in my country," says Friday. "So you
kill them?" says I; "why, you have no guns." "No,"
says he, "no gun, but shoot great much long arrow."
This was a good diversion to us; but we were still in a wild
place, and our guide very much hurt, and what to do we
hardly knew; the howling of wolves ran much in my head;
and, indeed, except the noise I once heard on the shore of
Africa, of which 1 have said something already, 1 never
heard anything that filled me with so much horror.
These things, and the approach of night, called us off.
or else, as Friday would have had us, we should certainly
have taken the skin of this monstrous creature off, which
was worth saving; but we had near three leagues to go, and
our guide hastened us; so we left him, and went forward
ou our journey.
The ground was still covered with snow, though not so
deep and dangerous as on the mountains; and the raven-
ous creatures, as we heard afterward, were come down into
the forest and plain country, pressed by hunger, to seek
for food, and had done a great deal of mischief In the
villages, where they surprised the country people, killed a
great many of their sheep and horses, and some people,
-too. We had one dangerous place to pass, and our guide
told us if there were more wolves in the country we should
find them there; and this was a small plain, surrounded
with woods on every side, and a long, narrow defile, or
lane, which we were to pass to get through the wood, and
then we should come to the village where we were to lodge.
It was within half an hour of sunset when we entered the
wood, and a little after sunset when we came into the
plain: we met with nothing in the first wood, except that
in a little plain within the wood, which was not above two
furlongs over, we saw five great wolves cross the road, full
speed, one after another, as if they had been in chase of
some prey, and had it in view; they took no notice of us,
and were gone out of sight in a few moments. Upon this,
our guide, who, by the way, was but a faint-hearted fellow,
bid us keep in a ready posture, for he believed there were
more wolves a-coming. We kept our arms ready, and our
eyes about us; but we saw no more wolves till we came
through that wood, which was near half a league, and
entered the plain. As soon as we came into the plain, we
had occasion enough to look about us: the first object we
met with was a dead horse; that is to say, a poor horse
which the wolves had killed, and at least a dozen of thrm
at work, we could not say eating him, but picking his
bones rather, for they had eaten up all the flesh before.
We did not think fit to disturb them at their feast, neither
did they take much notice of us. Friday would have let
fly at them, but I would not suffer him by any means; for
I found we were like to have more business upon our hands
than we were aware of. We had not gone half over the
plain when we began to hear the wolves howl in the wood
on our left in a frightful, manner, and presently after we
saw about a hundred coming on directly toward us, all in a
body, and most of them in a line, as regularly as an army
drawn up by experienced officers. 1 scarce knew in what
manner to receive them, but found to draw ourselves in a
olow line was tht only way; so we formed in a moment;
but that we might not havVtoo much interval, I ordered
that only every other man should fire, and that the others,
who had not fired, should stand ready to give them a
second volley immediately, if they continued to advance
upon us; and then that those that had fired at first should
iiot pretend to load their fusees again, but stand ready,
every one with a pistol, for we were all armed with a fusee
and a pair of pistols each man; so we were, by this
method, able to fire six volleys, half of us at a time: how-
ever, at present we had no necessity; for upon firing the
first volley, the enemy made a full stop, being terrified as
well with the noise as with the fire. Four of them being
shot in the head, dropped; several others were wounded,
and went bleeding off, as we could see by the snow. I
found they stopped, but did not immediately retreat;
whereupon, remembering that I had been told that the
fiercest creatures were terrified at the voice of a man, I
caused all the company to halloo as loud as they could: and
I found the notion not altogether mistaken; for upon our
shout they began to retire and turn about. I then ordered
a second volley to be fired in their rear, which put them to
the gallop, and away they went to the woods. This gave
xs leisure to charge our pieces again; and that we might
lose no time, we kept going; but we had but little more
than loaded our fusees, and put ourselves in readiness,
when we heard a terrible noise in the same wood on our
left, only that it was further onward, the same way we
were to go.
The night was coming on, and the light began to be
dusky, whioh made it worse on our side; but the noise in-
creasing, we could easily perceive that it was the howling
and yelling of those hellish creatures; and, on a sudden,
we perceived'three troops of wolves, one on our left, one
behind us, and one in our front, so that we seemed to be
surrounded with them: however, as they did not fall upon
us, we kept our way forward, as fast as we could make our
horses go, which, the way being very rough, was only a
good hard trot. In this manner, we came in view of the
entrance of a wood, through which we were to pass, at the
further side of the plain; but we were greatly surprised,
when coming nearer the lane or pass, we saw a confused
number of wolves standing just at the entrance. On a
?udden, at another opening of the wood, we heard the noise
of a gun, and looking that way, oat rushed a horse, with a
saddle and a bridle on him, flying like the wind, and six-
teen or seventeen wolves after him, full speed: the horse
had the advantage of them; but as we supposed that he
could not hold it at that rate, we doubted not but they
would get up with him at last: no question but they did.
But here we had a most horrible sight; for riding up to
the entrance where the horse came out, we found the,car-
cases of another horse and of two men, devoured by the
ravenous creatures; and one of the men was no doubt the
same whom we heard fire the gun, for there lay a gun just
by him fired off; but as to the man, his head and the upper
part of his body was eaten up. This filled us with horror,
and we knew not what course to take; but the creatures
resolved us soon, for they gathered about us presently, in
hopes of prey; and I verily believe there were three hun-
dred of them. It happened, very much to our advantage,
that at the entrance into the wood, but a little way from
it, there lay some large timber-trees, which had been cut
down the summer before, and I suppose lay there for car-
riage. I drew my little troop in among those trees, and
placing ourselves in a line behind one long tree, I advised
them all to alight, and keeping that tree before us for a
breastwork, to stand in a triangle, or three fronts, inclos-
ing our horses in the center. We did so, and it was well
we did; for never- was a more furious charge than the
creatures made upon us in this place. They came on with
a growling kind of noise, and mounted the piece of timber,
which, as I said, was our breastwork, as if they were only
rushing upon their prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems,
was principally occasioned by their seeing our horses be-
hind us. I ordered our men to fire as before, every other
man; and they took their aim so sure that they killed
several of the wolves at the first volley; but there was a
necessity to keep a continual firing, for they came on like
devils, those behind pushing on those before.
When we had fired a second volley of our fusees, we
thought they stopped a little, and I hoped they would have
gone off, but it was but a moment, for others came forward
again; so we fired two volleys of our pistols; and I believe
in these four firings we had killed seventeen or eighteen of
them, and lamed twice as many, yet they came on again.
1 was loath to spend our shot too hastily; so 1 called my
966 JS0BIN801T CRU80B.
servant, not my man Friday, for he was better employed,
for, with the greatest dexterity imaginable, he had charged
my fusee and his own while we were engaged—but, as I
said, 1 called my other man, and giving him a horn of
powder, 1 bade him lay a train aH^along the piece of tim-
ber, and let it be a large train. He did so, and had but
just time to get away, when the wolves came up to it, and
some got upon it, when I, snapping an uncharged pistol
close to the powder, set it on fire; those that were upon
the timber were scorched with it, and six or seven of them
fell; or rather jumped in among us with the force and
fright of the fire; we dispatched these in an instant, and
the rest were so frightened with the light, which the night
—for it was now very near dark—made more terrible, that
they drew back a little; upon which I ordered our last pis-
tols to be fired off in one volley, and after that we gave a
shout; upon this the wolves turned tail, and we sallied im-
mediately upon near twenty lame ones that we found
struggling on the ground, and fell to cutting them with
our swords, which answered our expectation, for the crying
and howling they made was better understood by their
fellows; so that they all fled and left us.
We had, first and last, killed about threescore of them,
and had it been daylight we had killed many more. The
field of battle being thus cleared, we made forward again,
for we had still near a league to go. We heard the raven-
ous creatures howl and yell in the woods as we went several
times, and sometimes we fancied we saw some of them;
but the snow dazzling our eyes, we were not certain. In
about an hour more we came to the town where we were to
lodge, which we found in a terrible fright and all in arms;
for, it seems, the night before the wolves and some bears
had broken into the village, and put them in such terror,
that they were obliged to keep guard night and day, but
especially in the night, to preserve their cattle, and indeed
their people.
The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs
swelled so much with the rankling of his two wounds, that
he could go no further; so we were obliged to take a new
guide here, and go to Toulouse, where we found a warm
climate, a fruitful, pleasant country, and no snow, no
wolves, nor anything like them; but when we told our
story at Toulouse, they told m it was nothing but what
was ordinary in the great forest at the foot o1 the mount-
ains, especially when the snow lay on the ground; but they
inquired much what kind of guide we had got who would
venture to bring us that way in such a severe season, and
told us it was surprising we were not all devoured. When
we told them how we placed ourselves and the horses in
the middle, they blamed us exceedingly, and told us it was
fifty to one but we had been all destroyed, for it was the
sight of the horses which made the wolves so furious, see-
ing their prey, and that at other times they are really
afraid of a gun—but being excessively hungry, and raging
on that account, the eagerness to come at the horses had
made them senseless of danger—and that if we had not by
the continual fire, and at last by the stratagem of the train
of powder, mastered them, it had been great odds but that
we had been torn to pieces; whereas, had we been content
to have sat still on horseback, and fired as horsemen, they
would not have taken the horses so much for their own,
when men were on their backs, as otherwise; and withal,
they told us that at last, if we had stood all together, and
left our horses, they would have been so eager to have de-
voured them, that we might have come off safe, especially
having our fire-arms in our hands, being so many in num-
ber. For my part, I was never so sensible of danger in my
life—for, seeing above three hundred devils come roaring
and open-mouthed to devour us, and having nothing to
shelter us or retreat to, I gave myself over for lost; and, as
it was, I believe I shall never care to cross those mountains
again; I think I would much rather go a thousand leagues
by sea, though I was sure to meet with a storm once a
week.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my pas-
sage through France—nothing but what other travelers have
fiven an account of with much more advantage than 1 can.
traveled from Toulouse to Paris, and without any con-
siderable stay came to Calais, and landed safe at Dover the
14th of January, after having had a severe cold season to
travel in.
I was now come to the center of my travels, and had in
«little time all my new-discovered estate safe about mr.
the bills of exchange which I brought with me having
keen currently paid. .
My principal guide and privy-coanselor was my good
ancient widow, who, in gratitude for the money I had sent
her, thought no pains too much nor care too great to em-
ploy for me; and I trusted her so entirely that 1 was per-
fectly easy as to the security of my effects; ands indeed, I
was very happy from the beginning, and now to the end,
in the unspolted integrity of this good gentlewoman.
And now, having resolved to dispose of my plantation in
the Brazils, I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon, who having
offered it to the two merchants, the survivors of my trust-
ees, who lived in the Brazils, they accepted the offer, and
remitted thirty-three thousand pieces of eight to a corre-
spondent of theirs at Lisbon to pay for it.
In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the form
which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my old man,
who sent me the bills of exchange for thirty-two thousand
eight hundred pieces of eight for tne estate, reserving the
payment of one hundred moidores a year to him (the old
man) during his life, and fifty moidores afterward to his
son for his life, which I had promised them, and which the
flantation was to make good as a rent charge. And thus
have given the first part ot a life of fortune and advent-
ure—a life of Providence's checker-work, and of a variety
which the world will seldom be able to show the like of;
beginning foolishly, but closing much more happily than
any part of it ever gave me leave so much as to hope for.
Any one would think that in this state of complicated
good fortune 1 was past running any more hazards—and
so, indeed, I had been, if other circumstances had con-
curred; but 1 was inured to a wandering life, had no
family, nor many relations; nor, however rich, had I con-
tracted fresh acquaintance; and though I had sold my
estate in the Brazils, yet I could not keep that country out
of my head, and had a great mind to be upon the wing
again; especially I could not resist the stong inclination!
had to see my island, and to know if the poor Spaniards
were in being there. My true friend, the widow, earnestly
dissuaded me from it, and so far prevailed with me, that
for almost seven years she prevented my running abroad,
during which time I took my two nephews, the children of
one of my brothers, into my care; the eldest, having some-
thing of his own, I bred up as a gentleman, and gave him
a settlement of some addition to his estate after my de-
cease. - The other I placed with the captain of a ship; and
after five years, finding him a sensible, bold, enterprising
young fellow, I put him into a good ship, and sent him to
sea,- and this young fellow afterward drew me in, as old as
I was, to further adventures myself.
In the meantime, 1 in part settled myself here; for, first
of all, I married, and that not either to my disadvantage
•r dissatisfaction, and had three children, two sons and one
daughter; but my wife dying, and my nephew coming
home with good success from a voyage to Spain, my in-
clination to go abroad, and his importunity, prevailed, and
engaged me to go in his ship as a private trader to the
East Indies; this was in the year 1694,
In this voyage I visited my new colony in the island—
saw my successors the Spaniards—had the old story of their
lives and of the villains I left there—how at first they in-
sulted the poor Spaniards—how they afterward agreed, dis-
agreed, united, separated, and how at last the Spaniards
were obliged to use violence with them—how they were
subjected to the Spaniards—how honestly the Spaniards
used them; a history, if it were entered into, as full of
variety and wonderful accidents as my own part—particu-
larly, also, as to their battles with the Caribbeans, who
landed several times upon the island, and as to the im-
provement they made upou the island itself—and how five
of them made an attempt upon the main-land, and brought
away eleven men and five women prisoners, by which, at
my coming, I found about twenty young children on the
island.
Here I stayed about twenty days—left them supplies of
all necessary things, and particularly of arms, powder,
shot, clothes, tools, and two workmen, which I had brought
from England with me—viz., a carpenter and a smith.
Besides this, I shared the lands into parts with them, re-
served to myself the property of the whole, but gave theni
such parts respectively as they agreed on; and having set-
tled all things with them, and engaged them not to leave
the place, I left them there.
From thence I touched at the Brazils, from whence 1 sent
a bark, which I bought there, with more people to the
island; and in it, besides other supplies, I sent seven
women, being such as I found proper for service, or for
wives to such as would take them. As to the Englishmen,
I promised to send them some women from England, with
a good cargo of necessaries, if they would apply themselves
to planting—which I afterward could not perform. The
fellows proved very honest and diligent after they were
mastered and had their properties set apart for them. 1
sent them also, from the Brazils, five cows, three of them
being big with calf, some sheep, and some hogs, which
when 1 came again were considerably increased.
But all these things, with an account how three hundred
Caribbees came and invaded them, and ruined their plan-
tations, and how they fought with that whole number twice,
and were at first defeated, and one of them killed; but,, at
last, a storm destroying their enemies' canoes, they fam-
ished or destroyed almost all the rest, and renewed and re-
covered the possession of their plantation, and still lived
upon the island.
All these things, with some very surprising incidents in
some new adventures of my own, for ten years more, I
shall give a further account of in the second part of my
story.
PART II.
SECTION XXIX.
Reflections.—Unsettled State of Mind, and Conversation with My
Wife Thereon.—Purchase a Farm in the County of Bedford.—
Lose My Wife.—I Determine to Revisit My Island, and for that
Purpose Settle all My Affairs in England.—Description of the
Cargo I Carried out with Me.—Save the Crew of a Vessel
Burned at Sea.
That homely proverb, used on so many occasions in
Bngland—viz., "That what is bred in the bone will not
go out of the flesh," was never more verified than in the
story of my life. Any one would think that after thirty-
five years' affliction, and a variety of unhappy circum-
stances, which few men, if any, ever went through before,
and after near seven years of peace and enjoyment in the
fullness of all things; grown old, and when, if ever, it
might be allowed me to have had experience of every state
of middle life, and to know which was most adapted it
make a man completely happy; 1 say, after all this, any
one would have thought that the native propensity to
rambling, which I gave an account of in my first setting
out in the world to have been so predominant in my
thoughts, should be worn out, and 1 might, at sixty-one
years of age, have been a little inclined to stay at home,
and have done venturing life and fortune any more.
Nay, further, the common motive of foreign adventures
was taken away in me, for 1 had no fortune to make; I
had nothing to seek: if I had gained ten thousand pounds
I had been no richer; for I had already sufficient for me,
and for those I had to leave it to; and what 1 had was
visibly increasing; for, having no great family, 1 could not
spend the income of what I had, unless I would set up for
an expensive way of living, such as a great family, serv-
ants, equipage, gayety, and the like, which were things I
had no notion of, or inclination to; so that I had nothing,
indeed, to do but to sit still, and fully enjoy what I had
got, and see it increase daily upon my hands. Yet all
these things had no effect Upon me, or at least not enough
to resist the strong inclination 1 had to go abroad again,
which hung about me like a chronic distemper. In par-
ticular, the desire of seeing my new plantation in the
island, and the colony I left there, ran in my head contin-
ually. I dreamed of it all night, and my imagination ran
upon it all day: it was uppermost in all my thoughts; and
my fancy worked so steadily and strongly upon it, that I
talked of it in my sleep; in short, nothing could remove it
out of my mind: it even broke so violently into all my dis-
courses that it made my conversation tiresome, for I could
talk of nothing else; all my discourse ran into it, even to
impertinence; and I saw it myself.
1 have often heard persons of good judgment say, that
all the stir that people make in the world about ghosts and
apparitions is owing to the strength of imagination, and
the powerful operation of fancy in their minds; that there
is no such thing as a spirit appearing, or a ghost walking;
that people's poring affectionately upon the past conversa-
tion of their deceased friends so realizes it to them, that
they are capable of fancying, upon some extraordinary cir-
cumstances, that they see them, talk to them, and are
answered by them, when, in truth, there is nothing but
shadow and vapor in the thing, and they really know noth-
ing of the matter.
For my part, I know not to this hour whether there are
any such things as real apparitions, specters, or walking of
people after they are dead; or whether there is anything in
the stories they tell us of that kind more than the product
of vapors, siek minds, and wandering fancies: but this I
know, that my imagination worked up to such a height,
and brought me into such excess of vapors, or what else I
may call it, that I actually supposed myself often upon the
spot, at my old castle, behind the trees; saw my old Span-
iard, Friday's father, and the reprobate sailors I left upon:
the island; nay, I fancied I talked with them, and looked
at them steadily, though I was broad awake, as at persons
just before me; aud this I did till 1 often frightened my-
self with the images my fancy represented to me. One
time, in my sleep, 1 had the villainy of the three pirate
sailors so lively related to me by the first Spaniard and
Friday's father, that it was surprising; they told me how
they barbarously attempted to murder all the Spaniards,
and that they set fire to the provisions they had laid up,
on purpose to distress and starve them; things that I had
never heard of, and that, indeed, were never al) of them
true in fact: but it was so warm in my imagination, and
so realized to me, that, to the hour 1 saw them- I could
not be persuaded but that it was or would be true; also
how I resented it, when the Spaniard complained to me;
and how I brought them to justice, tried them, aud ordered
them all three to be hanged. What there was really in this
shall be seen in its•place: for however 1 came to form such
things in my dream, and what secret converse of spirits in-
jected it, yet there was, 1 say, much of it true. I own that
this dream had nothing in it literally and specifically true;
but the general part was so true—the base, villainous be-
havior of these three hardened rogues was such.,-and had
been so much worse than all I can describe, that the dream
had too much similitude of the fact; and as I would after-
ward have punished them severely, so, if 1 had hanged
them all, I had been much in the right, and even should
have been justified both by the laws of God and man.
But to return to my story: -la this kind of temper I lived
some years; I had no enjoyment of my life, no pleasant
hours, no agreeable diversion, but what had something or
other of this in it; so that my wife, who saw my mind
wholly bent upon it, told me very seriously one night,
that she believed there was some secret, powerful impulse
of Providonce upon me, which had determined me to go
thither again; and that she found nothing hindered me
going but my being engaged to a wife and children. She
told me that it was true she could not think of parting
with me: but as she was assured that if she was dead it
would be the first thing I would do; so, as it seemed to her
that the thing was determined above, she would not be the
only obstruction; for, if I thought fit and resolved to go—
fHere she found me very intent upon her words, and that
looked very earnestly at her, so that it a little disordered
her, and she stopped. 1 asked her why she did not go on,
and say out what she was going to say. But 1 perceived
that her heart was too full, and some tears stood in her
eyes.] "Speak out, my dear," said I: "are you willing
I should go?" "No," says she, very affectionately, "I
am far from willing; but if you are resolved to go," says
she, "rather than I would be the only hinderance, I will go
with you: for though I think it a most preposterous thing
for one of your years, and in your condition, yet, if it must
be," said she, again weeping, " I would not leave you; for
if it be of Heaven you must do it, there is no resisting it;
and if Heaven make it your duty to go, He will also make
it minlTto go with you, or otherwise dispose of me, that I
may not obstruct it."
This affectionate behavior of my wife's brought me a
little out of the vapors, and I began to consider what 1 was
doing; I corrected my wandering fancy, and began to
argue with myself sedately what business I had after three-
score years, and after such a life of tedious sufferings and
disasters, and closed in so happy and easy a manner; I say,
what business had I to rush into new hazards, and put my-
self upon adventures fit only for youth and poverty to run
into?
With those thoughts I considered my new engagement;
that I had a wife, one child born, and my wife then great
with child of another; that I had all the would could give
me, and had no need to seek hazard for gain; that I was
declining in years, and ought to think rather of leaving
what I had gained than of seeking to increase it; that as to
what my wife had said of its being an impulse from
Heaven, and that it should be my duty to go, I had no
Motion of that; so, after many of these cogitstinn?, I
struggled with the power of my imagination, reason^! my
self out of it, as I believe people may always do in like
cases if they will. In a word, I conquered it; composed
myself with such arguments as occurred to my thoughts,
and which my present condition furnished me plentifully
with; and particularly, as the most effectual method, I re-
solved to divert myself with other things, and to engage in
some business that might effectually tie me up from any
more excursions of this kind; for I found that thing return
upon me chiefly when I was idle, and had nothing to do,
nor anything of moment immediately before me. To this
purpose, I bought a little farm in the county of Bedford,
and resolved to remove myself thither. I had a little con-
venient house upon it, and the land about it, I found, was
capable of great improvement, and was in many ways suited
to my inclination, which delighted in cultivating, manag-
ing, planting, and improving of land; and particularly,
being an inland country, 1 was removed from conversing
among sailors and things relating to the remote parts of
the world. I went down to my farm, settled my family,
bought plows, harrows, a cart, wagon-horses, cows, and
sheep, and, setting seriously to work, became in one half
year a mere country gentleman. My thoughts were en-
tirely taken up in managing my servants, cultivating the
ground, inclosing, planting, etc.; aud 1 lived, as I thought,
the most agreeable life that nature was capable of direct-
ing, or that a man always bred to misfortunes was capable
of retreating to.
I farmed upon my own land; I had no rent to pay, was
limited by no articles; I could pull up or cut down as 1
pleased; what 1 planted was for myself, and what 1 im-
proved was for my family; and having thus left -off the
thoughts of wandering, I had not the least discomfort in any
part of life as to this world. Now I thought, indeed, that
I enjoyed the middle state of life which my father so ear-
nestly recommended to me, and lived a kind of heavenly
life, something like what is described by the poet, upou the
subject of a country life:
"Free from vices, free from care,
Age has no pain, and youth no snare."
But in the middle of all this felicity, one blow from un-
seen Providence unhinged me at once; and not only made
a breach upon me inevitable and incurable, but drove me,
by its consequences, into a deep relapse of the wandering
disposition, which, as I may say, being born in my very
blood, soon recovered its hold of me; and, like the returns
of a violent distemper, came on with an irresistible force
upon me. This blow was the loss of my wife. It is not
my business here to write an elegy upon my wife, give a
character of her particular virtues, and make my court to
the sex by the flattery of a funeral sermon. She was, in a
few words, the stay of all my affairs; the center of all my
enterprises; the engine that, by her prudence, reduced me
to that happy compass I was in, from the most extravagant
and ruinous project that filled my head, and did more to
guide my rambling genius than a mother's tears, a father's
instructions, a friend's counsel, or all my own reasoning
powers could do. 1 was happy in listening to her, and in
being moved by her entreaties; and to the last degree deso-
late and dislocated in the world by the loss of her.
When she was gone, the world looked awkwardly round
me. I was as much a stranger in it, in my thoughts, as 1
was in the Brazils, when I first went on shore there; and
as much alone, except for the assistance of servants, as I
was in my island. I knew neither what to think nor what
to do. I saw the world busy around me: one part laboring
for bread, another part squandering in vile excesses or
empty pleasures, but equally miserable because the end they
proposed still fled from them; for the men of pleasure every
day surfeited of their vice, and heaped up work for sorrow
and repentance; and the men of labor spent their strength
in daily struggling for bread to maintain the vital strength
they labored with: so living in a daily circulation of sorrow,
living but to woik, and working but to live, as if daily
bread were the only end of wearisome life, and a wearisome
life the only occasion of daily bread.
This put me in mind of the life 1 lived in my kingdom,
the island; where I suffered no more corn to grow, because
I did not want it; and bred no more goats, because 1 had
no more use for them; where the money lay in the drawer
till it grew moldy, and bad scarce the favor to be looked
upon m twenty years. All these things, had I improved
them as 1 ought to have done, and as reason and religion
had dictated to me, would have taught me to search further
than human enjoyments for a full felicity; and that there
was something which certainly was the reason and end of
life superior to all these things, and which was either to be
possessed, or at least hoped for, on this side of the grave.
But my sage counselor was gone; 1 was like a ship with-
out a pilot, that could only run afore the wind. My
thoughts ran all away again into the old affair; my head
was quite turned with the whimsies of foreign adventures;
and all the pleasant, innocent amusements of my farm, my
garden, my cattle, and my family, which before entirely
possessed me, were nothing to me, had no relish, and were
like music to one that has no ear, or food to one that has
no taste. In a word, 1 resolved to leave off housekeeping,
let my farm, and return to London; and in a few months
after I did so.
When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as I was
before; 1 had no relish for the place, no employment in it,
nothing to do but to saunter about like an idle person, of
whom it may be said he is perfectly useless in God's crea-
tion, and it is not one farthing's matter to the rest of his
kind whether he be dead or alive. This also was the thing
which, of all circumstances of life, was the most my aver-
sion, who had been all my days used to an active life; and
I would often say to myself, " A state of idleness is the
very dregs of life;" and, indeed, I thought 1 was much
more suitably employed when I was ttventy-six days mak-
ing a deal board.
It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when my
nephew, whom, as 1 have observed before, 1 had brought
up to the sea, and had made him commander of a ship,
was come home from a short voyage to Bilboa, being the
first he had made. He came to me, and told me that some
merchants of his acquaintance had been proposing to him
to go a voyage for them to the East Indies, and to China,
as private traders. "And now, uncle," says he, "if you
will go to sea with me, I will engage to land you upon your
old habitation in the island; for we are to touch at the
Brazils."
Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a future
state, and of the existence of an invisible world, than the
concurrence of second causes with the idea of things which
we form in our minds, perfectly reserved, and not com-
municated to any in the world.
My nephew knew nothing how far my distemper of wan-
dering was returned upon me, and I knew nothing of what
he had in his thought to say, when that very morning, be-
fore he came to me, 1 had, in a great deal of confusion of
thought, and revolving every part of my circumstances in
my mind, come to this resolution, that 1 would go to
Lisbon, and consult with my old sea captain; and if it was
rational and practicable, 1 would go and see the island
again, and what was become of my people there. 1 had
pleased myself with the thoughts of peopling the place, and
carrying inhabitants from hence, getting a patent for the
possession, and 1 know not what; when, in the middle of
all this, in comes my nephew, as I have said, with his proj-
ect of carrying me thither in his way to the East Indies.
I paused awhile at his words, and looking steadily at
him, "What devil," said I, "sent you on this unlucky
errand?" My nephew stared as if he had been frightened
at first; but perceiving that 1 was not much displeased at
the proposal, he recovered himself. "1 hope it may not
beau unlucky proposal, sir," says he. "I dare say you
would be pleased to see your new colony there, where you
once reigned with more felicity than most of your brother
monarchs in the world." In a word, the scheme hit so
exactly with my temper, that is to say, the prepossession I
was under, and of which 1 have said so much, that 1 told
him, in a few words, if he agreed with the merchants, I
would go with him; but I told him 1 would not promise to
go any further than my own island. "Why, sir," says
he, "you don't want to be left there again, 1 hope?"
"But," said I, " can you not take me up again on your
return?" He told me it would not be possible to do so;
that the merchants would never allow him to come that
way with a laden ship of such value, it being a month's
sail out of his way, and might be three or four. "Besides,
sir, if I should miscarry," said he, " and not return at all,
then you would be just reduced to the condition you were
in before."
This was very rational; but we both found out a remedy
for it; which was, to carry a framed sloop on board the
ship, which being taken in pieces, might, by the help of
some carpenters, whom we agreed to carry with us, be set
up again in the island, and finished fit to go to sea in a
few days. I was not long resolving; for indeed, the im-
portunities of my nephew joined so effectually with my in-
clination, that nothing could oppose me; on the other
Land, my wife being dead, none concerned Sliemsel ism
much for me as to persuade me one way or the other, ex-
cept my ancient good fiiend the widow, who earnestly
struggled with me to consider my years, my easy circum-
stances, and the needless hazards of a long voyage; and
above all, my young children. But it was all to no pur-
pose; I had an irresistible desire for the voyage; and 1 told
her 1 thought there was something so uncommon in the
impressions I had upon my mind, that it would be a kind
of resisting Providence if 1 should attempt to stay at home;
after which she ceased her expostulations, and joined with
me, not only in making providon for my voyage, but also
in settling my family affairs for my absence, and providing
for the education of my children. In order to do this, 1
made my will, and settled the estate I had in such a man-
ner for my children, and placed in such hands, that I was
perfectly easy and satisfied they would have justice done
them, whatever might befall me; and for their education,
I left it wholly to the widow, with a sufficient maintenance
to herself for her care, all which she richly deserved; for
no mother could have taken more care in their education,
or understood it better; and as she lived till I came home,
I also lived to thank her for it.
My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning of
January 1694-5; and 1, with my man Friday, went on
board, in the Downs, the 8th; having, besides that sloop
which I mentioned above, a very considerable cargo of all
kinds of necessary things for my colony; which, if 1 did
not find in good condition, 1 resolved to leave so.
First, I carried with me some servants whom 1 purposed
to place there as inhabitants, or at least to set on work
there upon my account, while I stayed, and either to leave
them there or carry them forward, as they should appear
willing; particularly, I carried two carpenters, a smith,
and a very handy, ingenious fellow, who was a cooper by
trade, and was also a general mechanic; for he was dexter-
ous at making wheels and hand-mills to grind corn, was a
good turner and a good pot-maker; he also made anything
that was proper to make of earth or of wood: in a word,
we called him our Jack-of-all-trades. With these I carried
a tailor, who had offered himself to go a passenger to the
East Indies with my nephew, but afterward consented to
stay on our new plantation, and who proved a most neoea-
sary handy fellow as could be desired in many other busi-
nesses besides that of his trade; for, as I observed formerly,
necessity arms us for all employments.
My cargo, as near as 1 can recollect, for I have not kept
account of the particulars, consisted of a sufficient quantity
of linen, and some English thin stuffs, for clothing the
Spaniards that I expected to find there; and enough of
them, as by my calculation, might comfortably supply
them for seven years; if I remember right, the materials 1
carried for clothing them, with gloves, hats, shoes, stock-
ings, and all such things as they could want for wearing,
amounted to above two hundred pounds, including some
beds, bedding, and household stuff, particularly kitchen
ntensils, with pots, kettles, pewter, brass, etc.; and near
a hundred pounds more in iron work, nails, tools of every
kind, staples, hooks, hinges, and every necessary thing I
could think of.
I carried also a hundred spare arms, muskets, and
fusees; besides some pistols, a considerable quantity of shot
of all sizes, three or four tons of lead, and two pieces of
brass cannon; and, because I knew not what time and
what extremities I was providing for, I carried a hundred
barrels of powder, besides swords, cutlasses, and the iron
part of some pikes and halberts. In short, we had a large
magazine of all sorts of store; and I made my nephew
carry two small quarter-deck guns more than he wanted
for his ship, to leave behind if there was occasion; so that
when we came there we might build a fort and man it
against all sorts of enemies. Indeed, I at first thought
there would be need enough for all, and much more, if we
hoped to maintain our possession of the island; as shall be
seen in the course of this story.
I had not such bad luck in this voyage as 1 had been
used to meet with; and, therefore, shall have the less occa-
sion to interrupt the reader, who, perhaps, may be im-
patient to hear how matters went with my colony; yet
some odd accidents, cross winds, and bad weather happened
on this first setting out, which made the voyage longer
than 1 expected it at first; and I, who had never made but
one voyage, my first voyage to Guinea, in which I might
be said to come back again, as the voyage was at first de-
signed, began to think the same ill fate attended me, and
tkat I was born to be never contented with being on shore.
and yet to be always unfortunate at sea. Contrary winds
first put us to the northward, and we were obliged to pu*
in at Galwayj in Ireland, where we lay wind-bound two-
and-twenty days; but we had this satisfaction with the
disaster, that provisions were here exceeding cheap, and in
the utmost plenty; so that while we lay here we never
touched the ship's stores, but rather added to them.
Here, also, 1 took in several live hogs, and two cows with
their calves, which I resolved, if I had a good passage, to
put on shore in my island; but we found occasion to dis-
pose otherwise of them.
We set out on the 5th of February from Ireland, and
had a very fair gale of wind for some days. As I remem-
ber, it might be about the 20th of February, in the even-
ing late, when the mate, having the watch, came into the
round-house, and told us he saw a flash of fire, and heard
a gun fired; and while he was telling us of it, a boy came
in, and told us the boatswain heard another. This made
us all round out upon the quarter-deck, where for awhile
we heard nothing; but in a few minutes we saw a very
great light, and found that there was some very terrible
fire at a distance; immediately we had recourse to our
reckonings, in which we all agreed that there could be no
land that way in which the fire showed itself, no, not for
five hundred leagues, for it appeared at W.N.W. Upon
this, we concluded it must be some ship on fire at sea; and
as, by our hearing the noise of guns just before, we con-
cluded that it could not be far off, we stood directly toward
it, and were presently satisfied we should discover it, be-
cause the further we sailed, the greater the light appeared;
though the weather being hazy, we could not perceive any-
thing but the light for awhile. In about half an hour's
sailing, the wind being fair for us, though not much of it,
and the weather clearing up a little, we could plainly dis-
cern that it was a great ship on fire in the middle of the sea.
I was most sensibly touched with this disaster, though
not at all acquainted with the persons engaged in it; 1
presently recollected my former circumstances, and what
condition 1 was in when taken up by the Portuguese cap-
tain; and how much more deplorable the circumstances of
the poor creatures belonging to that, ship must be. if they
had no other ship iu company with them. Upon this 1
immediately ordered that five guns should be tired, one
goon after ("".other, that, if possible, we might give notice
to them that there was help for them at hand, and that
they might endeavor to save themselves in their boats; for
tht,agh we could see the flames of the ship, yet they, it
being night, could see nothing of us.
We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the
burning ship drove, waiting for daylight; when, on a sud-
den, to our great terror, though we had reason to expect
it, the ship blew up in the air; and in a few minutes all
the fire was out, that is to say, the rest of the ship sunk.
This was a terrible, and indeed an afflicting sight, for the
sake of the poor men, who, I concluded, must be either all
destroyed in the ship, or be in the utmost distress in their
boat, in the middle of the bcean; which, at present, as it
was dark, I could not see. However, to direct them as
well as I could, I caused lights to be hung out in all parts
of the ship where we could, and which we had lanterns for,
and kept firing guns all the night long; letting them know
by this that there was a ship not far off.
About eight o'clock in the morning we discovered the
ship's boats by the help of our perspective glasses, and
found there were two of them, both thronged with people,
and deep in the water. We perceived they rowed, the
wind being against thom; that they saw our ship, and did
their utmost to make us see them. We immediately spread
our ancient, to let thom know we saw them, and hung a
waft out, as a signal for them to come on board, and then
made more sail, standing directly to them. In little more
than half an hour we came up with them, and took them
all in, being no less than sixty-four, men, women, and chil-
dren; for there were a great many passengers.
Upon inquiry we found it was a French merchant ship
of three hundred tons, home-bound from Quebec. The
master gave us a long account of the distress of his ship;
how the fire began in the steerage by the negligence of the
steersman, which, on his crying out for help, was, as every-
body thought, entirely put out; but they soon found that
some sparks of the first fire had got into some part of the
ehip so difficult to come at that they could not effectually
quench it; and afterward getting in between the timbers,
and within the ceiling of the ship, it proceeded into the
hold, and mastered all the skill and all the application they
were able to exert.
282 BOBisrsoN crubob.
They had no more to do then but to get into their boats,
which, to their great comfort, were pretty large; being
their long-boat and a great shallop, besides a small skiff,
which was of no great service to them, other than to get
some fresh water and provisions into her, after they had
secured their lives Irom the fire. They had, indeed, smal.l
hopes of their lives by getting into these boats *it that dis-
tance from any land; only, as they said, that they thug
escaped from the fire, and there was a possibility that some
ship might happen to be at sea, and might take them in. They
had sails, oars, and a compass; and had as much provisions
and water as, with sparing it so as to be next door to starv-
ing, might support them about twelve days, in which, if
they had no bad weather and no contrary winds, the cap-
tain said he hoped he might get to the Banks of Newfound-
land, and might perhaps take some fish, to sustain them
till they might go on shore. But there were so many
chances against them in all these cases, such as storms, to
overset and founder them; rains and cold, to benumb and
perish their limbs; contrary winds, to keep them out and
starve them, that it must have been next to miraculous if
they had escaped.
In the midst of their consternation, every one being
hopeless and ready to despair, the captain, with tears in
his eyes, told me they were on a sudden surprised with the
joy of hearing a gun fired, and after that four more: these
were the five guns which I caused to be fired at first seeing
the light. This revived their hearts, and gave them the
notice, which, as above, 1 desired it should, that there was
a ship at hand for their help. It was upon the hearing of
these guns that they took down their masts and sails: the
sound coming from the windward, they resolved to lie by
till morning. Some time after this, hearing no more guns,
they fired three muskets, one a considerable while after
another; but these, the wind being contrary, we never
heard. Some time after that again they were still more
agreeably surprised with seeing our lights, and hearing the
guns, which, as I h ve said, I caused to be fired all the
rest of the night. This set them to work with their oars,
to keep their boats ahead, at least that we might the
sooner come up with them; and at last, to their inexpress-
ible joy, they found we saw them.
It is impossible for me to express the several gestures.
the strange ecstasies, the variety of postures which these
poor delivered people ran into, to express the joy of their
souls at so unexpected a deliverance. Grief and fear are
easily described: sighs, tears, groans, and a very few
motions of the head and hands, make up the sum of its
variety; but an excess of joy, a surprise of joy, has a
thousand extravagances in it. There were some in tears;
some raging and tearing themselves, as if they had been in
the greatest agonies of sorrow; some stark raving and
downright lunatic; some ran about the ship stamping with
their feet, others wringing their hands; some were dancing,
some singing, some laughing, more crying, many quite
dumb, not able to speak a word; others sick and vomiting;
several swooning and ready to faint; and a few were cross-
ing themselves and giving God thanks.
1 would not wrong them either; there might be many
that were thankful afterward; but the passion was too
strong for them at first, and they were not able to master
it: they were thrown into ecstasies, and a kind of frenzy,
and it was but a very few that were composed and serious
in their joy. Perhaps, also, the case may have some ad-
dition to it from the particular circumstance of the nation
they belonged to: I mean the French, whose temper ia
allowed to be more volatile, more passionate, and more
sprightly, and their spirits more fluid than in other nations.
I am not philosopher enough to determine the cause; but
nothing I had ever seen before came up to it. The ecsta->
sies poor Friday, my trusty savage, was in when he found
his father in the boat came the nearest to it; and the sur-
prise of the master and his two companions, whom 1 deliv-
ered from the villains that set them on shore in the island,
came a little way toward it; but nothing was to compare
to this, either that I saw in Friday, or anywhere else in my
life.
It is further observable, that these extravagances did not
show themselves in that different manner I have mentioned,
in different persons only; but all the variety would appear,
in a short succession of moments, in one and the same
person. A man that we saw this! minute dumb, and, as it
were, stupid and confounded, would the next minute be
dancing and hallooing like an antic; and the next moment
be tearing his hair, or pulling his clothes to pieces, and
stamping them under his feet like a madman; in a few
284 v ROBINSON CRTX80&'
moments after that we would have him all in tears, then
sick, swooning, and, had not immediate help been had, he
would in a few moments have been dead. Thus it was,
not with one or two, or ten or twenty, but with the great-
est part of them; and, if I remember right, our surgeon
was obliged to let blood of about thirty persons. .
There were two priests among them: one an old man,
and the other a young man; and that which was strangest
was, the oldest man was the worst. As soon as he set his
foot on board our ship, and saw himself safe, he dropped
down stone dead to all appearance. Not the least sign of
life could be perceived in him; our surgeon immediately
applied proper remedies to recover him, and was the only
man in the ship that believed he was not dead. At length
he opened a vein in his arm, having first chafed and rubbed
the part, so as to warm it as much as possible. Upon this
the blood, which only dropped at first, flowing freely, in
three minutes after the man opened his eyes; a quarter of
an hour after that ho spoke, grew better, and after the
blood was stopped, he walked about, told us he was per-
fectly well, and took a dram of cordial which the surgeon
gave him. About a quarter of an hour after this they
came running into the cabin to the surgeon, who was
bleeding a French woman that had fainted, and told him
the priest was gone stark mad. It seems he had begun to
revolve the change of his circumstances in his mind, and
again this put him into an ecstasy of joy. His spirits
whirled about faster than the vessels could convey them,
the blood grew hot and feverish, and the man was as fit for
Bedlam as any creature that ever was in it. The surgeon
would not bleed him again in that condition, but gave him
something to dose and put him to sleep; which, after some
time, operated upon him, and he awoke next morning per-
fectly composed and well. The younger priest behaved
with great command of his passions, and was really an ex-
ample of a serious, well-governed mind. At his first com-
ing on board the ship he threw himself flat on his faoe,
prostrating himself in thankfulness for his deliverance, ia
which I unhappily and unseasonably disturbed him, really
thinking he had been in a swoon; but he spoke calmly,
thanked me, told me he was giving God thanks for his de-
liverance, begged me to leave him a few moments, and
that, next to his Maker, he would give me thanks also. 1
was heartily sorry that I disturbed him, and not only left
him, but kept others from interrupting him also, lie con-
tinued in that posture about three minutes, or little more,
after I left him, then came to me, as he had said he would,
and, with a great deal of seriousness and affection, but
with tears in his eyes, thanked me, that had, under God,
given him and so many miserable creatures their lives. I
told him I had no need to tell him to' thank God for it,
rather than me, for 1 had seen that he had done that
already; but I added that it was nothing but what reason
and humanity dictated to all men, and that we had as
much reason as he to give thanks to God, who had blessed
us so far as to make us the instruments of His mercy to so
many of His creatures. After this the young priest applied
himself to his countrymen, and labored to compose them:
he persuaded, entreated, argued, reasoned with them, and
did his utmost to keep them within the exercise of their
reason; and with some he had success, though others were
for a time out of all government of themselves.
I can not help committing this to writing, as perhaps it
may be useful to those into whose hands it may fall, for
guiding themselves in the extravagances of their passions;
for if an excess of joy can carry men out to such a length
beyond the reach of their reason, what will not the extrava-
gances of anger, rage, and a provoked mind, carry us to?
And, indeed, here I saw reason for keeping an exceeding
watch over our passions of every kind, as well those of joy
and satisfaction as those of sorrow and anger.
We were somewhat disordered by these extravagances
among our new guests for the first day; but after they had
retired to lodgings provided for them as well as our ship
would allow, and had slept heartily—as most of them did,
Being fatigued and frightened—they were quite another
sort of people the next day. Nothing of good manners, or
civil acknowledgments for the kindness shown them, was
wanting; the French, it is known, are naturally apt enough
to exceed that way. The captain and one of the priests
came to me the next day, and desired to speak with me
and my nephew; the commander began to consult with us
what should be done with them; and first, they told us we
had saved their lives, so all they had was little enough for
a return to us for that kindness received. The captain
said they had saved some money and some things of value
in their boats, caught hastily out of the flames, and if, we
would accept it they were ordered to make an offer of it all
to us; they only desired to be set on shore somewhere in
our way, where, if possible, they might get a passage to
France. My nephew wished to accept their money at first
word, and to consider what to do with them afterward;
but I overruled him in that part, for I knew what it was;
to be set on shore in a strange country; and if the Portu-
guese captain that took me up at sea had served me so,
and taken all I had for my deliverance, 1 must have been
starved, or have been as much a slave at the Brazils as I
had been at Barbary, the mere being sold to a Mohamme-
dan excepted; and perhaps a Portuguese is not a much
better master than a Turk, if not in some cases much
worse.
I therefore told the French captain that we had taken
them up in their distress, it was true, but that it was our
duty to do so, as we were fellow-creatures; and we would
desire to be so delivered if we were in the like or any other
extremity; that we had done nothing for them but what
we believed they would have done for us if we had been in
their case and they in ours; but that we took them up to
save them, not to plunder them; and it would be a most
barbarous thing to take that little from them which they
had saved out of the fire, and then set them on shore and
leave them; that this would be first to save them from
death, and then kill them ourselves: save them from
drowning, and abandon them to starving; and therefore I
would not let the least thing be taken from them. As to
setting them on shore, I told them, indeed, that was an
exceeding difficulty to us, for that the ship was bound to
the East Indies; and though we were driven out of our
course to the west-ward a very great way, and perhaps were
directed by Heaven on purpose for their deliverance, yet it
was impossible for us willfully to change our voyage on
their particular account; nor could my nephew, the cap-
tain, answer it to the freighters, with whom he was under
charter to pursue his voyage by way of Brazil; and all I
knew we could do for them was to put ourselves in the way
of meeting with other ships homeward bound from the
West Indies, and get them a passage, if possible, to Eng-
land or France.
The first part of the proposal was so generous and kind
they could not but be very thankful for it; but they were
in very great consternation, especially the passengers, at
the notion of being carried away to the East Indies; they
then entreated me that as I was driven so far to the west-
ward before I met with them, 1 would at least keep on the
same course to the Banks of Newfoundland, where it was
probable I might meet with some ship or sloop that they
might hire to carry them back to Canada.
1 thought this was but a reasonable request on their
part, and therefore 1 inclined to agree to it; for indeed I
considered that to carry this whole company to the East
Indies would not only be an intolerable severity upon the
poor people, but would be ruining our whole voyage by de-
vouring all our provisions; so I thought it no breach or
charter-party, but what an unforeseen accident made abso-
lutely necessary to us, and in which no one could say we
were to blame; for the laws of God and nature would for-
bid that we should refuse to take up two boats full' of
people in such a distressed condition; and the nature of
the thing, as well respecting ourselves as the poor people,
obliged us to set them on shore somewhere or other for
their deliverance. So I consented that we would carry
them to Newfoundland, if wind and weather would permit:
and if not, 1 would carry them to Martinico, in the West
Indiea
The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather
pretty good; and as the winds had continued in the points
between N.E. and S.E. a long time, we missed several op-
portunities of sending them to France; for we met several
ships bound to Europe, whereof two were French, from St.
Christopher's, but they had been so long beating up against
the wind that they durst take in no passengers, for fear of
wanting provisions for the voyage, as well for themselves
as for those they should take it; so we were obliged to go
on. It was about a week after this that we made the
Banks of Newfoundland; where, to shorten my story, we
put all our French people on board a bark, which they
hired at sea there, to put them on shore, and afterward to
carry them to France, if they could get provisions to
victual themselves with. When I say all the French went
on shore, 1 should remember that the young priest I spoke
of, hearing we were bound to the East Indies, desired to
go the voyage with us, and to be set on shore on the coast
of Coromandel; which I readily agreed to, for I wonder-
fully liked the man, and had very good reason, as will ap-
pear afterward; also four of the seamen entered themselves
on our ship, and proved very useful fellows.
Prom hence we directed our course for the West Indies,
steering away S. and S. by E. for about twenty days to-
gether, sometimes little or no wind at all; when we met
238 BOBINSOW CBUSG3.
almost as deplorable as that before.
SECTION XXX.
Steer for the West Indies.—Distressing Account of a Bristol Ship,
the Crew of Which We Save, in a State of Starvation—Arrive at
My Island.—Friday's Joy on Discovering It.—Affecting Inter-
view Betwixt Him and his Father on Landing.—Narrative of the
Occurrences on the Island During My Absence.
It was in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes north, on
the 19th day of March 1694-5, when we spied a sail, our
course S.E. and by S. We soon perceived it was a large
vessel, and that she bore up to us, but could not at first
know what to make of her, till, after coming a little
nearer, we found she had lost her main-topmast, foremast,
and bowspuit;, and presently she fired a gun as a signal of
distress. The weather was pretty good, wind at N. N. W.
a fresh gale, and we soon came to speak with her. We
found her a ship of Bristol, bound home from Barbadoes,
but had been blown out of the road at Barbadoes a few
days before she was ready to sail, by a terrible hurricane,
while the captain and chief mate were both gone on shore;
so that, besides the terror of the storm, they were in an in-
different case for good mariners to bring the ship home.
They had been already nine weeks at sea, and had met with
another terrible storm, after the hurricane was over, which
had blown them quite out of their knowledge to thewest-
ward, and in which thoy lost their masts. They told us
they expected to have seen the Bahama Islands, but were
then driven away again to the south-east, by r strong gale
of wind at N.N. W., the same that blew dow: »nd having
no sails to work the ship with but a m&in course, and a
kind of square sail upon a jury foremast, which they had
set up, they could not lie near the wind, but were enae*» ,
oring to Btand away for the Canaries.
But that which was worst of all was, that they were
almost starved for want of provisions, besides the fatigues
they had undergone; their bread and flesh were quite gone
—they had not one ounce left in the ship, and had had none
for eleven days. The only relief they had was their water
was not all spent, and they had about half a barrel of iloiu
left; they had sugar enough; some succades, or sweet-
meats, they had at first, but these were all devoured; and
they had seven casks of rum. There was a youth, and his
mother, and a maid-servant on board, who were passen-
gers, and thinking the ship was ready to sail, unhappily
came on board the evening before the hurricane began; and
having no provisions of their own left, they were in a mdre
deplorable condition than the rest: for the seamen, being
reduced to such an extreme necessity themselves, had no
compassion, we may be sure, for the poor passengers; and
they were, indeed, in such a condition that their misery is
very hard to describe.
1 had perhaps not known this part, if my curiosity had
not led me (the weather being fair, and the wind abated)
to go on board the ship. The second mate, who upon this
occasion commanded the ship, had been on board our ship,
and he told me they had three passengers in the great cabin
that were in a deplorable condition.. "Nay," says he, "I
believe they are dead, for 1 have heard nothing of them for
above two days; and 1 was afraid to inquire after them,"
said he, "for 1 had nothing to relieve them with." We
immediately applied ourselves to give them what relief we
could spare; and, indeed, I had so far overruled things
with my nephew, that 1 would have victualed them,
though we had gone away to Virginia, or any other part of
the coast of America, to have supplied ourselves; but there
was no necessity for that.
But now they were in a new danger; for they were afraid
of eating too much, even of that little we gave them. The
mate, or commander, brought six men with him in hie
boat; but these poor wretches looked like skeletons, and
were so weak that they could hardly sit to their oars. The
mate himself was very ill, and half-starved; for he de-
clared he had reserved notning from the men, and went
share and share alike with them in every bit they eat. I
cautioned him to eat sparingly, and set meat before him
immediately, but he had not eaten three mouthf uls before
he began to be sick and out of order; so he stopped
awhile, and our surgeon mixed him up something with
some broth, which he said would be to him both food aud
physic; and after he had taken it he grew better. In the
meantime I forgot not the men. I ordered victuals to be
given them, and the poor creatures rather devoured than
eat it: they were so exceedingly hungry that they were in
a manner ravenous, and had no command of themselves;
and two of them eat with so much greediness that they
were in danger of their lives the next morning. The sight
of these people's distress was very moving to me, and
brought to mind what I had a terrible prospect of at my
first coming on shore in my island, where I had not the
least mouthful of food, or any prospect of procuring any;
besides the hourly apprehensions 1 had of being made the
food of other creatures. But all the while the mate was
thus relating to me the miserable condition of the ship's
company, I could not put out of my thought the story he
had told me of the three poor creatures in the great cabin
—viz., the mother, her son, and the maid-servant, whom
he had heard nothing of for two or three days, and whom,
he seemed to confess, they had wholly neglected, their own
extremities being so great; by which I understood that they
had really given them no food at all, and that therefore
they must be perished, and be all lying dead, perhaps, on
the floor or deck of the cabin.
As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called cap-
tain, on board with his men, to refresh them, so I also for-
got not the starving crew that were left on board, but
ordered my own boat to go on board the ship, aud, with
my mate aud twelve men, to carry them a sack of bread,
and four or five pieces of beef to boil. Our surgeon
charged the men to cause the meat to be boiled while they
stayed, and to keep guard in the cook-room, to prevent the
men taking it to eat raw, or taking it out of the pot before
it was well boiled, and then to give every man but a very
little at a time: and by this caution he preserved the men,
who would otherwise have killed themselves with that very
food that was given them on purpose to save their lives.
At the same time I ordered the mate 4o go into the great
cabin, and see what condition the poor passengers were in;
wort ;* tL«y were alive, to comfort them, and give them
*&»c refreshment was proper: and the surgeon gave him
ft large pitcher, with some of the prepared broth which he
had given the mate that was on board, and which he did
not question would restore them gradually. 1 was not
satisfied with this: but, as I said above, having a great
wind to see the scene of misery which 1 knew the ship itself
would present me with, in a more lively manner than I
»ould have it by report, I took the captain of the ship, as
we now called him, with me, and went myself, a little
»f ter, in their boat.
I found the poor men on board almost in a tumult to get
ihe victuals out of the boiler before it was ready; but my
mate observed his orders, and kept a good guard at the
cook-room door; and the man he placed there, after using
all possible persuasion to have patience, kept them off by
force; however, he caused some biscuit cakes to be dipped
in the pot, and softened with the liquor of the meat, which
they call brewis, and gave them every one some to stay
their stomachs, and told them it was for their own safety
that he was obliged to give them but little at a time. But
it was all in vain; and had I not come on board, and their
own commander and officers with me, and with good words,
and some threats also of giving them no more, I believe
they would have broken into the cook-room by force, and
torn the meat out of the furnace—for words are indeed of
very small force to a hungry belly; however, we pacified
them, and fed them gradually and cautiously at first, and
the next time gave them more, and at last filled their
bellies, and the men did well enough.
But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was
of another nature, and far beyond the rest; for as, first,
the ship's company had so little for themselves, it was but
too true that they had at first kept them very low, and at
last totally neglected them: so that for six or seven days
it might be said they had really no food at all, and for
several days before very little. The poor mother, who, as
the men reported, was a woman of sense and good breed-
ing, had spared all she could so affectionately for her son,
that at last she entirely sunk under it; and when the mate
of our ship went in, she sat upon the floor or deck, with
her back up against the sides, between two chairs, which
were lashed fast, and her head sunk between her shoulders
like a corpse, though not quite dead. My mate said all he
could to revive and encourage her, and with a spoon pat
gome broth into her mouth. She opened her lips, and
lifted up one hand, but could not speak: yet she under-
stood what he said, and made signs to him, intimating
that it was too late for her, but pointed to her chile, as if
shu would have said they should take care of him. How-
ever, the mate, who was exceedingly moved at the sight,
endeavored to get some of the broth into her mouth, and,
as he said, got two or three spoonfuls down—though I
question whether he could be sure of it or not: but it was
too late, and she died the same night.
The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most
affectionate mother's life, was not so far gone; yet he lay
in a cabin bed, as one stretched out, with hardly any life
left in him. He had a piece of an old glove in his mouth,
having eaten up the rest of it; however, being young, and
having more strength than his mother, the mate got some-
thing down his throat, aud he began sensibly to revive;
though by giving him, some time after, but two or three
spoonfuls extraordinary, he was very sick, and brought it
up again.
But the next care was the poor maid: she lay all along
upon the deck, hard by her mistress, and just like one thai
had fallen down in a fit of apoplexy, and struggled for
life. Her limbs were distorted; one of her hands was
clasped round the frame of the chair, and she gripped it so
hard that we could not easily make her let it go; her other
arm lay over her head, and her feet lay both together, set
fast against the frame of the cabin table: in short, she lay
just like one in the agonies of death, and yet she was alive,
too. The poor creature was not only starved with hunger,
and terrified with the thoughts of death, but, as the men
told us afterward, was broken-hearted for her mistress,
whom she saw dying for two or three days before, and
whom she loved most tenderly. We knew not what to do
with this poor girl; for when our surgeon, who was a man
of very great knowledge and experience, had, with great
application, recovered her as to life, he had her upon his
hands still; for she was little less than distracted for a con-
siderable time after.
Whoever shall read these memorandums must be desired
to consider that visits at sea are not like a journey into the
country, where sometimes people stay a week or a fort-
night at a place. Oar business was to relieve this dis-
tressed ship's crew, but not lie by for them; and though
they were willing to steer the same course with us for some
days, yet we could carry no sail to keep pace with a ship
that had no masts. However, as their captain begged of
us to help him to set up a main-topmast, and a kind of a
topmast to his jury-foremast, we did, as it were, lie by him
for three or four days; and then, having given him five
barrels of beef, a barrel of pork, two hogsheads of biscuit,
and a proportion of pease, flour, and what other things we
could spare; and taking three casks of sugar, some rum,
and some pieces of eight from them for satisfaction, we
left them„ taking on board with us, at their own earnest
request, the youth and the maid, and all their goods.
The young lad was about seventeen years of age, a
pretty, well-bred, modest, and sensible youth, greatly de-
jected with the loss of his mother, and also at having lost
his father but a few months before, at Barbadoes. He
begged of the surgeon to speak to me to take him out of
the ship; for he said the cruel fellows had murdered his
mother: and, indeed, so they had, that is to say, passively;
for they might hare spared a small sustenance to the poor
helpless widow, though it had been but just enough to keep
her alive; but hunger knows no friend, no relation, no
justice, no right, and therefore is remorseless, and capable
of no compassion.
The surgeon told him how far we were going, and that
it would carry him away from all his friends, and put him,
perhaps, in as bad circumstances almost as those we found
him in—that is to say, starving in the world. He said it
mattered not whither he went, if he was but delivered
from the terrible crew that he was among; that the cap-
tain (by which he meant me, for he could know nothing of
my nephew) had saved his life, and he was sure would not
hurt him; and as for the maid, he was sure, if she came tp
herself, she would be very thankful for it, and let us carry
them where we would. The surgeoi represented the case
so effectually to me that I yielded, and we took them
both on board, with all their goods, except eleven hogs-
heads of sugar, which could not be removed or come at;
and as the youth had a bill of lading for them, 1 made his
commander sign a writitig, obliging himself to go, as soon
as he came to Bristol, to one Mr. Rogers, a merchant
there, to whom the youth said he was related, and to de-
liver a letter which I wrote to him, and all the gooas he
had belonging to the deceased widow; which, I suppose,
was not done, for I could never learn that the ship came
to Bristol, but was, as is most probable, lost at sea, being
in so disabled a condition, and so far from any land, that I
am of opinion the first storm she met with afterward she
might founder, for she was leaky, and had damage in her
hold when we met with her.
1 was now in the latitude of 19 degrees, 32 minutes,
and had hitherto a tolerable voyage as to weather, though
at first the winds had been contrary. I shall trouble no-
body with the little incidents of wind, weather, currents,
etc., on the rest of our voyage; but to shorten my story,
shall observe that 1 came to my old habitation, the island,
on the 10th of April, 1695. It was with no small difficulty
that I found the place; for as 1 came to it and went to it
before on the south and east side of the island, coming
from the Brazils, so now, coming in between the main and
the island, and having no chart for the coast, nor any
landmark, I did not know it when I saw it, or know
whether 1 saw it or not. We beat about a great while,
and went on shore on several islands in the mouth of the
freat river Oronooque, but none for my purpose; only this
learned by my coasting the shore, that I was under one
great mistake before—viz., that the continent which I
thought I saw from the island I lived in was really no con-
tinent, but a long island, or rather a ridge of islands,
reaching from one to the other side of the extended mouth
of that great river; and that the savages who came to my
island were not properly those which we call Caribbees,
but islanders, and other barbarians of the same kind, who
inhabited nearer to our side than the rest.
i In short, 1 visited several of these islands to no purpose;
some I found were inhabited, and some were not; on one
of them 1 found some Spaniards, and thought they had
lived there; but speaking with them, found they had a
sloop lying in a small creek hard by, and came thither to
make salt, and to catch some pearl-mussels if they could;
but that they belonged to the Isle de Trinidad, which lay
further north, in the latitude of 10 and 11 degrees.
Thus coasting from one island to another, sometimes
kwith the ship, sometimes with the Frenchman's shallop,
which we had found a convenient boat, and therefore kept
ner with their very good-will, at length I came fair on the
south side of my island, and presently knew the very coun-
tenance of the place: so I brought the ship safe to an
anchor, broadside with the little creek where my old habi-
tation was. As soon as 1 saw the place I called for Friday,
and asked him if he knew where he was. He looked about
a little, and presently clapping his hands, cried, " Oh, yesl
oh, there! ob, yes! oh, there!" pointing to our old habita-
tion, and fell dancing and capering like a mad fellow; and
I had much ado to keep him from jumping into the sea,
to swim ashore to the place.
"Well, Friday," says I, "do you think we shall find
anybody here or no? and do you think we shall see your
father?" The fellow stood mute as a stock a good while;
but when I named his father, the poor, affectionate creat-
ure looked dejected, and I could see the tears run down his
face very plentifully. "What is the matter, Friday? Are
you troubled because you may see your father?" "No,
no," says he, shaking his head, "no see him more: no,
never more see him again." "Why so, Friday? How do
you know that?" "Oh, no! oh, no!" says Friday; " he
long ago die, long ago; he much old man." "Well, well,
Friday, you don "t know; but shall we see any one else,
then?" The fellow, it seems, had better eyes than I, and
he points to the hill just above my old house; and though
we lay half a league off, he cries out, " We see, we see; yes,
yes, we see much man there, and there, and there." f
looked, but I saw nobody—no, not with a perspective
glass, which was, 1 suppose, because 1 could not hit the
place: for the fellow was right, as 1 found upon inquiry
the next day; and there were five or six men all together,
who stood to look at the ship, not knowing what to think
of us.
As soon as Friday told me he saw people, I caused the
English ancient to be spread, and fired three guns, to give
them notice we were friends; and in about a quarter of an
hour after we perceived a smoke arise from the side of the
creek; so I immediately ordered the boat out, taking
Friday with me, and hanging out a white flag, I went
directly on shore, taking with me the young friar I men-
tioned, to whom-I had told the story of my living there,
and the manner of it, and every particular, both of myself
and those 1 left there, and who was on that account ex-
(
tremely desirous to go with me. We had, besides, about
sixteen men well armed, if we had found any new guests
there which we did not know of; but we had no need of
weapons.
As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high
water, we rowed directly into the creek; and the first man
I fixed my eye upon was the Spaniard whose life 1 had
saved, and whom I knew by his face perfectly well: as to
his habit, 1 shall describe it afterward. I orderod nobody
to go on shore at first but myself; but there was no keep-
ing Friday in the boat, for the affectionate creature had
spied his father at a distance, a good way off the Spaniards,
,where, indeed, 1 saw nothing of him; and if they had not
let him go ashore, he would have jumped into the sea. He
was no sooner on shore, but he flew away to his father like
an arrow out of a bow. It would have made any man shed
tears, in spite of the firmest resolution, to have seen the
first transports of this poor fellow's joy when he came to
his father: how he embraced him, kissed him, stroked his
face, took him up in his arms, set him down upon a tree,
and lay down by him; then stood and looked at him, as
any one would look at a strange picture, for a quarter of
an hour together; then lay down on the ground, and
stroked his legs, and kissed them, and then got up again
and stared at him; one would have thought the fellow be-
witched. But it would have made a dog laugh the next
day to see how his passion ran out another way: in the
morning he walked along the shore with his father several
hours, always leading him by the hand, as if he had been
a lady; and every now and then he would come to the boat
to fetch something or other for him, either a lump of
sugar, a dram, a biscuit, or something or other that was
good. In the afternoon his frolics ran another way; for
then he would set the old man down upon the ground, and
dance about him, and make a thousand antic gestures; and
all the while he did this he would be talking to him, and
telling him one story or another of his travels, and of what
had happened to him abroad, to divert him. In short, if
the same filial affection was to be found in Christians to
their parents in our part of the world, one would be
tempted to say there would hardly have been any need of
the fifth commandment.
But this is a digression: I return to my larding. It
would be needless to take notice of all the ceremonies and
civilities that the Spaniards received me with. The first
Spaniard, whom, as I said, 1 knew very well, was he whose
life I had saved. He came toward the boat, attended by
one more, carrying a flag of truce also; and he not only did
not know me at first, but he had no thoughts, no notion of
its being me that was come, till 1 spoke to him. "Senor,"
said I, in Portuguese, " do you not know me?" At which
he spoke not a word, but giving his musket to the man
that was with him, threw bis arms abroad, saying some-
thing in Spanish that 1 did not perfectly hear, came for-
ward and embraced me, telling me he was inexcusable not
to know that face again that he had once seen, as of an
angel from heaven sent to save his life; he said abundance
of very handsome things, as a well-bred Spaniard always
knows how, and then, beckoning to the person that at-
tended him, bade him go and call out his comrades. He
then asked me if I would walk to my old habitation, where
he would give me possession of my own house again, and
where I should see they had made but mean improvements.
I walked along with him, but, alas! I could no more find
the place than if 1 had never been there; for they had
planted so many trees, and placed them in such a position,
so thick and close to one another, and in ten years' time
they were grown so big, that the place was inaccessible,
except by such windings and blind ways as they themselves
only, who made them, could find.
I asked them what put them upon all these fortifications;
he told me 1 would say there was need enough of it when
they had given me an account how they had passed their
time since their arriving in the island, especially after they
had the misfortune to find that I was gone. He told me
he could not but have some pleasure in my good fortune,
when he heard that I was gone in a good ship, and to my
satisfaction; and that he had oftentimes a strong persuasion
that one time or other he should see me again, but nothing
that ever befell him in his life, he said, was so surprising
and afflicting to him at first as the disappointment he was
under when he came back to the island and found 1 was
not there. ,
As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that were
left behind, and of whom, he said, he had a long story to
ull me, the Spaniards all thought themselves much better
among the savages, only that their number was so small.
"And," says he, "had they been strong enough, we had
been all long ago in purgatory;" and with that he crossed
himself on the breast. . " But, sir," says he, "I hope you
will not be displeased when I shall tell you how, forced by
necessity, we were obliged, for our own preservation, to
disarm them, and make them our subjects, as they would
not be content with being moderately our masters, but
would be our murderers." 1 answered I was afraid «f it
when I left them there, and nothing troubled me at my
parting from the island but that they were not come back,
that I might have put them in possession of everything
first, and left the others in a state of subjection, as they
deterved; but if they had reduced them to it I was very
glad, and should be very far from finding any fault with
it; for I knew they were a parcel of refractory, ungoverned
villains, and were fit for any manner of mischief.
While I was thus saying this, the man came whom he
had sent back, and with him eleven more. In the dress
they were in it was impossible to guess what nation they
were of; but he made all clear, both to them and to me.
First, he turned to me, and pointing to them, said,
"These, sir, are some of the gentlemen who owe their lives
to you;" and then turning to them, and pointing to me, he
let them know who I was; upon which they all came up,
one by one, not as if they had been sailors, and ordinary
fellows, and the like, but really as if they had been em-
bassadors or noblemen, and I a monarch or great con-
queror: their behavior was, to the last degree, obliging and
courteous, and yet mixed with a manly, majestic gravity,
which very well became them; and, in short, they had so
much more manners than 1, that 1 scarce knew how to re-
ceive their eiviiities, much less how to return them in kind.
The history of their coming to, and conduct in, th«
island, after my going away, is so very remarkable, and
has so many incidents, which the former part of my rela-
tion will help to understand, and which will, in most of
the particulars, refer to the account 1 have already given,
that I can not but commit them, with great delight, to the
reading of those that come after me.
In order to do this as intelligbly as I can, I must go
back to the circumstances in which I left the island, and
the persons on it, of whom I am to speak. And first, it is
necessary to repeat that I had sent away Friday's father
and the Spaniard (the two whose lives 1 had rescued from
the savages) in a large canoe to the main, as I then thought
it, to fetch over the Spaniard's companions that he left he-
hind him, in order to save them from the like calamity
that he had been in, and in order to succor them for the
present; and that, if possible, we might together find some
way for our deliverance afterward. When 1 sent them
away I had no visible appearance of, or the least room to
hope for, my own deliverance, any more than I had twenty
years before—much less had I any foreknowledge of what
afterward happened, I mean, of an English ship coming on
shore there to fetch me off; and it could not be but a very
great surprise to them, when they came back, not only to
find that I was gone, but to find three strangers left on the
spot, possessed of all that I had left behind me, which
would otherwise have been their own.
The first thing, however, which I inquired into, that I
might begin where I left off, was of their own part; and 1
desired the Spaniard would give mo a particular account of
his voyage back to his countrymen with the boat, when I
sent him to fetch them over. He told me there was little
variety in that part, for nothing remarkable happened to
them on the way, having had very calm weather and a
smooth sea. As for his countrymen, it could not be
doubted, he said, but that they were overjoyed to see him
(it seems he was the principal man among them, the cap-
tain of the vessel they had been shipwrecked in having been
dead some time): they were, he said, the more surprised
to see him, because they knew that he was fallen into the
hands of the savages, who, they were satisfied, would de-
vour him as they did all the rest of their prisoners; that
when he told them the story of his deliverance, and in
what manner he was furnished for carrying them away, it
was like a dream to them, and their astonishment, he said,
was somewhat like that of Joseph's brethren when he told
them who he was, and the story of his exaltation in
Pharoah's court; but when he showed them the arms, the
powder, the ball, the provisions, that he brought them f ^r
their journey or voyage, they were restored to themselves,^
took a just-share of the joy of their deliverance, and in:-
mediately prepared to come away with him.
Their first business was to get canoes; and in this tiny
were obliged not to stick so much upon the honesty of it,
bat to trespass upon their friendly savages, and to borrow
two large canoes, or periaguas, on pretense of going out a-
fishing, or for pleasure. In these they came away the next
morning. It seems they wanted no time to get themselves
ready; for they had neither clothes, nor provisions, nor
anything in the world but what they had* on them, and a
few roots to eat, of which they used to make their bread.
They were in all three weeks absent; and in that time, un-
luckily for them, 1 had the occasion offered for my escape,
as 1 mentioned in the other part, and to get off from the
island, leaving three of the most impudent, hardened, un-
governed, disagreeable villains behind me that any man
could desire to meet with—to the poor Spaniards' great
grief and disappointment.
The only just thing the rogues did was, that when the
Spaniards came ashore, they gave my letter to them, and
gave them provisions, and other relief, as I had ordered
them to do; also they gave them the long paper of direc-
tions which I had left with them, containing the particulat
methods which 1 took for managing every part of my life
there; the way I baked my bread, bred up tame goats, and
planted my corn; how I cured my grapes, made my pots,
and, in a word, eyerything I did. All this being written
down, they gave to the Spaniards (two of them understood
English well enough): nor did they refuse to accommodate
the Spaniards with anything else, for they agreed very well
for some time. They gave them an equal admission into
the house or cave, and they began to live very sociably; and
the head Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of my
methods, together with Friday's father, managed all their
affairs; but as for the Englishmen, they did nothing but
ramble about the island, shoot parrots, and catch tortoises;
and when they came home at night, the Spaniards provided
their suppers for them.
The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this had
the others but let them alone, which, however, they could
not find in their hearts to do long: but, like the dog in the
manger, they would not eat themselves, neither would they
tet the others eat. The differences, nevertheless, were at
first but trivial, and such as are not worth relating, but at
last it broke out into open war: and it began with all the
rudeness and insolence that can be imagined—without
reason, without provocation, contrary to nature, and, in-
deed, to common sense; and though, it is true, the first
relation of it came from the Spaniards themselves, whom I
may call the accusers, yet when I came to examine the
fellows they could not deuy a word of it.
But before I come to the particulars of this part, I must
supply a defect in my former relation; and this was, 1 for-
got to set down among the rest, that just as we were
weighing the anchor to set sail, there happened a little
quarrel on board of our ship, which I was once afraid
would have turned to a second mutiny; nor wan it ap-
peased till the captain, rousing up his courage, and taking
us all to his assistance, parted them by force, and making
two of the most refractory fellows prisoners, he laid them
in irons: and as they had been active in the former dis-
orders, and let fall some ugly, dangerous words the second
time, he threatened to carry them in irons to England, and
have them hanged there for mutiny and running away with
the ship. This, it seems, though the captain did not in-
tend to do it, frightened some other men in the ship; and
some of them had put it into the head of the rest that the
captain only gave them good words for the present, till
they should come to some English port, and that then they
should be all put into jail, and tried for their lives. The
mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted us with it,
upon which it was desired that I, who still passed for a
great man among them, should go down with the mate
and satisfy the men, and tell them that they might be as-
sured, if they behaved well the reob of the voyage, all they
had done for the time past should be pardoned. So 1
went, and after passing my honor's word to them they ap-
peared easy, and the more so when I caused the two men
that were in irons to be released and forgiven.
But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that
night; the wind also falling calm next morning, we found
that our two men, who had been laid in irons, had stolen
each of them a musket and some other weapons (what
powder or shot they had we knew not), and had taken the
ship's pinnace, which was riot yet hauled up, and run away
with her to their companions in roguery on shore. As
soon as we found this, 1 ordered the long-boat on shore,
with twelve men and the mate, and away they went to seek
the rogues; but they could neither find them nor any of
the rest, for they all fled into the woods when they saw tha
boat coming on shore. The mate was once resolved, in
justice to their roguery, to have destroyed their planta-
tions, burned all their household stuff and furniture, and
left them to shift without it; but having no orders, he let
it all alone, left everything as he found it, and bringing
the pinnace away, came on board without them. These
two men made their number five; but the other three vil-
lains were so much more wicked than they, that after they
had been two or three days together they turned the two
new-comers out-of-doors to shift for themselves, and would
have nothing to do with them; nor could they for a good
while be persuaded to give them any food: as for the Span-
iards, they were not yet come.
When the Spaniards came first on shore, the business
began to go forward: the Spaniards would have persuaded
the three English brutes to have taken in their country-
men again, that, as they said, they might be all one fam-
ily; but they would not hear of it, so the two poor fellows
lived by themselves; and finding nothing but industry and
application would make them live comfortably, they
pitched their tents on the north shore of the island, but a
little more to the west, to be out of danger of the savages,
who al ways landed on the east parts of the island. Here
they built them two huts, one to lodge in and the other to
lay up their magazines and stores in; and the Spaniards
having given them some corn for seed, and some of the
pease which I had left them, they dug, planted, and in*
closed, after the pattern I had set for them all, and began
to live pretty well. Their first crop of corn was on the
ground; and though it was but a little bit of land which
they had dug up at first, having had but a little time, yet
it was enough to relieve them, and find them with bread
and other eatables; and one of the fellows being the cook's
mate of the ship, was very ready at making soup, pud-
dings, and such other preparations as the rice and the
milk, and such little flesh as they got, furnished him
to do.
They were going on in this little thriving position when
the three unnatural rogues, their own countrymen, too, in
mere humor, and to insult them, came and bullied them,
and told them the island was theirs: that the governor,
meaning me, had given them the possession of it, and no.
body else had any right to it; and that they should build
no houses upon their ground unless they would pay rent
for them. The two men, thinking they were jesting at
first, asked them to come in and sit tiown. and see what
fine houses they were that they had built, and to tell them
what rent.they demanded; and one of them merrily said if
they were the ground landlords, he hoped if they built
tenements upon their land, and made improvements, they
would, according to the custom of landlords, grant a long
lease: and desired they would get a scrivener to draw the
writings. One of the three, cursing and raging, told them
they should see they were not in jest; and going to a little
place at a distance, where the honest men had made a fire
to dress their victuals, he takes a firebrand, and claps it to
the outside of their hut, and set it on fire: indeed, it would
have been all burned down in a few minutes if one of the
two had not run to the fellow, thrust him away, and trod
the fire out with his feet, and that not without some diffi-
culty, too.
The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man's
thrusting him away, that he returned upon him, with a
pole he had in his hand, and had not the man avoided the
blow very nimbly, and run into the hut, he had ended his
days at once. His comrade, seeing the danger they were
both in, ran in after him, and immediately they came
both out with their muskets, and the man that was first
struck at with the pole knocked the fellow down that be-
gan the quarrel with the stock of his musket, and that be-
fore the other two could come to help him; and then,
seeing the rest come at them, they stood together, and pre-
senting the other ends of their pieces to them, bade them
stand off.
The others had fire-arms with them, too; but one of the
two honest men, bolder than his comrade, and made des-
perate by his danger, told them if they offered to move
hand or foot they were dead men, and boldly commanded
them to lay down their arms. They did not, indeed, lay
down their arms, but seeing him so resolute, it brought
them to a parley, and they consented to take their wounded
man with them and be gone: and, indeed, it seems the
fellow was wounded sufficiently with the blow. However,
they were much in the wrong, since they bad the advan-
tage, that they did not disarm them effectually, as they
might have done, and have gone immediately to the Span-
iards, and given them an account how the rogues had
treated them; for the three villains studied nothing bat re-
venge, and every day gave them some intimation that they
did so.
SECTION XXXI.
Narrative Continued.—Insolence of Three of the Englishmen to thi
Spaniards.—They are Disarmed and Brought to Order.—A Great
Body of Savages Land Upon the Island.—They Turn Out to be
Two Adverse Nations, Met There by Chance.—A Bloody Battle
Betwixt Them—Several of the Vanquished Party Secured by the
Spaniards.
But not to crowd this part with an account of the lesser
part of the rogueries with which they plagued them con-
tinually, night and day, it forced the two men to such a
desperation that they resolved to fight them all three, the
first time they had a fair opportunity. In order to do this
they resolved to go to the castle (as they called my old
dwelling), where the three rogues and the Spaniards all
lived together at that time, intending to have a fair battle,
and the Spaniards should stand by to see fair play; so they
got up in the morning before day, and came to the place,
and called the Englishmen by their names, telling a Span-
iard that answered that they wanted to speak with them.
Ic happened that the day before two of the Spaniards,
having been in the woods, had seen one of the two En-
glishmen, whom, for distinction, I called the honest men,
and he had made a sad complaint to the Spaniards of lhe.
barbarous usage they'had met with from their three coun-
trymen, and how they had ruined their plantation, and de-
stroyed their corn, that they had labored so hard to bring
forward, and killed the milch-goat and their three kids,
which was all they had provided for their sustenance, and
that if he and his friends, meaning the Spaniards, did not
assist them again, they should be starved. When the
Spaniards came home at night, and they were all at sup-
per, one of them took the freedom to reprove the three
Englishmen, though in very gentle and mannerly terms,
and asked them how they could, be so cruel, they being
harmless, inoffensive fellows; that they were putting them-
selves in a way to subsist by their labor, and that it had
cost them a great deal of pains to bring things to such
perfection as they were then in.
One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, " What
had they to do there? that they came on shore without
leave; and that they should not plant oi build upon the
island; it was none of their ground." "Why," says the
Spaniard, very calmly, "Senor Inglese, they must not
starve." The Englishman replied, like a rough tarpaulin,
"They might starve; they should not plant nor build in
that place. "But what must they do then, senor?" said
the Spaniard. Another of the brutes returned, "Do?
they should be servants, and work for them." "But
how can you expect that of them?" says the Spaniard;
"they are not boughi with your money; you have no right
to make them servants." The Englishman answered,
"The island was theirs; the governor had given it to
them, and no man had anything to do there but them-
selves;" and with that he swore that he would go and burn
all their new huts; they should build none upon their land.
"Why, senor," says the Spaniard, " by the same rule, we
must be your servants, too." "Ay," returned the bold
dog, "and so you shall, too, before we have done with
you;" mixing two or three oaths in the proper intervals
of his speech. The Spaniard only smiled at that, and
made him no answer. However, this little discourse had
heated them; and starting up, one says to the other (I
think it was he they called Will Atkins), " Come, Jack,
let's go and have t'other brush with them; we'll demolish
their castle, I'll warrant you; they shall plant no colony
in our dominions."
Upon this they were all trooping away, with every man
a gun, a pistol, and a sword, and muttered some insolent
things among themselves of what they would do to the
Spaniards, too, when opportunity offered; but the Span-
iards, it seems, did not so perfectly understand them as to
know all the particulars, only that in general they threat-
ened them hard for taking the two Englishmen's part.
Whither they went, or how they bestowed their time that
evening, the Spaniards said they did not know; but it
seems they wandered about the country part of the night,
and then lying down in the place which I used to call my
bower, they were weary and overslept themselves. The
case was this: they had resolved to stay till midnight, and
so take the two poor men when they were asleep, and as
they acknowledged afterward, intended to set fire to their
huts while they were in them, and either burn them there
or murder them as they came out. As malice seldom
sleeps very sound, it was very strange they should not have
been kept awake. However, as the two men had also a
design upon them, as I have said, though a much fairer
one than that of burning and murdering, it happened, and
very luckily for them all, that they were up and gone
abroad before the bloody-minded rogues came to their huts.
When they came there, and found the men gone, At-
kins, who, it seems, was the forwardest man, called out to
his comrade, "Ha, Jack, here's the nest, but the birds are
flown." They mused awhile, to think what should be the
occasion of their being gone abroad so soon, and suggested
presently that the Spaniards had given them notice of it;
and with that they shook hands, and swore to one another
that they would be revenged of the Spaniards. As soon
as they had made this bloody bargain they fell to work with
the poor men's habitation; they did not set fire, indeed, to
anything, but they pulled down both their nouses, not
leaving the least stick standing, or scarce any sign on toe
ground where they stood; they tore all their house!ifr/J
stuff in pieces, and threw everything about in such a man-
ner, that the poor men afterward found some of their
things a mile off. When they had done this, they polled
up all the young trees which the poor men had planted;
broke down an inclosure they made to secure their cattlo
and their corn; and, in a word, sacked and plundered
everything as completely as a horde of Tartars would have
done.
The two men were at this juncture gone to find them
out, and had resolved to fight them wherever they had
been, though they were but two to three; so that, had thej
met, there certainly would have been blood shed among
them, for they were all very stout, resolute fellows, to givs
them their due.
But Providence took more care to keep them asunder
than they themselves could do to meet; for, as if they had
dodged one another, when the three were gone thither, the
two were here; and afterward, when the two went back to
find them, the three were come to the old habitation again.
We shall see their different conduct presently. When tba
three came haok like furicns creatures, fiiisnod With the
rage which the work they had been about had put them
into, they came up to the Spaniards, and told them what
they had done, by way of scoff and bravado; and one of
them stepping up to one of the Spaniards, as if they had
been a couple of boys at play, takes hold of his hat as it
was upon his head, and giving it a twirl about, fleering in
his face, says to him: "And you, Senor Jack Spaniard,
shall have the same sauce if you do not mend your man-
ners." The Spaniard, who, though a quiet, civil man,
was as brave a man as could be, and, withal, a strong,
well-made man, looked at him for a good while, and then,
having no weapon in his hand, stepped gravely up to him,
and, with one blow of his fist, knocked him down, as an
ox is felled with a pole-ax; at which one of the rogues, as
insolent as the first, fired his pistol at the Spaniard im-
mediately; he missed his body, indeed, for the bullets went
through his hair, but one of them touched the tip of his
ear, and he bled pretty much. The blood made the Span-
iard believe he was more hurt than he really was, and that
put him into some heat, for before he acted all in a perfect
oalm; but now, resolving to go through with his work, he
stooped, and taking the fellow's musket whom he had
knocked down, was just going to shoot the man who had
fir:.'d at him, when the rest of the Spaniards, being in the
cave, came out, and calling to him not to shoot, they
stepped in, secured the other two, and took their arms
from the in.
When they were thus disarmed, and found they had
made all the Spaniards their enemies, as well as their own
countrymen, they began to cool, and giving the Spaniards
better words, would have their arms again; but the Span-
iards, considering the feud that was between them and the
other two Englishmen, and that it would be the best
method they could take to keep them from killing one an-
other, told them they would do them no harm; and if they
would live peaceably, they would be very willing to assist
and associate with them as they did before; but that thev
could not think of giving them their arms again, while
they appeared so resolved to do mischief with them to
their own countrymen, and had even threatened them all
to make them their servants.
The rogues were now quite deaf to all reason, and being
refused their arms, they raved away like madmen, threat
ening what they would do, though they had no fire-arms.
But the Spaniards, despising their threatening, told them
they should take care how they offered any injury to their
plantation or cattle; for if they did they would shoot them
as they would ravenous beasts, wherever they found them;
and if they fell into their hands alive, they should cer-
tainly be hanged. However, this was far from cooling
them, but away they went, raging and swearing like
furies. As soon as they were gone, the two men came
back, in passion and rage enough also, though of another
kind; for having been at their plantation, and finding it
all demolished and destroyed, as above mentioned, it will
easily be supposed they had provocation enough. They
could scarce have room to tell their tale, the Spaniards
were so eager to tell them theirs; and it was strange
enough to find that three men should thus bully nineteen,
and receive no punishment at all.
The Spaniards, indeed, despised them, and especially,
having thus disarmed them, made light of their threatejn-
ings; but the two Englishmen resolved to have their
remedy against them, what pains soever it cost to find
them out. But the Spaniards interposed here too, and
told them that as they had disarmed them, they could not
consent that they (the two) should pursue them with fire-
arms, and perhaps kill them. "But," said the grave
Spaniard who was their governor, " we will endeavor to
make them do you justice, if you will leave it to us; for
there is no doubt but they will come to us again, when
their passion is over, being not able to subsist without our
assistance. We promise you to make no peace with them
without having full satisfaction for you; and, upon this
condition, we hope you will promise to use no violence with
them, other than in your own defense." The two En-
glishmen yielded to this very awkwardly, and'with great
reluctance; but the Spaniards protested that they did it
only to keep them from bloodshed, and to make them all
easy at last. "For," said they, " we are not so many of
us; here is room enough for us all, and it is a great pity
that we should not be all good friends." At length they
did consent, and waited for the issue of the thing, living
for some days with the Spaniards; for their own habitation
was destroyed.
In about five days' time the vagrants, tired with wan-
dering, and almost starved with hunger, having chiefly
lived on turtles' eggs all that while, came back to the
grove; and finding my Spaniard, who, as 1 have said, was
the governor, and two more with him, walking by the side
of the creek, they came up in a very submissive, humble
manner, and begged to be received again into the society.
The Spaniards used them civilly, but told them they had
acted so unnaturally to their countrymen, and so very
grossly to themselves, that they could not come to any con-
clusion without consulting the two Englishmen and the
rest; but, however, they would go to them and discourse
about it, and they should know in half an hour. It may
be guessed that they were very hard put to it; for, as they
were to wait this half hour for an answer, they begged
they would send them out some bread in the meantime,
which they did, sending at the same time a large piece of
goat's flesh and a boiled parrot, which they eat vejy
eagerly.
After half an hour's consultation they were called in,
and a long debate ensued, their two countrymen charging
them with the ruin of all their labor, and a design to mur-,
der them; all which they owned before, and therefore could
not deny now. Upon the whole, the Spaniards acted the
moderators between them; and as they had obliged the
two Englishmen not to hurt the three while they were
naked and unarmed, so they now obliged the three to go
and rebuild their fellows' two huts, one to be of the same
and the other of larger dimensions than they were before;
to fence their ground again, plant trees in the room of
those pulled up, dig up the land again for planting corn,
and, in a word, to restore everything to the same state as
they found it, that is, as near as they could.
Well, they submitted to all this; and as they had plenty
of provisions given them all the while, they grew very
orderly, and the whole society began to live pleasantly and
agreeably together again; only that these three fellows
could never be persuaded to work—I mean for themselves
—except now and then a little, just as they pleased; how-
ever, the Spaniards told them plainly that if they would
but live sociably and friendly together, and study the good
of the whole plantation, they would be content to work for
them, and let them walk about and be as idle m they
pleased; and thus, having lived pretty well together for a
month or two, the Spaniards let them have arms again,
and gave them liberty to go abroad with them as before.
It was not above a week after they had these arms, and
went abroad, before the ungrateful matures begun to be
as insolent and troublesome as ever; however, au accident
happened presently upon this, which endangered the safety
of them all, and they were obliged, to lay by all private re-
sentments, and look to the preservation of their lives.
It happened one night that the governor, the Spaniard
whose life 1 had saved, who was now the governor of tke
rest, found himself very uneasy in the night, and could by
no means get any sleep: he was perfectly well in body,
only found his thoughts tumultuous; his mind rau upon
men fighting and killing one another; but he was broad
awake, and could not by any means get any sleep; in short,
he lay a great while, but growing more and more uneasy,
he resolved to rise. As they lay, being so many of them,
on goat-skins laid thick upon such couches and pads as
they made for themselves, so they had little to do, when
they were willing to rise, but to get upon their feet, and
perhaps put on a coat, such as it was, and their pumps,
and they wexe ready for going any way that their thoughts
guided them. Being thus got up, he looked out; but be-
ing dark, he could see little or nothing, and besides, the
trees which I had planted, and which were now grown tall,
intercepted his sight, so that he could only look up, and
see that it was a starlight, night, and hearing no noise, he
returned and lay down again; but to no purpose; he could
not compose himself to anything liko rest; but his thoughts
were to the last degree uneasy, and he knew not for what.
Having made some noise with rising and walking about,
going out and coming in, another of them waked, and
asked who it was that was up. The governor told him
how it had been with him. "Say you so?" says the other
Spaniard; "Buch things are not to be slighted, I assure
you; there is certainly some mischief working near us;"
and presently he asked him, "Where are the English-
men?" "They are all in their huts," says he, "safe
enough." It seems the Spaniards had kept possession of
the main apartment, and had made a place for the three
Englishmen, who, since their last mutiny, were always
quartered by themselves, and could not come at the rest.
"Well," says the Spaniard, " there is something in it, I
am persuaded, from my own experience. I am satisfied
that our spirits embodied have a converse with and receive
intelligence from the spirits unembodied and inhabiting
the invisible world; and this friendly notice is given for
our advantage, if we knew how to make use of it. Come,
let us go and look abroad; and if we find nothing at all in
it to justify the trouble, I'll tell you a story to the pur-
pose, that shall convince you of the justice of my propos-
ing it."
They went out presently to go up to the top of the hill,
where I used to go; but they being strong, and a good
company, nor alone, as I was, used none of my cautions to
go up by the ladder, and pulling it up after them, to go
up a second stage to the top, but were going round through
the grove unwarily, when they were surprised with seeing
a light as of fire, a very little way from them, and hearing
the voices of men, not of one or two, but of a great num-
ber.
Among the precautions I used to take on the savages
landing on the island, it was my constant care to prevent
them making the least discovery of there being any in-
habitant upon the place; and when by any occasion they
came to know it, they felt it so effectually that they that
got away were scarce abie to give any account of it; for we
disappeared as soon as possible; nor did ever any that had
seen me escape to tell any one else, except it was the three
savages in our last encounter who jumped into the boat;
•f whom, I mentioned, I was afraid they should go home
and bring more help. Whether it was the consequence of
the escape of those men that so great a number came now
together, or whether they came ignorantiy, and by acci-
dent, on their usual bloody errand, the Spaniards could
not understand; but whatever it was, it was their business
either to have concealed themselves or not to have seen
them at all, much less to have let the savages have seen
there were any inhabitants in the place; or to have fallen
upon them so effectually as not a man of them should have
escaped, which could only have been by getting in between
them and their boats; but this presence of mind was want-
ing to them, which was the ruin of their tranquillity for a
great while.
We need not doubt that the governor and the man with
him, surprised with this sight, ran back immediately and
raised their fellows, giving them an account of the immi-
nent danger they were all in, and they again as readily
took the alarm; but it was impossible to persuade them to
stay close within where they were, but they must all run
out to see how things stood. While it was dark, indeed,
they were safe, and they had opportunity enough, for some
hours, to view the savages by the light of three fires they
had made at a distance from one another; what they were
doing they knew not, neither did they know what to do
themselves. For, first, the enemy were too many; and,
secondly, they did not keep together, but were divided into
several parties, and were on shore in several places.
The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this
sight; and, as they found that the fellows went straggling
all over the shore, they made no doubt but, first or last,
some of them would chop in. upon their habitation, or
upon some other place where they would see the token of
inhabitants; and they were in great perplexity also for fear
of their flock of goats, which, if they should be destroyed,
would have been little less than starving them. So the
first thing they resolved upon was to dispatch three men
away before it was light, two Spaniards and one English-
man, tp drive away all the goats to the great valley where
the cave was, and, if need were, to drive them into the
very cave itself. Could they have seen the savages all to-
gether in one body, and at a distance from their canoes,
they were resolved, if there had been a hundred of them,
to attack them; but that could not be done, for they were
some of them two miles off from the other; and, as it ap-
peared afterward, were of two different nations.
After having mused a great while oh the course they
should take, they resolved at last, while it was still dark,
to send the old savage, Friday's father, out as a spy, to
learn, if possible, something concerning them—as what
they came for, what they intended to dc, and the like.
The old man readily undertook it; and stripping himself
quite naked, as most of the savages were, away he went.
After he had been gone an hour or two, he brings word
that he had been among them undiscovered—that he found
they were two parties, and of two several nations, who
had war with one another, and had a great battle in their
own country; and that both sides having had several pro*
oners taken in the fight, they were, by mere chance, landed
all on the same island, for the devouring their prisoners
and making'merry; but their coming so by chance to the
same place had spoiled all their mirth—that they were in
a great rage at one another, and were so near that he be-
lieved they would fight again as soon as daylight began to
appear; but he did not perceive that they had any notion
or anybody being on the island but themselves. He had
hardly made an end of telling his story, when they could
perceive, by the unusual noise they made, that the two lit-
tle armies were engaged in a bloody fight. Friday's
father used all the arguments he could to persuade our
people to lie close, and not be seen; he told them their
safety consisted in it, and that they had nothing to do but
lie still, and the savages would kill one another to their
hands, and then the rest would go away; and it was so to
a tittle. But it was impossible to prevail, especially upon
the Englishmen; their curiosity was so importunate that
they must run out and see the battle; however, they used
some caution, too; they did not go openly, just by their
own dwelling, but went further into the woods, and placed
themselves to advantage, where they might securely see
them manage the fight, and, as they thought, not be seen
by them; but the savages did see them, as we shall find
hereafter.
The battle was very fierce; and, if 1 might believe the
Englishmen, one of them said he could perceive that some
of them were men of great bravery, of invincible spirits,
and of great policy in guiding the fight. The battle, they
said, held two hours before they could guess which party
would be beaten; but then that party which was nearest our
people's habitation began to appear weakest, and after some
time more, some of them began to fly; and this put our
men again into a great consternation, lest any one of those
that fled should run into the grove before their dwelling
for shelter, and thereby involuntarily discover the place;
and that, by consequence, the pursuers would also do the
like in search of them. Upon this, they resolved that they
would stand armed within the wall, and whoever came into
the grove, they resolved to sally out over the wall and kill
them, so that, if possible, not one should return to give an
account of it; they ordered also that*it should be done
with their swords, or by knocking them down with the
stocks of their muskets, but not by shooting them, foi
fear of raising an alarm by the noise.
As they expected it fell out; three of the routed army
fled for life, aud crossing the creek, ran directly into the
place, not in the least knowing whither they went, but
running as into a thick wood for shelter. The scout they
kept to look abroad gave notice of this within, with this
comforting addition, that the conquerors had not pursued
them, or seen which way they were gone: upon this, the
Spanish governor, a man of humanity, would not suffer
them to kill the three fugitives, but sending three met
out by the top of the hill, ordered them to go round, come
in behind them, and surprise and take them prisoners;
which was done. The resid ue of the conquered people fled
to their canoes, and got off to sea; the victors retired,
made no pursuit, or very little, but drawing themselves
into a body together, gave two great screaming shouts,
most likely by way of triumph—and so the fight ended:
the same day, about three o clock in the afternoon, they
also marched to their canoes. And thus the Spaniards had
the island again free to themselves, their fright was over,
and they saw no savages for several years after.
After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of
their den, and viewing the field of battle, they found about
two-and-thirty men dead on the spot; some were killed
with long arrows, which were found sticking in their
bodies; but most of them were killed with great wooden
swords, sixteen or seventeen of which they found in the
field of battle, and as many bows, with a great many
arrows. These swords were strange, unwieldly things,
and they must be very strong men that used them; most
of those that were killed with them had their heads mashed
to pieces, as we may say, or, as we call it in English, their
brains knocked out, and several their arms and legs
broken; so that it is evident they fight with inexpressible
rage and fury. We found not one man that was not stone
dead; for either they stay by their enemy till they have
killed him, or they carry all the wounded men that are
not quite dead away with them.
This deliverance tamed our ill-disposed Englishmen for
a great while; the sight had filled them with horror, and
the consequences appeared terrible to the last degree, espe-
cially upon supposing that some time or other they should
fall into the hands of those creatures, who would not only
kill them as enemies, but for food, as we kill our cattle;
and they professed to me that the thought of being eatea
up like beef and mutton, though it was supposed it was
nob to be till they were dead, had something in it so horri-
ble that it nauseated their very stomachs, made them sick
when they thought of it, and filled their minds with such
unusual terror, that they were not themselves for some
weeks after. This, as I said, tamed even the three En-
glish brutes I have been speaking of; and for a great while
after they were tractable, and went about the common
business of the whole society well enough—planted, sowed,
reaped, and began to be all naturalized to the country.
But some time after this they fell into such simple meas-
ures again as brought them into a great deal of trouble.
They had taken three prisoners, as I observed; aud these
three being stout young fellows, they made them servants,
aud taught them to work for them, and as slaves they did
well enough; but they did not take their measures as I did
by my man Friday—viz., to begin with them upon the
principle of having saved their lives, aud then instruct
them in the rational principles of life; much less did they
think of teaching them religion, or attempt civilizing and
reducing them by kind usage and affectionate arguments.
As they gave them their food every day, so they gave them
their work too, and kept them fully employed in drudgery
enough; but they failed in this by it, that they never had
them to assist them and fight for them as I had my man
Friday, who was as true to me as the very flesh upon my
bones.
But to come to the family part. Being all now good
friends—for common danger, as 1 said above, had effectu-
ally reconciled them—they began to consider their general
circumstances; and the first thing that came under con-
sideration was whether, seeing the savages particularly
haunted that side of the island, and that there were more
remote and retired parts of it equally adapted to their way
of living, and manifestly to their advantage, they should
not rather move their habitation, and plant in some more
proper place for their safety, and especially for the security
of their cattle and cOfn.
Upon this, after long debate, it was concluded that they
would not remove their habitation; because that, some
time or other, they thought they might hear from their
governor again, meaning me; and if I should send any one
to seek them, I should be sure to direct them to that side,
where, if they should find the place demolished, they would
conclude the savages had killed us all, and we were gone,
and so our supply would go too. But, as to their corn
and cattle, they agreed to remove them into the valley
where my cave was, where the land was as proper for both,
and where, indeed, there was land enough. However,
upon second thoughts, they altered one part of their reso-
lution too, and resolved only to remove part of their cattle
thither, and plant part of their corn there; so that if one
part was destroyed, the other might be saved. And one
part of prudence they luckily used; they never trusted
those three savages which they had taken prisoners with
knowing anything of the plantation they had made in that
valley, or of any cattle they had there, much less of the cave
at that place, which they kept, in case of necessity, as a safe
retreat; and thither they carried also the two barrels of pow-
der which I had sent them at my coming away. They re-
solved, however, not to change their habitation; yet, as I
had carefully covered it first with a wall or fortification,
and then with a grove of trees, and as they were now fully
convinced their safety consisted entirely in their being con-
cealed, they set to work to cover and conceal the place yet
more effectually than before. For this purpose, as 1
planted trees, or rather thrust in stakes, which in time all
grew up to be trees, for some good distance before the en-
trance into my apartments, they went on in the same man-
ner, and filled up the rest of that whole space of ground
from the trees I had set quite down to the side of the creek,
where I landed my floats, and even into the very ooze
where the tide flowed, not so much as leaving any place to
land, or any sign that there had been any landing there-
abouts—these stakes also being of a wood very forward to
grow, they took care to have them generally much larger
and taller than those which I had planted. As they grew
apace, they planted them so very thick and close together,
that when they had been three or four years grown there
was no piercing with the eye any considerable way into the
plantation. As for that part which I had planted, the
trees were grown as thick as a man's thigh, and among
them they had placed so many other short ones, and so
thick, thaf it stood like a palisado a quarter of a mile
thick, and it was next to impossible to penetrate it, for a
little dog could hardly get between the trees, they stood
so close.
But this was not all; for they did the same by all the
ground to the right hand and to the left, and round even
to the side of the hill, leaving no way, not so much as for
themsdveSi to come out but by the ladder placed up to the
side of the hill, and then lifted up, and placed again from
the first stage up to the top7; so that when the ladder was
taken down, nothing but what had wings or witchcraft to
assist it could come at them. This was excellently well
oontrived; nor was it less than what they afterward found
occasion for, which served to convince me, that as human
prudence has the authority of Providence to justify it. so
it has doubtless the direction of Providence to set it to
work; and if we listened carefully to the voice of it, I nm
persuaded we might prevent many of the disasters wb'ch
our lives are now, by our own negligence, subjected to.
They lived twoyeavs after this in perfect retirement, and
had no more visits from the savages. They had, indeed,
an alarm given them one morning, which put them into a
great consternation; for some of the Spaniards being out
early one morning on the west side or end of the island
(which was that eud where I never went, for fear of being
discovered), they were surprised with seeing about twenty
canoes of Indians just coming on shore. They made the
best of their way home in hurry enough: and giving the
alarm to their comrades, they kept close all that day and
the next, going out only at night to make their observa-
tion; but they had the good luck to be undiscovered, for
wherever the savages went, they did not land that time on
the island, but pursued some other design.
SECTION XXXII.
Fresh Broils Betwixt the Turbulent Englishmen and;the Spaniards.—
The English Make a Voyage to the Main-land, and Return in
Twenty-two Days—Particulars of Their Voyage.—Description of
the Men and Women They Brought With Them.—The Colony
Discovered by an Unlucky Accident to the Savages, Who In-
vade the Island, but are Defeated.
And now they had another broil with the three English
men; one of whom, a most turbulent fellow, being in a
•
rage at one of the three captive slaves, because the fellow
had not done something right which he bade him do, and
seemed a little untractable in his showing him, drew a
hatchet out of a frog-belt which he wore by his side, and
fell upon the poor savage, not to correct him, but to kill
him. One of the Spaniards, who was by, seeing him give
the fellow a barbarous cut with the hatchet, which he
aimed at his head, but stuck into his shoulder, so that he
thought ho had cut the poor creature's arm off, ran to
him, and, entreating him not to murder the poor man,
placed himself between him and the savage, to prevent the
mischief. The fellow, being enraged the more at this,
struck at the Spaniard with his hatchet, and swore he
would serve him as he intended to serve the savage; which
the Spaniard perceiving, avoided the blow, and with a
shovel, which he had in his hand (for they were all work-
ing in the field about their corn land), knocked the brute
down. [Another of the Englishmen, running up at the
same time to help his comrade, knocked the Spaniard
down; and then two Spaniards more came in to help their
man, and a third Englishman fell in upon them. They
had none of them any fire-arms or any other weapons but
hatchets and other tools, except this third Englishman;
he had one of my rusty cutlasses, with which he made at
the two last Spaniards, and wounded them both. This
fray set the whole family in an uproar, and more help
coming in, they took the three Englishmen prisoners..
Tl^e next question was, what should be done with them?
They had been so often mutinous, and were so very furi-
ous, so desperate, and so idle withal, they knew not whak
course to take with them, for they were mischievous to the
highest degree, and cared not what hurt they did to any
man; so that, in short, it was not safe to live with them.
The Spaniard who was governor told them, in so many
words, that if they had been of his own country he would
have hanged them; for all laws and all governors were to
preserve society, and those who were dangerous to the
society ought to be expelled out of it; but as they were
Englishmen, and that it was to the generous kindness of
an Englishman that they all owed their preservation and
deliverance, he would use them with all possible lenity,
and would leave them to the judgment of the other two
Englishmen, who were their countrymen. One of the tw?
honest Englishmen stood up, and said they desired it might
not be left to them. "For," says he, "I am sure we
ought to sentence them to the gailows;" and with that he
gives an account how Will Atkins, one of the three, had
proposed-to have all the five Englishmen join together,
and murder all the Spaniards when they were in their
sleep.
When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls to Will
Atkins, "How, Senor Atkins, would you murder ns all?
What have you to say to that?" The hardened villain was
so far from denying it, that he said it was true, and swore
they would do it still before they had done with them.
"Well, but, Senor Atkins,"- says the Spaniard, "what
have we done to you that you will kill us? What would
you get by killing us? And what must we do to prevent
you killing us? Must we kill you, or you kill us? Why
will you put us to the necessity of this, Senor Atkins?"
says the Spaniard, very calmly, and smiling. Senor Atkins
was in such a rage at the Spaniards making a jest of it,
that, had he not been held by three men, and withal had
no weapon near him, it was thought he would have at-
tempted to kill the Spaniard in the middle of all the com-
pany. This hair-brain carriage obliged them to consider
seriously what was to be done. The two Englishmen, and
the Spaniard who saved the poor savage, were of the opin-
ion that they should iang one of the three for an example
to the rest, and that particularly it should be he that had
twice attempted to commit murder with his hatchet; in-
deed, there was some reason to believe he had done it, for
the poor savage was in such a miserable condition with the
wound he had received that it was thought he could not
live. But the governor Spaniard still said no; it was an
Englishman that had saved all their lives, and he would
never consent to put an Englishman to death, though he
had murdered half of them; nay, he said if he had been
killed himself by an Englishman, and had time left to
speak, it should be that they should pardon him.
This was so positively insisted on by the governor Span-
iard, that there was no gainsaying it; and as merciful
counsels are most apt to prevail where they are so earnestly
pressed, so they all came into it; but then it was to be
considered what should be done to keep them from doing
the mischief they designed; for all agreed, governor and
all, that means were to be used for preserving the society
from danger. After a long debate, it was agreed that they
should be disarmed, and not permitted to have either gun,
powder, shot, sword, or any weapon; that they should be
turned out of the society, and left to live where they would,
and how they would, by themselves; but that none of the
rest, either Spaniards or English, should hold any kind of
converse with them, or have anything to do with them;
that they should be forbid to come within a certain dis-
tance of the place where the rest dwelled; and if they
offered to commit any disorder, so as to spoil, burn, kill,
or destroy any of the corn, plantings, buildings, fences, or
cattle belonging to the society, they should die without
mercy, and would shoot them wherever they could find
them.
The humane governor, musing upon the sentence, con-
sidered a little upon it; and turning to the two honest En-
glishmen, said, "Hold; you must reflect that it will be
long ere they can raise corn and cattle of their own, and
they must not starve; we must therefore allow them pro-
visions." So he caused to be added, that they should have
a proportion of corn given them to last them eight months,
and for seed to sow, by which time they might be supposed
to raise some of their own; that they should have six
milch-goats, four he-goats, and six kids given them, as
well for present subsistence as for a store; and that they
should have tools given them for their work in the fields,
but they should have none of these tools or provisions un-
less they would swear solemnly that they would not hurt
or injure any of the Spaniards with them, or of their
fellow-Englishmen. %
Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned them
out to shift for themselves. They went away sullen and
refractory, as neither content to go away nor to stay: but,
as there was no remedy, they went, pretending to go and
ehoose a place where they would settle themselves; and
some provisions were given them, but no weapons. About
four or five days after, they came again for some victuals,
and gave the governor an account where they had pitched
their tents, and marked themselves out a .habitation and
plantation; and it was a very convenient place indeed, on
the remotest part of the island, N.E., much about the
place where 1 providentially landed in my first voyage,
when I was driven out to sea in my foolish attempt to sail
round the island.
Here they built themselves two handsome huts, and con-
trived them in a manner like my first habitation, being
close under the side of a hill, having some trees already
growing on three sides of it, so that by planting others it
would be very easily covered from the sight, unless narrow-
ly searched for. They desired some dried goat-skins for
beds and covering, which were given them; and upon giv=
ing their words that they would not disturb tire rest, or in-
jure any of their plantations, they gave them hatchets, and
what other tools they could spare; some pease, barley, and
rice, for sowing; and, in a word, anything they wanted,
except arms and ammunition.
They lived in this separate condition about six months,
and had got in their first harvest, though the quantity was
but small, the parcel of land they had planted being but
little. Indeed, having all their plantation to form, they
had a great deal of work upon their hands; and when they
came to make boards and pots, and such things, they were
quite out of their element, and could make nothing of it;
therefore when the rainy season came on, for want of a
cave in the earth, they could not keep their grain dry, and
it was in great danger of spoiling. This humbled them
much: so they came and begged the Spaniards to help
them, which they very readily did; and in four days worked
a great hole in the side of the hill for them, big enough to
secure their corn and other things from the rain: but it
was a poor place at best compared to mine, and especially
as mine was then, for the Spaniards had greatly enlarged
it, and made several new apartments in it.
About three quarters of a year after this separation, a
new frolic took these rogues, which, together with the
former villainy they had committed, brought mischief
enough upon them, and had very near been the ruin of the
whole colony. The three new associates began, it seems,
to be weary of the laborious life they led, and that without
hope of bettering their circumstances: and a whim took
them that they would make a voyage to the continent,
from whence the savages came, and would try if they could
seize upon some prisoners among the natives there, and
bring them home, so as to make them do the laborious
part of the work for them,
a
The project was not so preposterous, if they had gon«
no further. But they did nothing, aud proposed nothing,
but had either mischief in the design, or mischief in the
•rent. And if I may give my opinion, they seemed to be
under a blast from Heaven: for if we will not allow a ris-
ible curse to pursue visible crimes, how shall we reconcile
the events of things with the divine justice? It was cer-
tainly an apparent vengeance on their crime of mutiny mid
piracy that brought them to the state they were in; and
they showed not the least remorse for the crime, but added
new villainies to it, such as the piece of monstrous cruelty
of wounding a poor slave because he did not, or perhaps
could not, understand to do what he was directed, and to
wound him in such a manner as made him a cripple all his
life, and in a place where no surgeon or medicine could be
hafl for his cure; and, what was still worse, the intentional
murder, for such to be sure it was, as was afterward the
formed design they all laid to murder the Spaniards in
oold blood, and in their sleep.
The three fellows came down to the Spaniards one morn-
ing, and in very humble terms desired to be admitted to
speak with them. The Spaniards very readily heard what
they had to say, which was this: that they were tired of
living in the manner they did, and that they were not
handy enough to make the necessaries they wanted, and
that having no help, they found they should be starved;
but if the Spaniards would give them leave to take one of
the canoes which they came over in, and give them arms
and ammunition proportioned to their defense, they would
go over to the main, and seek their fortungs^and so deliver
them from the trouble of supplying them with any other
provisions.
The Spaniards were glad enough to get rid of them, bufe
very honestly represented to them the certain destruction
they were running into; told them they had suffered such
hardships upon that very spot, that they could, without
any spirit of prophecy, tell them they would be starved or
murdered, and bade them consider of it. The men replied
audaciously, they should be starved if they stayed here, for
they could not work, and would not work, and they could
but be starved abroad; and if they were murdered, there was
an end of them; they had no wives or children to cry after
them; and, in short, insisted importunely upon their d»-
mand, declaring they would go, whether they gave them
any arms or not.
The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that if
they were resolved to go they should not go like naked
men, and be in no condition to defend themselves; and
that though they could ill spare fire-arms, not having
enough for themselves, yet they would let them have two
muskets, a pistol, and a cutlass, and each man a hatchet,
which they thought was sufficient for them. In a word,
they accepted the offer; and having baked bread enough to
serve them a month given them, and as much goats' flesh
as they could eat while it was sweet, with a great basket of
dried grapes, a pot of fresh water, and a young kid alive,
they boldly set out iu the canoe for a voyage over the sea,
where it was at least forty miles broad. The boat, indeed,
was a large one, and would very well have carried fifteen
or twenty men, and therefore was rather too big for them
to manage; but as they had a fair breeze and flood-tide
with them, they did well enough. They had made a mast
of a long pole, and a sail of four large goat-skins dried,
which they had sewed or laced together; and away they
went merrily together. The Spaniards called after them
v" Bon voyajo!" and no man ever thought of seeing them
sny more.
The Spaniards were often saying to one another, and to
the two honest Englishmen who remained behind, how
quietly and comfortably they lived, now these three turbu-
lent fellows were gone. As for their coming again, that
was the remotest thing from their thoughts that could be
imagined; when, behold, after two-and-twenty days' ab-
sence, one of the Englishmen being abroad upon his plant-
ing work, sees three strange men coming toward bim at a
distance, with guns upon their shoulders.
Away runs the Englishman, frightened and amazed, as
if he was bewitched, to the governor Spaniard, and tells
him they were all undone, for there were strangers upon
the island, but he could not tell who they were. The
Spaniard, pausing awhile, says to him, "How do you
mean'—you can not tell who? They are the savages, to be
sure." "No, no," says the Englishman, " they are men
in clothes, with arms." "Nay, then," says the Spaniard,
"why are you so concerned? If they are not savages they
must be friends; for there is no Christian nation npoa
earth but will do us good rather than harm." While they
were debating thus, came up the three Englishmen, and
standing without the wood, which was new planted,
hallooed to them. They presently knew their voices, and
so all the wonder ceased. But now the admiration was
turned upon another question: What could be the matter,
and what made them come back again?
It was not long before they brought the men in, and in-
quiring where they had been, and what they had been
doing, they gave them a full account of their voyage in a
few words: That they reached the land in less than two
days, but finding the people alarmed at their coming, and
preparing with bows and arrows to fight them, they durst
not go on shore, but sailed on to the northward six or seven
hours, till they came to a great opening, by which they
perceived that the land they saw from our island was not
the main, but an island: that upon entering that opening
of the sea they saw another island on the right hand north,
and several more west; and being resolved to laud some-
where, they put over to one of the islands which lay west,
and went boldly on shore; that they found the people very
courteous and friendly to them; and they gave them several
roots and some dried fish, and appeared very sociable; and
that the women, as well as the men, were very forward to
supply them with anything they could get for them to eat,
and brought it to them a great way, on their heads. They
continued here four days, and inquired, a3 well as they
could of them by signs, what nations were this way, and
that way, and were told of several fierceand terrible people
that lived almost every way, who, as they made known by
signs to them, used to eat men; but, as for themselves,
they said they never eat men or women, except only such
as they took in the wars; and then they owned they made
a great feast, and eat their prisoners.
The Englishmen inquired when they had had a feast of
that kind; and they told them about two moons ago, point-
ing to the moon and to two fingers; and that their great
king had two hundred prisoners now, which he had taken
in his war, and they were feeding them to make them fat
for the next feast. The Englishmen seemed mighty de-
sirous of seeing those prisoners; bufr the others mistaking
them, thought they were desirous to have some of them to
carry away for their own eating. So they beckoned to them.
pointing to the setting of the sun, and then to the rising;
which was to signify that the next morning at sunrising
they would bring some for them; and, accordingly, the
next morning they brought down five women and eleven
men, and gave them to the Englishmen to carry with them
on their voyage, just as we would bring so many cows and
oxen down to a sea-port town to victual a ship.
As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home,
their stomachs turned at this sight, and they did not know
what to do. To refuse the prisoners would have been the
highest affront to the savage gentry that could be offered
them, and what to do with them they knew not. Howr
ever, after some debate, they resolved to accept of them:
and, in return, the.y gave the savages that brought them
one of their hatchets, an old key, a knife, arid six or seven
of their bullets; which, though they did not understand
their use, they seemed particularly pleased with; and then
tying the poor creatures' hands behind them, they dragged
the prisoners into the boat for our men.
The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as
they had them, or else they that gave them this noble
present would certainly have expected that they should
have gone to work with them, have killed two or three of
them the next morning, and, perhaps, have invited the
donors to dinner. But having taken their leave, with all
the respect and thanks that could well pass between
people, where, on either side, they understood not one
word they could say, they put off with their boat, and
came back toward the first island; where, when they
arrived, they set eight of their prisoners at liberty, there
being too many of them for their occasion. In their voy-
age they endeavored to have some communication with
their prisoners; but it was impossible to make them under-
stand anything. Nothing they could say to I hem, or give
them, or do for them, but was looked upon as going to
murder them. They first of all unbound them; but the
poor creatures screamed at that, especially the women, as
if they had just felt the knife at their throats; for they im-
mediately concluded they were unbound on purpose to be
killed, if they gave them anything to eat, it was the same
thing; they then concluded it was for fear they should sink
in flesh, and so not be fat enough to kill. If they looked
at one of them more particularly, the party presently cob-
eluded it was to see whether he or she was fattest, arm fit-
test to kill first; nay, after they had brought them quite
over, and began to use them kindly, and treat them well,
still they expected every day to make a dinner or supper
for their now masters.
When the three wanderers had given this unaccountable
history or journal of their voyage, the Spaniard asked them
where their new family was; and being told that they had
brought them on shore, and put them into one of their
huts, and were come up to beg some victuals for them,
they (the Spaniards) and the other two Englishmen, that
is to say, the whole colony, resolved to go all down to the
place and see them; and did so, and Friday's father with
them. When they came into the hut, there they sat, all
bound; for when they had brought them on shore they
bound their hands that they might not take the boat and
make their escape; there, I say, they sat, all of them stark
naked. First, there were three comely fellows, well
shaped, with straight limbs, about thirty to thirty-five
years of age; and five women, whereof two might be from
thirty to forty, two more about four- or five-and-twenty;
and the fifth, a tail, comely maiden, about seventeen. The
women were well-favored, agreeable persons, both in shape
and features, only tawny; and two of them, had they been
perfect white, would have passed for very handsome
women, even in London, having pleasant countenances,
and of a very modest behavior; especially when they came
afterward to be clothed and dressed, though that dress was
very indifferent, it must be confessed.
The sight, you may be sure, was something uncouth to
our Spaniards, who were, to give thorn a just character,
men of the most calm, sedate tempers, and perfect good
humor, that ever I met with: and, in particular, of the ut-
most modesty: 1 say, the sight was very uncouth, to see
three naked men and five naked women, all together
bound, and in the most miserable circumstances that
human nature could be supposed to be'—viz., to be expect-
ing every moment to be dragged put and have their brains
knocked out, and then to be eaten up like a calf that is
killed for a dainty.
The first thing they did was to cause the old Indian,
Friday's father, to go in, and see first if he knew any of
them, and then if he understood any of their speech. As
soon as the old man came in, he looked seriously at them,
but knew none of them; neither could any of them under-
stand a word he said, or a sign he could make, except one
of the women. However, this was enough to answer the
end, which was to satisfy them that the men into whose
hands they W3r» fallen were Chrsitians; that they abhorred
eating men or "romen; and that they might be sure they
would not be killed. As soon as they were assured of
this, they discovered such a joy, and by such awkward
gestures, several wSjw, as is hard to describe; for it seems
they were of several nations. The woman who was their
interpreter was bid, in the next place, to ask them if they
were willing to be servants, and to work for the men who
had brought them away, to save their lives; at which they
all fell a-dancing; and presently one fell to taking up this,
and another that, anything that lay next, to carry on their
shoulders, to intimate they were willing to work.
The goverpor, who found that the having women among
them would presently be attended wilh some inconvenience,
and might occasion some strife, and perhaps blood, asked
the three men what they intended to do with these women,
and how they intended to use them, whether as servants or
as wives? One of the Englishmen answered, very boldly
and readily, that they would use them as both; to which
the governor said: "1 am not going to restrain you from
it—you are your own masters as to that; but this 1 think
is but just, for avoiding disorders and quarrels among you,
and I desire it of you for that reason only—viz., that you
will all engage, that if any of you take any of these women
as a wife, he shall take but one; and that having taken
one, none else shall touch her; for though we can not
marry any one of you, yet it is but reasonable that, while
you stay here, the woman any of you takes shall be main-
tained by the man that takes her, and should be his wife—
1 mean," says he, " while he continues here, and that
none else shall have anything to do with her." All this
appeared so just, that every one agreed to it without any
difficulty.
Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if they de-
signed to take any of them? But every one of them
answered " No." Some of them said they had wives in
Spain, and the others di 1 not like women that were not
Christians; and all together declared that they would not
touch one of them, which was an instance of such virtue
as I have not met with in all my travels. On the other
hand, the five Englishmen took them every one a wife—
that is to say, a temporary wife; and so they set up a new
form of living; for the Spaniards and Friday's father lived
in my old habitation, which they had enlarged exceedingly
within. The three servants which were taken in the last
battle of the savages lived with them; and these carried on
the main part of the colony, supplied all the rest with
food, and assisted them in anything as they could, or as
they found necessity required.
But the wonder of the story was, how five such refrac-
tory, ill-matched fellows should agree about these women,
and that some two of ttiem should not choose the same
, woman, especially seeing two or three of them were, with-
out comparison, more agreeable than the others; but they
took a good way enough to prevent quarreling among
themselves, for they set the five women by themselves in
one of their huts, and they went ..all into the other hut,
and drew lots among them who should choose first.
Him that drew to choose first went away by himself to
the hut where the poor naked creatures were, and fetched
out her he chose; and it was worth observing, that he that
chose first took her that was reckoned the homeliest and
oldest of the five, which made mirth enough among the
rest; and even the Spaniards laughed at it; but the fellow
considered better than any of them, that it was application
and business they were to expect assistance in, as much as
in anything else; and she proved the best wife of all the
parcel.
When the poor women saw themselves set in a row thus,
and fetched out one by one, the terrors of their condition
returned upon them again, and they firmly believed they
were now going to be devoured. Accordingly, when the
English sailor came in and fetched out one of them, the
rest set up a most lamentable cry, and hung about her,
and took their leave of her with such agonies and affection
as would have grieved the hardest heart in the world: not
was it possible for the Englishmen to satisfy them thai
they were not to be immediately murdered, till they fetched
the old man, Friday's father, who immediately let them
know that the five men, who were to fetch them out oni
by one, had chosen them for their wives. When they hu
done, and the fright the women were in was a little over,
the men went to work, and the Spaniards came and helped,
them: and in a few hours they had built them every one a
new hut or tent for their lodging apart; for those they had
already were crowded'with their tools, household stuff, aud
provisions. The three wicked ones had pitched furthest
off, and the two honest ones nearer, but both on the north
shore of the island, so that they continued separated as
before; and thus my island was peopled in three places,
and, as I might say, three towns were begun to be built.
And here it is very well worth observing that, as it often
happens in the world (what the wise ends of God's provi-
dence are, in such a disposition of things, I can not say),
the two honest fellows had the two worst wives; and the
three reprobates, that were scarce worth hanging, that
were fit for nothing, and neither seemed born to do them-
selves good nor any one else, had three clever, diligent,
careful, and ingenious wives; not that the first two were
bad wives as to their temper or humor, for all the five were
most willing, quiet, passive, and subjected creatures, rather
like slaves than wives; but my meaning is, they were not
alike capable, ingenious, or industrious, or alike cleanly
and neat. Another observation I must make, to the honor
of a diligent application on one hand, aud to the disgrace
of ,a slothful, negligent, idle temper on the other, that when
1 came to the place, and viewed the several improvements,
plantings, and management of the several little colonies,
the two men had so far outgone the three, that there was
no comparison. They had, indeed, both of them as much
ground laid out for corn as they wanted, and the reason
was, because, according to my rule, nature dictated that it
was to no purpose to sow more corn than they wanted; but
the difference of the cultivation, of the planting, of the
fences, and, indeed, of everything else, was easy to be seen
at first view.
The two men had innumerable young trees planted
about their huts, so that, when you came to the place,
nothing was to be seen but a wood; and though they had
twice had their plantation demolished, once by their own
countrymen, and once by the enemy, as shall be shown in
its place, yet they had restored all again, and everything
was thriving and flourishing about them; they had grapes
planted in order, and managed like a vineyard, though
they had themselves never seen anything of that kind;
and, by their good ordering their vines, their grapes were
as good again as any of the others. They had also found
themselves out a retreat in the thickest part of the woods,
where, though there was not a natural cave, as I had
f»und, yet they made one with incessant labor of their
bands,.and where, when the mischief which followed hap-
pened, they secured their wives and children so as they
eould never he found; they having, by sticking innumer-
able stakes and poles of the wood which, as I said, grew so
readily, made the grove impassable, except in some places,
when they climbed up to get over the outside part, and
then went on by ways of their own leaving.
As to the three reprobates, as 1 uistly call them, though
they were much civilized by their settlement compared to
what they were before, and were not so quarrelsome, hav-
ing not the same opportunity; yet one of the certain com-
panions of a profligate mind never left them, and that was
their idleness. It is true, they planted corn and made
fences; but Solomon's words were never better verified
than in them: "I went by the vineyard of the slothful,
and it was all overgrown with thorns:" for when the
Spaniards came to view their crop they could not see it in
some places for weeds, the hedge had several gaps in it,
where the wild goats had got in and eaten up the corn;
perhaps here and there a dead bush was crammed in, to
stop them out for the present, but it was only shutting the
stable-door after the steed was stolen. Whereas, when
they looked on the colony of the other two, there was the
very face of industry and success upon all they did; there
was not a weed to be seen in all their corn, or a gap in any
of their hedges; and they, on the other hand, verified Solo-
mon's words in another place: "That the diligent hand
maketh rich;" for everything grew and thrived, and they
had plenty within and without; they had more tame cattle
than the others, more utensils and necessaries within doors,
and yet more pleasure and diversion too.
It is true, the wives of the three were very handy and
cleanly within doors; and having learned the English ways
of dressing and cooking from one of the other Englishmen,
who, as I said, was a cook's mate on board the ship, they
dressed their husbands' victuals very nicely and well;
whereas the others could not be brought to understand it;
but then the husband, who, as I say, had been cook's
mate, did it himself. But as for the husbands of the three
wives, they loitered about, fetched turtles' eggs, and
caught fish and birds: in a word, anything but labor; and
they fared accordingly. The diligent lived well and com-
fortably, and the slothful hard and beggarly; and so, 1 be-
lieve, generally speaking, it is all over the world.
But I now come to a scene different from all that had
happened before, either to them or to me; and the origin
of the story was this: Early oae morning there came on
shore five or six canoes of Indians or savages, call them
which you please, and there is no room to doubt they came
upon the old errand of feeding upon their slaves; but thai
part was now so familiar to the Spaniards, and to our men
too, that they did not concern themselves about it, as I
did: but having been made sensible, by their experience,
that their only business was to lie concealed, and that if
they were not seen by any of the savages they would go off
again quietly, when their business was done, having, as
yet, not tha least notion of there being any inhabitants in
the island; I say, having been made sensible of this, they
had nothing to do but to give notice to all the three planta-
tions to keep within doors, and not show themselves, only
placing a scout in a proper place, to give notice when the
boats went to sea again.
This was, without doubt, very right; but a disaster
spoiled all these measures, and made it known among the
savages that there were inhabitants there; which was, in
the end, the desolation of almost the whole colony. After
the canoes with the savages were gone off, the Spaniards
peeped abroad again; and some of them had the curiosity
to go to the place where they had been, to see what they
had been doing. Here, to their great surprise, they found
three savages left behind, and lying fast asleep upon the
ground. It was supposed they had either been so gorged
with their inhuman feast, that, like beasts, they wore fallen
asleep, and would not stir when the others went, or they
had wandered into the woods, and did not come back in
time to be taken in.
The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and
perfectly at a loss what to do. The Spaniard governor, as
it happened, was with them, and his advice was asked, but
he professed he knew not what to do. As for slaves, they
\
had enough already; and as to killing them, there were
none of thein inclined to do that: the Spaniard governor
told me they could not think of shedding innocent blood;
for as to them, the poor creatures bad done them no wrong,
invaded none of their property, and they thought they had
no just quarrel against them to take away their lives.
And here f must, in justice to these Spaniards, observe, that
let the accounts of Spanish cruelty in Mexico and Peru be
what they will, I never met with seventeen men of any
nation whatsoever, in any foreign country, who were so
universally modest, temperate, virtuous, so very good-
humored, and so courteous, as these Spaniards: and as to
cruelty, they had nothing of it in their very nature: no in-
humanity, no barbarity, no outrageous passions; and yet
all of them men of great courage and spirit. Their tem-
per and calmness had appeared in their bearing the in-
sufferable usage of the three Englishmen; and their justice
and humanity appeared now in the case of the savages as
above. After some consultation they resolved upon this:
that they would lie still a while longer, till, if possible,
these three men might be gone. But then the governor
recollected that the three savages had no boat; and if they
were left to rove about the island, they would certainly
discover that there were inhabitants in it; and so they
should be undone that way. Upon this, they went back
again, and there lay the fellows fast asleep still, and so
they resolved to awaken them, and take them prisoners;
and they did so. The poor fellows were strangely fright-
ened when they were seized upon and bound; and afraid,
like the women, that they should be murdered and eaten:
for it seems those people think all the world does as they
do, in eating men's flesh; but they were soon made easy ae
to that, and away they carried them.
It was very happy for them that they did not carry them
home to the castle, I mean to my palace under the hill;
but they carried them first to the bower, where was the
chief of their country work, such as the keeping the goats,
the planting the corn, etc.; and afterward they carried
them to the habitation of the two Englishmen. Here they
were set to work, though it was not much they had for
them to do; and whether it was by negligenoe in guarding
them, or that they thought the fellows could not mend
themselves, 1 know not, but one of them ran away, and,
taking to the woods, they could never hear of him any
more. They had good reason to believe he got home again
soon after in some other boats or canoes of savages who
came on shore three or four weeks afterward, and who,
carrying on their revels as usual, went off in two days'
time. This thought terrified them exceedingly; for they
concluded, and that not without good cause indeed, that if
this fellow came home safe among his comrades, he would
certainly give them an account that there were people in
the island, and also how few and weak they were; for this
savage, as observed before, had never been told, and it was
very happy he had not, how many there were, or where
they lived; nor had he ever seen or heard the fire of any of
their guns, much less had they shown him any of their
other retired places: such as the cave in the valley, or the
new retreat which the two Englishmen had made, and the
like.
The first testimony they had that this fellow had given
intelligence of them was, that about two months after this,
six canoes of savages, with about seven, eight, or ten men
in a canoe, came rowing along the north side of the island,
where they never used to come before, and landed, about
an hour after sunrise, at a convenient place, about a mile
from the habitation of the two Englishmen, where this
escaped man had been kept. As the chief Spaniard said,
had they been all there, the damage would not have been
so much, for not a man of them would have escaped; but
the case differed now very much, for two men to fifty was
too much odds. The two men had the happiness to dis-
cover them about a league off, so that it was above an hour
before they landed; and as they landed a mile from their
huts, it was some time before they could come at them.
Now, having great reason to believe that they were be-
trayed, the first thing they did was to bind the two slaves
which wero left, and cause two of the three men whom
they brought with the women (who, it seems, proved very
faithful to them), to lead them, with their two wives, and
whatever they could carry away with them, to their retired
places in the woods, which I have spoken of above, and
there to bind the two fellows hand and foot, till they heard
further. In the next place, seeing the savages were all
come on shore, and that they had bent their course directly
that way, they opened the fences where the mflch cows
were kept, and drove them all out; leaving their goats to
straggle in the woods, whither they pleased, that the sav-
ages might think they were all bred wild; but the rogue
who came with them was too cunning for that, and gave
them an account of it all, for they went directly to the
place.
When the two poor frightened men had secured their
wives and goods, they sent the other slave they had of the
ihree who came with the women, and who was at their
place by accident, away to the Spaniards with all speed, to
give them the alarm, and desire speedy help, and, in the
meantime, they took their arms and what ammunition they
had, and retreated toward the place in the wood where
their wives were sent; keeping at a distance, yet so that
they might see, if possible, which way the savages took.
They had not gone far, but that from a rising ground they
could see the little army of their enemies come on directly
to their habitation, and, in a moment more, could see all
their huts and household stuff flaming up together, to their
great grief and mortification; for this was a great loss to
them, irretrievable, indeed, for some time. They kept
their station for awhile, till they found the savages, like
wild beasts, spread themselves all over the place, rummag-
ing every way, and every place they could think of, in
search of prey; and in particular for the people, of whom
now it plainly appeared they had intelligence.
The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves
not secure where they stood, because it was likely some of
the wild people might come that way, and they might come
too many together, thought it proper to make another re-
treat about half a mile further; believing, as it afterward
happened, that the further they strolled, the fewer would
be together. Their next halt was at the entrance into a
very thick-grown part of the woods, and where an old
trunk of a tree stood, which was hollow and very large;
and in this tree they both took their standing, resolving to
see there what might offer. They had not stood there i mg
before two of the savages appeared running directly that
way, as if they already had noticed where they stood, and
were coming up to attack them; and a little way further
they espied three more coming after them, and five more
beyond them, all coming the same way; besides which,
they saw seven or eight more 'it a distance, running
another way; for, in a word, they ran every way, like
sportsmen beating for their game.
The poor men were now in great perplexity whether
they should stand and keep their posture or fly; but after
a very short debate with themselves, they considered that
if the savages ranged the country thus before help came,
they might perhaps find their retreat in tne woods, and
then all would be lost; so they resolved to stand them
there, and if they were too many to deal with, then they
would get up to the top of the tree, from whence they
doubted not to defend themselves, fire excepted, as long as
their ammunition lasted, though all the savages that were
landed, which was near fifty, were to attack them.
Having resolved upon this, they next considered whether
they should fire at the first two, or wait for the three, and
so take the middle party, by which the two and the five
that followed would be separated; at length they resolved
to let the first two pass by, unless they should spy them in
the tree, and come to attack them. The first two savages
confirmed them also in this resolution, by turning a little
from them toward another part of the wood; but the three,
and the five after them, came forward directly to the tree,
as if they had known the Englishmen were there. Seeing
them come so straight toward them, they resolved to take
them in a line as they came: and as they resolved to fire
but one at a time, perhaps the first shot might hit them
all three; for which purpose the man who was to fire put
three or four small bullets into his piece; and having a fair
Joop-hole, as it were, from a broken hole in the tree, he
took a sure aim, without being seen, waiting till they were
within about thirty yards of the tree, so that he could not
miss.
While they were thus waiting, and the savages came on,
they plainly saw that one of the three was the runaway
savage that had escaped from them; and they both knew
him distinctly, and resolved that, if possible, he should not
escape, though they should both fire; so the other stood
ready with his piece, that if he did not drop at the first
shot, he should be sure to have a second. But the first
was too good a marksman to miss his aim; for as the sav-
ages kept near one another, a little behind in a line, he
fired, and hit two of them directly; the foremost was killed
©utright, being shot in the head; the second, which was
the runaway Indian, was shot through the body, and fell,
but was not quite dead; and the third had a little scratch
in the shoulder, perhaps by the same ball that went through
the body of the second; and being dreadfully frightened,
though not so much hurt, sat down upon the ground,
screaming and yelling in a hideous manner.
The five that were behind, more frightened with the
noise than sensible of the danger, stood still at first; for
the woods made the sound a thousand times bigger than it
really was, the echoes rattling from one side to another,
and the fowls rising from all parts, screaming, and every
sort making a different noise, according to their kind; just
as it was when I fired the first gun that perhaps was ever
shot off in the island.
However, all being silent again, and they not knowing
what the matter was, came on unconcerned, till they came
to the place where their companions lay in a condition mis-
erable enough. Here the poor ignorant creatures, not
sensible that they were within reach of the same mischief,
stood all together over the wounded man, talking, and, as
may be supposed, inquiring of him how he came to be
hurt; and who, it is very rational to believe, told them
that a flash of fire first, and immediately after that thunder
from their gods, had killed those two and wounded him.
This, I say, is rational; for nothing is more certain than
that, as they saw no man near them, so they had never
heard a gun in all their lives, nor so much as heard of a
gun; neither knew they anything of killing and wounding
at a distance with fire and bullets: if they had, one might
reasonably believe they would not have stood so uncon-
cerned to view the fate of their fellows, without some ap-
prehensions of their own.
Our two men, as they confessed to me, were grieved to
be obliged to kill so many poor creatures, who had no
notion of their danger; yet, having them all thus in their
power, and the first having loaded his piece again, resolved
to let fly both together among them; and singling out, by
agreement, which to aim at, they shot together, and killed,
or very much wounded, four of them; the fifth, frightened
even to death, though not hurt, fell' with the rest; so that
our men, seeing them all fall together, thought they had
killed them all.
The belief that the savages were all killed made our two
f
men come boldly out from the tree before they had charged
their guns, which was a wrong step; and they were under
some surprise when they came to the place, and found no
less than four of them alive, and of them two very little
hurt, and one not at all. This obliged them to fall upon
them with the stocks of their muskets; and first they made
sure of the runaway savage, that had been the cause of all
the mischief, and of another that was hurt in the knee,
and put them out of their pain; then the man that was not
hurt at all came and knelt down to them, with his two
hands held up, and made piteous moans to them, by gestures
and signs, for his life, but could not say one word to them
that they could understand. However, they made signs
to him to sit down at the foot of a tree hard by; and
one of the Englishmen, with a piece of rope-yarn, which
he had by great chance in his pocket, tied his two hands
behind him, and there they left him; and with what speed
they could made after the other two, which were gone be-
fore, fearing they, or any more of them, should find the
way to their covered place in the woods, where their wives,
and the few goods they had left, lay. They came once in
sight of the two men, but it was at a great distance; how-
ever, they had the satisfaction to see them cross over a
valley toward the sea, quite the contrary way from that
which led to their retreat, which they were afraid of; and
being satisfied with that, they went back to the tree where*
they left their prisoner, who, as they supposed, was de
livered by his comrades, for he was gone, and the twt
pieces of rope-yarn with which they had bound him lay
just at the foot of the tree.
They were now in as great concern as before, not know^
ing what course to take, or how near the enemy might b&,
or in what number; so they resolved to go away to the>
place where their wives were, to see if all was well theres
and to make them easy. These were in fright enough, to
be sure; for though the savages were their own country>
men, yet they were most terribly afraid of them, and per-
haps the more for the knowledge they had of them. When
they came there, they found the savages had been in the
wood, and very near that place, but had not found it; for
it was indeed inaccessible, from the trees standing so thick,
unless the persons seeking it had been directed by those"
that knew it, which these did not; they found, therefore,
everything very safe, only the women' in a terrible fright
While they We're here they had the comfort to have seven
of the Spaniards come to their assistance; the other ten,
with their servants, and Friday's father, were gone in a
body to defend their bower, and the corn and cattle that
were kept there, in case the savages should have roved
over to that side of the country; but they did not spread
so far. With the seven Spaniards came one of the three
savages, who, as I said, were their prisouers formerly; and
with them also came the savage whom the Englishman
had left bound hand and foot at the tree; for it seems they
came that way, saw the slaughter of the seven men, and
unbound the eighth, and brought him along with them;
where, however, they were obliged to bind him again, as
they had the two others who were left when the third ran
away.
The prisoners now began to be a burden to them; and
they were so afraid of their escaping that they were once
resolving to kill them all, believing they were under an
absolute necessity to do so for their own preservation.
However, the chief of the Spaniards would not consent to
it, but ordered, for the present, that they should be sent
out of the way to my old cave in the valley, and be kept
there, with two Spaniards to guard thom, and have food
for their subsistence, which was done; and they were bound
there hand and foot for that night.
When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen were so'
encouraged, that they could not satisfy themselves to stay
any longer there; but taking five of the Spaniards, and
themselves, with four muskets and a pistol among them,
and two stout quarter-staves, away they went in quest of
the savages. And first they came to the tree where th«
men lay that had been killed; but it was easy to see that
some more of the savages had been there, for they had at-
tempted to carry their dead men away, and had dragged
two of them a good way, but had given it over. From
thence they advanced to the first rising ground, where they
had stood and seen their camp destroyed, and where they
had the mortification still to see some of the smoke; but
neither oould they here see any of the savages. They then
resolved, though with all possible caution, to go forward
toward their ruined plantation; but, a little before they
came thither, coming in sight of the sea-shore, they saw
plainly the savages all embarked again in their canoes, in
order to be gone. They seemed sorry at first that there
was no way to come at them, to give them a parting blow;
but, upon the whole, they were very well satisfied to be rid
of them.
The poor Englishmen being now twice rained, and all
their improvements destroyed, the rest all agreed to come
and help them to rebuild, and assist them with, needful
supplies. Their three countrymen, who were not yet
noted for having the least inclination to do any good, yet
as soon as they heard of it (for they, living remote east-
ward, knew nothing of the matter till all was over), came
and offered their help and assistance, and did, very friend-
ly, work for several days to restore their habitation and
make necessaries for them. And thus in a little time they
were set upon their legs again.
About two days after this they had the further satisfac-
tion of seeing three of the savages' canoes come driving on
shore, and, at some distance from them, two drotvued men,
by which they had reason to believe that they had met with
a storm at sea, which had overset some of them; for it had
blown very hard the night after they went off. However,
as some might miscarry, so, on the other hand, enough of
them escaped to inform the rest, as well of what they had
done as of what had happened to them; and to whet them
on to another enterprise of the same nature, which they, it
seems, resolved to attempt, with sufficient force to carry
all before them; for except what the first man had told
them of inhabitants, they could say little of it of their own
knowledge, for they never saw one man; and the fellow
being killed that had affirmed it, they had no other witnesu
to confirm it to them.
SECTION XXXIII.
The Island is Invaded bv a Formidable Fleet of Savages.—A Terrible
Engagement, in Which the Cannibals are Utterly Routed.—
Thirty-seven Wretches, the Survivors, are Saved, and Employed
by My People as Servants.—Description of Will Atkins's In-
genious Contrivances for His Accommodation.
It was five or six months after this before they heard
any more of the savages, in which time our men were in
hopes they had either foigotten their former bad luck, or
£iven over hopes of better; when, on a sudden, they were
juvaded with a most formidable fleet of no less than eight-
and-twenty canoes, full of savages, armed with bows and
arrows, great clubs, wooden swords, and such like engines
of war; and they brought such numbers with them, that,
in short, it put all our people into the utmost consterna-
tion.
As they came on shore in the evening, aud at the eastern-
most side of the island, our men had that night to consult
and consider what to do. In the first place, knowing that
their being entirely concealed was their only safety before,
and would be much more so now, while the number of
their enemies would be so great, they resolved, first of all,
to take down the huts which were built for the two En-
glishmen, and drive away their goats to the old cave; be-
cause they supposed the savages would go directly thither,
as soon as it was day, to play the old game over again,
though they did not now land within two leagues of it. In
the next place they drove away all the flock of goats they
had at the old bower, as I called it, which belonged to the
Spaniards; and, in short, left as little appearance of inhab-
itants anywhere as was possible; and the next morning
early they posted themselves, with all their force, at the
plantation of the two men, to wait for their coming. As
they guessed, so it happened: these new invaders, leaving
their canoes at the east end of the island, came ranging
along the shore, directly toward the place, to the number
of two hundred and fifty, as near as our men could judge.
Our army was but small indeed; but, that which was
worse, they had not arms for all their number. The
whole account, it seems, stood thus: first, as to men,
seventeen Spaniards, five Englishmen, old Friday, the
three slaves taken with the women, who proved very faith-
ful, and three other slaves, who lived with the Spaniards.
To arm these, they had eleven muskets, five pistols, three
fowling-pieces, five muskets or fowling-pieces which were
taken by me from the mutinous seamen whom I reduced,
two swords, and three old halberts.
To their slaves they did not give either musket or fusee;
but they had each a halbert, or a long staff, like a quarter-
staff, with a great spike of iron fastened into each end of
it, and by his side a hatchet; also every one of our men
JiSd a hatchet. Two of the women could not be prevailed
npc\i bob they would come into the fight, and they had
bowd and arrows, which the Spaniards had taken from the
savages when the first action happened, which 1 have
spoken of, where the Indians fought with one another;
and the women had hatchets too.
The chiei Spaniard, whom I described so often, com-
manded the whole; and Will Atkins, who, though a dread-
ful fellow for wickedness, was a most daring, bold fellow,
commanded tinder him. The savages came forward like
lions; and our men, which was the worst of their fate, had
no advantage in their situation; only that Will Atkins,
who now proved a most useful fellow, with six men, was
planted just behind a small thicket of bushes as an ad-
vanced guard, with orders to let the first of them pass by
and then fire into the middle of them, and as soon as he
had fired, to inata nis retreat as nimbly as he could round
a part of the wood, and so come in behind the Spaniards,,
where they stood, having a thicket of trees before them.
When the savages, came on, they ran straggling about
every way in heaps, out of all manner of order, and Will
Atkins let about fifty ol them pass by him; then seeing the
rest come in a very thick throng, he orders three of his
men to fire, having loaued their muskets with six or seven
bullets apiece, about as big as large pistol bullets. How
many they killed or wounded they knew not, but the con-
sternation and surprise was inexpressible among the sav-
ages; they were frightened to the last degree to hear such
a dreadful noise, and see their men killed, and others
hurt, but see nobody that did it; when, in the middle of
their fright, Will Atkins and his other three let fly again
among the thickest of them; and in less than a minute,
the first three being loaded again> gave them a third vol»
ley.
Hid Will Atkins and his men retired immediately, as
soon as they had fired, as they were ordered to do, or had
the rest of the body been at hand, to have poured in their
shot continually, the savages had been effectually routed;
for the terror that was among them came principally from
this, that they were killed by the gods with thunder and
lightning, and could see nobody that hurt them. But Will
Atkins, staying to load again, discovered the cheat: some'
of the savages who were at a distance spying them, came
upon them behind; and though Atkins and his men fired
at them also, two or three times, and killed above twenty,
retiring as fast as they could, yet they wounded Atkins
himself, and killed one of his fellow-Englishmen with their
arrows, as they did afterward one Spaniard, and one of the
Indian slaves who came with the women. This slave was
a most gallant fellow, and fought most desperately, killing
five of them with his own hand, having no weapon but one
of the armed staves and a hatchet.
Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded, and
two other men killed, retreated to a rising ground in the
wood; and the Spaniards, after firing three volleys upon
them, retreated also; for their number was so great, and
they were so desperate, that though above fifty of them
were killed, and more than as many wounded, yet they
came on in the teeth of our men, fearless of danger, and
shot their arrows like a cloud; and it was observed that
their wounded men, who were not quite disabled, were
made outrageous by their wounds, and fought like madmen.
When our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and
the Englishman that wore killed behind them: and the
savages, when they came up to them, killed them over
again in a wretched mauner, breaking their arms, legs, and
heads with their clubs and wooden swords, like true sav-
ages; but finding our men were gone, they did not seem
inclined to pursue them, but drew themselves up in a ring,
which is, it seems, their custom, and shouted twice, in
token of their victory; after which, they had the mortifica-
tion to see several of their wounded men fall, dying with
the mere loss of blood.
The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body up
together upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he was
wounded, would have had them march and charge again
all together at once: but the Spaniard replied—" Senor
Atkins, you see how their wounded men light; let them
alone till morning; all the wounded men will be stiff and
sore with their wounds, and faint with the loss of blood;
and so we shall have the fewer to engage." This advice
was good: but Will Atkins replied merrily, "That is true,
senor, and so shall I too; and that is the reason 1 would
go on while I am warm." "Well, Senor Atkins," says
the Spaniard, "you have behaved gallantly, and done your
part; we will fight for you if you can not come on; but I
think it best to stay till morning:" so they waited.
But as it was a clear, moonlit night, and they found the
savages in great, disorder about their dead and wounded
men, and a great noise and hurry among them where they
lay, they afterward resolved to fall upon them in the night,
especially if they could come to give them but one volley
before they were discovered, which they had a fair oppor-
tunity to do; for one of the Englishmen in whose quarter
it was where the fight began, led them round between the
woods and the sea-side westward, and then turning short
south, they came so near where- the thickest of them lay;
that before they were seen or heard eight of them iired in
among them, and did dreadful execution upon them; in
half a minute more eight others fired after them, pouring
in their small shot in such a quantity that abundance were
killed and wounded; and all this while they were not able
to see who hurt them, or which way to fly.
The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition,
and then divided themselves into three bodies, and resolved
to fall in among them all together; They had in each
body eight persons, that is to say, twenty-two men and the
two women, who, by the way, fought desperately. They
divided the fire-arms equally in each party, as well as the
halberts and staves. They would have had the women
kept back, but they said they were resolved to die with
their husbands. Having thus formed their little army,
they marched out from among the trees, and came up to
the teeth of the enemy, shouting and hallooing as loud as
they could; the savages stood all together, but were in the
utmost confusion, hearing the noise of our men shouting
from three quarters together. They would have fought if
they had seen us; for as soon as we came near enough to
be seen, some arrows were shot, and poor old Friday was
woundod, though not dangerously. But our men gave
them no time, but running up to them, fired among them
three ways, and then fell in with the butt ends of their
muskets, their swords, armed staves, and hatchets, and
laid about them so well that, in a word, they set up a dis-
mal screaming and howling, flying to save their lives which
way soever they could.
Our men were tired with the execution, and killed or
mortally wounded in the two fights about one hundred and
eighty of them; the rest, being frightened out of their wits,
scoured through the woods and over the hills, with all the
speed that fear and nimble feet could help them to; and
as we did not trouble ourselves much to pursue them, they
got all together to the sea-side, where they landed, and
where their canoes lay. But their disaster was not at an
end yet; for it blew a terrible storm of wind that evening
from the sea, so that it was impossible for them to go off;
nay, the storm continuing all night, when the tide came
up their canoes were most of them driven by the surge of
the sea so high upon the shore that it required infinite toil
to get them off; and some of them were even dashed to
pieces against the beach. Our men, though glad of their
victory, yet got little rest that night; but having refreshed
themselves as well as they could, they resolved to march
to that part of the island where the savages were fled, and
see what posture they were in. This necessarily led them
fever the place where the fight had been, and where they
found several of the poor creatures not quite dead, and yet
past recovering life; a sight disagreeable enough to gener-
ous minds, for a truly great man, though obliged by the
law of battle to destroy his enemy, takes no delight in his
misery. However, there was no need to give any orders in
this case; for their own savages, who were their servants,
dispatched these poor creatures with their hatchets.
At length they came in view of the place where the more
miserable remains of the savages' army lay, where there
appeared about a hundred still; their posture was generally
sitting upon the ground, with their knees up toward their
mouth, and the head put between the two hands, leaning
down upon the knees. "When our men came within two
musket-shots of them, the Spaniard governor ordered two
muskets to be fired without ball, to alarm them; this he
did, that by their countenance he might know what to ex-
pect, whether they were still in heart to fight, or were so
heartily beaten as to be discouraged, and so he might man-
age accordingly. This stratagem took: for as soon as the
savages heard the first gun, and saw the flash of the second,
they started up upon their feet in the greatest consterna-
tion imaginable; and as our men advanced swiftly toward
them, they all ran screaming and yelling away, with a kind
of howling noise, which our men did not understand, and
had never heard before; and thus they ran up the hills into
the country.
At first our men had much rather the weather had been
calm, and they had all gone away to sea: but they did not
then consider that this might probably have been the occa-
sion of their coming again in such multitudes as not to be
resisted, or, at least, to come so many and so often as
would quite desolate the island, and starve them. Will
Atkins, therefore, who, notwithstanding his wound, kept
always with them, proved the best counselor in this case:
his advice wal., to take the advantage that offered, and step
in between them and their boats, and so deprive them of
the capacity of ever returning any more to plague tha
island. They consulted long about this; and some were
against it for fear of making the wretches fly to the woods
and live there desperate, and so they should have them to
hunt like wild beasts, be afraid to stir out about their busi-
ness, and have their plantations continually rifled, all their
tame gnats destroyed, and, in short, be reduced to a life of
continual distress.
Will Atkins told them they had better have to do with a
hundred men than with a hundred nations; that, as they
must destroy their boats, so they must destroy the men, or
be all of them destroyed themselves. In a word, he showed
them the necessity of it so plainly that they all came into
it; so they went to work immediately with the boats, and
getting some dry wood together from a dead tree, they tried
to set some of them on fire, but they were so wet that they
would not burn; however, the fire so burned the upper
part that it soon made them unfit for use at sea.
When the Indians saw what they were about, some of
them came running out of the woods, and coming as near
as they could to our men, knelt down and cried, "Oa,
Oa, Waramokoa!" and some other words of their language,
which none of the others understood anything of; but as
they made pitiful gestures and strange noises, it was easy
to understand they begged to have their boats spared, and
that they wo,uld be gone, and never come there again. But
our men were now satisfied that they had no way to pre-
serve themselves, or to save their colony, but effectually to
prevent any of these people from ever going home again;
depending upon this, that if even so much as one of them
got back into their country to tell the story, the colony was
undone; so that, letting them know that they should not
have any mercy, they Ft'J1 to work with their canoes, and
destroyed every one that the storm had not destroyed be,
fore; at the sight of which, the savages raised a hideous
cry in the woods, which our people heard plain enough,
after which they ran about the island like distracted men,
so that, in a word, our men did not really know what at
first to do with them. Nor did the Spaniards, with all
their prudence, consider that while they made those people
thus desperate, they ought to have kept a good guard at
the same time upon their plantations; for though it is true
they had driven away their cattle, and the Indians did not
find out their main retreat, I mean my old castle at the
hill, nor the cave in the valley, yet they found out my
plantation at the bower, and pulled it all to pieces, aud all
the fences and planting about it; trod all the corn under
foot, tore up the vines and grapes, being just then almost
ripe, and did our men inestimable damage, though to
themselves not one farthing's worth of service.
Though our men were able to fight them upon all occa-
sions, yet they were in no condition to pursue them, or
hunt them up and down; for as they were too nimble of
foot for our people when they found them single, so our
men durst not go abroad single, for fear of being surround-
ed with their numbers. The best was they had no weap-
ons; for though they had bows, they had no arrows left,
nor any materials to make any; nor had they any edge-tools
among them. The extremity and distress they were re-
duced to was great, and indeed deplorable; but, at the
same time, our men were also brought to very bad circum-
stances by them, for though their retreats were preserved,
yet their provision was destroyed, and their harvest spoiled,
and what to do, or which way to turn themselves, they
knew not. The only refuge they had now was the stock
of cattle they had in the valley by the cave, and some little
corn which grew there, and the plantation of the three
Englishmen. Will Atkins and his comrades were now re-
duced to two; one of them being killed by an arrow, which
struck him on the side of his head, just under the temple,
so that he never spoke more; and it was very remarkable
that this was the same barbarous fellow that cut the poor
savage slave with his hatchet, and who afterward intended
to have murdered the Spaniards.
1 looked upon their case to,have been worse at this time
than mine was at any time, after I first discovered the
grains of barley and rice, and got into the manner of
planting and raising my corn and my tame cattle; for
now they had, as I may say, a hundred wolves upon the
island, which would devour everything they could come at,
yet could be hardly come at themselves.
When they saw what their circumstances were, the first
thing they concluded was, that they would, if possible,
drive the savages up to the further part of the island,
south-west, that if any more came on shore they might not
find one another; then, that they would daily hunt and
harass them, and kill as many of them as they could come
at, till they had reduced their number; and if they could
at last tame them, and bring them to anything, they would
give them corn, and teach them how to plant, and live
upon their daily labor. In order to do this, they so fol-
lowed them, and so terrified them with their guns, that in
a few days, if any of them fired a gun at an Indian, if he
did not hit him, yet he would fall down for fear. So
dreadfully frightened were they that they kept out of sight
further and further; till, at last, our men followed them,
and almost every day killing or wounding some of them,
they kept up in the woods or hollow places so much, that
it reduced them to the utmost misery for want of food; and
many were afterward found dead in the woods, without
any hurt, absolutely starved to death.
When our men found this, it made their hearts relent,
and pity moved them, especially the generous-minded
Spaniard governor; and he proposed, if possible, to take
one of them alive, and bring him to understand what they
meant, so far as to be able to act as interpreter, and go
among them and see if they might be brought to some con-
ditions that might be depended upon, to save their lives
and do us no harm.
It was some while before any of them could be taken;
but being weak and half-starved, one of them was at last
surprised and made a prisoner. He was sullen at first, and
would neither eat nor drink; but finding himself kindly
used, and victuals given to him, and no violence offered
him, he at last grew tractable, and came to himself. They
often brought old Friday to talk to him, who always told
him how kind the others would be to them all; that they
would not only save their lives, but give them part of the
island to live in, provided they would give satisfaction that
they would keep in their own bounds, and not come beyond
348 bobinsos crusoe:
it to injure or prejudice others; and that they should have
coru given them to plant and make it grow for their bread,
aud some bread given them for their present subsistence;
and old Friday bade the fellow go aud talk with the rest
of his countrymen, and see what they said to it; assuring
them that, if they did not agree immediately, they should
be all destroyed.
The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and reduced in
number to about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal at
the first oiler, and begged to have some food given them;
upon which twelve Spaniards aud two Englishmen, well
armed, with three Indian slaves and old Friday, marched
to the place where they were. The three Indian slaves
carried them a large quantity of bread, some rice boiled up
to cakes and dried in the sun, and three live goats; and
they were ordered to go to the side of a hill, where they sat
down, eat their provisions very thankfully, and were the
most faithful fellows to their words that could be thought
of; for, except when they came to beg victuals and direc-
tions, they never came out of their bounds; and there they
lived when I catne to the island, and I went to see them.
They had taught them both to plant corn, make bread,
breed tame goats, and milk them: they wanted nothing
but wives in order- for them soon to become a nation.
They were confined to a neck of land, surrounded with
high rocks behind them, and lying plain toward the sea
before them, on the south-east corner of the island. They
had land enough, and it was very good and fruitful; about
a mile and a half broad, and three or four miles in length.
Our men taught them to make wooden spades, such as I
made for myself, and gave among them twelve hatchets
and three or four knives; and there they lived, the mo3t
subjected, innocent creatures that ever were heard of.
After this the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquillity with
respect to the savages, till I came to revisit them, which
was about two years after; not but that, now and then,
some canoes of savages came on shore for their triumphal,
unnatural feasts; but as they were of several nations, and
perhaps had never heard of those that came before, or the
reason of it, they did not make any search or inquiry after
their countrymen; and if they had, it would have been very
hard to have found them out.
Thus, I think, I have given a full account of all that
happened to them till my return, at least that was worth
notice. The Indians were wonderfully civilized by them,
and they frequently went among them; but they forbid,
on pain of death, any one of the Indians coming to them,
because they would not have their settlement betrayed
again. One thing was very remarkable—viz., that they
taught the savages to make wicker-work, or basket*, but
they soon outdid their masters: for they made abundance
of ingenious things in wicker-work, particularly baskets,
sieves, bird-cages, cupboards, etc.; as also chairs, stools,
beds, couches, being very ingenious at such work when
they were once put in the way of it.
My coming was a particular relief to these people, be-
cause we furnished them with knives, scissors, spades,
shovels, pick-axes, and all things of that kind which they
could want. With the help of those tools they were so
very handy that they came at last to build up their huts or
houses very handsomely, raddling or working it up like
basket-work all the way round. This piece of ingenuity,
although it looked very odd, was an exceeding good fence,
as well against heat as against all sorts of vermin; and
our men were so taken with it that they got the Indians to
come and do the like for them; so that when 1 came to see
the two Englishmen's colonies, they looked at a distance
as if they all lived like bees in a hive.
As for Will Atkins, who was now become a very indus-
trious, useful, and sober fellow, he had made himself such
a tent of basket-work as I believe was never seen; it was
one hundred and twenty paces round on the outside, as I
measured by my steps; the walls were as close worked as a
basket, in panels or squares of thirty-two in number, and
very strong, standing about seven feet high; in the middle
was another not above twenty-two paces round, but built
stronger, being octagon in its form, and in the eight cor-
ners stood eight very strong posts; round the top of which
he laid stong pieces, knit together with wooden pins, from
which he raised a pyramid for a handsome roof of eight
rafters, joined together very well, though he had no nails,
and only a few iron spikes, which he made himself, too,
out of the old iron that I had left there. Iudoed, this
fellow showed abundance of ingenuity in several things
which he had no knowledge of: he made him a forge, with
3 pair of wooden bellows to blow the fire; he made himself
charcoal for his work; and he formed out of the iron crows
a middling good anvil to hammer upon: in this manner he
made many things, but especially hooks, staples, and
spikes, bolts and hinges. But to return to the house: after
he had pitched the roof of his innermost tent, he worked it
up between the rafters with basket-work, so firm, and
thatched that over again so ingeniously with rice-straw,
and over that a large leaf of a tree, which covered the top.
that his house was as dry as if it had been tiled or slated.
He owned, indeed, that the savages had made the basket-
work for him. The outer circuit was covered as a lean-to
all round this inner apartment, and long rafters lay from
the thirty-two angles to the top posts of the inner house,
being about twenty feet distant, so that there was a space
like a walk within the outer wicker-wall, and without the
inner, near twenty feet wide.
The inner place he partitioned off with the same wicker-
work, but much fairer, and divided into six apartments,
so that he had six rooms on a floor, and out of every one of
these there was a door: first into the entry, or coining into
the main tent, another door into the main tent, and
another door into the space or walk that was round it; so
that walk was also divided into six equal parts, which
served not only for a retreat, but to store up any neces-
saries which the family had occasion for. These six spaces
not taking up the whole circumference, what other apart-
ments the outer circle had were thus ordered: As soon as
you were in at the door of the outer circle you had a short
passage straight before you to the door of the inner house;
but on either side was a wicker partition and a door in it,
by which you went first into a large room or store-house,
twenty feet wide and about thirty feet long, and through
that into another not quite so long; so that in the outer
circle were ten handsome rooms, six of which were only to
be come at through the apartments of the inner tent, and
served as closets or retiring rooms to the respective cham-
bers of the inner circle; and four large warehouses, or
barns, or what you please to call them, which went through
one another, two on either hand of the passage, that led
through the outer door to the inner tent. Such a piece of
basket-work, I believe, was never seen in the world, nor a
house or tent so neatly contrived, much less so built. In
this great bee-hire lived the three families, that is to say,
Will Atkins and his companion; the third was killed, but
his wife remained with three children, and the other two
were not at all backward to give the widow her full share
of everything, I mean as to their corn, milk, grapes, etc.,
and when they killed a kid, or found a turtle on the shore;
so lhat they all lived well enough; though it was true they
were not so industrious as the other two, as has been ob-
served already.
One thing, however, can not be omitted—viz., that as for
religion, 1 do not know that there was anything of that
kind among them; they often, indeed, put one another in
mind that there was a God, by the very common method
of seamen, swearing by His name: nor were their poor
ignorant savage wives much better for having been mar-
ried to Christians, as we must call them; for as they knew
very little of God themselves, so they were utterly incapa-
ble of entering into any discourse with their wives about
a God, or to talk anything to them concerning religion.
The utmost of all the improvement which I can say the
wives had made from them was, that they had taught them
to speak English pretty well; and most of their children,
who were near twenty in all, were taught to speak English
too, from their first learning to speak, though they at first
spoke it in a very broken manner, like their mothers.
None of these children were above six years old when 1
came thither, for it was not much above seven years since
they had fetched these five savage ladies over; they had all
children, more or less: the mothers were all a good sort of
well-governed, quiet, laborious women, modest and decent,
helpful to one another, mighty observaut, and subject to
their masters (1 can not call them husbands), and lacked
nothing but to be well instructed in the Christian religion,
and to be legally married; both of which were happily
brought about afterward by my means, or at ?east in con-
sequence of my coming among them.
SECTION XXXIV.
I Hold Conversations with the Spaniards, and Learn the History
of Their Situation Among the Savages From Which I Relieved
Them.—I Inform the Colony for What Purpose I am Come,
and What I Mean to do for Them—Distribution of the Stores
I Brought with Me.—The Priest I Saved at Sea Solemnizes
the Marriages of the Sailors and Female Indians Who had
Hitherto Lived Together as Man aud Wife.
Haying thus given an account of the colony in general,
and pretty much of my runagate Englishmen, I must say
something of the Spaniards, who were the main body of
the family, and in whose story there are some incidents also,
remarkable enough.
I had a great many discourses with them about their
circumstances when they were among the savages. They
tdld me readily that they had no instances to give of their
application or ingenuity in that country; that they were a
poor, miserable, dejected handful of people;, that even if
means had been put into their hands, yet they had so
abandoned themselves to despair, and were so sunk under
the weight of their misfortune, that they thought of noth-
ing but starving. One of them, a grave and sensible man,
told me he was convinced they were in the wrong; that it
was not the part of wise men to give themselves up to their
misery, but always to take hold of the helps which reason
offered, as well for present support as for future deliver-
ance: he told me that grief was the most senseless, insig-
nificant passion in the world, for that it regarded only
things past, which were generally impossible to be recalled
or to be remedied, but had do views of things to come, and
had no share in anything that looked like deliverance, but
rather added to the affliction than proposed a remedy; and
upon this he repeated a Spanish proverb, which, though I
can not repeat in the same words that he spoke it in, yet I
remember I made it into an English proverb of my own,
thus:
"In trouble to be troubled,
Is to have your trouble doubled."
He then ran on in remarks upon all the little improve-
ments I had made in my solitude: my unwearied applica-
tion, as he called it; and how 1 had made a condition,
which in its circumstances was at first much worse than
theirs, a thousand times more happy than theirs was, even
now when they were all together. He told me it was re-
markable that Englishmen had a greater presence of mind
in their distress than any people that ever he met with;
that their unhappy nation and the Portuguese were the
worst men in the world to struggle with misfortunes; for
that their first step in dangers, after the common efforts
were over, was to despair, lie down under it, and die, with-
out rousing their thoughts up to proper remedies for
escape.
I told him their case and mine differed exceedingly; that
they were cast upon the shore without necessaries, without
supply of food, or present sustenance till they could pro-
vide for it; that, it was true, I had this further disadvan-
tage and discomfort, that I was alone; but then the sup-
plies I had providentially thrown into my hands, by the
unexpected driving of the ship on shore, was suoh a help
as would have encouraged any creature in the world to
have applied himself as I had done. "Senor," says the
Spaniard, " had we poor Spaniards been in your case, wo
should never have got half those things out of the ship, as
you did: nay," says he, " we should never have found
means to have got a raft to carry them, or to ha^e got the
raft on shore without boat or sail; and how much less
should we have done if any of us had been alone!" Well,
I desired him to abate his compliments, and go on with the
history of their coming on shore, where they landed. He
told me they unhappily landed at a place where there were
people without provisions; whereas, had they had the com-
mon sense to put off to sea again, and gone to another
island a little further, they had found provisions, though
without pe&ple: there being an island that way, as they
had been told, where there were provisions, though no
people—that is to say, that the Spaniards of Trinidad had
frequently been there, and had filled the island with goats
and hogs at several times, where they had bred in such
multitudes, and where turtle and sea-fowls were in such
plenty, that they could have been in no want of flesh,
though they had found no bread; whereas, here they were
only sustained with a few roots and herbs, which they
understood not, and which had no substance in them, and
18
which the inhabitant gave them sparingly enough; and
ihej could treat them no better, unless they would turn
cannibals and eat men's flesh.
They gave me an account how many ways they strove
to civilize the savages they were with, and to teach them
rational customs in the ordinary way of living, but in vain;
and how they retorted upon'them as unjust that they who
came there for assistance and support should attempt to
set up for instructors to those that gave them food; inti-
mating, it seems, that none should set up for the instruct-
ors of others but those who couid live without them.
They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they were
driven to; how sometimes they were many days without
any food at all, the island they were upon being inhabited
by a sort of savages that lived more indolent, and for that
reason were less supplied with the necessaries of life, than
they had reason to believe others were in the same part of
the world: and yet they found that these savages were less
ravenous and voracious than those who had better supplies
of food. Also, they added, they could not but see with
what demonstrations of wisdonyand goodness the govern-
ing providence of God directs the events of things in this
world, which, they said, appeared in their circumstances:
for if, pressed by the hardships they were under, and the
barreling of the country where they were, they had
searched after a better to live in, they had then been out
of the way of the relief that happened to them by my
means.
They then gave me an account how the savages whom
they lived amongst expected them to go out with them into
their wars; and, it was true, that as they had fire-arms
with them, had they not had the disaster to lose their
ammunition, they could have been serviceable not only to
their friends, but have made themselves terrible botJHPo
friends and enemies; but being without powder and shot,
and yet in a condition that they could not in reason de-
cline to go out with their landlords to their wars; so when
they came ioto the field of battle they were in a worse con-
dition than the savages themselves, for they had .neither
bows nor arrows, nor could they use those the savages gave
them So they could do nothing but stand still and be
wounded with arrows, till they came up to the teeth of
their enemy; and then, indeed, the three halberts they had
were of use to them; and they would otten drive a whole
little army before them with those halberts, and sharpened
sticks put into the muzzles of their muskets. But, for all
this, they were sometimes surrounded with multitudes, and
in great danger from their arrows, till at last they found
the way to make themselves large targets of wood, which
they covered with skins of wiid beasts, whose names they
knew not, and these covered them from the arrows of the
savages: that, notwithstanding these, they were sometimes
in great danger; and five of them were once knocked down
together with the clubs of the savages, which was the time
when one of them was taken prisoner—that is to sav, the
Spaniard whom 1 relieved. At first they thought he had
been killed; but when they afterward heard he was taken
prisoner, they were under the greatest grief imaginable and
would willingly have all ventured their lives to hava
rescued him.
They told me that when they were so knocked down, the
rest of their company rescued them, and stood over them
righting till they were come to themselves, all but hin
whom they thought had been dead; and then they made
their way with their halberts and pieces, standing close
together in a line, through a body of above a thousand
savages, beating down all that came in their way, got the
victory over their enemies, but to their great sorrow, be-
cause it was with the loss of their friend, whom the other
party finding alive, carried off with some others, as I gave
an account before. They described, most affectionately,
how they were surprised with joy at the return of their
friend and companion in misery, who they thought had
been devoured by wild beasts of the worst kind—wild men;
and yet, how more and more they were surprised with the
account he gave them of his errand, and that there was a
Christian in any place near, much more one that was able,
and had humanity enough, to contribute to their deliver-
ance.
They described how they were astonished at the sight of
the relief 1 sent them, and at the appearance of loaves of
bread—things they had not seen since their coming to that
miserable place; how often they crossed it and blessed it
as bread sent from heaven; and what a reviving cordial it
was to their spirits to taste it, js also the other things [
had sent for their supply; and, after all, they would have
told me something of the joy they were in at the sight of a
boat and pilots, to carry them away to the person and
place from whence all these new comforts came. But it
was impossible to express it by words, for their excessive
joy naturally driving them to unbecoming extravagances,
they had no way to describe them but by telling me they
bordered upon lunacy, having no way to give vent to their
passions suitable to the sense that was upon them; that in
some it worked one way and in some another; and that
some of them, through a surprise of joy, would burst into
tears, others be stark mad, and others immediately faint.
This discourse extremely affected me, and called to my
mind Friday's ecstasy when he met his father, and the
poor people's ecstasy when I took them up at sea after
their ship was on fire; the joy of the mate of the ship when
he found himself delivered in the place where he expected
to perish; and my own joy, when, after twenty-eight years'
captivity, I found a good ship ready to carry me to my own
country. All these things made me more sensible of the
relation of these poor men, and more affected with it.
Having thus given a view of the state of things as I
found them, I must relate the heads of what 1 did for these
people, and the condition in which I left them. It was
their opinion, and mine too, that they would be troubled
no more with the savages, or if they were, they would be
able to cut them off, if they were twice as many as before;
so they had no concern about that. Then I entered into
a serious discourse with the Spaniard, whom 1 call govern-
or, about their stay in the island: for as I was not come
to carry any of th«m off, so it would not be just to carry
off some and leave others, who, perhaps, would be unwill-
ing to stay if their strength was diminished. On the other
hand, 1 told them 1 came to establish them there, not to
remove them; and then I let them know that I had
brought with me relief of sundry kinds for them; that 1
had been at a great charge to supply them with all things
necessary, as well for their convenience as their defense;
and that I had such and such particular persons with me,
as well to increase and recruit their number, as by the par-
ticular necessary employments which they were bred to,
being artificers, to assist them in those things in which at
present they were in want.
They were all together when 1 talked thus to them; and
before I delivered to them the stores I had brought, I
asked them, one by one, if they had entirely forgotten and
buried the first animosities that had been among them, and
would shake hands with one another, and engage in a strict
friendship and union of interest, that, so there might be no
more misunderstandings and jealousies.
Will Atkins, with abundance of frankness and good
humor, said they had met with affliction enough to make
them all sober, and enemies enough to make them all
friends; that, for his part, he would live and die with
them, and was so far from designing anything against the
Spaniards, that he owned they had done nothing to him
but what his own mad humor made necessary, and what
he would have done, and perhaps worse, in their case; and
that he would ask their pardon, if 1 desired it, for the
foolish and brutish things he had done to them, and was
very willing and desirous of living in terms of entire
friendship and union with them, and would do anything
that lay in his power to convince them of it; and as for
going to England, he cared not if he did not go thither
these twenty years.
The Spaniards said they had, indeed, at first disarmed
and excluded Will Atkins and his two countrymen for'
their ill conduct, as they had let me know, and they ap-
pealed to me for the necessity they were under to do so;
but that Will Atkins had behaved himself so bravely in
the great fight they had with the savages, and on several
occasions since, and had showed himself so faithful to, and
concerned for, the general interest of them all, that they
had forgotten all that was passed, and thought he merited
as much to be trusted with arms and supplied with neces-
saries as any of them; that they had testified their satisfac-
tion in him by committing the command to him next to
the governor himself; and as they had entire confidence in
him and all his countrymen, so they acknowledged they
had merited that confidence by all the methods that honest
men could merit to be valued and trusted; and they most
heartily embraced the occasion of giving me this assurance,
that they would never have any interest separate from one
another.
Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship,
we appointed the next day to dine all together; and, in-
deed, we made a splendid feast. 1 caused the ship's cook
and his mate to come on shore and dress onr dinner, and
the old cook's mate we had on shore assisted. We brought
on shore six pieces of good beef and four pieces of pork,
out of the ship's provisions, with our punch-bowl, and
materials to fill it; and, in particular, I gave them ten
bottles of French claret, and ten bottles of English beer;
things that neither the Spaniards nor the English had
tasted for many years, and which it may be supposed they
were very glad of. The Spaniards added to our feast five
whole kids, which the cooks roasted; and three of them
were sent, covered up close, on board the ship to the sea-
men, that they might feast on fresh meat from on shore,
as we did with their salt meat from on board.
After this feast, at which we were very innocently merry,
I brought my cargo of goods; wherein, that there might
be no dispute about dividing, I showed them that there
was a sufficiency for them all, desiring that they might all
take an equal quantity, when made up, of the goods that
were for wearing. As, first, I distributed linen sufficient
to make every ouo of them four shirts, and, at the Span-
iard's request, afterward made them up six; these were
exceedingly comfortable to them, having been what they
had long since forgot the use of, or what it was to wear
them. I allotted the thin English stuffs, which 1 men-
tioned before, to make every one a light coat, like a frock,
which I judged fittest for the heat of the season, cool and
ioose; and ordered that whenever they decayed, they should
make more, as they thought fit; the like for pumps, shoes,
stockings, hats, etc. I can not express what pleasure sat
upon the.countenances of all these poor men when they
saw the care 1 had taken of them, and how well I had fur-
nished them. They told me I was a father to them; and
that having such a correspondent as I was in so remote a
part of the world, it would make them forget that they
were left in a desolate place; and they all voluntarily en-
gaged to me not to leave the place without my consent.
Then I presented to them the people 1 had brought with
me, particularly the tailor, the smith, and the two carpen-
ters, all of them most necessary people; but, above all, my
general artificer, than whom they could not name anything
that was more useful to them; and the tailor, to show his
concern for them, went to work immediately, -,nd, with
my leave, made them every one a shirt, the first thing he
did; and, what was still more, he taught the women not
only how to setv and stitch, and use the needle, but made
them assist to make the shirts for their husbands, and foi
all the rest. As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention
how useful they were; lor they took to pieces all my
clumsy, unhandy things, and made clever, convenient
tables, stools, bedsteads, cupboards, lockers, shelves, and
everything they wanted of that kind. But to let them see
how nature made artificers at first, I carried the carpenters
to see Will Atkins's basket-house, as I called it; and they
both owned they never saw an instance of such natural in-
fenuity before, nor anything so regular and so handily
uilt, at least of its kind; and one of them, when he saw
it, after musing a good while, turning about to me, " 1 am
eure," says he, " that man has no need of us; you need do
nothing but give him tools."
Then 1 brought them out all my store of tools, and gave
every man a digging-spade, a shovel, and a rake, for we
had no harrows or plows; and to every separate place a
pick-ax, a crow, a broad-ax, and a saw; always appointing,
that as often as any were broken or worn out, they should
be supplied without grudging out of the general stores that
I left behind. Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chisels,
knives, scissors, and all sorts of iron-work, they had with-
out reserve, as they required; for no man would take more
than he wanted, and he must be a fool that would waste or
spoil them on any account whatever; and for the use of the
smith I left two tons of unwrought iron for a supply.
My magazine of powder and arms which 1 brought them
was such, even to profusion, tha> they could not but rejoiee
at them* for now they could march as I used to do, with a
musket upon each shoulder, if there was occasion; and
were able to fight a thousand savages, if they had but some
little advantages of situation, which also they could not
miss, if they had occasion.
I carried on shore with me the young man whose mother
was starved to death, and the maid also; she was a sober,
well-educated, religious young woman, and behaved so in-
offensively that every one gave her a good word; she had,
indeed, an unhappy life with us, there being no woman in
the ship but herself, but she bore it with patience. After
awhile, seeing things so well ordered, and in so fine a way
of thriving upon my island, and considering that they had
360 KOBIlTSOir CKUS(TK.
neither busin a nor acquaintance in the East Indies, or
reason for taking so long a voyage, both of them came to
me and desired I would give them leave to remain on the
island, and be entered among my family, as they called it.
I agreed to this readily; and they had a little plot of ground
allotted to them, where they had three tents or houses set up,
surrounded with a basket-work, palisadoed like Atkins's,
adjoining to his plantation. Their tents were contrived so
that'they had each of them a room apart to lodge in, and
a middle tent like a great store-house to lay their goods in,
and to eat and to drink in. And now the other two
Englishmen removed their habitation to the same place;
and so the island was divided into three colonies, and no
more—viz., the Spaniards, with old Friday and the first
servants, at my habitation under the hill, which was, in a
word, the capital city, and where they had so enlarged and
extended their works, as well under as on the outside of the
hill, that they lived, though perfectly concealed, yet full
at large. Never was there such a little city in a wood, and
so hid, in any part of the world; for I verily believe that a
thousand men might have ranged the island a month, and,
if they had not known there was such a thing, and looked
on purpose for it, they would not have found it, In-
deed, the trees stood so thick and so close, and grew
so fast woven one into another, that nothing but cutting
them down first could discover the place, except the only
two narrow entrances where they went in and out could be
found, which was not very easy; one of them was close
down at the water's edge, on the. side of the creek, and it
was afterward above two hundred yards to the place; and
the other was up a ladder at twice, as I have already de-
scribed it; and they had also a large wood, thickly planted,
on the top of the hill, containing above an acre, which grew
apace, and concealed the place from all discovery there,
with only one narrow place between two trees, not easily
to be discovered, to enter on that side.
The other colony was that of Will Atkins, where there
were four families of Englishmen, I mean those l~had left
there, with their wives and children; three savages that
were slaves, the widow and the children of the Englishman
that was killed, the young man and the maid, and, by the
way, we made a wife of her before we went away. There
were besides the two carpenters and the tailor, whom I
brought with me for them: also the smith, who was a very
necessary man to them, especially as a gunsmith, to take
care of their arms; and my other man, whom I called
Jack-of-all-trades, who was in himself as good almost as
twenty men; for he was not only a very ingenious fellow,
but a very merry fellow, and before I went away we mar-
ried him to the honest maid that came with the youth in
the ship I mentioned before.
And now I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally to
say something of the French ecclesiastic that I had brought
with me out of the ship's crew whom 1 took up at sea. It
is true this man was a Roman, and perhaps it may give
offei.se to some hereafter if 1 leave anything extraordinary
upon record of a man whom, before I begin, I must (to set
him out in just colors) represent in terms very much to his
disadvantage, in the account of Protestants; as, first, that
he was a Papist; secondly, a Popish priest; and, thirdly, a
French Popish priest. But justice demands of me to give
him a due character; and 1 must say, he was a grave,
sober, pious, and most religious person; exact in his life,
extensive in his charity, and exemplary in almost every-
thing he did. What then can any one say against being
very sensible of the value of such a man, notwithstanding
his profession? though it may be my opinion perhaps, as
well as the opinion of others who shall read this, that he
was mistaken.
The first hour that 1 began to converse with him after
he had agreed to go with mo to the East Indies, 1 found
reason to delight exceedingly in his conversation; and he
first began with me about religion in the most obliging
manner imaginable. "Sir," says he, "you have not only
under God (and at that he crossed his breast) saved my
life, but you have admitted me to go this voyage in your
ship, and by your obliging civility have taken me into your
family, giving me an opportunity of free conversation.
Now, sir, you see by my habit what my profession is, and
I guess by your nation what yours is; I may think it is my
duty, and doubtless it is so, to use my utmost endeavors,
on all occasions, to bring all the souls I can to the knowl-
edge of the truth, and to embrace the Catholic doctrine;
but as I am here under your permission, and in your
family, I am bound, in justice to your kindness as well as
in decency and good manners, to be under your govern-
ment; and therefore 1 shall not, without your leave, enter
into any debate on the points of religion in which we may
not agree, further than you shall give me leave."
I told him his carriage was so modest that I could not
but acknowledge it; that it was true we were such people
as they call heretics, but that he was not the first Catholio
1 had conversed with without' falling into inconveniences,
or carrying the questions to any height in debate; that he
should not find himself the worse used for being of a
different opinion from us, and if we did not converse with-
out any dislike on either side, it should be his fault, not
oms.
He replied that he thought all our conversation might
be easily separated from disputes; that it was not his busi-
ness to cap principles with every man he conversed with;
and that he rather desired me to converse with him as a
gentleman than as a religionist; and that, if I would give
him leave at any time to discourse upon religious subjects,
he would readily comply with it, and that he did not doubt
but I would allow him also to defend his own opinions as
well as he could; but that withouc my leave he would not
break in upon me with any such thing. He told me fur-
ther, that he would not cease to do all that became him,
in his office as a priest, as well as a private Christian, to
procure the good of the ship, and the safety of all that was
in her; and though, perhaps, we would not join with him,
and be could not pray with us, he hoped he might pray for
us, which he would do upon all occasions. In this manner
we conversed; and as he was of the most obliging, gentle-
man-like behavior, so he was, if I may be allowed to say
so, a man of good sense, and, as I believe, of great learn-
ing.
He gave me a most diverting account of his life, and of
the many extraordinary events of it; of many adventures
which had befallen him in the few years that he had been
abroad in the world; and particularly, it was very remark-
able, that in the voyage he was now engaged in he had the
misfortune to be five times shipped and unshipped, and
never to go to the place whither any of the ships he was in
were at first designed. That his first intent was to have
gone, to Martinico, and that he weut on board a ship bound
thither at St. Malo; but being forced into Lisbon by bad
weather, the ship received some damage by running
aground Jn the mouth of the river Tagus, and was obliged
to unload her cargo there; but finding a Portuguese ship
there bound for the Madeiras, and ready to sail, and sup-
posing he should meet with a ship there bound to Martin-
ico, he went on board, in order to sail to the Madeiras: but
the master of the Portuguese ship being but an indifferent
mariner, had been out of his reckoning, and they drove to
Fayal; where, however, he happend to find a very good
market for his cargo, which was corn, and therefore re-
Bolved not to go to the Madeiras, but to load salt at the
Isle of May, and to go away to Newfoundland. He had
no remedy in this exigence but to go with the ship, and
had a pretty good voyage as far as the Banks (so they call
the place where they catch the fish), where, meeting with
a French ship bound from France to Quebec, and from
thence to Martinico, to carry provisions, he thought he
should have an opportunity to complete his first design;
but when he came to Quebec, the master of the ship died,
and the vessel proceeded no further; so the next voyage he
shipped himself for France, in the ship that was burned
when we took them up at sea, and then shipped with us
for the East Indies, as I have already said. Thus he had
been disappointed in five voyages: all, as I may call it, in
one voyage, besides what 1 shall have occasion io mention
further of him.
But I shall not make digression into other men's stories
which have no relation to my own; so 1 return to what
concerns our affairs in the island. He came to me one
morning (for he lodged among us all the while we were
upon the island), and it happened to be just when 1 was
going to visit the Englishmen's colony, at the furthest
part of the island; 1 say, he came to me, and told me,
with a very grave countenance, that he had for two or
three days desired an opportunity of some discourse with
me, which he hoped would not be displeasing to me, be-
cause he thought it might in some measure correspond
with my general design, which was the prosperity of my
new colony, and perhaps might put it, at least more than
he yet thought it was, in the way of God's blessing.
I looked a little surprised at the last part of hisdiF-
oourse, and turning a little short, "How, sir," said I,
"can it be said that we are not in the way of God'p Mm--
ing, after such visible assistances and deliverances trs wo
have seen here, and of which I have given you a large ac-
count?" "If you had pleased, sir," said he, with a world
of modesty, and yet great readiness, " to have heard me,
you would have found no room to have been displeased,
much less to think so hard of me, that 1 should suggest
that you have not had wonderful assistances and deliver-
ances; and 1 hope, on your behalf, that you are in the way
,of God's blessing, and your design is exceeding good, and
will prosper. But, sir, though it were more so thau is
even possible to you, yet there may be some among you
that are not equally right in their actions: and you know
that in the story of the children of Israel, one Achan in
the camp removed God's blessing from them, and turned.
His hand so against them, that six-and-thirty of them,
though not concerned in the crime, were the objects of
divine vengeance, and bore the weight of that punish-
ment."
1 was sensibly touched with this discourse, and told him
his inference was so just, and the whole design seemed so
sincere, and was really so religious in its own nature, that
1 was very sorry I had interrupted him, and begged him to
go on; and, in the meantime, because it seemed that what
we had both to say might take up some time, 1 told him I
was going to the Englishmen's plantations, and asked him
to go with me, and we might discourse of it by the way.
He told me he would the more willingly wait on me
thither, because there partly the thing was acted which he
desired to speak to me about; so we walked on, and I
pressed him to be free and plain with me in what he had
to say.
"Why, then, sir," said he, " be pleased to give me leave
to lay down a few propositions, as the foundation of what
I have to say, that we may not differ in the general princi-
ples, though we may be of some differing opinions in the
practice of particulars. First, sir, though we differ in
some of the doctrinal articles of religion (and it is very un-
happy it is so, especially in the case before us, as I shall
show afterward), yet there are some general principles in
which we both agree—that there is a God; and that this
God having given us some stated general rules for our
service and obedience, we ought not willingly and know-
ingly to offend Him, either by neglecting to do what He
has commanded, or by doing what He has expressly for-
bidden. And let our different religions be what they will,
this general principle is readily owned by us all, that the
blessing of God does not ordinarily follow presumptuous
sinning against His command; and every good Christian
will be affectionately concerned to prevent any that are
under his care living in a total neglect of God and His
commands. It is not your men being Protestants, what-
ever my opinion may be of such, that discharges me from
being concerned for their souls, and from endeavoring, if
it lies before me, that they should live in as little distance
from enmity with their Maker as possible, especially if you
give me leave to meddle so far in your circuit."
1 could not yet imagine what he aimed at, and told him
I granted all he had said, and thanked him that he would
so far concern himself for us: and begged he would explain
the particulars of what he had observed, that like Joshua,
to take his own parable, I might put away the accursed
thing from us.
"Why, then, sir," says he, "I will take the liberty you
give me; and there are three things, which, if I am right,
must stand in the way of God's blessing upon your en-
deavors here, and which I should rejoice, for your sake and
their own, to see removed. And, sir, I promise myself
that you will fully agree with me in them all, as soon as I
name them; especially because 1 shall convince you that
every one of them may, with great ease, and very much to
your satisfaction, be remedied. First, sir," says he, "you
have here four Englishmen, who have fetched women from
among the savages, and have taken them as their wives,
and have had many children by them all, and yet are not
married to them after any stated legal manner, as the laws
of God and man require. To this, sir, I know, you will
object that there was no clergyman or priest of any kind to
perform the ceremony; nor any pen and ink, or paper, to
write down a" contract of marriage, and have it signed be-
tween them. And I know also, sir, what the Spaniard
governor has told you, I mean of the agreement that he
obliged them to make when they took those women—viz.,
that they should choose them out by consent, and keep
separately to them; which, by the way, is nothing of a
marriage, no agreement with the women as wives, but only
an agreement among themselves, to keep them from quar-
reling. But, sir, the essence of the sacrament of matri-
mony (ao he called it, being a Roman) consists not only In
the mutual consent of the parties to take one another as
man and wife, but in the formal and legal obligation that
there is in the contract to compel the man and woman, at
all times, to own and acknowledge each other; obliging
the man to abstain from all other women, to engage in no
other contract while these subsist; and, on all occasions, as
ability allows, to provide honestly for them and their chil-
dren; and to oblige the women to the same or like con-
ditions, on their side. Now, sir," says he, "these men
may, when they please, or when occasion presents, aban-
don these women, disown their children, leave them to
perish, and take other women, and marry them while these
are living;" and here he added, with some warmth,
"How, sir, is God honored in this unlawful liberty? And
how shall a blessing succeed your endeavors in this place,
however good in themselves, and however sincere in your
design, while these men, who at present are your subjects,
under your absolute government and dominion, are allowed
by you to live in open adultery?"
I confess I was struck with the thing itself, but much
more with the convincing arguments he supported it with;
but I thought to have got off my young priest by telling
him that all that part was done when I was not there: and
that they had lived so many years with them now, that if
it was adultery, it was past remedy; nothing could be done
in it now.
"Sir," says he, "asking your pardon for such freedom,
you are right in this, that, it being done in your absence,
Jou could not be charged with that part of the crime; but,
beseech you, flatter not yourself that you are not, there-
fore, under an obligation to do your utmost now to put an
end to it. You should legally and effectually marry them;
and as, sir, my way of marrying may not be easy to recon-
cile them to, though it will be effectual, even by your own
laws, so your way may be as well before God, and as valid
imong men. I mean by written contract, signed by both
man and woman, and by all the witnesses present, which
all the laws of Europe would decree to be valid."
I was amazed to see so much true piety, and so much
sincerity of zeal, besides the unusual impartiality in his dis-
course as to his own party or church, and such true warmth
for preserving people that he had no knowledge of or rela-
tion to from transgressing the laws of God. Bat recollect-
ing what he had said of marrying them by a written con-
tract, which I Irnew he would stand to, I returned it back
upon him, and told him I granted all that he had said to
be just, and on his part very kind; that I would discourse
with the men upon the point now, when I came to them;
and I knew no reason why they should scruple to let him
marry them all, which I knew well enough would be
granted to be as authentic and valid in England as if they
were married by one of our own clergymen.
1 then pressed him to tell me what was the second com-
plaint which he bad to make, acknowledging that I was
very much his debtor for the first, and thanked him
heartily for it/ He told me he would use the same free-
dom and plainness in the second, and hoped 1 would take
it as well; and this was, that, notwithstanding these En-
glish subjects of mine, as he called them, had lived with
these women almost seven years, had taught them to speak
English, and even to read it, and that they were, as he
perceived, women of tolerable understanding, and capable
of instruction, yet they had not, to this hour, taught them
anything of the Christian religion—no, not so much as to
know there was a God, or a worship, or in what manner
God was to be served, or that their own idolatry, and wor-
shiping they knew not whom, was false and absurd. This,
he said, was an unaccountable neglect, and what God would
certainly call them to account for, and perhaps at last take
the v?ork out of their hands. He spoke this very affection-
ately and warmly.
"lam persuaded," says he, "had those men lived in
the savage country whence their wives came, the savages
would have taken more pains to have brought them to be
idolaters, and to worship the devil, than any of these men,
so far as 1 can see, have taken with them to teach the
knowledge of the true God. Now, sir," said he, " though
I do not acknowledge your religion, or you mine, yet we
would be glad to see the devil's servants and the subjects
of his kingdom taught to know the general principles of
the Christian religion; that they might, at least, hear of
God and a Redeemer, and of the resurrection, and of a
future state—things which we all believe; that they might,
at least, be so much nearer coming into the bosom of the
true church than they are now in the public profession of
idolatry and devil-worship."
1 could hold no longer: I took him in my arms, and
embraced him eagerly. "How far," said 1 to him, " have
1 been from understanding the most essential part of a
Christian—viz., to love the interest of the Christian
church, and the good of other men's souls! I scarce have
known what belongs to the being a Christian." "Oh,
air! do not say so, replied he; "this thing is not your
fault." "No," said I; "but why did I never lay it to
heart as well as you?" "It is not too late yet," said he;
"be not too forward to condemn yourself." "But what
can be done now?" said I; "you see I am going away."
"Will vou give me leave to talk with these poor men
about it?" "Yes, with all my heart," said I: "and will
oblige them to give heed to what you say too." "As to
that," said he, "we must leave them to the mercy of
Christ; but it is your business to assist them, encourage
them, and instruct them; and if you give me leave, and
God His blessing, I do not doubt but the poor ignorant
souls shall be brought home to the great circle of Christi-
anity, if not into the particular faith we all embrace, and
that even while you stay here." Upon this I said, "I
shall not only give you leave, but give you a thousand
thanks for it."
I now pressed him for the third article in which we were
to blame. "Why, really," says he, "it is of the same
nature. It is about your poor savages, who arej" as 1 may
say, your conquered subjects. It is a maxim, sir, that is,
or ought to be received among all Christians, of what
church or pretended church soever, that the Christian
knowledge ought to be propagated by all possible means
and on all possible occasions. It is on this principle that
our church sends missionaries into Persia, India, and
China; and that our clergy, even of the superior sort, will-
ingly engage in the most hazardous voyages, and the most
dangerous residence among murderers and barbarians, to
teach them the knowledge of the true God, and to bring
them over to embrace the Christian faith. Now, sir, you
have such an opportunity here to have six- or seven-and-
thirty poor savages brought over from a state of idolatry to
the knowledge of God, their Maker and Redeemer, that
I wonder how you can pass such an occasion of doing
good, which is really worth the expense of a man's whole
rife."
I was now struck dumb indeed, and had not one word
to say. I had here the spirit of true Christian zeal for
God and religion before me. As for me, I had not so
much as entertained a thought of this in my heart before^
and 1 believe I should not have thought of it; for I looked
upon these savages as slaves, and people whom, had we
mot had any work for them to do, we would have used as
such, or would have been glad to have transported them to
any part of the world; for our business was to get rid of
them, and we would all have been satisfied if they had
been sent to any country, so they had never seen their
own. I was confounded at his discourse, and knew not
what answer to make him.
He looked earnestly at me, seeing my confusion. "Sir,"
says he, "I shall be very sorry if what I have said gives
you any offense." "No, no," said 1; "1 am offended
with nobody but myself; but I am perfectly confounded,
not only to think that I should never take any notice of
this before, but with reflecting what notice I am able to
take of it now. You know, sir," said I, " what circum-
stances 1 am in; I am bound to the East Indies in a ship
freighted by merchants, and to whom it would be an in-
sufferable piece of injustice to detain their ship here, the
men lying all this while at victuals and wages on the
owners' account. It is true, I agreed to be allowed twelve
days here, and if I stay more, I must pay three pounds
sterling per diem demurrage; nor can 1 stay upon demur-
rage above eight days more, and I have been here thirteen
already; so that I am perfectly unable to engage in this
work, unless 1 would suffer myself to be left behind here
again; in which case, if this single ship could miscarry in
any part of her voyage, I should be just in the same con-
dition that I was left in here at first, and from which I
have been so wonderfully delivered." He.owned the case
was very hard upon me as to my voyage; but laid it home
upon my conscience whether the blessing of saving thirty-
seven souls was not worth venturing all 1 had in the world
for. I was not so sensible of that as he was. 1 replied to
him thus: "Why, sir, it is a valuable thing, indeed, to be
an instrument in God's hand to convert thirty-seven
heathens to the knowledge of Christ; but as you are an
ecclesiastic, and are given over to the work, so it seems so
naturally to fall in the way of your profession, how is it,
then, that you do not rather offer yourself to undertake it
than to press me to do it?"
Upon this he faced about just before me, as he walked
along, and putting me to a full stop, made me a very low
bow. "I most heartily thank God and you, sir," said he,
*' for giving me so evident a call to so blessed a work; and
if you think yourself discharged from it, and desire me to
undertake it, 1 will most readily do it, and think it a happy
reward for all the hazards and difficulties of such a broken,
disappointed voyage as 1 have met with, that I am dropped
at last into so glorious a work."
I discovered a kind of rapture in his,face while he spoke
this to me; his eyes sparkled like fire f his face glowed, and
his color came and went; in a word, he was fired with the
joy of being embarked in such a work. 1 paused a con-
siderable while before I could tell what to say to him; for
I was really surprised to find a man of such sincerity, and
who seemed possessed of a z i, bevond the ordinary rate of
men. But after 1 had consii A it awhile, 1 asked him
seriously if he was in earnes' aiiJ that he would venture,
on the single consideration of an attempt to convert those
poor people, to be locked up in an unplanted island for
perhaps his life, and at last not know whether he should
be able to do them good r iiotp He turned short upon
me, and asked me what 1 oaf. 3 venture. "Pray, sir,"
said he, " what do you thir c i ;onsented to go in your
ship to the East Indies for? "Nay," said 1, " that I
know not, unless it was to preach to the Indians."
"Doubtless it was," said he; and do you think, if I
can convert these thirty-seven men to the faith of Jesus
Christ, it is not worth my time, though 1 should never be
fetched off the island again?—nay, is it not infinitely of
more worth to save so many souls than my life is, or the
life of twenty more of the same profession? Yes, sir,"
•ays he, " I would give God thanks all my days if I could
be made the happy instrument of saving the souls of those
poor men, though I were never to get my foot off this
island or see nay native country any more. But since you
will honor me with putting me into this work, for which I
will pray for you all the days of mylife, 1 have one hum-
ble petition to you besides." "What is that?" said L
'Why," says he, " it is, that you will leave your man
Friday with me, to be my interpreter to them, and to assist
me; for without some help I can not speak to them, or
they to me."
1 was sensibly touched at his requesting Friday, because
I could not think of parting with him, and that for many
reasons; he had been the companion of my travels; he was
not only faithful to me, but sincerely affectionate to the
last degree; and 1 had resolved to do something considera-
ble for him if he outlived me, as it was probable he would.
Then I knew that, as I had bred Friday up to be a Pro-
testant, it would quite confound him to bring him to em-
brace another religion; and he would never, while his eyes
were open, believe that his old master was a heretic, and
would be damned; and this might in the end ruin the poor
fellow's principles, and so turn -him back again to his first
idolatrj*. However, a sudden thought relieved me in this
strait, and it was this: I told him I could not say that 1
was willing to part with Friday on any account whatever,
though a work that to him was of more value than his life
ought to be of much more value than the keeping or pat t-
ing with a servant. On the other hand, 1 was persuaded
that Friday would by no means agree to part with me; and
I could not force him to it without his consent, without
manifest injustice; because I had promised I would never
send him away, and he had promised and engaged that he
would never leave me, unless I sent him away.
He seemed very much concerned at it, for he had no
rational access to these poor people, seeing he did not un-
derstand one word of their language, nor they one of his. •
To remove this difficulty, 1 told him Friday's father had
learned Spanish, which I found he also understood, and
he should serve him as an interpreter. So he was much
better satisfied, and nothing could persuade him but he'
would stay and endeavor to convert them; but Providence
gave another very happy turn to all this.
1 come back now to the—first part of his objections.
When we came to the Englishmen, I sent for them all
together, and after some account given them of what I had
done for them—viz., what necessary things 1 had provided
for them, and how they were distributed, which they wire
very sensible of, and very thankful for, I began to talk to
them of the scandalous life they led, and gave them a full
account of the notice the clergyman had taken of it; and
arguing how unchristian and irreligious a life it was, I first
asked them if they were married men or bachelors? They
soon explained their condition to me, and showed that two
of them were widowers, and the other three were single
men, cr bachelors. I asked them with what conscience
they could take these women, and call them their wives,
and have so many children by them, and not be lawfully
married to them. They all gave me the answer I expected
—viz., that there was nobody to marry them; that they
agreed before the governor to keep them as their wives,
and to maintain them and own them as their wives; and
they thought, as things stood with them, they were as
legally married as if they had been married by a parson
and with all the formalities in the world.
1 told them that no doubt they were married in the sight
of God, and were bound in conscience to keep them as
their wives; but that the laws of men being otherwise, they
might desert the poor women and children hereafter, and
that their wives, being poor desolate women, friendless and
moneyless, would have no way to help themselves. I
therefore told them that unless I was assured of their hon-
est intent, I could do nothing for them, but would take
care that what I did should be for the women and children
without them; and that, unless they would give me some
assurances that they would marry the women, I could not
think it was convenient they should continue together as
man and wife; for that it was both scandalous to men and
offensive to God, who they could not think would bless
them if they went on thus.
All this went on as I expected; and they told me, espe-
cially Will Atkins, who now seemed to speak for the rest,
that they loved their wives as well as if they had been born
in their own native country, and Would not leave them on
any account whatever; and they did verily believe that
their wives were as virtuous and as modest, and did, to the
utmost of their skill, as much for them and for their chil-
dren, as any women could possibly do; and they would not
part with them on any account. Will Atkins, for his own
particular, added, that if any man would take him away,
and offer to carry hitn home to England, and make him
captain of the best man-of-war in the navy, he would not
go with him if he might not carry his wife and children
with him; and if there was a clergyman in the ship, he
would be married to her now with all his heart.
This was just as I would have it. The priest was not
with me at that moment, but was not far off; so to try
him further, 1 told him I had a clergyman with me, and,
if he was sincere, I would have him married next morn-
ing, and bade him consider of it, aud talk with the rest.
He said, as for himself, he need ncrt consider of it at alls
for he was very ready to do it, and was glad I had a min-
ister with me, and he believed they would be all willing
also. I then told him that my friend, the minister, was a
Frenchman, and could not speak English, but I would act
the clerk between them. He never so much as asked me
whether he was a Papist or Protestant, which was, indeed,
what I was afraid of. We then parted, and I went back
to my clergyman, aud Will Atkius went in to talk with
his companions. 1 desired the French gentleman not to
say anything to them till the business was thoroughly ripe;
and I told him what answer the men had given me.
Before 1 went from their quarter they all came to me
and told me they had been considering what I had said;
that they were glad to hear I had a clergyman in my com-
pany, and they were very willing to give me the satisfac-
tion 1 desired, and to be formally married as soon as I
pleased; for they were far from desiring to part with their
wives, and that they meant nothing but what was very
honest when they chose them. So I appointed them to
meet me the next morning; and, in the meantime, they
should let their wives know the meaning of the marriage
law; and that it was not only to prevent any scandal, but
also to oblige them that they should not forsake them,
whatever might happen.
The women were easily made sensible of the meaning of
the thing, and were very well satisfied with it, as, indeed,
they had reason to bo; so they failed not to attend all to-
gether at my apartment next morning, where I brought
out my clergyman; and though he had not on a minister's
gown, after the manner of England, or the habit of a
priest, after the manner of France, yet having a black
vest, something like a cassock, with a sash round it, he did
not look very unlike a minister; and as for his language, 1
was his interpreter. But the seriousness of his behavior to
them, and the scruples he made of marrying the women,
because they were not baptized and professed Christians,
gave them an exceeding reverence for his person; and there
was no need, after that, to inquire whether he was a clergy-
man or not . Indeed, I was afraid his scruples would have
been carried so far as that he would not have married them
at all; nay, notwithstanding all I was able to say to him,
he resisted me, though modestly, yet very steadily, and at
last refused absolutely to marry them, unless he had first
talked with the men and the women too; and though at
first 1 was a little backward to it, yet at last I agreed to it
with a good will, perceiving the sincerity of his design.
When he came to them he let them know that I had ac-
quainted him with their circumstances, and with the pres-
ent design; that he was very willing to perform that part
of his function, and marrv theiij, as I had desired; bat
that before he could do it, he must take the liberty to talk
with them. He told them that in the sight of all indiffer-
ent men, and in the sense of the laws of society, they had
lived all this while in a state of sin; and that it was true
that nothing but the consenting to marry, or effectually
separating them from one another, could now put an end
io it; but there was a difficulty in it, too, with respect to
the laws of Christian matrimony, which he was not fully
satisfied about, that of marrying one that is a professed
Christian to a savage, an idolater, and a heathen—one that
is not baptized; and yet that he did not see that there was
time left to endeavor to persuade the women to be bap-
tized, or to profess the name of Christ, whom they had, he
doubted, heard nothing of, and without which they could
not be baptized. He told them he doubted they were but
indifferent Christians themselves; that they had but little
knowledge of God or of His ways, and, therefore, he
could not expect that they had said much to their wives
on that head yet; but that unless they would promise him
to use their endeavors with their wives to persuade them
to become Christians, and would, as well as they could, in-
struct them in the knowledge and belief of God that made
them, and to worship Jesus Christ that redeemed them, he
could not marry them; for he would have no hand in join-
ing Christians with savages, nor was it consistent with the
principles of the Christian religion, and was, indeed, ex-
pressly forbidden in God's law.
They heard all this very attentively, and I delievered it
very faithfully to them from his mouth, as near his own
words as 1 could; only sometimes adding something of my
own, to convince them how just it was, and that I was of
his mind; and I'always very faithfully distinguished be-
tween what I said from myself and what were the clergy-
man's words. They told me it was very true what the
gentleman said, that they were very indifferent Christians
themselves, and that they had never talked to their wives
about religion. "Lord, sir," says Will Atkins, "how
should we teach them religion? Why, we know nothing
ourselves; and, besides, sir," said he, " should we talk to
them of God and Jesus Christ, and heaven and hell, it
would make them laugh at us, and ask ns what we believe
ourselves. And if we should tell tnem that we believe all
the things we speak of to them, such as of good people go-
ing to heaven, and wicked people to the devil, they would
ask us where we intend to go ourselves, that believe all
this, and are such wicked fellows as we indeed are? Why,,
sir, 'tis enough to give them a surfeit of religion at first
hearing; folks must have some religion themselves before
they begin to teach other people." "Will Atkins," said
1 to him, " though I am afraid that what you say has too^
much truth in it, yet can you not tell your wife she is in
the wrong; that there is a God, and a religion better than
her own; that her gods are idols; that they can neither
hear nor speak; that there is a great Being that made alL
things, and that can destroy all that He has made; that.
He rewards the good and punishes the bad; and that we
are to be judged by Him at last for all we do here? You
are not so ignorant, but even nature itself will teach you
that all this is true; and I am satisfied you know it all to
be true, and believe it yourself." "That is true, mr,"
said Atkins; "but with what face can I say anything to
my wife of all thi», when she will tell me immediately it
can not be true?" "Not true!" said I. "What do you
mean by that?" "Why, sir," said he, "she will tell me
it can not be true that this God I shall tell her of can be
just, or can punish or reward, since I am not punished and
sent to the devil, that have been such a wicked creature as
she knows 1 have been, even to her, and to everybody else;
and that I should be suffered to live, that have been
always acting so contrary to what I must tell her is good,
and to what I ought to have done." "Why, truly, At-
kins," said I, "I am afraid thou speakest too much
truth;" and with that I informed the clergyman of what
Atkins had said, for he was impatient to know. "Oh,"
said the priest, " tell him there is one thing will make
him the best minister,.iu the world to his wife, and that is
repentance; for none teach repentance like true penitents.
He wants nothing but to repent, and then he will be so
much the better qualified to instruct his wife; he will then
be able to tell her that there is not only a God, and that
He is the just rewarder of good and evil, but that He is a
merciful Being, and with infinite goodness and long suffer-
ing forbears to punish those that offend; waiting to be
gracious, and willing not the death of a sinner, but rather
that he should return and live; and even reserves damna-
tion to the general day of retribution; that it is a clear evi-
dence of God and of a future state that righteous men re-
ceive not their reward, or wicked men their punishment,
till they come into another world; and this will lead him
to teach his wife the doctrine of the resurrection and of
the last judgment. Let him but repent himself; he will
be an excellent preacher of repentance to his wife."
I repeated all this to Atkins, who looked very serious all
the while, and, as we could easily perceive, was more than
ordinarily affected with it; when being eager, and hardly
suffering me to make an end, " 1 know all this, master,
says he, " and a great deal more; but 1 have not the im-
pudence to talk thus to my wife, when God and my con-
science know, and my wife will be an undeniable evidence
against me, that I have lived as if I had never heard of a
God or future state, or anything about it; and to talk of
my repenting, alas! (and with that he fetched a deep sigh,
and 1 could see that the tears stood in his eyes) 'tis past
all that with me." "Past it, Atkins!" said I; "what
dost thou mean by that?" "1 know well enough what I
mean," says he; "I mean 'tis too late, and that is too
true."
1 told the clergyman, word for word, what he said, and
this affectionate man could not refrain from tears; but,
recovering himself, said to me, "Ask him but one ques-
tion: Is he easy chat it is too late; or is he troubled, and
wishes it were not so?" I put the question fairly to At-
kins; and he answered, with a great deal of passion, " How
eonld any man be easy in a condition that must certainly
Mid in eternal destruction? that he was far from being
easy; but that, on the contrary, he believed it would one
time or other ruin him." "What do you mean by that?"
said 1. "Why," he said, " he believed he should one time
or other cut his throat, to put an end to the terror of it."
The clergyman shook his head, with great concern in his
face, when I told him all this; but turning quick to me
upon it, says, "If that be his case, we may assure him it
is not too late; Christ will give him repentance. But
pray," says he, "explain this to him; that as no man is
saved but by Christ, ancj the merit of His passion procur-
ing divine mercy for him, how can it be too late for any
man to receive mercy? Does he think he is able to sin be-
yond the power or reach of divine mercy? Pray tell him
there may be a time when provoked mercy will no longer
strive, and when God may refuse to hear, but that it is
never too late for men to ask mercy; and we, that are
Christ's servants, are commanded to preach mercy at all
times, in the name of Jesus Christ, to all those that sin-
cerely repent; so that it is never too late to repent." 'i
I told Atkins all thjs^and he heard me with great ear-
nestness; but it seeinecTas if he turned off the discourse to
the rest, for he said to me he would go and have some talk
with his wife; so he went out awhile, and we talked to the
rest. I perceived they were all stupidly ignorant as to
matters of religion, as much as 1 was when 1 went ram-
bling away from my father; yet there were none of them
backward to hear what had been said; and all of them
seriously promised that they would talk with their wives
about it, and do their endeavors to persuade them to turn
Christians.
The clergyman smiled upon me when 1 reported what
answer thoy gave, but said nothing a good while; but at
last, shaking his head, " We that are Christ's servants,"
says he, "can go no further than to exhort and instruct;
and when men comply, submit to the reproof, and prom-
ise what we ask, 'tis all we can do; we are bound to ac-
cept their good words; but believe me, sir," said he,
"" whatever yon may have known of the life of that man
you call Will Atkins, I believe he is the only sincere con-
vert among them; 1 will not, despair of the rest; but that
man is apparently struck with the sense of his past life,
and I doubt not, when he comes to talk of religion to his,
wife, he will talk himself effectually into it; for attempt-
ing to teach others is sometimes the best way of teaching
ourselves. If that poor Atkins begins but once to talk
seriously of Jesus Christ to his wife, he will assuredly talk
himself into a thorough convert, make himself a penitent,
and who knows what may follow?"
Upon this discourse, however, and their promising, as
above, to endeavor to persuade their wives to embrace
Christianity, he married the two other couple; but Will
Atkins and his wife were not yet come in. After this, my
clergyman, waiting awhile, was curious to know where
Atkins was gone, and turning to me, said: "I entreat
you, sir, let us walk out of your labyrinth here and look;
I dare say we shall find this poor man somewhere or other
talking seriously to his wife, and teaching her already
something of religion." I began to be of the same mind;
so we went out together, and I carried him a way which
none knew but myself, and where the trees were so very
thick that it was not easy to see through the thicket of
leaves, and far harder to see in than to see out; when,
coming to the edge of the wood, 1 saw Atkins and his
tawny wife sitting under the shade of a bush, very eager
in discourse; I stopped short till my clergyman came up
to me, and then having showed him where they were, we
stood and looked very steadily at them a good while. We
observed him very earnest with her, pointing up to the sun,
and to every quarter of .the heavens, and then down to the
earth, then out to the sea, then to himself, then to her,
to the woods, to the trees. "Now," says the clergyman,
"you see my words are made good; the man preaches to
her; mark him now, he is telling her that our God has
made him, her, and the heavens, the earth, the sea, the
woods, the trees, etc." "I believe he is," said I. Im-
mediately we perceived Will Atkins start upon his feet, fall
down on his knees, and lift up both his hands. We sup-
posed he said something, but we could not hear him; it was
too far for that. He did not continue kneeling half a
minute, but comes and sits down again by his wife, and
talks to her again; we perceived then the woman very at-
tentive, but whether she said anything to him we could
not tell. While the poor fellow was upon his knees I
oould see the tears run plentifully down my clergyman's
cheeks, and I oould hardly forbear myself; but it was a
great affliction to us both that we were not near enough to
hear anything that passed between them. Well, however,
we could come no nearer for fear of disturbing them; so
we resolved to see an end of this piece of still conversa-
tion, and it spoke loud enough to us without the help of
voice. He sat down again, as I have said, close by her,
and talked again earnestly to her, and two or three times
we could see him embrace her most passionately; another
time we saw him take out his handkerchief and wipe her
eyes, and then kiss her again with a kind of transport very
unusual; and after several of these things, we saw him on
a sudden jump up again, and lend her his hand to help
her up, when immediately leading her by the hand a step
or two, they both kneeled down together, and continued
so about two minutes.
My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out aloud,
"St. Paul! St. Paul! behold he prayeth." I was afraid
Atkins would tear him, therefore 1 entreated him to with-
hold himself awhile, that we might see an end of the scene,
which to me, I must confess, was the most affecting that
ever 1 saw in my life. Well, lie strove with himself for
awhile, but was in such raptures to think that the poor
heathen woman was become a Christian, that he was not
able to contain himself; he wept several times, then
throwing up hi3 hands and crossing his breast, said over
several things ejaculatory, and by the way of giving God
thanks for so miraculous a testimony of the success of our
endeavors. Some he spoke softly, and I could not well
hear others; some things he said in Latin, some in French;
then two or three times tke tears would interrupt him,
that he could not speak at all; but I begged that he
would contain himself, and let us more narrowly and
fully observe what was before us, which he did for a
time, the scene not being near ended yet; for after the
poor man and his wife were risen again from their knees,
we observed he stood talking still eagerly to her, and we
observed her motion, that she was greatly affected with
what he said, by her frequently lifting up her hands, lay-
ing her hand to her breast, and such other postures as ex-
press the greatest seriousness and attention; this continued
about half a quarter of an hour, and then they walked
away, so we could see no more of them in that situation.
I took this interval to say to the clergyman, first, that I
was glad to see the particulars we had both been witnesses
to; that, though I was hard enough of belief in such cases,
yet that I began to think it was all very sincere here, both
in the man and his wife, however ignorant they might
both be, and 1 hoped such a beginning would yet have a
more happy end. "But, my friend," added 1, " will you
give me leave to start one difficulty here? 1 can not tell
how to object the least thing against that affectionate con-
cern which you show for the turning of the poor people
from their paganism to the Chrstian religion; but how
does this comfort you, while these people are, in your ac-
count, out of the pale of the Catholic Church, without
which you believe there is no salvation? so that you esteem
these but heretics, as effectually lost as the pagans them-
selves."
To this he answered, with abundance of candor, thus:
"Sir, I am a Catholic of the Roman Church, and a priest
of the order of St. Benedict, and I embrace all the prin-
ciples of the Boman faith; but yet, if you will believe me,
and that 1 do not speak in compliment to you, or in re-
spect to my circumstances and your civilities; I say, never-
theless, I do not look upon you, who call yourselves re-
formed, without some charity. I dare not say (though I
know it is our opinion in general) that you can not be
saved; I will by no means limit the mercy of Christ so far
as think that He can not receive you into the bosom of
His Church, in a manner to us unperceivable; and 1 hope
you have the same charity for us; I pray daily for you be-
ing all restored to Christ's Church, by whatsoever method
He, who is all-wise, is pleased to direct. In the mean-
time, surely you will allow it consists with me as a Bomau
to distinguish far between a Protestant and a pagan; be-
tween one that calls on Jesus Christ, though in a way
which I do not think is according to the true faith, and a
savage or a barbarian, that knows no God, no Christ, no
Redeemer; and if you are not within the pale of the Cath-
olic Church, we hope you are nearer being restored to it
than those who know nothing of God or of His Church;
and I rejoice, therefore, when I see this poor man, who
you say has been a profligate, and almost a murderer,
kneel down and pray to Jesus Christ, as we suppose he
did, though not fully enlightened; believing that God,
from whom every such work proceeds, will sensibly touch
his heart, and bring him to the further knowledge of that
truth in His own time; and if God shall influence this poor
man to convert and instruct the ignorant savage, his wife,
I can never believe that he shall be cast away himself.
And have 1 not reason, then, to rejoice, the nearer any are
brought to the knowledge of Christ, though they may not
be brought quite home into the bosom of the Catholic
Church, just at the time when I desire it, leaving it to the
goodness of Christ to perfect His work in His own time,
and in His own way? Certainly, I would rejoice if all the
savages in America were brought, like this poor woman,
to pray to God, though they were all to be Protestants at
first, rather than they should continue pagans or heathens;
firmly believing that He that had bestowed the first light
on them would further illuminate them with a beam of
His heavenly grace, and bring them into the pale of His
Church when He should see good."
SECTION XXXV.
Sincere and Worthy Character of the Priest.—Dialogue with Will
Atkins and Myself.—Conversation Betwixt Atkins and His
Indian Wife on the Subject of Religion.—Her Baptism.—Settle-
ment of the Commonwealth.
I was astonished at the sincerity and temper of this
pious Papist, as much as I was oppressed by the power of
his reasoning; and it presently occurred to my thoughts,
that if such a temper was universal, we might be all Cath-
olic Christians, whatever church or particular profession
we joined in; that a spirit of charity would soon work us
all up into right principles; and as he thought that the
like charity would make us all Catholics, so 1 told him I
believed, had all the members of his church the like
moderation, they would soon all be Protestauts. And
there we left that part; for we never disputed at all.
However, 1 talked to him another way, and taking him by
the hand, " My friend," says I, " I wish ajl the clergy of
the Romish Church were blessed with such moderation,
and had an equal share of your charity. 1 am entirely of
your opinion; but I must tell you that if you should
preach such doctrine in Spain or Italy, they would put
you into the Inquisition." "It may be so," said he; "I
know not what they would do in Spain or Italy, but I will
not say they would be the better Christians for that sever-
ity; for I am sure there is no heresy in abounding with
oharity."
Well, as Will Atkins and his wife were gone, our busi-
ness there was over, so we went back our own way; and
when we came back, we found them waiting to be called
in; observing this, I asked my clergyman if we should dis-
cover to him that we had seen him under the bush or not;
and it was his opinion we should not, but that we should
talk to him first, and hear what he would say to us; so we
called him in alono, nobody being in the place but our-
selves, and I began by asking him some particulars about
his parentage and education. He told me frankly enough
that his father was a clergyman who would have taught
him well, but that he, Will Atkins, despised all instruction
and correction; and by his brutish conduct cut the thread
of all hia father's comforts and shortened his days, for
that he broke his heart by the most ungrateful, unnatural
return for the most affectionate treatment a father ever
gave.
In what he said there seemed so much sincerity of re-
pentance, that it painfully affected me. 1 could not but
reflect that I, too, had shortened the life of a good, tender
father by my bad conduct and obstinate self-will. I was,
indeed, so surprised with what be had told me, that I
thought, instead of my going to teach and instruct him,
the man was made a teacher and instructor to me in a most
unexpected manner.
1 laid all this before the young clergyman, who was
greatly affected with it, and said to me, 'Did I not say,
sir, that when this man was converted he would preach to
us all? I tell you, sir, if this one man be made a true
penitent, there will be no need of me; he will make
Christians of all in the island." But having a little com-
posed myself, I renewed my discourse with Will Atkins.
"But, Will," said I, " how comes the sense of this mat-
ter to touch you just now?"
W. A.—Sir, you have set me about a work that has
struck a dart through my very soui; I have been talking
about God and religion to my wife, in order, as you directed
me, to make a Christian of her, and she has preached such
a sermon to me as I shall never forget while I live.
It C.—No, no, It is not your wife has preached to you;
but when you were moving religious arguments to her,
conscience has flung them back upon you.
W. A.—Ay, sir, with such forue as is not to be resisted.
R. C.—Pray, Will, let us know what passed between
you and your wife', for 1 know something of it already.
W. A.—Sir, it is impossible to give you a full account
of it; I am too full to hold it, and yet have no tongue to
express it; but let her have said what she will, though I
can not give you an account of it, this I can tell you, that
I have resolved to amend and reform my life.
R. C.—But tell us some of it: how did you begin, Will?
For this has been an extraordinary case, that'is certain.
She has preached a sermon, indeed, if she has wrought
this upon you.
W. A.—Why, I first told her the nature of our laws
about marriage, and what the reasons were that men and
women were obliged to enter into sucjufiompacts as it was
neither in the power of one nor other W*reak; that other-
wise, order and justice could not bo maintained, and men
would run from their wives, and abandon their children,
mix confusedly with one another, and neither families bo
kept entire, nor inheritances be settled by legal descent.
R. 0.—You talk like a civilian, Will. Could you make
her understand what you meant by inheritance and fami-
lies? They know no such things among the savages, but
marry anyhow, without regard to relation, consanguinity,
or family; brother and sister, nay, as 1 have been told,
even the father and the daughter, and the son and the
mother.
W. A.—I believe, sir, yon are misinformed, and my
wife assures me of the contrary, and that they abhor it;
perhaps, for any further relations, they may not be so ex-
act as we are; but she tells me never in the near relation-
ship you speak.
R. C.—Well, what did she say to what you told her?
W. A.—She said she liked it very well, as it was much
better than in her country.
R. C.—But did you tell her what marriage was?
W. A.—Ay, ay, there began our dialogue. I asked her
if she would be married to me our way. She asked me
what way that was; I told her marriage was appointed by
God; and here we had a strange talk together, indeed,
m ever man and wife had, I believe.
N. B. —This dialogue between Will Atkins and his wlfv,
which I took down in writing just after he told it me, was
as follows:
Wife.—Appointed by your God! Why, have you a God
in your country?
W. A.—Yes, my dear, God is in every country.
Wife. —No your God in my country; my country have
the great old Benamuckee God.
W. A.—Child, I am very unfit to show you who God is;
God is in heaven, and made the heaven and the earth, the
sea, and all that in them is.
Wife.—No makee de earth; no you God makee all earth;
no makee my country.
Will Atkins laughed a little at her expression of God not
making her country.
Wife.—No laugh; why laugh me? This no ting to
laugh.
[He was justly improved by his wife, for she was more
serious than he at first. ]
W. A.—That's true, indeed: 1 will not laugh any more,
my dear.
Wife.—Why you say you God makee all?
W. A.—Yes, child, our God made the whole world, and
you, and me, and all things; for He is the only true God,
and there is no God but Him; He lives forever in heaven.
Wife.—Why you no tell me long ago?
W. A.—That's true, indeed; but 1 have been a wicked
wretch, and have not only forgotten to acquaint thee with
anything before, but have lived without God in the world
myself.
Wife.—What, have you a great God in your country,
yon no know him? No say oh to Him? No do good ting
for Him? That no possible.
W. A.—It is true; though, for all that, we live as if
there was no God in heaven, or that He had no powsr on
earth.
Wife.—But why God let you do so? Why He no makee
you good live?
W. A.—It is all our own fault.
Wife.—But you say me He is great, much great, have
much great power; can makee kill when He will: why He
no makee kill when you no serve Him? no say oh to Him?
no be good mans?
W. A.—That is true, He might strike me dead; and I
ought to expect it, for I have been a wicked wretch, that
is true; but God is merciful, and does not deal with us as
we deserve.
Wife.—But then do you not tell God thankee for that
too?
W. A.—No, indeed, 1 have not thanked God for His
mercy, any more than I have feared God from His power.
Wife.—Then you God no God; me no tink, believe He
be such one, great much power, strong: no makee kill
you, though you make Him much angry.
W. A.—What, will my wicked life hinder you from be-
lieving in God? What a dreadful creature am I! and
what a sad truth is it, that the horrid lives of Christians
hinder the conversion of heathens!
Wife.—How me tink you have great much God up
there [she points up to heaven], and yet no do well, no
do good ting? Can He tell? Sure He no tell what you
do?
W. A.—Yes, yes, He knows and sees all things; He
hears us speak, sees what we do, knows what we think,
though we do not speak.
Wife.—What! He no hear you curse, swear, speak de
great damu?
VV. A.—Yes, yes, He hears it all.
Wife.—Where be then the much great power strong?
W. A.—He is merciful, that is all we can say for it; and
this proves Him to be the true God; He is God, and not
man, and therefore we are not consumed.
[Here Will Atkins told us he was struck with horror to
think how he could tell his wife so clearly that God sees;'
and hears, and knows the secret thoughts of the heart,
and all that we do, and yet that he had dared to do all the
Yile things he had done.]
Wife.—Merciful! What you call dat?
W. A.—He is our Father and Maker, and He pities and
spares us.
Wife.—So then He never makee kill, never angry when
you do wicked; then He no good Himself, or no great able.
W. A.—Yes, yes, ^ny dear, He is infinitely good and in-
finitely great, and able to punish too; and sometimes, to
show His justice and vengeance, He lets fly His anger to
destroy sinners and make examples; many are cat off in
their sins.
Wife.—But no makee kill yon yet; then He tell you,
maybe, that He no makee you kill: so you makee de bar-
gain with Him, you do bad ting, He no be angry at you
when He be angry at other mans.
W. A.—No, indeed, my sins are all presumptions upon
His goodness; and He would be infinitely just if He de-
stroyed me, as He has done other men.
Wife.—Well, and yet no kill, no makee you dead: what
you say to Him for that? You no tell Him thankee for
all that too?
W. A.—1 am an unthankful, ungrateful dog, that is
true.
Wife.—Why He no makee you much good better? you
say He makee you.
W. A.—He made me as He made all the world: it is I
have deformed myself and abused His goodness, and made
myself an abominable wretch.
Wife.—I wish you makee God know me. I no makee
Him angry—I no do bad wicked ting.
[Here Will Atkins said his heart sunk within him to
hear a poor untaught creature desire to be taught to know
God, and he such a wicked wretch, that he could not say
one word to her about God, but what the reproach of his
own carriage would make most irrational to her to believe;
nay, that already she had told him that she could not be-
lieve in God, because he, that was so wicked, was not de-
stroyed.]
W. A—My dear, you mean, you wish I could teach you
to know God, not God to know you; for He knows you
already, and every thought in your heart.
Wife.—Why, then, He know what I say to you now:
He know me wish to know Him. How shall me know
who makee me?
W. A.—Poor creature, He must teach thee: I cannot
teach thee. I will pray to Him to teach thee to know
Him, and forgive me, that am unworthy to teach thee.
[The poor fellow was in such an agony at her desiring
him to make her know God, and her wishing to know Him,
that he said he fell down on his knees before her, and
prayed to God to enlighten her mind with the saving
knowledge of Jesus Christ and to pardon his sins, and m-
cept of his being the unworthy instrument of instructing
her in the principles of religion: after which he sat down
by her again, and their dialogue went on. This was the
time when we saw him kneel down and hold up his hands.]
-Wife.—What you put down the knee for? What you
hold up the hand for? What you say? Who you speak
to? What is all that?
W. A.—My dear, I bow my knees in token of my sub-
mission to Him that made me: 1 said oh to Him, as you
call it, and as your old men do to their idol Benamuckee;
that, is, 1 prayed to Him.
Wife.—What say you oh to Him for?
W. A.—1 prayed to Him to open your eyes and your
understanding, that you may know Him, and be accepted
by Him.
Wife.—Can He do that too?
W. A.—Yes, He can: He can do all things.
Wife.—But now He hear what you aay?
W. A. —Yes, He has bid us pray to Him, and promised
to hear us.
Wife.—Bid you pray? When He bid you? How He
bid you? Whiit you bear Him speak?
W. A.—.No, we do not hear Him speak; but He has re-
vealed Himself in many ways to us.
[Here he was at a great loss to make her understand
that God has revealed Himself to us by His word, and
what His word was; but at last he told it to her thus:]
W. A.—God has spoken to some good men in.former
days, even from heaven, by plain words; and God has in-
spired good men by His Spirit; and they have written all
His laws down in a book.
Wife.—Me no understand that; where is book?
W. A.—Alas! my poor creature, I have not this book;
but I hope I shall one time or other get it for you, and
help you to read it.
[Here he embraced her with great affection, but with
inexpressible grief that he had not a Bible. J
Wife.—But how you makee me know that God teachee
them to write that book?
W. A.—By the same rule that we know Him to be God.
Wife.—What rule? What way you know Him?
W. A. — Because He teaches and commands nothing but
* hat is good, righteous, and holy, and tends to make ui
Sirfectly good, as well as perfectly happy; and becaus*
e forbids and commands us to avoid all that is wicked,
that is evil in itself, or evil in its consequence.
Wife.—That me would understand, that me fain see; if
He teachee all good thing, He makee all good thing, Ho
give all thing, He hear me when I say oh to Him, as you
do just now; He makee me good if I wish to be good; He
spare me, no makee kill me, when I no be good: all this
you say He do, yet He be great God; me take, think, be-
lieve Him to be great God; me say oh to Him with you,
my dear.
Here the poor man could forbear no longer, but raised
her up, made her kneel by him, and he prayed to God
aloud to instruct her in the knowledge of Himself, by Hi&
Spirit; and that by some good providence, if possible, she
might, some time or other, come to have a Bible, that she
might read the word of God, and be taught by it to know
Him. This was the time that we saw him lift her up by
the hand, and saw him kneel down by her, as above.
They had several other discourses, it seems, after this;
and particularly she made him promise that, since he con-
fessed his own life had been a wicked, abominable course
of provocations against God, that he would reform it, and
not make God angry any more, lest He should make him
dead, as she called it, and then she would be left alone,
and never be taught to know this God better; and lest he
should be miserable, as he had told her wicked men would
be after death.
This was a strange account, and very affecting to Ho
both, but particularly to the young clergyman; he was,
indeed, wonderfully surprised with it, but. under the great
est afflictions imaginable that he couIJ not talk to her,
that he could not speak English to make her understand
him; and as she spoke buc very broken English, be could
not understand her; however, he turned himself to me,
and told me that he believed that there must be more to
do with this woman than to marry her. I did not under-
stand him at first; but at length he explained himself—
viz., that she ought to be baptized. I agreed with him in
that part readily, and wished it to be done present!;;.
"No, no; hold, sir," says he; "though 1 would have her
be baptised, by all meana, for I must observe that Will
Atkins, her husband, has indeed brought her, in a wonder*
fal manner, to be willing to embrace a religious life, and
has given her just ideas of the being of a God; of His
power, justice, aud mercy: yet I desire to know of him if
he has said anything to her of Jesus Christ, and of the
salvation of sinners; of the nature of faith in Him, and
redemption by Him; of the Holy Spirit, the resurrection,
the last judgment, and the future state."
I called Will Atkins again, aud asked him; but the poor
fellow fell immediately into tears, and told us he had said
something to her of all those things, but that he was him-
self so wicked a creature, aud his own conscience so re-
proached him with his horrid, ungodly life, that he trembled
at the apprehensions that the knowledge of him should
lessen the attention she should give to those things, and
make her rather contemn religion than receive it; but he
was assured, ho said, that her mind was so disposed to re-
ceive due impressions of all those things, and that if I
would but discourse with her, she would make it appear to
my satisfaction that my labor would not be lost upon her.
Accordingly I called her in, and placing myself as inter-
preter between my religious priest and the woman, 1 en-
treated him to begin with her; but sure such a sermon was
never preached by a Popish priest in these latter ages of
the world; and as I told him, I thought he had all the
seal, all the knowledge, all the sincerity of a Christian,
without the error of a Roman Catholic; and that 1 took
him to be such a clergyman as the Roman bishops were
before the Church of Rome assumed spiritual sovereignty
over the consciences of men. In a word, he brought the
poor woman to embrace the knowledge of Christ, and of
redemption by Him, not with wonder and astonishment
only, as she did the first notions of a God, but with joy
and faith; with an affection, and a surprising degree of
understanding, scarce to be imagined, much less to be ex-
pressed; and, at her own request, she was baptized.
When ho was preparing to baptize her, I entreated him
that he would perform that office with some caution, that
the man might not perceive he was of the Roman Church,
if possible, because of other ill consequences which might
attend a difference among us in that very religion wLich
we were instructing the other in. He told me that as he
had no consecrated chapel, nor proper things for the
pffioe, I should see he would do it in a manner that I
should not know by it that he was a Roman Catholic my-
self, if I had not known it before; and so he did; for say-
ing only some words over to himself in Latin, which 1
could not understand, he poured a whole dishful of water
upon the woman's head, pronouncing in French, very
loud, " Mary " (which was the name her husband desired
me to give her, for I was her godfather), "1 baptize thee
in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the
Holy Ghost;" so that none could know anything by it
what religion he was of. He gave the benediction after-
ward in Latin, but either Will Atkins did not know but it
ivas Freuch, or else did not take notice of it at that time.
As soon as this was over we married them; and after the
marriage was over, he turned to Will Atkins, and in a very
affectionate manner exhorted him, not only to persevere in
that good disposition he was in, but to support the convic-
tions that were upon him by a resolution to reform his life:
told him it was in vain to say he repented if he did not
forsake his crimes; represented to him how God had hon-
ored him with being the instrument of bringing his wife to
the knowledge of the Christian religion, and that he should
be careful he did not dishonor the grace of God; and that
it he did, he would see the heathen a better Christian than
himself; the savage converted, and the instrument cast
away. He said a great many good things to them both;
and then, recommending them to God's goodness, gave
them the benediction again, 1 repeating everything to them
in English; and thus ended the ceremony. I think it was
the most pleasant and agreeable day to me that ever 1
passed in my whole life. But my clergyman had not done
yet: his thoughts hung continually upon the conversion of
the thirty-seven savages, and fain he would have stayed upon
the island to have undertaken it; but I convinced him,
first, that his undertaking was impracticable in itself; and,
secondly, that perhaps I would put it into a way of being
done in his absence to his satisfaction.
Having thus brought the affairs of the island to a narrow
compass, 1 was preparing to go on board the ship, when
the young man 1 had taken out of the famished ship's
company came to me, and told me he understood I had r
clergyman with me, and that I had caused the Englishmen
to be married to the savages: that he had a match too,
which he desired might be finished before I went, between
two Christians, which he hoped would not be disagreeable
to me.
I knew this must be the young woman who was his
mother's servant, for there was no other Christian woman
on the island: so 1 began to persuade him not to do anything
of that kind rashly, or because he found himself in this
solitary circumstance. I represented to him that he had
some considerable substance in the world, and good
friends, as I understood by himself, and the maid also;
that the maid was not only poor, and a servant, but was un-
equal to him, she being six- or seven-and-twenty years old,
and he not above seventeen or eighteen; that he might
very probably, with my assistance, make a remove from
this wilderness, and come into his own country again; and
that then it would be a thousand to one but he would re-
pent his choice, and the dislike of that circumstance might
be disadvantageous to both. I was going-to say more, But
he interrupted me, smiling, and told me, with a great deal
of modesty, that I mistook in my guesses—that he had
nothing of that kind in his thoughts; and he was very glad
to hear that 1 had an intent of putting them in a way to
see their own country again; and nothing fehould have
made him think of staying there, but that thevoyage I
was going was so exceeding long and hazardous, and would
carry him quite out of the reach of all his friends; that he
had nothing to desire of me but that I would settle him in
some little property in the island where he was, give him
a servant or twri, and some few necessaries, and he would
live here like a planter, waiting the good time when, if
ever I returned to England, I would redeem him. Ho
hoped I would not be unmindful of him when I came t»
England: that he would give me some letters to bis friends
in London, to let them know how good 1 had been to him,
and in what part of the world, and what circumstances 1
had left him in: and he promised me that whenever I re-
deemed him, the plantation, and all the improvements he
had made upon it, let the value be what it would, should
be wholly mine.
His discourse was very prettily delivered, considering his
youth, and was the more agreeable to me, because he told
me positively the match was not for himself. I gave him
all possible assurances that if I lived to come safe to Eng-
land, 1 would deliver his letters, and do his business effect-
ually; and that he might depend 1 shonld never forget th«
circumstances I had left him in; but still 1 was impatient
to know who was the person to be married; npon which he
told me it was my Jack-of-all-trades and his maid Susan.
I was most agreeably surprised when he named the match;
for, indeed, I thought it very suitable. The character of
that man I have given already; and as for the maid, she
was a very honest, modest, sober, and religious young
woman: had a very good share of sense, was agreeable
enough in her person, spoke very handsomely and to the
purpose, always with decency and good manners, and was
neither too backward to speak when requisite, nor imperti-
nently forward when it was not her business; very handy
and housewifely, and an excellent manager; fit, indeed, to
have been governess to the whole island; and she knew
very well how to behave in every respect.
The match being proposed in this manner, we married
them the same day; and as I was father at the altar, and
gave her away, so I gave her a portion; for 1 appointed
her and her husband a handsome large space of ground
for their plantation; and, indeed, this match, and the pro-
posal the young gentleman made to give him a small
property in the island, put me upon parceling it out among
them, that they might not quarrel afterward about their
situation.
This sharing out the land to them 1 left to Will Atkins,
who was now grown a sober, grave, managing fellow, per-
fectly reformed, exceedingly pious and religious; and, ae
far as I may be allowed to speak positively in such a case,
I verily believe he was a true penitent . He divided things
so justly, and so much to every one's satisfaction, that
they only desired one general writing under my hand for
the whole, which I caused to be drawn-tip, and signed and
sealed, setting out the bounds and situation of every man's
plantation, and testifying that 1 gave them thereby sever-
ally a right to the whole possession and inheritance of the
respective plantations or farms, with their improvements,
to them and their heirs, reserving all the rest of the island
as my own property, and a certain rent for every particu-
lar plantation after eleven years, if 1, or any one from me,.
or in my name, came to demand it, producing an attested
copy of the same writing., As to the government and laws
among them, I told them 1 was not capable of giving them
\
bettet rules than tLey were able to give themselves; only I
made them promise me to live in love and good neighbor-
hood with one another; and so 1 prepared to leave them.
One thing I must not omit, and that is, that being now
settled in a kind of common wealth among themselves, and
having much business in hand, it was odd to have seven-
and-thirty Indians live in a nook of the island, independ-
ent, and, indeed, unemployed; for except the providing
themselves food, which they had difficulty enough to do,
sometimes they had no manner of business or property to
manage. 1 proposed, therefore, to the governor Spaniard,
that he should go to them, with Friday s father, aud pro-
pose to them to remove, and either plant for themselves,
or be taken into their several families as servants, to be
maintained for their labor, but without being absolute
slaves; for I would not permit them to make them slaves
by force, by any means; because they, had their liberty
given them by capitulation, as it were, articles of surren-
der, which they ought not to break.
They most willingly embraced the proposal, and came
all very cheerfully along with him: so we allotted them
land and plantations, which three or four accepted of, but
all the rest chose to be employed as servants in the several
families'we had settled. Thus my colony was in a manner
settled as follows: The 'Spaniard spossessed my original
habitation, which was the capital city, and extended their
plantations all along the side of the brook, which made the
creek that 1 have so often described, as far as my bower;
and as they increased their culture, it went always east-
ward. The English lived in the north-east part, where
Will Atkins and his comrades began, and came on south-
ward and south-west, toward the back part of the Span-
iards; and every plantation had a great addition of land to
take in, if they found occasion, so that they need not jostle
one another for want of room. - All the east end of the
island was left uninhabited, that if any of the savages
should come on shore there only for their usual customary
barbarities, they might come and go; if they disturbed no-
body, nobody would disturb them: and no doubt but they
were often ashore, and went away again; for 1 never heard
* that the planters were ever attacked or disturbed any
more.
SECTION XXXVL
I Entertain the Prospect of Converting the Indians.—Amiabie
Character of the Young Woman We Saved, in a Famished
State at Sea.—Her Own Relation of Her Sufferings From
Hunger.—Sail From the Island for the Brazils.—Encounter and
Rout a Whole Fleet of Savages.—Death of Friday.—Arrival at
Brazil.
It now came into my thoughts that I had hinted to my
friend the clergyman that the work of converting the sav-
ages might perhaps be set on. foot in his absence to his
satisfaction, and I told him that now I thought that it was
put in a fair way; for tht savages, being thus divided
among the Christians, if they would but every one of them
do their part with those which came under their hands, 1
hoped it might have a very good effect.
He agreed presently in that, if they did their part.
"But how," says he, "shall we obtain that of them? I
told him we would call them all together, and leave it in
charge with them, or go to them one by one, which he
thought best; so we divided it—he to speak to the Span-
iards, who were all Papists, and 1 to speak to the English,
who were all Protestants; and we recommended it earnest-
ly to them, and made them promise that they would never
make any distinction of Papist or Protestant in their ex-
horting the savages to turn Christians, but teach them the.
general knowledge of the true God, and of their Saviour
Jesus Christ; and they likewise promised us that they
would never have any differences or disputes one with an-
other about religion.
When I came to Will Atkins's house, 1 found there the
young woman I have mentioned above, and Will Atkins's
wife, were become intimates; and this prudent, religious
young woman had perfected the work Will Atkins had be-
gun; and though it was not above four days after what I
have related, yet the new-baptized savage woman was made
such a Christian as I have seldom heard of in all my ob-
servation or conversation in the world. It came next into
my mind in the morning before 1 went to them, that
among all the needful things 1 had to leave with them I
had not left them a Bible, in which I showed myself less
considering for them than my good friend the widow was
for me when she sent me the cargo'of a hundred pounds
from Lisbon, where she packed up three Bibles and a
Prayer-book. However, the good woman's charity had a
greater extent than ever she imagined, for they were re-
served for the comfort and instruction of those that made
mu*h better use of them than I had done.
I took one of the Bibles in my pocket, and when I came
to Will Atkins's.tent, or house, and f oiwd the young wom-
an and Atkins's baptized wife had been discoursing of re-
ligion together—for Will Atkins told it me with a great
ileal of joy—1 asked if they were together now, and he
said, "Yes;" so I went into the house, and he with me,
and we found them together very earnest in discourse.
"Oh, sir," says Will Atkins, " when God has sinners to
reconcile to Himself, and aliens to bring home, He never
wants a messenger; my wife has got a new instructor; 1
knew I was unworthy as I was incapable of that work;
that young woman has been sent hither from heaven—she
is enough to convert a whole island of savages." The
young woman blushed, and rose up to go away, but 1 de-
sired her to sit still; I told her she had a good work upon
her hands, and I hoped God would bless her in it.
We talked a little, and I did not perceive that they had
any hook among them, though I did not ask; but 1 put
my hand into my pocket, and pulled out my Bible.
"Here," said 1 to Atkins, " 1 have brought you an assist-
ant that perhaps you had not before." The man was so
confounded that he was not able to speak for some time;
but, recovering himself, he takes it with both his hands,
and turning to his wife, "Here, my dear," says he, "did
not I tell you our God, though He lives above, could hear
what we have said? Here's the book I prayed for when
you and I kneeled dowu under the bushfnow God has
heard us and sent it." When he had said so, the man fell
into such passionate transports that, between the joy of
having it, and giving God thanks for it, the tears ran
down his face like a child that was crying.
The woman was surprised, and was like to have run into
a mistake that none of us were aware of; for she firmly
believed God had sent the book upon her husband's peti-
tion. It is true that providentially it was so, and might
be taken so in a consequent sense; but I believe it would,
have been no difficult matter at that time to have per-
suaded the poor woman to have believed that an express
messenger came from heaven on purpose to bring that in-
dividual book. But it was too serious a matter to suffer
any delusion to take place, so I turned to the young wom-
an, and told her we did not desire to impose upon the new
convert in her first and more ignorant understanding of
things, and begged her to explain to her that God may be
very properly said, to answer our petitions, when, in the
course of His providence, such things are in a particular
manner brought to pass as we petitioned for; but we did
not expect returns from heaven in a miraculous and par-
ticular manner, and it is a mercy that it is not so.
This the young woman did afterward effectually, so that
there was no priestcraft used here; and I should have
thought it one of the most unjustifiable frauds in the world
to have had it so. But the effect upon Will Atkins is
really not to be expressed, and there we may be sure was
no delusion. Sure no man was ever more thankful in the
world for anything of its kind than he was for the Bible—
nor, I believe, never any man was glad of a Bible from a
better principle; and though he had been a most profligate
creature, headstrong, furious, and desperately wicked, yet
this man is a standing rule to us all for the well instruct-
ing children—viz., that parents should never give over to
teach and instruct, nor ever despair of the success of their
endeavors., let the children be ever so refractory, or to ap-
pearance insensible to instruction; for, if ever God, in His
providence, touches the conscience of such, the force of
their education returns upon them, and the early instruc-
tion of parents is not lost, though it may have been many
years laid asleep, but some time or other they may find the
benefit of it. Thus it was with this poor man; however
ignorant he was of religion and Christian knowledge, he
found he had some to do with now more ignorant than
himself, and that the least part of the instruction of his
good father that now came to his mind was of use to him.
Among the rest, it occurred to him, he said, how his
father used to insist so much on the inexpressible value of
the Bible, and the privilege and blessing of it to nations,
families, and persons; but he never entertained the least
notion of the worth of it till now, when being to talk to
heathens, savages, and barbarians, he Wanted the help of
the written oracle for his assistance. The young woman
was glad of it also for the present occasion, though she had
one, and so had the youth, on board our ship among their
goods, which were not yet brought on shore. And now,
having said so many things of this young woman, I can
not om;t telling one story more of her and myself, which
has something in it very instructive and remarkable.
I have related to what extremity the poor young woman
was redaced; how her mistress was starved to death, and
died on board that unhappy ship we met at sea, and how
the whole ship's company was reduced to the last ex-
tremity. The gentlewoman, and her son, and this maid
were first hardly used as to provisions, and at last totally
neglected and starved—that is to say, brought to the last
extremity of hunger. One day, being discoursing with her
on the extremities they suffered, I asked her if she could
describe, by what she had felt, what it was to starve, and
how it appeared? She said she believed she could, and
told her tale very distinctly, thus:
"First, we had for some days fared exceedingly hard,
and suffered very great hunger; but at last we were wholly
without food of any kind except sugar, and a little wine
and water. The first day after 1 had received no food at
all, 1 found myself, toward evening, empty and sick at
the stomach, and nearer night much inclined to yawning
aud sleep. 1 lay down on the couch in the great cabin to
sleep, and slept about three hours, and awaked a little re-
freshed, having taken a glass of wine when I lay down;
after being about three hours awake, it being about five
o'clock in the morning, I found myself empty, and ray
stomach sickish, and lay down again, but could not slecr
at all, being very faint and ill; and thus 1 continued a.l
the second day with a strange variety—first hungry, the:i
sick again, with retchings to vomit. The second nigh%
being obliged to go to bed again without any food more
than a draught of fresh water, and being asleep, I dreamed
I was at Barbadoes, aud that the market was mightily
stocked with provisions; that I bought some for my mis-
tress, and went and dined heartily. I thought my stomach
was full after this, as it would have been after a good din-
ner; but wheti I awaked I was exceedingly sunk in my
spirits to find myself in the extremity of famine. The last
glass of wine we had I drunk, and put sugar in it, because
of its having some spirit to supply nourishment; but there
being no substance in the stomach for the digesting office
to work upon, 1 found the only effect of the wine was to
raise disagreeable fumes from the stomach into the head;
and 1 lay, as they told me, stupid and senseless, as one
drunk, for some time. The third day, in the morning,
after a night of strange, confused, and inconsistent dreams,
and rather dozing than sleeping, 1 awaked ravenous and
furious with hunger; and I question, had not my under-
standing returned and conquered it, whether if I had been
a mother, and had had a little child with me, its life would
have been safe or not. This lasted about three hours,
during which time I was twice raging mad as any creature
in Bedlam, as my young master told me, and as he can
now inform you.'
"In one of these fits of lunacy or distraction I fell
down and struck my face against the corner of a pallet-
bed, in which my mistress lay, and with the blow the blood
gushed out of my nose; and the cabin-boy bringing me a
little basin, 1 sat down and bled into it a great deal; and
as the blood came from me I came to myself, and the vio-
lence of the flame or fever 1 was in abated, and so did the
ravenous part of the hunger. Then 1 grew sick, and
retched to vomit, but could not, for I had nothing in my
stomach to bring up. After I had bled some time I
swooned, and they all believed I was dead; but I catne to
myself soon after, and then had a most dreadful pain in
my stomach not to be described—not like the colic, but a
gnawing, eager pain for food; and toward night it went
off with a kind of earnest wishing or longing for food. I
took another draught of water with sugar in it; but my
stomach loathed the sugar and brought it all up again:
then 1 took a draught of water without sugar, and that
stayed with me; and I lay me down upon the bed, pray-
ing most heartily that it would please God to take me
away; and composing my mind in hopes of it, I slumbered
awhile, and then waking, thought myself dying, being
light with vapors from an empty stomach. T recommend-
ed my soul then to God, and then earnestly wished that
somebody would throw me into the sea.
"All this while my mistress lay by me, just, as I
thought, expiring, but ohe bore it with much more pa-
tience than I, and gave the last bit of bread she had left to
her child, my young master, who would not have taken it,
but she obliged him to eat it; and 1 believe it saved his
life. Toward the morning 1 slept again, and when I
awoke I fell into a violent passion of crying, and after that
had a second fit of violent hunger. I got up ravenous,
and in a most dreadful condition; and once or twice 1 was
going to bite my own arm. At last I saw the basin in
which was the blood I had bled at my nose the day before;
I ran to it, and swallowed it with such haste, and such a
greedy appetite, as if I wondered nobody had taken it be-
fore, and afraid it should be taken from me now. After
it was down, though the thoughts of it filled me with hor-
ror, yet it checked the fit of hunger, and I took another
draught of water, and was composed and refreshed for
some hours after. This was the fourth day; and thus I
kept up till toward night, when, within the compass of
three hours, 1 had all the several circumstances over again,
one after another—viz., sick, sleepy, eagerly hungry, pain
in the stomach, then ravenous again, then sick, then luna-
tic, then crying, then ravenous again, and so every quarter
of an hour, and my strength wasted exceedingly; at night
I lay me down, having no comfort but in the hope that I
should die before morning.
"All this night I had no sleep; but the hunger was now
turned into a disease; and I had a terrible colic and grip-
ing, by wind instead of food having found its way into the
bowels; and in this condition I lay till morning, when I
was surprised by the cries and lamentations of my young
master, who called out to me that his mother was dead. I
lifted myself up a little, for I had not strength to rise, but
found she was not dead, though she was able to give very
little signs of life. I had then such convulsions in my
stomach, for want of some sustenance, as I can not de-
scribe; with such frequent throes and pangs of appetite as
nothing but the tortures of death can imitate; and in this
condition 1 was when 1 heard the seamen above cry out,
'A sail! a sail!' and halloo and jump about as if they
were distracted. I was not able to get off from the bed,
and my mistress much less; and my young master was so
sick that 1 thought he had been expiring; so we could not
open the cabin door, or get any account what it was that
occasioned such confusion; nor had we had any conversa-
tion with the ship's company for twelve days, they having
told us that they had net a mouthful of anything to eat in
the ship; and this they told us afterward—they thought
we had been dead. It was this dreadful condition we were
in when you were sent to save our lives; and how you
found us, sir, you know as well as I, and better too."
This was her own relation, and is such a distinct account
of starving to death, as, I confess, I never met with, and
was exceeding instructive to me. I am the rather apt to
believe it to be a true account, because the youth gave me
an account of a good part of it; though 1 must own, not
so distinct and so feeling as the maid; and the rather, be-
cause it seems his mother fed him at the price of her own
life; but the poor maid, whose constitution was stronger
than that of her mistress, who was in years, and a weakly
woman too, might struggle harder with it; nevertheless,
she might be supposed to feel the extremity something
sooner than her mistress, who might be allowed to keep
the last bit something longer than she parted with any tfl,
relieve her maid. No question, as the case is here related,
if our ship or some other had not so providentially met
them, but a few days more would have ended all then
lives. 1 now return to my disposition of things among the
people. And, first, it is to be observed here, that for many
reasons I did not think fit to let them know anything ot
the sloop I had framed, and which I thought of setting up
among them; for I found, at least at my first coming,
such seeds of division among them that I saw plainly, had i
set up the sloop, and left it among them, they would, upon
every light disgust, have separated, and gone away from one
another; or perhaps have turned pirates, and so made the
island a den of thieves, instead of a plantation of sober
and religious people, as I intended it; nor did I leave the
two pieces of brass cannon that 1 had on board, or the ex-
tra two quarter-deck guns that my nephew had provided,
for the same reason. I thought it was enough to qualify
them for a defensive war against any that should invade
them, but not to set them up for an offensive war, or to
go abroad to attack others; which, in theend, would only
bring ruin and destruction upon them. I reserved the
sloop, therefore, and the guns, for their service another
way, as I shall observe in its place.
Having now done with the island, I left them all in
good circumstances and in a flourishing condition, and
went on board my ship again on the 6th of May, having
been about twenty-five days among them; and as they were
all resolved to stay upon the island till 1 came to remove
them, I promised to send them further relief from the
Brazils, it 1 could possibly find an opportunity. I particu-
larly promised to send them some cattle, such as sheep,
hogs, and cows; as to the two cows and calves which I
brought from England, we had been obliged, by the length
of our voyage, to kill them at sea, for want of hay to feedj
them. S
The next day, giving them a salute of five guns at part-]
ing, we set sail, and arrived at the bay of All Saints in the)
Brazils in about twenty-two days, meeting nothing remark-
able in our passage but this: that about three days after
we had sailed, being becalmed, and the current setting
strong to the E.N.E., running, as it were, into a bay or
gulf on the land side, we were driven something out of our
course, and once or twice our men cried out, "Land to
the eastward!" but whether it was the continent or islands
we could not tell by any means. But the third day,
toward evening, the sea smooth, and the weather calm, we
saw the sea, as it were, covered toward the land with some-
thing very black; not being able to discover what it was,
till after some time, our chief mate, going up the main-
shrouds a little way, and looking at them with a perspect-
ive, cried out it was an army. I could not imagine what
ho meant by an army, and thwarted him a little hastily.
." Nay, sir," says he, "don't be angry, for 'tis an army,
and a fleet too: for I believe there are a thousand canoes,
and you may see them paddle along, for they are coming
toward us apace."
I was a little surprised then, indeed, and so was my
nephew the captain; for he had heard such terrible stones
of them in the island, and having never been in those seas
before, that he could not tell what to think of it, but said,
two or three times, we should all be devoured. 1 must
confess, considering we were becalmed, and the current set
strong toward the shore, 1 liked it the worst; however, I
bade them not be afraid, but bring the ship to an anchor
as soon as we came so near as to know that wo must en-
gage them. The weather continued calm, and they came
on apace toward us, so I gave orders to come to an anchor,
and furl all our sails; as for the savages, I told Muni they
had nothing to fear but fire, and therefore they should get
their boats out, and fasten them, one close by the head
and the other by the stern, and man them both well, and
wait the issue in that posture: this I did, that the men in
the boats might be ready with sheets and buckets to put
out any fire these savages might endeavor to fix to the out-
side of the ship.
, In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little while
they came np with us; but never was such a horrid sight
seen by Christians; though my mate was much mistaken
in his calculation of their number, yet when they came up
we reckoned about a hundred and twenty-six canoes; some
of them had sixteen or seventeen men in them, and some
more, and the least six or seven. When they came nearer
to us, they seemed to be struck with wonder and astonish-
ment, as at a sight which doubtless they had never seen
before; nor could they at first, as we afterward understood,
know what to make of us; they came boldly up, however,
very near to us, and seemed to go about to row round us;
but we called to our men in the boats not to let them come
too near them. This very order brought us to an engage-
ment with them, without our designing it; for bve or six
of the large canoes came so near our long-boat, that our
men beckoned with their hands to keep them back, which
they understood very well, and went back: but at their re-
treat about fifty arrows came on board us from those
boats, and one of our men in the long-boat was very much
wounded. However, 1 called to them not to fire by any
means; but we handed down some deal boards into the
boat, and the carpenter presently set up a kind of fence,
like waste boards, to cover them from the arrows of the
savages, if they should shoot again.
About half an hour afterward they all came up in a body
astern of us, and so near that we could easily discern what
they were, though we could not tell their design; and I
easily found they were some of my old friends, the same
sort of savages that I had been used to engage with. In a
short time more they rowed a little further out to sea, till
they camo directly broadside with us, and then rowed down
straight upon us, till they came so near that they could
hear us speak; upon this, I ordered all my men to keep
close, lest they should shoot any more arrows, and made
all oar guns ready; but being so near as to be within hear-
ing, I made Friday go out upon the deck, and call out
aloud to them in his language, to know what they meant.
Whether they understood him or not; that 1 knew not; but
as soon as he had called to them, six of them, who were in
the foremost or nighest boat to us, turned their canoes
from us, and stooping down, showed us their naked backs;
whether this was a defiance or challenge we knew not, or
whether it was done in mere contempt, or as a signal to
the rest; but immediately Friday cried out they were going
to shoot, and, unhappily for him, poor fellow, they let-fly
about three hundred of their arrows, and, to my inexpress-
ible grief, killed poor Friday, no other man being in their
sight. The poor fellow was shot with no less than three
arrows, and about three more fell very near him; such un-
lucky marksmen they were!
1 was so annoyed at the loss of my old trusty servant
and companion, that I immediately ordered five guns to
be loaded with small shot, and four with great, and gave
them such a broadside as they had never heard in their
lives before. They were not above half a cable's length
off when we fired; and our gunners took their aim so well,
that three or four of their canoes were overset, as we had
reason to believe, by one shot only. The ill manners of
turning up their bare backs to us gave us no great offense;
neither did 1 know for certain whether that which would
pass for the greatest contempt among us might be under-
stood so by them or not; therefore, in return, I had only
resolved to have fired four or five guns at them with
powder only, which I knew would frighten them suffi-
ciently: but when they shot at us directly with all the fury
they were capable of, and especially as they had killed my
poor Friday, whom I so entirely loved and valued, and
who, indeed, so well deserved it, I thought myself not only
justifiable before God and man, but would have been very
glad if I could have overset every canoe there, and drowned
every one of them.
I can neither tell how many we killed nor how many we
wounded at this broadside, but sure such a fright and hurry
never were seen among such a multitude; there were
thirteen or fourteen of their canoes split and overset in all,
and the men all set a-swimming: the rest, frightened out
of their wits, scoured away as fast as they could, taking
but little care to save those whose boats were split or spoiled
with our shot; so 1 suppose that many of them were lost;
and our men took up one poor fellow swimming for his
life, above an hour after they were all gone. The small
shot from our cannon must needs kill and wound a great
many; but, in short, we never knew how it went with
them, for they fled so fast, that in three hours or there-
abouts we could not see above three or four straggling
canoes, nor did we ever see the rest any more; for a
breeze of wind springing up the same evening, we weighed,
and set sail for the Brazils.
We had a prisoner, indeed, but the creature was so sullen
that he would neither eat nor speak, and we all fancied he
would starve himself to death. But 1 took a way to cure
him: fori had made them take him and turn him into the
long-boat, and make him believe they would toss him into
the sea again, and so leave him where they found him, if
he would not speak; nor would that do, but they really
did throw him into the sea, and came away from him.
Then he followed them, for he swam like a cork, and called
to them in his tongue, though they knew not one word of
what he said; however, at last they took him in again, and
then he began to be more tractable: nor did I ever design
they should drown him.
We were now under sail again, but 1 was the most dis-
consolate creature alive for want of my man Friday, and
would have been very glad to have gone back to the island,
to have taken one of the rest from thence for my occasion,
but it could not be: so we went on. We had one prisoner,
as I have said, and it was a long time before we could
make him understand anything, but, in time, our men
taught him some English, and he began to be a little tract-
able. Afterward, we inquired what country he came
from; but could make nothing of what he said; for his
speech was so odd, all gutturals, and he spoke in the throat
in such a hollow, odd manner that we could never form
a word after him; and we were all of opinion that they
might speak that language as well if they were gagged as
otherwise; nor could we perceive that they had any occa-
sion either for teeth, tongue, lips, or palate, but formed
their words just as a hunting-horn forms a tune, with an
open throat. He told us, however, some time after, when
we had taught him to speak a little Jhglish, that they
were going with their kings to fight a great battle. When
he said kings, we asked bim how many kings? He said
they were five nation (we could not make him understand
the plural 's), and that they all joined to go against two
nation. We asked him what made them come "up to us.
He said, "To makee te great wonder look." Here it is
to be observed that all those natives, as also those of
Africa, when they learn English, always add two e's at the
end of the words where we use one; and they place the
accent upon them, as makee, takee, and the like; nay, I
could hardly make Friday leave it off, though at last he did.
And now I name the poor fellow once more, 1 must take
my last leave of him. Poor honest Friday.' We buried
him with all the decency and solemnity possible, by putting
him into a coffin, and throwing him into the sea; and I
caused them to fire eleven guns for him. So ended the life
of the most grateful, faithful, honest, and most affection-
ate servant that ever man had.
We went now away with a fair wind for Brazil; and in
about twelve days' time we made land, in the latitude of
five degrees south of the line, being the north-easternmost
land of all that part of America. We kept on S. by E.,
in sight ofj the shore four days, when we made Cape St.
Augustine, and in three days came to an anchor off the
bay of All Saints, the old place of my deliverance, from
whence came both my good and evil fate. Never ship came
to this port that had less business than 1 had, and yet it
was with great difficulty that we were admitted to hold the
least correspondence on shore: not my partner himself,
who was alive, and made a great figure among them, not
my two merchant trustees, not the fame of my wonderful
preservation in the island, could'obtain me that favor. My
partner, however, remembering that 1 had given five hun-
dred moidores to the prior of the monastery of the Augus-
tines, and two hundred and seventy-two to the poor, went
to the monastery, and obliged the prior that then was to
go to the governor, and get leave for me personally, with
the captain and one more, besides eight seamen, to come
on shore, and no more; and this upon condition, absolutely
capitulated for, that we should not offer to land any goods
out of the ship, or to carry any person away without
license. They were so strict with us as to landing any
goods, that it was with extreme difficulty that 1 got on
shore three bales of English goods, such as fine broad-
cloths, stuffs, and some linen, which 1 had brought for a
present to my partner.
He was a very generous, open-hearted man, although he
began, like me, with little at first. Though he knew not
that I had the least design of giving him anything, he sent
me on board a present of fresh provisions, wine, and sweet-
meats, worth about thirty moidores, including some
tobacco, and three or four fine medals of gold: but I was
even with him in my present, which, as 1 have said, con-
sisted of fine broadcloth, English stuls, lace, and fine
holland; also, I delivered him about the value of one hun-
dred pounds sterling in the same goods, for other uses;
and I obliged him to set up the sloop, which I had brought
with me from England, as 1 have said, for the use of my
colony, in order to send the refreshments I intended to my
plantation.
Accordingly, he got hands, and finished the sloop in a
very few days, for she was already framed; and I gave the
master of her such instructions that he could not miss the
place; nor did he, as I had an account from my partner
afterward. I got him soon loaded with the small cargo I
sent them; and one of our seamen, that had been on shore
'with me there, offered to go with the sloop and settle there,
upon my letter to the governor Spaniard to allot him a
sufficient quantity of land for a plantation, and on my giv-
ing him some clothes and tools for his planting work,
which he said he understood, having been an old planter
at Maryland, and a buccaneer into the bargain. I encourv
aged the fellow by granting all he desired; and, as an
addition, 1 gave him the savage whom we had taken pris-
oner of war to be his slave, and ordered the governor Span-
iard to give him his share of everything he wanted with
the rest.
When we came to fit this man out, my old partner told
me there was a certain very honest fellow, a Brazil plauter-
of this acquaintance, who had fallen into the displeasure
of the church. "I know not what the matter is with
him," says he, "but, on my conscience, I think he is a
heretic in his heart, and he has been obliged to conceal
himself for fear of the Inquisition." He then told me
that he would be very glad of such an opportunity to make
his escape, with his wife and two daughters; and if I would
let them go to my island, aud allot them a plantation, he
would give them a small stock to begin with—for the
officers of the Inquisition had seized all his effects and
estate^ and he had nothing left but a little household stuff
and two slaves; "and," adds he, "though I hate his
principles, yet 1 would not have him fall into their hands,
for he will be assuredly burned alive if he does." 1
granted this presently, and joined my Englishman with
them: and we concealed the man, and his wife and daugh-
ters, on board our ship, till the sloop put out to go to sea;
and then having put all their goods on board some time
before, we put them on board the sloop after she was got
out of the bay. Our seaman was mightly pleased with this
new partner; and their stocks, indeed, were much alike,
rich in tools, in preparations, and a farm—but nothing to
begin with, except as above: however, they carried over
with them what was worth all the rest, some materials for
planting sugar-canes, with soma plants of canes, which he,
I mean the Brazil'planter, understood very well.
Among the rest of the supplies sent to my tenants in the
island, I sent them by the sloop three milch cows and five
calves, about twenty-two hogs, among them three sows,
two mares, and a stone-horse. For my Spaniards, ac-
cording to my promise, I engaged three Brazil women to
go, and recommended it to tbem to marry them, and use
them kindly. 1 could have procured more women, but I
remembered that the poor persecuted man had two daugh-
ters, and that there were but five of the Spaniards that
wanted partners—the rest had wives of their own, though
in another country. All this cargo arrived safely, and,
as you may easily suppose, was very welcome to my old in-
habitants, who were now, with this addition, between sixty
and seventy people, besides little children, of which there
were a great many. I found letters at London from them
all, by way of Lisbon, when I came back to England.
1 have now done with the island, and all manner of dis-
course about it: and whoever reads the rest of my memo-
randums would do well to turn his thoughts entirely from
it, and expect to read of the follies of an old man, not
warned by his own harms, much less by those of other
men, to beware; not cooled by almost forty years' miseries
and disappointments—not satisfied with prosperity beyond
expectation, nor made cautious by afflictions and distress
beyond example. •"
SECTION xxxvir.
i Bispateh a Number of Additional Recruits, and a Quantity of
Extra Stores, to the Island, and Take My Leave of it Forever.—I
Determine to go with the Ship to the East Indies.—Arrive at
Madagascar.—Dreadful Occurrences There.
I had no more business to go to the East Indies than a
man at full liberty has to go to the turnkey at Newgate,
and desire him to lock him up among the prisoners there,
and starve him. Had I taken a small vessel from England
and gone directly to the island; had 1 loaded her, as I did
the other vessel, with all the necessaries for the plantation,
and for my people; taken a patent from the government
here to have secured my •property,, in subjection only to
that of England; had I carried over cannon and am-
munition, servants and people to plant, and taken pos-
session of the place, fortified and strengthened it in the
name of England, and increased it with people, as I might
easily have done; had 1 then settled myself there, and sent
the ship back laden with good rice, as I might also have
done in six months' time, and ordered my friends to have
fitted her out again for our supply—had 1 done this, and
stayed there myself, I had at least acted like a man of
common sense.' But I was possessed of a wandering spirit,
and scorned all advantages: I pleased myself with being
the patron of the people I placed there, and doing for them
in a kind of haughty, majestic way, like an old patriarchal
monarch, providing for them as if 1 had been father of the
whole family, as well as of the plantation. But 1 never so
much as pretended to plant in the name of any govern-
ment or nation, or to acknowledge any prince, or to call
my people subjects to any one nation more than another:
nay, I never so much as gave the place a name, but left it
as I found it, belonging to nobody, and the people under
no discipline or government but my own, who, though I
had influence over them as a father and benefactor, had no
authority or power to act or command one way or other,
further than voluntary consent moved them to comply.
Yet even this, had I stayed there, would have done well
enough; but as I rambled from them, and came there no
more, the last letters 1 had from any of them were by my
partner's means, who afterward sent another sloop to the
plaoe, and who sent me word, though I had not the letter
till I got to London, several years after it was written, that
they went on but poorly, were discontented with their long
stay there: that Will Atkins was dead, that five of the
Spaniards were come away; and though they had not been
much molested by the savages, yet they had had some
skirmishes with them; and that they begged of him to
write to me to think of the promise I had made to fetch
them away, that they might see their country again before
they died.
But I was gone a wild-goose chase, indeed! and they
that will have any more of me must be content to follow
me into a new variety of follies, hardships, and wild ad-
ventures, wherein the justice of Providence may be duly
observed; and we may see how easily Heaven can gorge us
with our own desires, make the strongest of our wishes
be onr affliction, and punish us most severely with those
'very things which we think it would be our utmost happi-
ness to be allowed to possess. Whether I had business or
no business, away I went: it is no time now to enlarge
upon the reason or absurdity of my own conduct, but to
come to the history—I was embarked for the voyage, and
the voyage 1 went.
I shall only add a word or two concerning my honest
Popish clergyman—for let their opinion of us, and all
other heretics in general, as they call us, be as uncharitable
as it may, 1 verily believe this man was very sincere, and
wished the good of ail men: yet I believe he used reserve
in many of his expressions, to prevent giving me offense;
for I scarce heard him once call on the Blessed Virgin, or
mention St. Jago, or his guardian angel, though so com-
mon with the rest of them. However, 1 say 1 had not the
least doubt of his sincerity and pious intentions: and I am
firmly of opinion, if the rest of the Popish missionaries
were like him, they would strive to visit even the*poor
Tartars and Laplanders, where they have nothing to give
them, as well as covet to flock to India, Persia, China,
etc., the most wealthy of the heathen countries; for if they
expected to bring no gains to their church by it, it may
well be admired how they came to admit the Chinese Con'
f ucins into the calendar of the Christian saints.
A ship being ready to sail for Lisbon, my pious priest
asked me leave to go. thither; being still, as he observed,
bound never to finish any voyage he began. How happy
it had been for me if 1 had gone with him. But it was
too late now; all things Heaven appoints for the best: had
I gone with him I had never had so many things to be
thankful for, and the reader had never heard of the SBeond
part of the travels and adventures of Robinson Crusoe: so
I must here leave exclaiming at myself, and go on with my
voyage. From the Brazils we made directly over the
Atlantic Sea to the Cape of Good Hope, and had a toler-
ably good voyage, our course generally south-east, now and
then a storm, and some contrary winds; but my disasters
at sea were at an end—my future rubs and cross events
were to befall me on shore, that it might appear the land
was as well prepared to be our scourge as the sea.
-Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had a supercargo
on board, who was to direct all her motions after she
arrived at the Cape, only being limited to a certain number
of days for stay, by charter-party, at the several ports
she was to go to. This was none of my business, neither
did I meddle with it; my nephew, the captain, and the
supercargo adjusting all those things between them as they
thought fit. We stayed at the Cape no longer than was
needful to take in fresh water, but made the best of our
way for the coast of Coromaudel. We were indeed in-
formed that a French man-of-war, of fifty guns, and two
large merchant ships, were gone for the Indies; and as 1
knew we were at war with France, I had some apprehen-
sions of them; but they went their own way, and we heard
no more them.
I shall not pester, the reader with a tedious description of
places, journals of our voyage, variations of the compass,
latitudes, trade-winds, etc.; it is enough to name the ports
and places which we touched at, and what occurred to ns
upon our passage from one to another. We touched first at
the island of Madagascar, where, though the people are
fierce and treacherous, and very well armed with lances
and bows,"which they use with inconceivable dexterity, yet
we fared very well with them awhile. They treated us
very civilly; and for some trifles which we gave them, such
as knives, scissors, etc., they brought us eleven good fat
bullocks, of a middling size, which we took in, partly for
fresh provisions for our present spending, and the rest to
salt for the ship's use.
We were obliged to stay here .some time after we had fur-
nished ourselves with provisions; and I, who was always
too curious to look into every nook of the world wherever I
came, went on shore as often as 1 could. It was on the
east side of the island that we went on shore one evening:
and the people, who, by the way. are very numerous, came
thronging about us, and stood gazing at us at a distance.
As we had traded freely with them, and had been kindly
used, we thought ourselves in no danger; but when we saw
the people, we cut three boughs out of a tree, and stuck
them up at a distance from us; which, it seems, is a mark
in that country not only of a truce and friendship, but when
it is accepted the other side set up three poles or boughs,
which is a signal that they accept the truce too; but then
this is a known condition of the truce, that you are not to
pass beyond their three poles toward them, nor they to
come past your three poles or boughs toward you; so that
you are perfectly secure within the three poles, and all the
space between your poles and theirs is allowed like a mar-
ket for free converse, traffic, and commerce. When you
go there you must not carry your weapons with you; and
if they come into that space they stick up their javelins
and lances all at the first poles, and conie on unarmed;
but if any violence is offered them, and the truce thereby
broken, away they run to the poles, and lay held of their
weapons, and the truce is at an end.
It happened one evening, when we went on shore, that
a greater number of their people came down than usual,
but all very friendly and civil; and they brought several
kinds of provisions, for which we satisfied them with such
toys as we had; the women also brought us milk and roots,
and several things very acceptable to us, and all was quiet;
and we made us a little tent or hut of some boughs or
trees, and lay on shore all. night. I know not what was
the occasion, but 1 was not so well satisfied to lie on shore
as the rest; and the boat riding at an anchor at about
a stone's cast from the land, with two men in her to take
care of her, 1 made one of them come on shore; and get-
ting some boughs of trees to cover us also in the boat, I
spread the sail on the bottom of the boat, and lay under
the cover of the branches of the trees all night in the boat.
About two o'clock in„ihe morning we neard one of our
men making a terrible noise on the shore, calling out, for
God's sake, to bring the boat in, and come and help them,
for they were all like to be murdered; at the same time I
heard the fire of five muskets, which was the number of
gun* they had, and that three times over; for it seems the
natives here were not so easily frightened with guns as the
savages were in America, where I had to do with them.
. All this while 1 knew not what was the matter, but rous-
ing immediately from sleep with the noise, I caused the
boat to be thrust in, and resolved, with three fusees we had
on board, to land and assist our men. We got the boat
soon to the shore, but our men were in too much haste;
for being come to the shore, they plunged, into the water,
to get to the boat with all the expedition they could, being
pursued by between three and four kundred men. Our
men were but nine in all, and only five of them had fusees
with them; the rest had pistols and swords, indeed, but
they were of small use to them.
We took up seven of our men, and with difficulty
enough too, three of them being very ill wounded; and
that which was still worse was, that while we stood in the
boat to take our men in, we were in as much danger as
they were in on shore; for they poured their arrows in
upon us so thick that we were glad to barricade the side of
the boat up with the branches, and two or three loose
boards, which, to our great satisfaction, we had by mere
accident in the boat. And yet, had it been daylight, they
are, it seems, such exact marksmen, that if they could
have seen but the least part of any of us, they would have
been sure of us. We had, by the light of the moon, a
little sight of them, as they stood pelting us from the shore
with darts and arrows; and having got ready our fire-arms,,
we gave them a volley, that we could heari by the cries of
some of them, had wounded several; however, they stood
thus in battle array on the shore till break ef day, which
we supposed was that they might see the better to taket
their aim at us.
In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to weigh
our anchor, or set up our sail, because we must needs stand
up in the boat, and they were as sure to hit us as we were.
to hit a bird in a tree with small shot. We made signals
of distress to the ship, and though she rode a league off,
yet my nephew, the captain, hearing our firing, and by
glasses perceiving the posture we lay in, and that we fired
toward the shore, pretty well understood us; and weighing
anchor with all speed, he stood as near the shore as he
durst with the ship, and then sent another boat, with ten
hands inJ»3r, to assist us. We called to them hot to come
too near, telling them what condition wo were in; however,
they stood in near to us, and one of the men taking the
end of a tow-line in his hand, and keeping one boat be-
tween him and the enemy, so that they could not perfectly
see him, swam on board us, and made fast the line to the
boat: upon which we slipped out a little cable, and leaving
our anchor behind, they towed us out of reach of the
arrows; we all the while lying close behind the barricado
we had made. As soon as we were got from between the
ship and the shore, that we could lay her side to the shore,
she ran along just by them, and poured in a broadside
among them, loaded with pieces of iron and lead, small
bullets, and such stuff, besides the great shot, which made
a terrible havoc among them.
When we were got on board, and out of danger, we had
time to examine into the occasion of this fray; and, indeed,
our supercargo, who had been often in those parts, put me
upon it; for he said he was sure the inhabitants would not
have touched us after we had made a truce, if we had not
done something to provoke them to it. At length it came
out that an old woman, who had come to sell us some
milk, had brought it within our poles, and a young woman
with her, who also brought some roots or herbs; and while
the old womau (whether she was mother to the young
woman or no they could not tell) was selling us the milk,
one of our men offered some rudeness to the girl that was
with her, at which the old woman made a great noise:
however, the seaman would not quit his prize, but carried
her out of the old woman's sight among the trees, it being
almost dark; the old woman went away without her, and,
as we may suppose, made an outcry among the people she
came from; who, upon notice, raised that great army upon
us in three or four hours, and it was great odds but we
had all been destroyed.
One of our men was killed with a lance thrown at him
just at the beginning of the attack, as he sallied out of the
tent they had made; the rest came off free, all but the
fellow who was the occasion of all the mischief, who paid
dear enough for his brutality, for we could not hear what
became of him for a great while. We lay upon the shore
two days after, though the wind presented, and made sig-
nals for him, and made our boat sail up shore and down
shore several leagues, but in vain; so we were obliged to
give him over; and if he alone had suffered for it, the loss
had been less. I could not satisfy myself, however, with-
out venturing on shore once more, to try if 1 could learn
anything of him or them; it was the third night after the
action that I had a great mind to learn, if 1 could by any
means, what mischief we had done, and how the game
stood on the Indians' side. I was careful to do it in the
dark, lest we should be attacked again: but 1 ought, in-
deed, to have been sure that the men 1 went with had been
under my command, before 1 engaged in a thing so
hazardous and mischievous as I was brought into by it,
without design.
We took twenty as stout fellows with us as any in the
ship, besides the supercargo and myself, and we landed two
hours before midnight, at the same place where the Indians
stood drawn up in the evening before. I landed here, be-
cause my design, as I have said, was chiefly to see if they
had quitted the field, and if they had left any marks behind
them of the mischief we had done them, and I thought if
we could surprise one or two of them, perhaps we might
get our man again, by way of exchange.
We landed without any noise, and divided our men into
two bodies, whereof the boatswain commanded one and I
the other. We neither saw nor heard anybody stir when
we landed: and we marched up, one body at a distance
from another, to the place. At first we could see nothing,
it being very dark; till by and by our boatswain, who led
the first party, stumbled and fell over a dead body. This
made them halt awhile; for knowing by the circumstances
that they were at the place where the Indians had stood,
they waited for u*y coming up there. We concluded to
halt till the moon began to rise, which we knew would be in
less than an hour, when we could easily discern the havoc
we had made among them. We told thirty-two bodies
upon the ground, whereof two were not quite dead; some
had an arm, and some a leg shot off, and one his head; those
that were wounded, we supposed, they had carried away.
When we had made, as I thought, a full discovery of all
we could come to the knowledge of, I resolved on going
on board; but the boatswain and his party sent me word
that they were resolved to make a visit to the Indian town,
where these dogs, as they called them, dwelled, and asked
me to go along with them; and if they could find them, as
they still fancied they should, they did not doubt of getting
a good booty; and it might be they might find Tom Jeffry
there: that was the man's name we had lost
.
Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well enough
what answer to have given them; for I should have com-
manded them instantly on board, knowing it was not a
hazard fit for us to run, who had a ship and ship-loading
in our charge, and a voyage to make which depended very
much upon, the lives of the men; but as they sent me word
they were resolved to go, and only asked me and my com-
pany to go along with them, I positively refused it, and
rose up, for I was sitting on the ground, in order to go to
the boat. One or two of the men began to importune me
to go; and when I refused, began to grumble, and say they
were not under my command, and they would go.
"Come, Jack," says one of the men, " will you go with
me? I'll go for one." Jack said he would—and then
another—and, in a word, they all left me but one, whom 1
persuaded to stay, and a boy left in the boat. So the
"supercargo and I, with the third man, went back to the
boat, where we told them we would stay for them, and
take care to take in as many of them as should be left; for
1 told them it was a mad thing they were going about,
and supposed most of them would have the fate of Tom
Jeffry.
They told me, like seamen, they would warrant it they
would come off again, and they would take care, etc.; so
away they went. I entreated them to consider the ship
and the voyage, that their lives were not their own, and
that they were intrusted with the voyage, in some meas-
ure; that if they miscarried, the ship might be lost for
want of their help, and that they could not answer for it
to God or man. But I might as well have talked to the
mainmast of the ship: they were mad upon their journey;
only they gave me good words, and begged I would not be
angry; that they did not doubt but they would be back
again in about an hour at furthest; for the Indian town,
they said, was not above half a mile off, though they found
it above two miles before they got to it.
Well, they all went away, and though the attempt was
desperate, and such as none but madmen would have gone
about, yet, to give them their due, tliey went about it as
warily as boldly; they were gallantly armed, for they had
every man a fusee or musket, a bayonet, and a pistol; some
of them had broad cutlasses, some of them had hangers,
and the boatswain and two more had pole-axes; besides all
which they had among them thirteen hand greuadoes.
Bolder fellows, and better provided, never went about any
wicked work in the world. When they went out their
chief design was plunder, and they were in mighty hopes
of finding gold there; but a circumstance which none of
them were aware of set them on fire with revenge, and
made devils of them all.
When they came to the few Indian houses which they
thought had been the town, which was not above half a
mile off, they were under great disappointment, for there
were not above twelve or thirteen houses, and where the
town was, or how big, they knew not. They consulted,
therefore, what to do, and were some time before they
could resolve; for if they fell upon these, they must cut
all their throats; and it was ten to one but some of them
might escape, it being in the night, though the moon was
np; and if one escaped, be would run and raise all the
town, so they should have a whole army upon them; on
the other hand, if they went away and left those un-
touched, for the people were all asleep, they could not tell
which way to look for the town: however, the last was the
best advice, so they resolved to leave them, and look for
the town as well as they could. They went on a little
way, and found a cow tied to a tree; this, they presently
concluded, would be a good guide to them; for, they said,
the cow certainly belonged to the town before them, or the
town behind them, and if they untied her, they should see
which way she went: if she went back, they had nothing
to say to her; but if she went forward, they would follow
her. So they cut the cord, which was made of twisted
flags, and the cow went on before them, directly to the
town; which, as they reported, consisted of above two
hundred houses or huts, and in some of these they found
several families living together.
Here they found all in silence, as profoundly secure as
sleep could make them: and, first, they called another
council, to consider what they had to do; and presently re-
solved to divide themselves into three bodies, and so set
three houses on fire in three parts of the town; and as the
men came out, to seize them and bind them (if any re-
sisted, they need not be asked what to do then), and so to
search the rest of the houses for plunder: but they resolved
to march silently first through the town, and see what
dimensions it was of, and if they might venture upon it or
no:
They did so, and desperately resolved that they would
venture upon them: but while they were animating one
another to the work, three of them, who were a little be-
fore the rest, called out aloud to them, and told them that
they had found Tom Jeffry: they all ran up to the place,
where they found the poor fellow hanging up naked by
one arm, and his throat cut. There was an Indian house
just by the tree, where they found sixteen or seventeen of
the principal Indians, who had been concerned in the fray
with us before, and two or three of them wounded with our
shot; and our men found they were awake, and talking
one to another in that house, but knew not their number.
The sight of their poor mangled comrade so enraged
them, as before, that they swore to one another that they
would be revenged, and that not an Indian that came into
their hands should have any quarter; and to work tLiy
went immediately, and yet not so madly as might be ex-
pected from th» rage and fury they were in. Their first
care was to get something that would soon take fire, but,
after a little search, they found that would be to no pur-
pose; for most of the houses tvere low, and thatched with
flags and rushes, of which the country is full; so ihey
presently made some wildfire, as we call it, by wetting a
little powder in the palm of their hands, and in a quarter
of an hour they set the town on fire in four or five places,
and particularly that house where the Indians were not
gone to bed.
As soon as the fire began to blaze, the poor frightened
creatures began to rush out to save their lives, but met
with their fate in the attempt; and especially at the door,
where they drove them back, the boatswain himself killing
oie or two with his pole-ax. The house being large, and
14
many in it, he did Dot care to go in, but called for a hand
grenado, and threw it among them, which at first fright-
ened them, but, when it burst, made such havoc among
them that they cried out in a hideous manner. In short,
most of the Indians who were in the open part of the house
were killed or hurt with the grenado, except two or three
more who pressed to the door, which the boatswain and.
two more kept, with their bayonets on the muzzles of their
pieces, and dispatched all that came in their way; but there
was another apartment in the house, where the prince or
king, or whatever be was, and several others, were; and
these were kept in till the house, which was by this time
all in a light flame, fell in upon them, and they were
smothered together.
All this while they fired not a gun, because they would
not waken the people faster than they could master them;
but the fire began to waken them fast enough, and our
fellows were glad to keep a little together in bodies; foi
the fire grew so raging, all the houses being madp of light
combustible stuff, that they could hardly bear the street
between them. Their business was to follow the fire, for
the sure execution: as fast as the fire either forced the
people out of those houses which were burning, or fright-
ened them out of others, our people were ready at their
doors to knock them on the head, still calling and halloo-
ing oue to another to remember Tom JeB'ry.
While this was doing, I must confess 1 was very aneasy,
and especially when I saw the flames of the town, which,
it being night, seemed to be close by me. My nephew, the
captain, who was roused by his men seeing such a fire, was
very uneasy, not knowing what the matter was, or what
danger I was in, especially hearing the guns too, for by this
time they began to use their fire-arms; a thousand
thoughts oppressed his mind concerning me and the
supercargo, what would become of us; and at last, though,
he could ill spare any more men, yet not knowing what
exigence we might be in, he took another boat, and with
thirteen men and himself came ashore to me.
He was surprised to see me and the supercargo in the
boat with no more than two men; and though he was glad
that we were well, yet.he was in the same impatience with
us to know what was doing; for the noise continued, and
the flame increased; in short, it was next to an impossi-
bility for any men in the world to restrain their curiosity
to know what had happened, or their concern for the safety
of the men: in a word, the captain told me he would go
and help his men, let what would come. I argued with
him, as I did before with the men, the safety of the ship,
the danger of the voyage, the interest of the owners and
merchants, etc., and told him I and the two men
would go, and only see if we could at a distance learn what
was likely to be the event, and come back and tell him. It
was in vain to talk to my nephew, as it was to talk to the
rest before; he would go it, he said; and he only wished he
had only left but ten men in the ship, for he could not
think of having his men lost for want of help; he had
rather lose the ship, the voyage, and his life, and all;
and away he went.
1 was no more able to stay behind now than I was to
persuade them not to go; so the captain ordered two men
to row back the pinnace, and fetch twelve men more, leav-
ing the long-boat at an alienor; and that, when they came
back, six men should keep the two boats, and six more
come after us; so that he left only sixteen men in the ship;
for the whole ship's company consisted of sixty-five men,
whereof two were lost in the late quarrel which brought
this mischief on.
Being now on the march, we felt little of the ground we
trod on; and being guided by the lire, we kept no path,
but went directly to the place of the flame. If the noise
of the guns was surprising to us before, the cries of the
poor people were now quite of another nature, and filled
us with horror. I must confess 1 was never at the sacking
a city, or at the taking a town by storm. 1 had heard of
Oliver Cromwell taking Drogheda, in Ireland, and killing
man, woman, and child; and 1 had read of Count Tilly
sacking the city of Magdeburg and cutting the throats of
twenty-two thousand of all sexes; but 1 never had an idea
of the thing itself before, nor is it possible to describe it,
er the horror that was upon our minds at hearing it. How-
ever, we went on, and at length came to the town, though
there was no entering the streets of it for the fire. The
first object we met with was the ruins of a hut or house,
or rather the ashes of it, for the house was consumed: and
just before it, plainly now to be seen by the light of the
fire, lay four men and three women, killed, and as w»
thought, one or two more lay in the heap among the fire)
in short, there were such instances of rage, altogether bar-
barous, and of a fury something beyond what was human>
that we thought it impossible our men could be guilty of
it; or, if they were the authors of it, we thought they
•ught to be every one of them put to the worst of deaths.
But this was not all: we saw the fire increase forward, and
the cry went on just as the fire went on; so that we were in
the utmost confusion. We advanced a little way further,
and behold, to our astonishment, three naked women, and
crying in a most dreadful manner, came flying as if they had
wings, and after them sixteen or seventeen men, natives,
in the same terror and consternation, with three of our
English butchers in the rear, who, when they could not
overtake them, fired in among them, and one that was
killed by their shot fell down in our sight. When the rest
saw us, believing us to be their enemies, and that we would
murder them as well as those that pursued them, they set
up a most dreadful shriek, especially the women; and two
of them fell down, as if already dead, with the fright.
My very soul shrunk within me, and my blood ran chill
in my veins, when I saw this; and, I believe, had the three
English sailors that pursued them come on, I had made
our men kill them all; however, we took some means to
let the poor flying creatures know that we would not hurt
them; and immediately they came up to us, and kneeling
down, with their hands lifted up, made piteous lamentation
to us to save them, which we let them know we would;
whereupon they crept all together in a huddle close behind
us for protection. 1 left my men drawn up together, and,
charging them to hurt nobody, but, if possible, to get at
some of our people, and see what devil it was possessed
them, and what they intended to do, and to command
them off; assuring them that if they stayed till daylight
they would have a hundred thousand men about their ears:
1 say I left them, and went among those flying people,
taking only two of our men with me; and there was, in-
deed, a piteous spectacle among them. Some of them had
their feet terrible burned with trampling and running
through the fire; others their hands burned; one of the
women had fallen down in the fire, and was very much
burned before she could get out again; and two or three oi
the men had cuts in their backs and thighs, from our men
pursuing; and another was shot through the body, and
died while I was there.
I would fain have learned what the occasion of all this
was; but I could not understand one word they said;
though, by signs, I perceived some of them knew not what
was the occasion themselves. 1 was so terrified in my
thoughts at this outrageous attempt that 1 could not stay
there, but went back to my own men, and resolved to go
into the middle of the town, through the fire, or whatever
might be in the way, and put an end to it, cost what it
would; accordingly, as 1 came back to my men, I told
them my resolution, and commanded them to follow me,
when, at the very moment, came four of our men, with
the boatswain at their head, roving over heaps of bodies
they had killed, all covered with blood and dust, as if they
wanted more people to massacre, when our men hallooed
to them as loud as they could halloo; and with much ado
one of them made them hear, so that they knew who we
were, and came up to us.
As soon as the boatswain saw us, he set up a halloo like
a shout of trinmph, for having, as he thought, more help
come; and, without waiting to hear me, " Captain," says
he, " noble captain! 1 am glad you are come; we have not
half done yet. Villainous, hell-hound dogs! I'll kill as
many of them as poor Tom has hairs upon his head: we
have swcrn to spare none of them; we'll root out the very
nation at them from the earth;" and thus he ran on, out
of breath, too, with action, and would not give us leave to
speak a word. At last, raising my voice, that I might
silence'him a little, "Barbarous dog!" said I, " what are
you doing? I won't have one creature touched mora,
upon pain of death; 1 charge you, upon your life, to stop
your Bands, and stand still here, or you are a dead man
this minute." "Why, sir," says he, "do you know what
you do, or what they have done? If you want a reason for
what we have done, come hither;" and with that he showed
me the poor fellow hanging with his throat cut.
I confess I was urged then myself, and at another time
would have been forward enough; but I thought they had
carried theirrago too far, and remembered Jacob's words
to his sons Simeon and Levi: "Cursed be their anger, for
it was fierce; and their wrath, for it was cruel." But I
had now a new task upon my hands; for when the men I
carried with me saw the sight, as I had done, 1 had ft*
much to do to restrain them as 1 should have had with the
others; nay, my nephew himself fell in with them, and
told me, in their hearing, that he was only concerned for
fear of the men being overpowered; and as to the people,
he thought not one of them ought to live; for they had all
glutted themselves with the murder of the poor man, and
that they ought to be used like murderers. Upon theie
words, away ran eight of my men, with the boatswain and
his crew, to complete their bloody work; and I, seeing it
quite out of my power to restrain them, came away pensive
and sad; for I could not bear the sight, much less the hor-
rible noise and cries of the poor wretches that fell into
their hands.
I got nobody to come back with me but the supercargo
and two men, and with these walked back to the boat. It
was a very great piece of folly in me, I confess, to venture
oack, as it were, alone; for as it began now to be almoei
day, and the alarm had run over the country, there stood
about forty men armed with lances and bows at the little
place where the twelve or thirteen houses stood mentioned
before: but by accident I missed the place, and came directly
to the sea-side, and by the time I got to the sea-side it was
broad day: immediately 1 took the pinnace and went on
board, and sent her back to assist the men in what might
happen. I observed, about the time that 1 came to the
boat-side, that the fire was pretty well out, and the noise
abated; but in about half an hour after 1 got on board, I
heard a volley of our men's fire-arms, and saw a great
smoke. This, as I understood afterward, was our men
falling upon the men who, as I said, stood at the few
houses on the way, of whom they killed sixteen or seven-
teen, and set all the houses on fire, but did not meddle
with the women or children.
By the time the men got to the shore again with the
pinnace our men began to appear; they came dropping in,
not in two bodies as they went, but straggling here and
there in such a manner that a small force of resolute men
might have cut them all off. But the dread of them was
upon the whoie country; and the men were surprised, and
so frightened, that I believe a hundred of them would have
fled at the sight of but five of our men. Nor in all this
terrible action was there a man that made any considerable
defense: they were so surprised between the terror of the
fire and the sudden attack of our men in the dark, thai,
they knew not which way to turn themselves; for if they
fled one way they were met by one party, if back again by
another, so that they were everywhere knocked ddwn; nor
did any of our men receive the least hurt, except one that
sprained his foot, and another that had one of his hands
burned.
SECTION XXXVIII.
Difference with My Nephew on Account of the Cruelties Prac-
ticed at Madagascar.—Five Men Lost on the Arabian Shore, off
the Gulf of Persia.—The Seamen Refuse to Sail if I Continue
on Board, in Consequence of Which I am Left on Shore.—
Make a very Advantageous Trading Voyage, in Company with
an English Merchant, and Purchase a Vessel Which, it (urns
out, the Crew had Mutinied and ran away with.
I was very angry with my nephew, the captain, and,
indeed, with all the men, but with him in particular, as
well for his acting so out of his duty, as commander of the
ship, and having the charge of the voyage upon him, as in
his prompting, rather than cooling, the rage of his blind
men in so bloody and cruel an enterprise. My nephew
answered me very respectfully, but told me that when he
saw the body of the poor seaman whom they had murdered
in so cruel and barbarous a manner he was not master of
himself, neither could he govern his passion; he owned he
should not have done so, as he was commander of the ship;
but as he was a man, and nature moved him, he could not
bear it. As for the rest of the men, they were not subject
to me at all, and they knew it well enough; so they took
no notice of my dislike. The next clay we set sail, so we
never heard any more of it. Our men differed in the ac-
count of the number they had killed; but according to the
best of their accounts, put all together, they killed or de-
stroyed about one hundred and fifty people—men, women,
and children, and left not a house standing in the town.
As for the poor fellow Tom Jelfry, as he was quite dead
(for his throat was so cut that his head was half off), it
would do him no service to bring him away; so they only
took him down from the tree, where he was hanging by
one hand.
However just our men thought this action, I was against
them in it, and I always, after that time, told them God
would blast the voyage; for I looked upon all the blood
they shed that night to be murder in them. For though
it is true that they had killed Tom Jeffry, yet Jeffry was
the aggressor, had broken the truce, and had ill-used a
young woman of theirs, who came down to them inno-
seutly, and on the faith of the public capitulation.
The boatswain defended this quarrel when we were after-
ward on board. He said it was true that we seemed to
Vroak the truce, but really had not; and that the war was
begun the night before by the natives themselves, who had
shot at us, and killed one of our men without any just
provocation; so that as we were in a capacity to fight them
now, we might also be in a capacity to do ourselves justice
upon them in an extraordinary manner; that though the
poor man had taken a little liberty with the girl, he ought
not to have been murdered, and that in such a.villainous
manner; and that they did nothing but what was just and
what the laws of God allowed to be done to murderers.
One would think this should have been enough to have
warned us against going on shore among heathens and
barbarians; but it is impossible to make mankind wise but
at their own expense, and their experience seems to be
always of most use to them when it is dearest bought.
We were now bound to the Gulf of Persia, and from
thence to the coast of Coromandel, only to touch at Surat;
but the chief of the supercargo's design lay at the Bay of
Bengal; where, if he missed his business outward bound,
he was to go out to Chint), and return to the coast as he
came home. The first disaster that befell us was in the
Gulf of Persia, where five of our men, venturing on shora
on the Arabian side of the gulf, were surrounded by the
Arabians, aud either all killed or carried away into slavery;
the rest of the boat's crew were not able to rescue them,
and had but just time to get off their boat. I began to
upbraid them with the just retribution of Heaven in this
ease; but the boatswain very warmly told me, he thought
I went further in my censures than I could show any war-
rant for in Scripture; and referred to Luke xiii. 4, where
our Saviour intimates that those men on whom the Tower
of Siloam fell were not sinners above all the Galileans; but
that which put me to silence in the case was, that not one
of these five men who were now lost were of those who
went on shore to the massacre of Madagascar, so I always
called it, though our men could not bear to hear the word
massacre with any patience.
But my frequent preaching to them on this subject had
worse consequences than 1 expected; and the boatswain,
who had been the head of the attempt, came up boldly to
me one time, and told me he found that I brought that
affair continually upon the stage; that I made unjust re-
flections upon it, and had used the men very ill on that
account, and himself in particular; that as 1 was but a
passenger, and had no command in the ship, or concern
in the voyage, they were not obliged to bear it; that they
did not know but I might have some ill design in my head,
and perhaps to call them to an account for it when they
came to England; and that, therefore, unless I would re-
solve to have done with it, and also not to concern myself
any further with him, or any of his affairs, he would leave
the ship; for he did not think it safe to sail with me among
them.
I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and then
told him that I confessed I had all along opposed the mas-
sacre of Madagascar, and that I had, on all occasions,
spoken my mind freely about it, though not more upon
him than any of the rest; that as to having no command
in the ship, that was true; nor did I exercise any authority,
only took the liberty of speaking my mind in things which
publicly concerned us all; and what concern 1 had in the
voyage was none of his business; that I was a considerable
owner in the ship. In that claim I conceived I had a right
to speak even further than I had done, and would not be
accountable to him or any one else, and began to be a little
warm with him. He made but little reply to me at that
time, and I thought the affair had been over. We were at
this time in the road at Bengal; and being willing to see
the place, I went on shore with the supercargo in the ship's
boat to divert myself; and toward evening was preparing
to go on board, when one of the men came to me, and
told me he would not have me trouble myself to come
down to the boat, for they had orders not to carry me on
board any more. Any one may guess what a surprise I
was in at so insolent a message; and 1 asked the man who
nude him deliver that message to me. He told me the
-.,vukswain.
I immediately found out the supercargo, and told him
the story, adding that 1 foresaw thero would be a mutiny
in the ship; and entreated him to go immediately on board
and acquaint the captain of it. But I might have spared
this intelligence, for before I had spoken to him on shore
the matter was effected on board. The boatswain, the
gunner, the carpenter, and all the inferior officers, as soon
as I was gone off in the boat, came up, and desired to speak
with the captain; and then the boatswain, making a long
harangue, and repeating all he had said to me, told the
captain that as I was now gone peaceably on shore, they
were loath to use any violence with me, which, if I had not
gone on shore, they would otherwise have done, to oblige
me to have gone. They, therefore, thought St to tell him
that as they shipped themselves to serve in the ship under
his command, they would perform it well abd faithfully;
but if I would not quit the ship, or the captain oblige me
to quit it, they would all leave the ship, and sail no fur-
ther with him; and at that word all he turned his face
toward the mainmast, which was, it seems, a signal agreed
on, when the seamen, being got together there, cried out,
"One and all! one and all!"
My nephew, the captain, was a man of spirit, and of
great presence of mind; and though he was surprised, yet
he told them calmly that he would consider of the matter;
but that he could do nothing in it till he had spoken to me
about it. He used some arguments with them, to show
them the unreasonableness and injustice of the thing—but
it was all in vain; they swore, and shook hands round be-
fore his face, that they would all go on shore unless he
would engage to them not to suffer me to come any more
on board the ship.
This was a hard article upon him, who knew his obliga-
tion to me, and did not know how I might take it. So he
began to talk smartly to them; told them that I was a very
considerable owner of tne ship, and that if ever they came
to England again it would cost them very dear; that i,jc
ship was mine, and that he could not put me out of it; and
that he would rather lose the ship, and the voyage too,
than disoblige me so much: so they might do as they
pleased. However, he would go on shore and talk with
me, and invited the boatswain to go with him, and per-
haps they might accommodate the matter with me. But
they all rejected the proposal, and said they would have
nothing to do with me any more; and if I came on board
they would all go on shore. "Well," said the captain,
"if you are all of this mind, let me go on shore and talk
with him." So away he came to me with this account, a
little after the message had been brought to me from the
cockswain.
I was very glad to see my nephew, I must confess; for
I was not without apprehensions that they would confin*
him by violence, set sail, and run away with the ship; and
then I had been stripped naked in a remote country, hav-
ing nothing to help myself; in short, I had been in a worse
case than when I was alone in the island. But they had
not come to that length, it seems, to my satisfaction; and
when my nephew told me what "they had said to him, and
how they had sworn and shook hands that they would, one
and all, leave the ship if I was suffered to come on board,
1 told him he should not be concerned at it at all, for I
would stay on shore. 1 only desired he would take care
and send me all my necessary things on shore, and leave
me a sufficient sum of money, and I would find my way to
England as well as 1 could. This was a heavy piece of
news to my nephew, but there was no way to help it but
to comply; so, in short, he went on board the ship again,
and satisfied the men that his uncle had yielded to their
importunity, and had sent for his goods from on board the
ship; so that the matter was over in a few hours, the men
returned to their duty, and I began to consider what course
I should steer.
I was now alone in a most remote part of the world, for
I was nearly three thousand leagues by sea further off from
England than I was at my island; only, it is true, I might
travel here by land over the Great Mogul's country to
Surat, might go from thence to'Bassora by sea, up the
Gulf of Persia, and take the way of the caravans, over the
desert of Arabia, to Aleppo and Scanderoon; from thence
by sea again to Italy, and so overland into France. I had
another, way before me, which was to wait for some English
ships, which were coming to Bengal from Achin, on the
island of Sumatra, and get passage on board them for
England. But as I came hither without any concern with
the East Indian Company, so it would be difficult to go
from hence without their "license, unless with great favor
of the captains of the ships, or the Company's factors; and
to both I was an utter stranger.
Here I had the mortification to see the ship set sail
without me; however, my nephew left me two servants, or
rather one companion and one servant; the first was clerk
to the purser, whom he engaged to go with me, and fthe
other was his own servant. I then took a good lodging in
the house of an English woman, where several merchants
lodged, some French, two Italians, or rather Jews, and
one Englishman. Here I stayed above nine months, con-
sidering what course to take. I had some English gooda
with me of value, and a considerable sum of money; my
nephew furnishing me with a thousand pieces of eight, and
a letter of credit for more, if I had occasion, that I might
not be straitened, whatever might happen. I quickly dis-
posed of my goods to advantage; and, as 1 originally in-
tended, I bought here some very good diamonds, which, of
all other things, were the most proper for me in my pres-
ent circumstances, because 1 could always carry my whole
estate about me.
During my stay here many proposals were made for my
return to England, but none falling out to my mind, the
English merchant who lodged with me, and whom I had
contracted an intimate acquaintance with, came to me one
morning, saying: "Countryman, I have a project to com-
municate, which, as it suits with my thoughts, may, for
aught I know, suit with yours also, when you shall have
thoroughly considered it. Here we are posted, you by ac-
cident and I by my own choice, in a part of the world very
remote from our own country; but it is in a country where,
by us who understand trade and business, a great deal of
money is to be got. If you will put one thousand pounds
to one thousand pounds, we will hire a ship here, the first
we can get to our minds. You shall be captain, I'll be
merchant, and we'll go a trading voyage to China; for
what should we stand still for? The whole world is in
motion; why should we be idle?"
1 liked this proposal very well; and the more so because
it seemed to be expressed with so much good will. In my
loose, unhinged circumstances, I was the fitter to embrace
a proposal for trade, or indeed anything else. 1 might
perhaps say with some truth, that if trade was not my ele-
ment, rambling was; and no proposal for seeing any part
of the world which I had never seen before could possibly
come amiss to me. It was, however, some time before we
could get a ship to our minds, and when we had got a
lessel, it was not easy to get English sailors—that is to
say, so many as were necessary to govern tht voyage and
manage the sailors which we should pick up there. After
some time we got a mate, a boatswain, and a gunner, En-
glish; a Dutch carpenter, and three foremast men. With
these we found we could do well enough, having Indian
seamen, such as they were, to make up.
When all was ready we set sail for Achin, in the.island
of Sumatra, and from thence to Siam, where we exchanged
some of our wares for opinm and some arrack; the first a
commodity which bears a great price among the Chinese,
and which at that time was much wanted there. Then we
went up to Suskan, were eight months out, and on our
return to Bengal I was very well satisfied with my advent-
ure. Our people in England often admire how officers,
which the Company send into India, and the merchants
which generally stay there, get such very great estates as
they do, and sometime comes home worth sixty or seventy
thousand pounds at'a time; but it is little matter for won-
der, when we consider the innumerable ports and places
where they have a free commerce; indeed, at the ports
where the "English ships come there is such great and con-
stant demands for the growth of all other countries, that
there is a certain vent for the returns, as well as a market
abroad for the goods carried out.
I got so .much money by my first adventure, and such
an insight into the method of getting more, that had 1 been
twenty years younger, I should have been tempted to have
stayed here, and sought no further for making any fortune:
but what was all this to a man upward of threescore, that
was rich enough, and came abroad more in obedience to a
restless desire of seeing the world than a covetous desire of
gaining by it? A restless desire it really was, for when I
was at home 1 was restless to go abroad; and when I was
abroad I was restless to be at home. 1 say, what was this
gain to me? I was rich enough already, nor had I any un-
easy desires about getting more money; therefore the'profit
of the voyage to me was of no great force for the prompt-
ing me forward to further undertakings. Hence, I thought
that by this voyage I had made no progress at all, because
I was come back, as I might call it, to the place from
whence I came, as to a home: whereas, my eye, like that
which Solomon speaks of, was never satisfied with seeing.
I was come into a part of the world which I was never in
before, and that part, in particular, which I heard much
of, and wa»-resolved to see as much of it as I could: and
then I thought I might say 1 had seen all the world that
was worth seeing.
But my fellow-traveler and I had different notions; I
acknowledge his were the more suited to the end of a mer-
chant's life; who, when he ie abroad upon adventures, is
wise to stick to that, as the best thing for him, which he is
likely to get the most money by. On the other hand,
mine was the notion of a mad, rambling boy, that never
cares to see a thing twice over. But this was not all; I
had a kind of impatience upon me to be nearer home, and
yet an unsettled resolution which way to go. In the in-
terval of these consultations, my friend, who was always
upon the search for business, pioposed another voyage
among the Spice Islands, to bring home a loading of cloves
from the Manillas, or thereabouts.
We were not long in preparing for this voyage; the chief
difficulty was in bringing me to come into it. However,
at last, nothing else offering, and as sitting still, to me
especially, was the unhappiest part of life, I resolved on
this voyage too, which we made very successfully, touch-
ing at Borneo and several other islands, and came home in
about five months, when we sold our spices, with very
great profit, to the Persian merchants, who carried them
away to the gulf. My friend, when we made up this ac-
count, smiled at me: "Well, now," said he, with a sort of
friendly rebuke on my indolent temper, " is not this bet-
ter than walking about here, like a man with nothing to
do, and spending our time in staring at the nonsense and
ignorance of the pagans?" "Why, truly," said I, "my
friend, I think it is, and 1 begin to be a convert to the
principles of merchandising; but I must tell you, by the
way, you do not know what I am doing; for if 1 once con-
quer my backwardness, and embark heartily, old as 1 am,
I shall harass you up and down the world till 1 tire you;
for I shall pursue it so eagerly, I shall never let you lie
still."
!
SECTION XXXIX.
Make a Trading Voyage in Ihis Ship.—Put into the river of Cam-
bodia.—Am Warned of My Danger by a Countryman, in Conse-
quence of Which We Set Sail, and are Pursued.—Great Dif
nculty in Making Our Escape.
A little while'after this there came in a Dutch ship
from Batavia; she was a coaster, not an European trader,
of about two hundred tons burden; the men, as they pre-
tended, having been so sickly that the captain had not
hands enough to go to sea with, so he lay by at Bengal;
and having, it seems, got money enough, or being willing,
for other reasons, to go for Europe, he gave public notice
he would sell his ship. This came to my ears before my
new partuer heard of it, and I had a great mind to buy it;
so 1 went to him and told him of it. Be considered
awhile, for he was no rash man neither; and at last re-
plied, "She is a little too big; however, we will have
her." Accordingly, we bought the ship, aud agreeing
with the master, we paid for her, and took possession.
When we had done so we resolved to engage the men, if
we could, to join with those we had, for the pursuing our
business; but, on a sudden, they having received not their
wages, but their share of the money, as we afterward
learned, not one of them was to be found; we inquired
much about them, and at length were told that they were
all gone together by land to Agra, the great city of the
Mogul's residence, to proceed from thence to Surat, and
then go by sea to the Gulf of Persia.
Nothing had so much troubled me a good while as that
I should miss the opportunity of going with them; for such
a ramble, 1 thought, and in such company as would both
have guarded and diverted me, would have suited mightily
with my great design; and 1 should have both seen the
world and gone homeward too. But 1 was much better
satisfied a few days after, when I came to know what sort
of fellows they were; for, in short, their history (vas that
this man they called captain was the gunner only, not the
commander; that they had been a trading voyage, in which
they had been attacked on shore by some of the Malays,
who had killed the captain and three of his men; and that
after the captain was killed, these men, eleven in number,
having resolved to run away with the ship, brought her to
Bengal, leaving the mate and five men more on shore.
Well, let them get the ship how they would, we came
honestly by her, as we thought, though we did not, 1 con-
fess, examine into things so exactly as we ought; for wo
never inquired anything of the seamen, who would cer-
tainly have faltered in their account, and contradicted one
another. Somehow or other we should have had reason to
have suspected them; but the man showed us a bill of sale
for the ship, to one Emanuel Clostershoven, or some such
name, for 1 suppose it was all a forgery, and called him-
self by that name, and we could not contradict him; and
withal, having no suspicion of the thing, we went through
with our bargain. We picked up some more English
sailors here after this, and some Dutch, and now we re-
solved on a second voyage to the south-east for cloves, etc
—that is to say, among the Philippine and Molucca isles.
In short, not to fill up this part of my story with trifles
when what is to come is so remarkable, I spent, from first
to last, six years in this country, trading from port to port,
backward and forward^ and with very good success, and
was now the last year with my new partner, going in the
ship above mentioned on c voyage to China, but designing
first to go to Siam to buj rice.
In this voyag9, being by contrary winds obliged to beat
lid and down a great while in the Straits of Malacca and
"mong the islands, we were no sooner got clear of those
difficult seas than we found our ship had sprung a leak,
but could not discover where it was. This forced us to
make some port; and my partner, who knew the country
better than 1 did, directed the captain to putinto the river
of Cambodia; for 1 had made the English mate, one Mr.
Thompson, captain, not being willing to take the charge
of the ship upon myself. This river lies on the north side
of the great bay or gulf which goes up to Siam. While we
were here, and going often on shore for refreshment, there
comes to me one day an Englishman, a gunner's mate on
board an English East India ship, then riding in the same
river. "Sir," says he, addressing me, you are a
stranger to me, and I to you; but I have something to tell
you that very nearly concerns you. 1 am moved by the
imminent danger you are in, an£ for aught 1 see, you
have no knowledge of it." "I know no danger I am in,''
said I, "but that my ship is leaky, and I can not find it
out; but I intend to lay her aground to-morrow, to see if
1 can find it." "But, sir, says he, "leaky or not
leaky, you will be wiser than to lay your ship on shore to-
morrow when you hear what I have to say to you. Do
you know, sir," said he, " the town of Cambodia lies
about fifteen leagues up the river; and there are two large
English ships about five leagues on this side, and three
Dutch?" "Well," said I, "and what is that to me?"
"Why, sir," said he, "is it for a man that is upon such
adventures as you are to come into a port, and not ex-
amine first what ships there are there, and whether he is
abl* to deal with them? I suppose you do not think you
are a match for them?" I could not conceive what he
meant; and I turned short upon him, and said: "1 wish
you would explain yourself; I can not imagine what reason
I have to be afraid of any of the Company's ships, or Dutch
ships. I am no interloper. What can they nave to say
to me?" "Well, sir, says he, with a smile, "if you
think yourself secure, you must take your chance; but
take my advice, if you do not put to sea immediately, you
will the very next tide be attacked by five long-boats full
of men, and perhaps if you are taken, you will be hanged
for a pirate, and the particulars be examined afterward.
I thought, sir," added he, " I should have met with a bet-
ter reception than this for doing you a piece of service of
such importance." "I can never be ungrateful," said I,
"for any service, or to-'any man that otters me any kind-
ness; but it is past my comprehension what they should
have such a design upon me for; however, since you say
there is no time to be lost, and that there is some villain-
ous design on hand against me, 1 will go on board this
minute, and put to sea immediately, if my men can stop
the leak; but, sir," said 1, "shall I go away ignorant of
the cause of all this? Can you give me no further light
into it?"
"I can tell you but part of the story, sir," says he;
"but 1 have a Dutch seaman here with me, and I belieVe
I could persuade him to tell you the rest; but there is
scarce time for it. But the short of the story is this—the
first part of which I suppose you know well enough—that
you were with this ship at Sumatra; that there your caj>>
tain was murdered by the Malays, with three of his men;
and that you, or somo of those that were on board with
you, ran away with the ship, and are since turned pirates.
This is the sum of the story, and you will all be seized as
pirates, I can assure you, and executed with very little
ceremony; for you know merchant ships show but little
law to pirates if they get them into their power." "Now
you speak plain English," said I, "and I thank you; and
though I know nothing that we have done like what yon
talk of, for I am sure we came honestly and fairly by the
ship; yet seeing such a work is doing, as you say, and that
you seem to mean honestly, I will be upon my guard."
"Nay, sir," says he, "do not talk of being upon your
guard; the best defense is to be out of danger. If you
have any regard for your life and the lives of all your men,
put to sea without fail at high water; and as you have a
whole tide before you, you will be gone too far out before
they can come down; for they will come away at high water,
and as they have twenty miles to come, yo»>will get near
two hours of them by the difference of the tide, not reckon-
ing the length of the way; besides, as they are only boats,
and not ships, they will not venture to follow you far out
to sea, especially if it blows." "Well," said I, "you
have been very kind in this; what shall 1 do to make you
amends?" "Sir," says he, "you may not be willing to
make me any amends, because you may not be convinced
of the truth of it. I will make an offer to you; I have
nineteen months' pay due to me on board the ship' ,'
which 1 came out of England in; and the Dutchman that
is with me has seven months' pay due to him. If you will
iriake good our pay to us, we will go along with you; if
you find nothing more in it, we will desise no more; but
if we do convince you that we have saved your lives, and
the ship, and the lives of all the men in her, we will leave
the rest to you."
1 consented to this readily. »nd went immediately on
board, and the two men with me. As soon as I came to
the ship's side, my partner, who was on board, came out
on the quarter-deck, aud called to me, with a great deal
of ioy. We have stopped the leak—we have stopped the
leak!" "Say you so?" said I; "thank God! but weig!'
anchor, then, immediately." "Weigh!" says he; """hat
do you mean by that? What is the matter?" "Ask no
questions," said I; "but set all hands to work, and weigh
without losing a minute." He was surprised; however,
he called the captain, and he immediately ordered the an-
chor to be got up; and though the tide was not quite down,
yet a little land-breeze blowing,, we stood out to sea. Then
I called him into the cabin, and told him the story; and
we called in the men, and they told us the rest of it; but
as it took up a great deal of time, before we had done a
seaman comes to the cabin door, and called out to us that
the captain bade him tell us we Were chased by five sloops,
or boats, full of men. ""Very well," said I; " then it is
apparent there is something in it." 1 then ordered all
our men to be called up, and told them there was a design
to seize the ship, and take us for pirates, and asked them
if they would stand by us, and by one another; the men
answered cheerfully, one and all, that they would live and
die with us. Then 1 asked the captain what way he
thought best for us to manage a fight with them; for re-
sist them I was resolved we would, and that to the last
drop. He said readily that the way was to keep them off
with our great shot as long as we could, and then to use
our small arms, to keep them from boarding us; but when
neither of these would do any longer, we would retire to
our close quarters, for perhaps they had not materials to
break open our bulkheads, or get in upon us.
The gunner had, in the meantime, orders to bring two
giins, to bear fore and aft, out of the steerage, to clear the
deck, and load them with musket-bullets and small pieces
of old iron, and what came next to hand. Thus we made
ready for fight; but all this while we kept out to sea, with
wind enough, and could see the boats at a distance, being
five large long-boats, folloiving us with all the sail they
could make.
Two of those boats (which by our glasses we could see
were English) outsailed the rest, were near two leagues
ahead of them, and gained upon us considerably, so that
we found they would come up with us; upon which we
fired a gun without ball, to intimate that they should bring
to; and we put out a flag of truce, as a signal for parley;
but they came crowding after us till within shot, when we
took in our white flag, they having made no answer to it,
and hung out a red flag, and fired at them with a 6hot.
Notwithstanding this, they came on till they were near
enough to call to them with a speaking-trumpet, bidding
them keep off at their peril.
It was all one; they crowded after us, and endeavored to
come under our stern, bo as to board us on our quarter;
upon which, seeing they were resolute for mischief, and
depended upon the strength that followed them, I ordered
to bring the ship to, so that they lay upon our broadside;
when immediately we fired five guns at them, one of which
had been leveled so true as to carry away the stern of the
hindermost boat, and we then forced them to take down
their sail, and to^un all to the head of the boat, to keep
her from sinking; so she lay by, and had enough of it; but
seeing the foremost boat crowd on after us, we made ready
to fire at her in particular. While this was doing, one of
the three boats that followed made up to the boat which
we had disabled, to relieve her, and we could see her take
out the men. We then called again to the foremost boat,
and offered a truce, to parley again, and to know what her
business was with us; but had no answer, only she crowded
close under our stern. Upon this, our gunner, who was a
very dexterous fellow, ran out his two case-guns, and fired
again at her, but the shot missing, the men in the boat
shouted, waved their caps, and came on. The gunner,
getting quickly ready again, fired among them a second
time, one shot of which, though it missed the boat
itself, yet fell in among the men, and we could easily
see did a great deal of mischief among them. We now
wore the ship again, and brought our quarter to bear
upon them, and firing three guns more, we found the
boat was almost split to pieces; in particular, her rudder
and a piece of her stern were shot quite away; so they
handed her sail immediately, and were in great disorder.
To complete their misfortune, our gunner let fly two guns
at them again; where he hit them we could not tell, but
we found the boat was sinking, and some of the men
already in the water; upon this, I immediately manned
out our pinnace, with orders to pick up some of the men
if they could, and save them from drowning, and immedi-
ately come on board ship with them, because we saw the
rest of the boats began to come up. Our men in the
pinnace followed their orders, and took up three men, one
of whom was just drowning, and it was a good while be-
fore we could recover him. As soon as they were on board
we arowasd all the sail we ccuid make, and stood furthe:.
on* to the sea; and we found that when the other &oat:
cams up to the first, they gave over their chase.
Being thus delivered from a danger which, though '.'.
knew not the reason of it, yet seemed to be much greater
than I apprehended, I resolved that we should change oar
course, and not let any one know whither we were going;
so we stood out to sea eastward, quite out of the course of
all European ships, whether they were bound to China or
anywhere else, within the commerce of the European na-
tions. When we were at sea we began to consult with th?
two aeamen, and inquire what the meaning cf all thi.r
should be; and the Dutchman confirmed 'tbs fanner:
story about the false sale cf the ship and of the murder o_
the captain, and alsc hew tea.'' 'is. this Dutchman, an:
four more, got into the woods, where they wandered about
a great while, till- at length he made his escape, and swam
off to a Dutch ship, which was sailing near the shore on its
way from China.
He then told us that he went to Batavia, where two of
the seamen belonging to the ship arrived, having deserted
the rest in their travels, and gave an account that the fel-
low who had run away with the ship sold her at Bengal to
a set of pirates, who were gone a-cruising in her, and that
they had already taken an English ship and two Dutch
ships very richly laden. This latter part we found to con-
cern us directly, though we knew it to be false; yet, as my
partner said, very justly, if we had fallen into their hands,
and they had had such a prepossession against us before-
hand, it had been in vain for us to have defended our-
selves, or to hope for any good quarter at their hands;
especially considering that our accusers had been our
judges, and that we could have expected nothing from
them but what rage would have dictated and an ungov-
erned passion have executed. Therefore it was his opinion
we should go directly back to Bengal, from whence we
came, without putting in at any port whatever—because
there we could give a good account of ourselves, could
Erove where we were when the ship put in, of whom we
ought her, and the like; and what was more than all the
rest, if we were put upon the necessity of bringing it be-
fore the proper judges, we should be sure to have some
jostioe, and not to be hanged first and judged afterward.
I was some time of my partner's opinion; but after a
little more serious thinking, 1 told him 1 thought it was a
very great hazard for us to attempt returning to Bengal,
for that we were ou the wrong side of the Sira'ts of Ma-
lacca, and that if the alarm was given, we Bhould be sure
to be waylaid on every side—that if we should be taken,
as it were, running away, we should even condemn our.
selves, and there would want no more evidence to destroy
us. I also asked the English sailor's opinion, who said he
was of my mind, and that we should certainly be taken.
This danger a little startled my partner and all the ship's
company, and we immediately resolved to go away to the
coast of Tonquin, and so on to the coast of China—and
pursuing the first design as to t-ade, find some way or
other to dispose of the ship, and come back in some of the
vessels of the country, such as we could get. This was
approved of as the best method for our security; and ac-
cordingly we steered away N.N.E., keeping above fifty
leagues off from the usual course to the eastward. This,
however, put u3 to some inconvenience; for, first, the
winds, when wo came that distance from the shore, seemed
to be more steadily against us, blowing almost trade, as we
call it, from the E. and E.N.E., so that we were a long
while upon our voyage, and we were but ill provided with
victuals for so long a run; and what was still worse, there
was some danger that those English and Dutch ships whose
boats pursued us, whereof some were bound that way,
might have got in before us, and if not, some other ship
bound to China might have information of us from them,
and pursue us with the same vigor.
1 must confess I was now very uneasy, and thought my-
self, including the late escape from the long-boats, to have
been in the most dangerous condition that ever I was in
through my past life; for whatever ill circumstances 1 had
been in, I was never pursued for a thief before; nor had 1
ever done anything that merited the name of dishonest or
fraudulent, much less thievish. I had chiefly been my own
enemy, or, as I may rightly say, I had been nobody's
enemy but my own; but now 1 was wofully embarrassed;
for though 1 was perfectly innocent, I was in no condition
to make that innocence appear; anil if I had been taken, it
had been under a supposed guilt, of the worst kind. This
made me very iuxious to maKeauescape, though which
way to do it I knew not, or what port or place we could
go to. My partner endeavored to encourage me by de-
scribing the several ports of that coast, and told me he
would put in on the coast of Cochin China, or the Bay of
Tonquin, intending afterward to go to Macao, where a
great many European families resided—and particularly
the missionary priests, who usually went thither in order
to their going forward to China.
Hither then we resolved.to go; and, accordingly, though
after a tedious course, and very much straitened for pro-
visions, we came within sight of the coast very early in the
morning; and upon reflection on the pa8t circumstances of
danger we were in, we resolved to put into a small river,
which, however, had depth enough of water for us, and to
see if we could, either overland or by the ship's pinnace,
come to know what ships were in any port thereabouts.
This happy step was, indeed, our deliverance; for though
we did not immediately see any European ships in the Bay
of Tonquin, yet the next morning there came into the bay
two Dutch ships; and a third without any colors spread
out, but whicn we believed to be a Dutchman, passed by
at about two leagues' distance, steering for the coast of
China; and in the afternoon went by two English ships
steering the same course; and thus we thought we saw
ourselves beset with enemies both one way and the other.
The place we were in was wild and barbarous—the people
thieves by occupation; and though, it is true, we had not
much to seek of them, and, except getting a few pro-
visions, cared not how little we had to do with them, yet it
was with much difficulty that we kept ourselves from be-
ing insulted by them several ways. We were in a small
river of this country, within a few leagues of its utmost
limits northward; and by our boat we coasted north-east,
to tho point of land which opens the great bay of Ton-
quin; and it was in this beating up along the shore that
we discovered we were surrounded with enemies. The
people we were among were the most barbarous of all the
inhabitants of the coast; and among other customs they
have this one: that if any vessel has the misfortune to bo
shipwrecked upon their coast, they make the men all pris-
oners or slaves; and it was not long before we found a
spice of their kindnesli this way, one the occasion follow-
ing.
1 have observed above that our ship sprung a leak at
sea, and that we could not find it out; and it happened
that, as 1 have said, it was stopped unexpectedly, on the
eve of our being pursued by the Dutch and English ships
in the Bay of Siam; yet, as we did not find the ship so per-
fectly tight and sound as we desired, we resolved, while
we were at this place, to lay her on' shore, and clean her
bottom, and, if possible, to find out where the leaks were.
Accordingly, having lightened the ship, and brought all
our guns and other movables to one side, we tried to bring
her down, that we might come at her bottom; but, on
second thoughts, we did not care to lay her on dry ground,
neither could we find out a proper place for it.
SECTION XL.
Obliged to Come to Anchor on a Savage Coast to Repair our Ship.—
We are Attacked by the Natives, Whom Our Carpenter Dis-
perses by a Whimsical Contrivance.—Serious Reflections upon
Our Disagreeable Situation.
The inhabitants came wondering down the shore to
look at us; and seeing the ship lie down on one side in such
a manner, and heeling in toward the shore, and not seeing
our men, who were at work on her bottom with stages,
and with their boats on the off-side, they presently con-
cluded that the ship was cast away, and lay fast on the
ground. On this supposition they came about us in two
or three hours' time with ten or twelve large boats, having
some of them eight, some ten men in a boat, intending,
no doubt, to have come on board and plundered the ship,
and if they found us there, to have carried us away for
slaves.
When they came up to the ship, and began to row round
her, they discovered us all hard at work on the outside of
the ship's bottom and side, washing, and graving, and
stopping, as every seafaring man knows how. They stood
for awhile gazing at us, and we, who were a little sur-
prised, could not imagine what their design was; but being
willing to be sure, we took this opportunity to get some of
us into the ship, and others to hand down arms and am-
munition to those that were at work, to defend themselves
with if there should be occasion. And it was no more
than need; for in less than a quarter «£ an hour's consul.
tation, they agreed, it seems, that the ship was really a
wreck, and that we were all at work endeavoring to save
her, or to save our lives by the help of our boats; and
when we handed our arms into the boat, they concluded,
by that act, that we were endeavoring to save some of our
goods. Upon this, they took it for granted we all be-
longed to them, and away they came directly upon our
men, as if ii had been in a line of battle.
Our men, seeing so many of them, began to be fright-
ened, for we lay but in an ill posture to fight, and cried
out to us to know what they should do. I immediately
called to the men that worked upon the stages to slip them
down, and get up the side into the ship, and bade those in
the boat to row round and come on board. The few who
were on board worked with all the strength and hands we
had to bring the ship to rights; however, neither the men
upon the stages nor those in the boats could do as they
were ordered hefore the Cochin Chinese were upon them,
when two of their boats boarded our long-boat, and began
to lay hold of the men as their prisoners.
The first man they laid hold of was an English seaman,
a stout, strong fellow, who, having a musket in his hand,
never offered to fire it, but laid it down in the boat, like a
fool, as I thought; but he understood his business better
than I could teach him, for he grappled the Pagan, and
dragged him by main force out of their boat into ours,
where, taking him by the ears, he beat his head so against
the boat's gunnel that the fellow died in his hands. In
the meantime, a Dutchman, who stood next, took up the
musket, and with the butt-end of it so laid about him,
that he knocked down five of them who attempted to enter
the boat. But this was doing little toward resisting
thirty or forty men, who, fearless because ignorant of
their danger, began to throw themselves into the long-
boat, where we had but five men in all to defend it; but
the following incident, which deserved our laughter, gave
our men a complete victory.
Our carpenter being prepared to grave the outside of the
ship, as well as to pay the seams where he had calked her
to stop the leaks, had got two kettles just let dowtt into
the boat, one filled with boiling pitch, and the other with
rosin, tallow, and oil, aud such stuff as the shipwivghts
use for that work; and the man that attended the ck/pen-
ter had a great iron' ladle in his hand, with whir a he su p-
plied the men that were at work with the hot stuff. Two
of the enemy's men entered the boat just where this fellow
stood in the fore-sheets; he immediately saluted them with
a ladle full of the stuff, boiling hot, which so burned and
scalded them, being half naked, that they roared out like
bulls, and, enraged with the fire, leaped both into the sea.
The carpenter saw it, and cried out, "Well done, Jack!
give them some more of it;" and stepping forward him-
self, takes one of the mops, and dipping it in the pitch-
pot, he and his man threw it among them so plentifully,
that, in short, of all the men in the three boats, there was
not one that escaped being scalded in a most frightful
manner, and made such a howling and crying that I never
heard a worse noise.
I was never better pleased with a victory in my life; not
only as it was a perfect surprise to me, and that our dan-
ger was imminent before, but as we got this victory with'
out any bloodshed, except of that man the seaman killed
with his naked hands, and which I was very much con-
cerned at. Although it may be a just thing, because
necessary (for there is no necessary wickedness in nat-
ure), yet I thought it was a sad sort of life, when we must
be always obliged to be killing our fellow-creatures to pre-
serve ourselves—and, indeed, I think so still; and I would
even now suffer a great deal rather than I would take
away the life even of the worst person injuring me; and 1
believe all considering people, who know the value of
life, would be of my opinion, if they entered seriously into
the consideration of it.
All the while this was doing, my partner and I, who
managed the rest of the men on board, had with great
dexterity brought the ship almost to rights, and having
got the guns into their places again, the gunner called to
me to bid our boat get out of the way, for he would let fly
among them. I called back again to him, and bid him
not offer to fire, for the carpenter would do the work with-
out him; but bid him heat another pitch-kettle, which our
cook, who was on board, took care of. However, the
enemy was so terrified with what they had met with in
their first attack, that they would not come on again; and
some of them who were furthest off, seeing the ship swim,
as it were, upright, began, as we suppose, to see their mis/
take, and gave over the enterprise, finding it was not as
they expected. Thus we got clear of this merry fight;
and having got some rice and some roots and bread, with
about sixteen hogs, on board two days before, we resolved
to stay here no longer, but go forward, whatever came of
it; for we made no doubt but we should be surrounded the
next day with rogues enough, perhaps more than our
pitch-kettle would dispose of for us. We therefore got all
our things on board the same evening, and the next morn-
ing were ready to sail; in the meantime, lying at anchor at
some distance from the shore, we were not so much con-
cerned, being now in a fighting posture, as well as in a sail-
ing posture, if any enemy had presented. The next day,
having finished our work within board, and finding our
ship was perfectly healed of all her leaks, we set sail. We
would have gone into the Bay of Tonquin, for we wanted
to inform ourselves of what was to be known concerning
the Dutch ships that had been there; but we durst not
stand in there, because we had seen several ships go in, as
we supposed, but a little before; so we kept on N.E. to-
ward the island of Formosa, as much afraid of being seen
by a Dutch or English merchant ship as a Dutch or En-
glish merchant ship in the Mediterranean is of an Algerine
man-of-war.
When we were" thus got to sea, we kept on N.E., as if
we would go to the Manillas or the Philippine Islands;
and this we did that we might not fall into the way of any
of the European ships; and then we steered north till we
came to the latitude of twenty-two degrees thirty seconds,
by which means we made the island of Formosa directly,
where we came to an anchor, in order to get water and
fresh provisions, which the people there, who are very
courteous in their manners, supplied us with willingly, and
dealt very fairly and punctually with us in all their agree-
ments and bargains. This is what we did not find among
other people, and may be owing to the remains of Chris-
tianity which was once planted here by a Dutch missionary
of Protestants, and it is a testimony of what 1 have often
observed—viz., that the Christian religion always civilizes
the people, and reforms their manners, where it is re-
ceived, whether it works saving effects upon them or no.
From thence we sailed still north, keeping the oast of
China at an equal distance, till we knew we were beyonu
all the ports of China where our European ships usually
come; being resolved, if possible, not to fall into any of
their hands, especially in this country, where, as our cir-
cumstances were, we could not fail of being entirely ruined.
Being now come to the latitude of thirty degrees, we re-
solved to put into the first trading port we should come at;
and standing in for the shore, a boat came off two leagues
to us with an old Portuguese pilot on board, who, knowing;
us to be a European ship, came to offer his services, which,
indeed, we were glad of, and took him on board; upon
which, without asking us whither we would go, he dis-
missed the boat he came in, and sent it back. 1 thought
it was now so much in our choice to make the old man
carry us whither we would, that I began to talk to him
about carrying us to the Gulf of Rankin, which is the
most northern part of the coast of China. The old man
said he knew the Gulf of Nankin very well; but smiling,
asked us what we would do there. I told him we would
sell our cargo and purchase China wares, calicoes, raw
silks, tea, wrought silks, etc.; and so we would return by
the same course we came. He told us our best port would
have been to put in at Macao, whore we could not have
failed of a market for our opinm to our satisfaction, and
might for our money have purchased all sorts of China
goods as cheap as we could at Nankin.'
Not being able to put the old man out of his talk, of
which he was very opinionated or conceited, I told him we
were gentlemen as well as merchants, and that we had a
mind to go and see the great city of Pekin, and the famous
court of the monarch of China. "Why, then," says the
old man, "you should go to Ningpo, where, by the rivej
which runs into the sea there, you may go up within five
leagues of the Great Canal. This canal is a navigable
stream, which goes through the heart of that vast empire
of China, crosses all the rivers, passes some considerable
hills, by the help of sluices and gates, and goes up to the
eity of Pekin, being in length near two hundred and
seventy leagues." "Well," said I, "Senor Portuguese,
but that is not our business now; the great question is, if
you can carry us up to the city of Nankin, from whence
we can travel to Pekin afterward?" He said he could do
so very well, and that there was a great Dutch ship gone
up that way just before. This gave me a little shock, for
-"" "EOBrNSON OR1TSOB. 443
a Dutch Bhip was now our terror, and we had much rather
have met the devil, at least if he. had not come in too
frightful a figure; and we depended upon it that a Dutch
ship would be our destruction, for we were in no condition
to fight them; all the ships they trade with into those
parts being of great burden, and of much greater force
thiin we were.
The old man found me a little confused, and under some
concern when he named a Dutch ship, and said to me:
"Sir, you need be under no apprehensions of the Dutch;
I suppose they are not now at war with your nation?"
"No," said I, " that's true; but I know not what liberties
men may take when they are out of the reach of the laws
of their own country." "Why," says he, "you are no
pirates; what need you fear? They will not meddle with
peaceable merchants, sure." These words put me into the
greatest disorder and confusion imaginable; nor was it
possible for me to conceal it so, but the old man easily
perceived it.
"Sir," says he, "I find you are in some disorder in
your thoughts at my talk; pray be pleased to go which
way you think fit, and, depend upon it, I'll do you all the
service 1 can." Upon this we fell into further discourse,
in which, to my alarm and amazement, he spoke of the
villainous doings of a certain pirate ship that had long
been tke talk of mariners in those seas; no other, in a
word, than the very ship he was now on board of, and
which we had so unluckily purchased. I presently saw
there was no help for it but to tell him the plain truth,
and explain all the danger and trouble we had suffered
through this misadventure, and, in particular, our earnest
wish to be speedily quit of the ship altogether; for which
reason we had resolved to carry up to Nankin.
The old man was amazed at this relation, and told us we
were in the right to go away to the north; and that, if he
might advise us, it should be to sell the ship in China,
which we might well do, and buy or build another in the
country; adding, that I should meet with customers enough
for the ship at Nankin, that a Chinese junk would serve
me very well to go back again; and that he would procure
me people both to buy one and sell the other. "Well,
but, senor," said 1, "as you say they know the ship so
well, 1 may, perhaps, if I follow your measures, be instru-
mental to bring some honest, innocent men into a terrible
broil; for wherever they find the ship they will prove the
guilt upon the men by proving this was the ship."
"Why," says the old man, " I'll find out a way to prevent
that; for as I know all those commanders you speak of
very well, and shall see them all as they pass by, I will be
sure to set them to rights in the thing, and let them know
that they had been so much in the wrong; that though
the people who were on board at first might run away with
the ship, yet it was not true that they had turned pirates;
and that, in particular, these were not the men that first
went off with the ship, but innocently bought her for their
trade; and 1 am persuaded they will so far believe me as
at least to act more cautiously for the time to come."
In about thirteen days' sail we came to an anchor, at
the south-west point of the great Gulf of Nankin; where I
learned by accident that two Dutch ships were gone the
length before me, and that I should certainly fall into
their hands. I consulted my partner again in this
exigency, and he was as much at a loss as I was. I then
asked the old pilot if there was no creek or harbor which
1 might put into and pursue my business with the Chinese
privately, and be in no danger of the enemy. He told me
if I would sail to the southward about forty-two leagues,
there was a little port called Quinchang, where the fathers
of the mission usually landed from Macao, on their prog-
ress to teach the Christian religion to the Chinese, and
where no European ships,*ver put in; and if I thought to
put in there, I might consider what further course to take
when I was on shore. He confessed, he said, it was not a
place for merchants, except that at some certain times
they had a kind of a'fair there, when the merchants from
Japan came over thither to buy Chinese merchandises.
The name of the port I may perhaps spell wrong, having
lost this, together with the names of many other places set
down in a little pocket-book, which was spoiled by the
water by an accident; but this I remember, that the
Chinese merchants we corresponded with called it by a
different name from that which our Portuguese pilot gave
it, who pronounced it Quinchang. As we were unanimous
in our resolution to go to this place, we weighed the next
day, having only goue twice on shore where we were, to
get fresh water; on both whi«h occasions the people of the
country were very civil, and brought abundance of pro*
visions to sell to us; but nothing without money.
We did not come to the other port (the wind being con-
trary) for five days; but it was very much to our satisfac-
tion, and I was thankful when I set my foot on shore, re-
solving, and my partner too, that if it was possible to dis-
pose of ourselves and effects any other way, thowgh not
profitably, we would never more set foot on board that un-
happy vessel. Indeed, I must acknowledge that of all the
circumstances of life that ever I hail any experience, nothing
makes mankind so completely miserable as that of being
in constant fear. Well does the Scripture say, " The fear
of man brings a snare;" it is a life of death, and the mind
is so entirely oppressed by it, that it is capable of no relief.
Nor did it fail of its usual operations upon the fancy., by
heightening every danger; representing the English and
Dutch captains to be men incapable of hearing reason, or
of distinguishing between honest men and rogues; or be-
tween a story calculated for our own turn, made out of
nothing, on purpose to deceive, and a true, genuine ac-
count of our whole voyage, progress, and design; for we
might many ways have convinced any reasonable creatures
that we were not pirates; the goods we had on board, the
course we steered, our frankly showing ourselves, and en-
tering into such and such ports; and even our very man-
ner, the force we had, the number of men, the few arms,
the little ammunition, short provisions; all these would
. have served to convince any men that we were no pirates.
The opinm and other goods we had on board would make
it appear the ship had been at Bengal. The Dutchmen
who, it was said, had the names of all the men that were
in the ship, might easily see that we were a mixture of
English, Portuguese, and Indians, and but two Dutchmen
on board. These, and many other particular circum-
stances, might have made it evident to the understanding
of any commander whose hands we might fall into that we
were no pirates.
But fear, that blind, useless passion, worked another
way, and threw us into the vapors; it bewildered our un-
derstandings, and set the imagination at work to form a
thousand terrible things that perhaps might never happen."
We first supposed, as indeed everybody had related to us,
that the seaman on board the English and Dutch ships,
but especially the Dutch, were so enraged at the name of
a pirate, and especially at our beating off their boats and
escaping, that they would not give themselves leave to in-
quire whether we were pirates or no, but would execute us
off hand, without giving us any room for a defense. We
reflected that there really was so much apparent evidence
before them, that they would scarce inquire after any
more; as, first, that the ship was certainly the same, and
that some of the seamen among them knew her, and had
been on board her; and secondly, that when we had iu-
telligence at the river of Cambodia that they were coming
down to examine us, we fought their boats and fled.
Therefore we made no doubt but they were as fully satis-
fied of our being pirates as we were satisfied of the con-
trary; and, as 1 often said, I know not but I should have
been apt to have taken those circumstances for evidence,
if the tables were turned, and my case was there; and
have made no scruple of cutting all the crew to pieces,
without believing, or perhaps considering what they
might have to offer in their defense.
But let that be how it will, these were our apprehen-
sions ; ar.d both my partner and I scarce slept a night with-
out dreaming of halters and yard-arms ; of fighting, and
being taken; of killing, and being killed; and one night I
was in such a fury in my dream, fancying the Dutchmen
had boarded us, and I was knocking one of their seamen
down, that I struck my doubled fist against the side of the
cabin I lay in with sucli a force as wounded my hard griev-
ously, broke my knuckles, and cut and bruised the flesh,
so that it awake me out of my sleep. Another apprehen-
tion I had was, the cruel usage we might meet with from
them if we fell into their hands; then the story of Am-
noyna came into my head, and how the Dutch might per-
haps torture us, as they did our countrymen there, and
make some of our men, by extremity of torture, confess to
crimes they never were guilt of, or own themselves and all
of us to be pirates, and so they would put us to death with
a formal appearance of justice; and that they might be
tempted to do this for the gain of our ship and cargo,
worth altogether four or five thousand pounds. We did
not consider that the captains of ships have noauthority to
do thus, and if we had surrendered prisoners to them they
could not answer the destroying us, or torturing us, but
would be accountable for it when they came to their coun-
try. However, if they were to act thus with us, what ad-
vantage would it be to us that they should be called to an
account for it? or if we were first to be murdered, what
satisfaction would it be to us to have them punished when
they came home?
I can not refrain taking notice here what reflections 1
bow had upon the vast variety of my particular cir»m-
stanceB; how hard 1 thought it that 1, who had spent forty
years in a life of continual difficulties, and was at last
come, as it were, to the port or haven which all men drive
at—viz., to have rest and plenty, should be a volunteer in
new sorrows by my own unhappy choice, and that I, who
had escaped so many dangers in my youth, should now
come to be hanged in my old age, and in so remote a
place, for a crime which I was not in the least inclined to,
much less guilty of. After these thoughts, something of
religion would come in; and 1 would be considering that
this seemed to me to be a disposition of immediate Provi-
dence, and I ought to look upon it and submit to it as
such. For, although 1 was innocent as to men, 1 was far
from being innocent as to my Maker; and I ought to look
in and examine what other crimes in my life were most
obvious to me, and for which Providence might justly in-
flict this punishment asa retribution; and thus I ought to
submit to this, just as I would to a shipwreck, if it had
pleased God to have brought auch a disaster upon me.
In its turn natural courage would sometimes take its
place, and then I would be talking myself up to vigorous
resolutions; that I would not be taken to be barbarously
used by a parcel of merciless wretches in cold blood; that
it were much better to have fallen into the hands of the
savages, though 1 were sure they would feast upon me
when they had taken me, than those who would perhaps
glut their rage upon me by inhuman tortures and barbari-
ties; that in the case of the savages, I always resolved to
die fighting to the last gasp, and why should 1 not do so
now? Whenever these thoughts prevailed, I was sure to
put myself into a kind of fever with the agitation of a sup-
posed fight; my blood would boil, and my eyes sparkle, as
if 1 was engaged, and I always resolved to take no quarter
at their hands; but, even, at last, if I could resist no
longer, 1 would blow up the ship and all that was in her
and leave them but little booty to boast of.
SECTION XLL
We Arrive in China in Safety.—Dispose of the Ship.—Description
of the Inhabitants.—Arrive at Pekin, and Find an Opportunity
of Returning to Europe.
The greater weight the anxieties and perplexities of
these things were to our thoughts while we were at sea,
the greater was our satisfaction when we saw ourselves on
shore; and my partner told me he dreamed that he had a
very heavy load upon his back, which he was to carry up a
hill, and found that he was not able to stand longer under
it; but that the Portuguese pilot came and took it off his
back, and the hill disappeared, the ground before him ap-
pearing all smooth and plain; and truly it was so; they
were all like men who had a load taken off their backs.
For my part, I had a weight taken off from my heart that
it was not able any longer to bear; and, 'as 1 said above,
we resolved to go no more to sea in that ship. When we
came on shore, the old pilot, who was now our friend, got
us a lodging, together with a warehouse for our goods; it
was a little hut, with a larger house adjoining to it, built
and also palisaded round with canes, to keep out pilferers,
of which there were not a few in that country; however,
the magistrates allowed us a little guard, and we had a
soldier with a kind of half pike, who stood sentinel at our
door; to whom we allowed a pint of rice and a piece of
money about the value of threepence per day, so that our
goods were kept very safe.
The fair or mart usually kept at this place had been over
some time; however, we found that there were three or
four junks in the river, and two ships from Japan, with
goods which they had bought in China, and were not gone
away, having some Japanese merchants on shore.
The first thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us was
to get us acquainted with three missionary Romish priest*
who were in the town, and who had been there some time
converting the people to Christianity; but we thought they
made but poor work of it, and made them but sorry Chris-
tians when they had done. One of these was a French-
man, whom they called Father Simon; another was a
Portuguese; and the third a Genoese. Father Simon was
courteous, and very agreeable company; but the other two
were more reserved, seemed rigid and austere, and applied
seriously to the work they came about—viz., to talk with
and insinuate themselves among the inhabitants wherever
they had opportunity. We often eat and drank with those
men; and though, I must confess, the conversion, is they
call it, of the Chinese to Christianity, is so far from the
true conversion required to bring heathen people to the
faith of Christ that it seems to amount to little more than
letting them know the name of Christ, and say some
prayers to the Virgin Mary and her Son, in a tongue which
they understood not, and to cross themselves, and the like;
yet it must be confessed that the religionists, whom we
call missionaries, have a firm belief that these people will
be saved, and that they are the instruments of it; and on
this account they undergo not only the fatigue of the voy-
age, and the hazards of living in such places, but often-
times death itself, and the most violent tortures, for the
sake of this work.
Father Simon was appointed, it seems, by order of the
chief of the mission, to go up to Pekin, and waited only
for another priest, who was ordered to come to him from
Macao, to go along with him. We scarce ever met.Jo-
gBther but he was inviting me to go that journey; telling
me how he would show me all the glorious things of that
mighty empire, and, among the rest, Pekin, the greatest
city in the world. "A city," said he, "that your Lon-
don and our Paris put together can not be equal to." But
as 1 looked on those things with different eyes from other
men, so 1 shall give my opinion of them in a few words,
when I come in the course of my travels to speak more
particularly of them.
Dining with Father Simon one day, and being very
merry together, 1 showed some litt7.a inclination to go with
him; and he pressed me and my partner very hard to con-
sent. "Why, father," says my 'partner, "should you de-
sire our company so much? you know we are heretics, and
you do not love us, nor can not keep us company with any
pleasure." "Oh," says he, "you may perhaps be good
Catholics in time; my business feei-e is to convert heathens,
and who knows but 1 may convert you too?" "Very well,
lather," said I, "so you will preach to us all the wav?"
t52 ^oiiiNSOXC CBcsoB,"
"I will not be troublesome to you," says he;
ligion does not divest us of good manners; besides, we are
here like countrymen; and so we are, compared to the
j>Uce we are in; and if you are Huguenots, and I a Catho-
lic, we may all be Christians at last; at least, we are all
gentlemen, and we may converse so without being uneasy
to one another." I liked this part of his discourse very
well, and it began to put me in mind of my priest that I
had left in the Brazils; but Father Simon did not come up
to his character by a great deal; for thought this friar had
no appearance of a criminal levity in him, yet he had not
that fund of Christian zeal, strict piety, and sincere affec-
tion to religion that my other good ecclesiastic had.
But to leave him a little, though he never left us, nor
solicited us to go with him, we had something else before
us at first, for we had all this while our ship and our mer-
chandise to dispose of, and we began to be very doubtful
what we should do, for we T'ere now in a place of very lit-
tle business. Once I was •, bout to venture to sail for the
river of Kilam, and the city of Nankin; but Providence
seemed now more visibly, as I thought, than ever to con-
cern itself in our affairs; and I was encouraged, from this
very time, to think I should, one way or other, get out of
this entangled circumstance, and be brought home to my
own country again, though I had not the least view of the
manner. Providence, 1 say, begau here to clear up our
way a little; and the first thing that offered was, that our
old Portuguese pilot brought a Japan merchant to us, who
inquired what goods we had; and, in the first place, hs
bought all our opinm, and gave us a very good price JCr it,
paying us in gold by weight, some in small pieces of their
own coin, and some in small wedges, of about ten 01
twelve ounces each. While we were dealing with him for
our opinm, it came into my head that he might perhaps
deal for the ship too, and I ordered the interpreter to pro-
pose it to him. He shrunk up his shoulders at it when it
was first proposed to him; but in a few days after he came
to me, with one of the missionary priests for his inter
preter, and told me he had a proposal to make to me,
which was this: he had bought a great quantity of our
goods, when he had no thought of proposals made to him
of buying the ship; and that, therefore, he had not money
to pay for the ship; but if I would let the same men who
were in the ship navigate her, he would hire the ship to go
to Japan; and would send them from thence to the
Philippine Islands with another loading, which he would
pay the freight of before they went from Japau; and that
at their return he would buy the ship. I began to listen
to his proposal, and so eager did my head still run upon
rambling, that I could not but begin to entertain a notion
of going myself with him, and so to set sail from the
Philippine Islands away to the South Seas; accordingly, 1
asked the Japanese merchant if ho would not hire us to the
Philippine Islands and discharge us there. lie said No,
he could not do that, for then he could not have the re-
turn of his cargo; but he would discbarge us in Japan, at
the ship's return. Well, still I was for taking him at that
proposal, and going myself; but my partner, wiser than
myself, persuaded me from it, representing the dangers,
as well of the seas as of the Japanese, who are a false,
cruel, and treacherous people; likewise those of the Span-
iards at the Philippines, more false, cruel, and treacherous
than they.
But to bring this long turn of our affairs to a conclu-
sion; the first thing we had to do was to consult with the
captain of the ship, and with his men, and know if they
were willing to go to Japan. While I was-doing this, the
young man whom my nephew had left with me as my
companion came up, and told me that he thought that voy-
age promised very fair, and that there was a great prospect
of advantage, and he would be very glad if I undertook it;
but that if I would not, and would give him leave, he
would go as a merchant, or as I pleased to order him; that
if ever he came to England, and I was there and alive, he
would render me a faithful account of his success, which
should be as much mine as I pleased. I was loath to part
with him; but considering the prospect of advantage, which
really was considerable, and that he was a young fellow
likely to do well in it, I inclined to let him go; but I told
him 1 would consult my partner, and give him an answer
the next day. 1 discoursed about it with my partner, who
thereupon made a most generous offer. "You know it
has been an unlucky ship," said he, "and we bath resolve
not to go lo sea in it again; if your steward (so he called
my man) will venture the voyage, 1 will leave my share of
the vessel to him, and let him make the best of it; and if
V
we live to meet in England, and he meets with success
abroad, he shall account for one half of the profits of the
ship's freight to us; the other shall be his own."
If my partner, who was no way concerned with my young
man, made him such an offer, I could not do less than ,
offer him the same; and all the ship's company being will-
ing to go with him, we made over half the ship to him in
property, and took a writing from him, obliging him to
account for the other, and away he went to Japan. The
Japan merchant proved a very punctual, honest man to
him; protected him at Japan, and got him a license to
come on shore, which the Europeans in general have not
lately obtained. He paid him his freight very punctually;
sent him to the Philippines, loaded with Japan and China
wares, and a supercargo of their own, who, trafficking with
the Spaniards, brought back European goods again, and a
great quantity of spices; and there he was not only paid
his freight very well, and at a very good price, but not be-
ing willing to sell the ship, then the merchant furnished
him goods on his own account; and with some money, and
some spices of his own which he brought with him, he
went back to the Manillas, where he sold his cargo very
well. Here, having made a good acquaintance at Manilla,
he got his ship made a free ship, and the Governor of
Manilla hired him to go to Acapulco, on the coast of
America, and gave him a license to land there, and to
travel to Mexico, and to pass in any Spanish ship to Eu-
rope with all his men. He made the voyage to Acapulco
very happily, and there he sold his ship; and having thorn
also obtained allowance to travel by laud to Porto Bello,
he found means to get to Jamaica, with all his treasure,
and about eight years after came to England exceeding
rich.
But to return to our particular affairs: being now to part
with the ship and ship's company, it came before us, of
course, to consider what recompense we should give to the
two men that gave us such timely notice of the design
against us in the river Cambodia. The truth was, they
had done us a very considerable service, and deserved well
at our hands; though, by the way, they were a couple of
rogues, too; for, as they believed the story of our being
pirates, and that we had really run away with the ship,
they came down to us, not only to betray the design that
was formed against us, but to go to sea with us as pirates.
One of them confessed afterward that nothing else but the
hopes of going a-roguing brought him to do it; however,
the service they did us was not the less, and, therefore, as
I had promised to be grateful to them, I first ordered the
money to be paid them which they said was due to them
on board their respective ships; over and above that, 1.
gave each of them a small sum of money in gold, which
contented them very well. I then made the Englishman
gunner in the ship, the gunner being now made second
mate and purser; the Dutchman I made boatswain; so
they were both very well pleased, and proved very servicea-
ble, being both able seamen, and very stout fellows.
We were now on shore in China; if I thought myself
banished, and remote from my own country at Bengal,
where I had many ways to get home for my money, what
could 1 think of myself now, when I was about a thousand
leagues further off from home, and destitute of all manner
of prospect of return? All we had for it was this: that in
about four months' time there was to be another fair at
the place where we were, and then we might be able to
purchase various manufactures of the country, and withal
might possibly find some Chinese junks from Tonquin for
sale, that would carry us and our goods whither we pleased.
This I liked very well, and resolved to wait; besides, as our
particular persons were not obnoxious, so if any English or
Dutch ships came thither, perhaps we might have an op-
portunity to load our goods, and get passage to some other
place in India nearer home. Upon these hopes we resolved
to continue here; but, to divert ourselves, we took two or
three journeys into the country.
First, we went ten days' journey to Nankin, a city well
worth seeing; they say it has a million of people in it; it is
regularly built, and the streets are all straight, and cross
one another in direct lines. But when I come to compare
the miserable people of these countries with ours, their
fabrics, their manner of living, their government, their re-
ligion, their wealth, and their glory, as some call it, I must
confess that 1 scarcely think it worth my while to mention
them here. We wonder at the grandeur, the riches, the
pomp, the ceremonies, the government, the manufactures,
the commerce, and conduct of these people; not that there
is really any matter for wonder, but because, having a true
notion of the barbarity of those countries, the rudeness and
the ignorance that prevail there, we do not expect to find
any such thing so far off. Otherwise, what are their build-
ings to the palaces and royal buildings of Europe? What
their trade to the universal commerce of England, Hol-
land, France, and Spain? What are their cities to ours,
for wealth, strength, gayety of apparel, rich furniture,
and infinite variety? What are their ports, supplied with
a few junks and barks, to our navigation, our merchant
fleets, our large and powerful navies? Our city of Lon-
don has more trade than half their mighty empire; one
English, Dutch, or French man-of-war of eighty guns
would be able to fight almost all the shipping belonging to
China; but the grea-iness of their wealth, their trade, the
power of their government, and the strength of their
armies, may be a little surprising to us, because, as I have
said, considering them as a barbarous nation of pagans,
little better than savages, we did not expect such things
among them. But all the forces of their empire, though
they were to bring two millions of men into the field to-
gether, would be able to do nothing but ruin the country
and starve themselves; a million of their foot could not
stand before one embattled body of our infantry, posted so
as not to be surrounded, though they were not to be one to
twenty in number; nay, I do not boast if I say that thirty
thousand German or English foot, and ten thousand horse,
well managed, could defeat all the forces of China. Nor
is there a fortified town in China that could hold out one
month against the batteries and attacks of a European
army. They have fire-arms, it is true, but they are awk-
ward and uncertain in their going off; and their powder
has but little strength. Their armies are badly disciplined,
and want skill to attack, or temper to retreat; and there-
fore, I must confess, it seemed strange to me, when I came
home, and heard our people say such fine things of th*
power, glory, magnificence, and trade of the Chinese; be-
cause, as far as 1 saw, they appeared to be a contemptible
herd or crowd of ignorant, sordid slaves, subjected to a
government qualified only to rule such a people; and were
not its distance inconceivably great from Muscovy, and
that empire in a manner as rude, impotent, and ill gov-
erned as they, the Czar of Muscovy might with ease drive
them all out of their country, and conquer them in one
campaign; and had the czar (who is now a growing prince)
fallen this way, instead of attacking the war-like Swedes,
and equally improved himself in the art of war, as they say
he has done; and if none of the powers of Europe had en-
vied or interrupted him, he might by this time have been
Emperor of China, instead of being beaten by the King of
Sweden at Narva, when the latter was not one to six in
number.
As their strength and their grandeur, so their naviga-
tion, commerce, and husbandry are very imperfect, com-
pared to the same things in Europe; also, in their knowl-
edge, their learning, and in their skill in the sciences, they
are either very awkward or defective, though they have
globes or spheres, and a smattering of the mathematics,
and think they know more than all the world besides. But
they know little of the motions of the heavenly bodies; and
so grossly and absurdly ignorant are their common people,
that when the sun is eclipsed, ihey think a great dragon
has assaulted it, and is going to run away with it; and
they fall a-clattering with all the drums and kettles in the
country, to fright the monster away, just as we do to hive
a swarm of bees.
As this is the only excursion of the kind which I have
made in all the accounts I have given of my travels, so I
shall make no more such. It is none of my business, nor
any part of my design; but to give an account of my own
adventures through a life of inimitable wanderings, and a
long variety of changes, which, perhaps, few that come
after me will have heard the like of; I shall, therefore, say
very little of all the mighty places, desert countries, and
numerous people 1 have yet to pass through, more than
relates to my own story, and which my concern among
them make necessary.
1 was now, as near as 1 can compute, in the heart of
China, about thirty degrees north of the line, for we were
returned from Nankin. I had indeed a mind to see the
city of Pekin, which I had heard so much of, and Father
Simon importuned me daily to do it. At length his time
of going away being set, and the other missionary who was
to go with him being arrived from Macao, it was necessary
that we should resolve either to go or not; so 1 referred it
to my partner, and left it wholly to his choice, who at
length resolved it in the affirmative, and we prepared far
oar journey. We set out with very good advantage as to
finding the way; for we got leave to travel in the retinue of
one of their mandarins, a kind of viceroy or principal
magistrate in the province where they reside, and who
take great state upon them, traveling with great attend-
ance, and great homage from the people, who are some-
times greatly impoverished by them, being obliged to fur-
nish provisions for them and all their attendants in their
journeys. 1 particularly observed in our traveling with
bis baggage, that though we received sufficient provisions
ooth for ourselves and our horses from the country, as be-
longing to the mandarin, yet we were obliged to pay for
everything we had, after the market price of the country,
and the mandarin's steward collected it duly from us.
Thus our traveling in the retinue of the mandarin, though
it was a great act of kindness, was not such a mighty favor
to us, but was a great advantage to him, considering there
were above thirty other people traveled in the same man-
ner besides us, under the protection of his retinue; for the
country furnished all the provisions for nothing to him,
and yet he took our money for them.
We were twenty-five days traveling to Pekin, through a
country exceeding populous, but 1 think badly cultivated;
the husbandry, the economy, and the way of living mis-
erable, though they boast so much of the industry of the
people; I say miserable, if compared with our own, but
not so to these poor wretches, who know no other. The
pride of the poor people is infinitely great, and exceeded by
nothing but their poverty, in some parts, which adds to
that which I call their misery; and 1 must needs think the
savages of America live much more happy than the poorer
dort of these, because as they have nothing, so they desire
nothing; wherea3 these are proud and insolent, and in the
468 ROBINSON CRUSOE.
ostentation is inexpressible; and, if they can, they love to
keep multitudes of servants or slaves, which is to the last
degree ridiculous, as well as their contempt of all the world
but themselves.
I must confess I traveled more pleasantly afterward in
the deserts and vast wildernesses of Grand Tartary than
here, and yet the roads here are well paved and well kept,
and very convenient for travelers; but nothing was more
awkward to me than to see such a haughty, imperious, in-
solent people, in the midst of the grossest simplicity and
ignorance; and my friend Father Simon and I used to be
very merry upon these occasions, to see their beggarly
pride. For example, coming by the house of a country
geutleman, as Father Simon called him, about ten leagues
off the city of Nankin, we had first of all the honor to
ride with the master of the house about two miles; the
state he rode in was a perfect Don Quixotism, being a
mixture of pomp and poverty. His habit was very proper
for a merry-andrew, being a dirty calico, with hanging
sleeves, tassels, and cuts and slashes almost on every side;
it covered a taffety vest, so greasy a3 to testify that his
honor must be a- most exquisite sloven. His horse was a
poor, starved, hobbling creature, and two slaves followed
him on foot to drive the poor creature along; he had a
whip in his hand, and he belabored the beast as fast about
the head as his slaves did about the tail; and thus he rode
by us, with about ten or twelve servants, going from the
city to his country seat, about half a league before us.
We traveled on gently, but this figure of a gentleman rode
away before us; and as we stopped at a village about an
hour to refresh us, when we came by the country seat oi
this great man, we saw him in a little place before hia
door, eating a repast. It was a kind of garden, but ha
was easy to be seen; and we were given to understand that
the more we looked at him the better he would be pleased.
He sat under a tree, something like the palmetto, which
effectually shaded him over the head, and on the south
side; but under the tree was placed a large umbrella,
which made that part look well enough. He sat lolling
back in a great elbow-chair, being a heavy, corpulent man,
and had his meat brought him by two women slaves. He
had two more, one of whom fed the squire with a spoon,
and the other held the dish with one hand, and scraped off
what he let fall upon his worship's beard and taffety vest.
Leaving the poor wretch to please himself with our look-
ing at him, as if we admired his idle pomp, we pursued
our journey. Father Simon had the curiosity to stay to
inform himself what dainties the country justice had to
feed on in all his state, which he had the honor to taste of,
and which was, I think, a mess of boiled rice, with a great
pieoe of garlic in it, and a little bag filled with green pep-
per, and another^plant which they have there, something
like our ginger, but smelling like musk, and tasting like
mustard; all this was put together, and a small piece of
lean mutton boiled in it, and this was his worship's repast.
Four or five servants more attended at a distance, who we
supposed were to eat of the same after their master. As
for our maudarin with whom we traveled, he was respect-
ed as a king, surrounded always with his gentlemen, and
attended in all his appearances with such pomp that I
saw little of him but at a distance. I observed that there
was not a horse in his retinue but that our carriers' pack-
horses in England seemed to me to look much better;
though it was hard to judge rightly, for they were so cov-
ered with equipage, mantles, trappings, etc., that we could
scarce see anything but their feet and their heads as they
went along.
I was now light-hearted, and all my late trouble and per-
plexity being over, I had no anxious thoughts about me,
which made this journey the pleasanter to me; in which
no ill accident attended me, only in passing or fording a
small river, my horse fell and made me free of the coun-
try, as they call it—that is to say, threw me in. The place
was not deep, but it wetted me all over. I mention it be-
cause it spoiled my pocket-book, wherein I had set down
the names of several people and places which I had occa-
sion to remember, and which, not taking due care of, the
leaves rotted, and the words were never after to be read.
At length we arrived at Pekin. 1 had nobody with me
but the youth whom my nephew had given me to attend
mo as a servant, and who proved very trusty and diligent;
and my partner had nobody with him but one servant, who
was a kinsman. As for the Portuguese pilot, he being de-
sirous to see the court, we bore his charges for his com-
pany, and for our use of him as an interpreter, for he un-
derstood the language of the country, and spoke good
French and a little English. Indeed, this old man was
most useful to us everywhere; for we had not been above
a week at Pekin, when he came laughing. "Ah, Seuor
Inglese," says he, " 1 have something to tell will make
your heart glad." "My heart glad," says I; "what can
that be? I don't know anything in this country can either
give me joy or grief to any great degree." "Yes, yes,"
said the old man, in broken English, " make you glad, me
. sorry." "Why," said I, "will it make you sorry?"
"Because," said he, "you have brought me here twenty-
five days' journey, and will leave me to go back alone; and
which way shall I get to my port afterward, without a
ship, without a horse, without pecune?"—so he called
money, being his broken Latin, of which he had abun-
dance to make us merry with. In short, he told us there
was a great caravan of Muscovite and Polish merchants in
the city, preparing to set out on their journey by land to
Muscovy, within four or five weeks; and he was sure we
would take the opportunity to go with them, and leave
him behind, to go back alone.
I confess I was greatly surprised with this good news,
and had scarce power to speak to him for some time, but
at last I said to him, " How do you know this? are you
sure it is true?" "Yes," says he; "I met this morning
in the street an old acquaintance of mine, an Armenian,
who is among them. 'He came last from Astracan, and
was designed to go to Tonquin, where I formerly knew
him, but has altered his mind, and is now resolved to go
with the caravan to Moscow, and so down the river Wolga
to Astracan." "Well, senor," says I, "do not be un-
easy about being left to go back alone; if this be a method
for my return to England, it shall be your fault if you go
back to Macao at all." We then went to consult together
what was to be done; aud 1 asked my partner what he
thought of the pilot's news, and whether it would suit with
his affairs? He told me he would do just as I would; for
he had settled all his affairs so well at Bengal, and left his
effects in such good hands, that as we had made a good
voyage, if he could invest it in China silks, wrought and
raw, he would be content to go to England, and then
make a voyage back to Bengal by the Company's ships.
Having resolved upon this, we agreed that if our Portu-
guese pilot would go with us, we would bear his charges to
Moscow, or to England, if he pleased; nor, indeed, were
we to be esteemed overgenerous in that either, if we had
not rewarded him further, the service he had done us being
really worth more than that; for he had not only been a
pilot to us at sea, but he had been like a broker for us on
shore; and his procuring for us a Japan merchant was
some hundreds of pounds in our pockets. So, being will-
ing to gratify him, which was but doing him justice, and
very willing also to have him with us besides, for be wft? a
most necessaVy man on all occasions, we agreed to giva
him a quantity of coined gold, which, as 1 computed it,
was worth one hundred and seventy-five pounds sterling,
between us, and to bear all his charges, both for himself
and horse, except on?y a horse to carry his goods. Having
settled this between ourselves, we called him to let him
know what we had resolved. I told him he had complained
of our being willing to let him go back alone, and I was
now about to tell him we designed he should not go back
at all. That as we had resolved to go to Europe with the
caravan, we were very willing he should go with us; and
that we called him to know his mind. He shook his head
and said it was a long journey, and that he had no pecune
to carry him thither, or to subsist himself when he came
there. We told him we believed it was so, and therefore
we had resolved to do something for him that should let
him see how sensible we were of the service he had done
us, and also how agreeable he was to us; and then I told
him what we had resolved to give him here, which he
might lay out as we would do our own; and that as for hi3
charges, if he would go with us we would set him safe on
shore (life and casualties excepted), either in Muscovy or
England, as he would choose at our own charge, except
only the carriage of his goods. He received the proposal
like a man transported, and told U3 he would go with us
over all the whole world; and so we all prepared for our
journey. However, as it was with us, so it was with the
other merchants; they had many things to do, and instead
of being ready in five weeks, it was four months and some
days before all things were got together.
SECTION XL1I.
Set out by the Caravan.—Account of the' Valuable Effects We
took with Us.—Further Description of the Interior of China.—
Pass the Great Wall.—Attacked by Tartars, Who are Dispersed
by the Resolution of a Scots Merchant.—The old Pilot Saves
My Life.—We are Again Attacked, and Defeat the Tartars.
It was the beginning of February, new style, when we
set out from Pekin. My partner and the old pilot had
eone express back to the port where we had first pat in, to
dispose of some goods which we had left there; and I, with
a Chinese merchant whom I had some knowledge of at
Nankin, and who camo to Pekin on his own affairs, went
to Nankin, where 1 bought ninety pieces of fine damasks,
with about two hundred pieces of other very fine silk of
several sorts, some mixed with gold, and had all these
brought to Pekin against my partner's return. Besides
this, we bought a large quantity of raw silk, and some
other goods, our cargo amounting, in these goods only, to
about three thousand five hundred pounds sterling; which,
together with tea and some fine calicoes, and three camels*
loads of nutmegs and cloves, loaded in all eighteen camels
for our share, besides those we rode upon; these, with two
or three spare horses, and two horses loaded with pro-
visions, made together twenty-six camels and horses in our
retinue.
The company was very great, and, as near as I can re*
member, made between three and four hundred horses, and
upward of one hundred and twenty men, very well armed
and provided for all events; for as the eastern caravans
are subject to be attacked by the Arabs, so are these by
the Tartars. The company consisted of people of several
nations; but there were above sixty of them merchants or
inhabitants of Moscow, though of them some were
Livonians; and to our particular satisfaction, five of them
were Scots, who appeared also to be men of great experi-
3uce in business, and of very good substance.
When we had traveled one day's journey, the guides,
who were five in number, called all the passengers, except
the servants, to a great council, as they called it. At this
council every one deposited a certain quantity of money to"
a common stock, for the necessary expense of buying for-
age on the way, where it was not otherwise to be had, and
for satisfying the guides, getting horses, and the like.
Here, too, they constituted the journey, as they call it—
viz., they named captains and officers to draw us all up,
and give the word of command, in case of an attack, and
give every one their turn of command; nor was this form-
ing us into order any more than what we afterward found
needful on the way.
The road all on this side of the country is very populous,
and is full of potters and earth-makers—that is to say,
people that temper the earth for the China ware. As 1
was coming along, our Portuguese pilot, who had always
something or other to say to make us merry, told me he
would show me the greatest rarity in all the country, and
that I should have this to say of China, after all the ill-
humored things that I had said of it, that I had seen one
thing which was not to be seen in all the world beside. I
was very importunate to know what it was; at last he told
ma it was a gentleman's house built with China ware.
"Well," says I, "are not the materials of their buildings
jthe products of their own country, and so it is all China
ware, is it not?" "No, no," says he, "I mean it is a
house all made of China ware, such as you call it in Eng-
land, or as it is nailed in our country, porcelain." " Well,"
says I, "such a thing maybe. How big is it? Can we
carry it in a box upon a camel? If we can we will buy it."
"Upon a camel!" says the old pilot, holding up both his
hands; "why, there is a family of thirty people lives in
it."
1 was then curious, indeed, to see it; and when I came
to it, it was nothing but this: it was a timber house, or a
house built, as we call it in England, with lath and plaster,
but all this plastering was really China ware—that is to
say, it was plastered with the earth that makes China ware.
The outside, which the sun shone hot upon, was glazed,
and looked very well, perfectly white, and painted with
blue figures, as the large China ware in England is paint-
ed, and hard as if it had been burned. As to the inside,
all the walls, instead of wainscot, were lined with hardened
and painted tiles, like the little square tiles we call galley-
tiles in England, all made of the finest China, and the fig-
ures exceeding fine indeed, with extraordinary variety of
colors, mixed with gold, many tiles making but one figure,
but joined so artificially, the mortar being made of the
same earth, that it was very hard to see where the tiles
met. The floors of the rooms were of the same compo-
sition, and as hard as the earthen floors we have in use in
several parts of England; as hard as stone, and smooth,
but not burned and painted, except some smaller rooms,
like Closets, which were all, as it were, paved with the
same tiles; the ceiling and all the plastering work in the
whole house were of the same earth; and, after all, the
roof was covered with tiles of the same, but of a deep shin-
ing black. This was a China ware house indeed, truly and
literally to be called so, and had I not been upon the jour-
ney, I could have stayed some days to see and examine the
particulars of it. They told me there were fountains and
fish-ponds in the garden, all paved on the bottom and sides
with the same; and fine statues set up in rows on the walks,
entirely formed of the porcelain earth, burned whole.
As this is one of the singularities of China, so they may
be allowed to excel in it; but I am very sure they excel in
their accounts of it; for they told me such incredible things
of their performance in crockery ware, for such it is, that
I care not to relate, as knowing it could not be true.
They told me, in particular, of one workman that made a
ship with all its tackle and masts and sails in earthenware,
big enough to carry fifty men. If they had told me he
launched it, and made a voyage to Japan in it, I might
have said something to it indeed; but as it was, I knew the
whole of the story, which was, in short, that the fellow
lied; so I smiled, and said nothing to it. This odd sight
kept me two hours behind the caravan, for which ihe
leader of it for the day fined me about the value of three
shillings; and told me if it had been three days' journey
without the wall, as it was three days' within, he must
have fined me four times as much, and made me ask par-
don the next council-day. I promised to be more orderly;
and, indeed, I found afterward the orders made for keep-
ing all together were absolutely necessary for our common
safety.
In two days more we passed the great China wall, made
for a fortification against the Tartars; and a very great
work it is, going over hills and mountains in an end-
less track, where the rocks are impassable, and the preci-
pices such as no enemy could possibly enter, or indeed
climb up, or where, if they did, no wall could hinder
them. They tell us its length is near a thousand English
miles, but that the country is five hundred in a straight
measured line, which the wall bounds, without measuring
the windings and turnings it takes; it is about four fa-
thoms high, and as many thick in some places.
I stood still an hour or thereabouts without trespassing
on our orders (for so long the caravan was in passing the
gate), to look at it on every side, near and far off; 1 mean
what was within my view; and the guide, who had been
extolling it for the wonder of the world, was mighty eager
to hear my opinion of it. I told him it was a most excel-
lent thing to keep out the Tartars; which he happened not
to understand as I meant it, and so tot . . . # a compli-
ment; but the old pilot laughed: "Oh, Seno*r Inglese,"
says he, "you speak in colors." "In colors!" said I,
"what do you mean by that?" "Why, you speak what
looks white this way and black v,hat way—gay one way and
dull another. You tell him it is a good wall to keep out
Tartars; you tell me by that it is good for nothing but to
keep out Tartars. I understand you, Seuor Inglese, I
understand you; but Senor Chinese understood you his
own way." "Well," says I, "do you think it would
stand out an army of our country people, with a good
train of artillery; or our engineers, with two companies of
miners? Would not they batter it down in ten days, that
an army might enter in battalia; or blow it up in the air,
foundation and all, that there should be no sign of it left?"
"Ay, ay," says he, " I know that." The Chinese wanted
mightily to know what I said to the pilot, and I gave him
leave to tell him a few days after, for we were then almost
out of their country, and he was to leave us a little time
after this; but when he knew what I said, he was dumb all
the rest of the way, and we heard no more of his fine stories
of the Chinese power and greatness while he stayed.
After we passed this mighty nothing, called a wall,
something like the Picts' wall, so famous in Northumber-
land, built by the Komans, we began to find the country
thinly inhabited, and the people rather confined to live in
fortified towns, as being subject to the inroads and depre-
dations of the Tartars, who rob in great armies, and there-
fore are not to be resisted by the naked inhabitants of an
open country. And here I began to find the necessity of
keeping together in a caravan as we traveled, for we saw
several troops of Tartars roving about; but when 1 came
to see them distinctly, I wondered more that the Chinese
Empire could be conquered by such contemptible fellows;
for they are a mere horde of wild fellows, keeping no
crder, and understanding no discipline or manner of fight.
Their horses are poor lean creatures, taught nothing, and
fit for nothing; and this we found the first day we saw
them, which was after we entered the wilder part of the
oountry. Our leader for the day gave leave for about six-
teen of us to go a-hunting, as they call it; and what was
this but a-hunting of sheep!—however, it may be called
hunting, too, for these creatures are the wildest and swift-
est of foot that ever 1 saw of their kind; only they will not
run a great way, and you are sure of sport when you begin
the chase, for they appear generally thirty or forty in a
flock, and, like true sheep, always keep together when
they fly.
In pursuit of this odd sort of game it was our hap to
meet with about forty Tartars; whether they were hunting
muitor:, as we were, or whether they looked for another
kind of prey, we know not; but as soon as they saw us,
one of them blew a hideous blast on a kind of horn. This
was to call their friends about them, and in less than ten
minutes a troop of forty or fifty more appeared, at about
a mile distance; but our work was over first, as it hap-
pened.
One of the Scots merchants of Moscow happened to be
among us; and as soon as he heard the horn he told us
that we had nothing to do but to charge them without loss
of time; and drawing us up in a line, he asked if we were
resolved. We told him we were ready to follow him; so
he rode directly toward them. They stood gazing at us
like a mere crowd, drawn up in no sort of order at all; but
as soon as they saw us advance, they let fly their arrows,
which missed us, very happily. Not that they mistook
their aim, but their distance; for their arrows all fell a
little short of us, but with so true an aim, that had we
been about twenty yards nearer, we must have had several
men wounded, if not killed.
Immediately we halted, and though it was at a great dis-
tance, we fired, and sent them leaden bullets for wooden
arrows, following our shot full gallop, to fall in among
them sword in hand—for so our bold Scot that led us
directed. He was, indeed, but a merchant, but he be-
haved with such vigor and bravery on this occasion, and
yet with such cool courage too, that 1 never saw any man
in action fitter for command. As soon as we came up to
them we fired our pistols in their faces and then drew; but
they fled in the greatest confusion imaginable. The only
stand any of them made was on our right, where three of
them stood, and, by signs, called the rest to come back to
them, having a kind of scimitar in their hands, and their
bows hanging to their backs. Our brave commander,
without asking anybody to follow him, gallops up close to
them, and with his fusee knocks one of them off his horse,
killed the second with his pistol, and the thim t«u away.
Thus ended our fight; but we had this misfortune attend-
ing it, that all our mutton we had in chase got away. We
had not a man killed or hurt; as for the Tartars, there
were about five of them killed—how many were wounded
we knew not; but this we knew, that the other party were
so frightened with the noise of our guns that they fled, and
never made any attempt upon us.
We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and
therefore the Tartars were not so bold as afterward; but in
about five days we entered a vast, wild desert, which held
us three days' and nights' march; and we were obliged to
carry our water with us in great leathern bottles, and to
encamp all night, just as 1 have heard they do in the
desert of Arabia. I asked our guides whose dominion this
was in, and they told me this was a kind of border that
might be called no man's land, being a part of Great
Karakathy, or Grand Tartary; that, however, it was all
reckoned as belonging to China, but that there was no
.care taken here to preserve it from the inroads of thieves,
and therefore it was reckoned the worst desert in the whole
march, though we were to go over some much larger.
In passing this frightful wilderness we saw, two or three
times, little parties of the Tartars, but they seemed to be
upon their own affairs, and to have no design upon us;
and so, like the man who met the devil, if they had noth-
ing to say to us, we had nothing to say to them; we let
them go. Once, however, a party of them came so near
as to stand and gaze at us. Whether it was to consider if
they should attack us or not, we knew not; but when we
had passed at some distance by them, we made a rear-
guard of forty men, and stood ready for them, letting the
caravan pass half a mile or thereabouts before us. After
awhile they marched off, but they saluted us with five-
arrows at theiv parting, which wounded a horse so that it
disabled him, and we left him the next day, poor creature,
in great need of a good farrier. We saw no more arrows
or Tartars that time.
We traveled near a month after this, the ways not being
so good as at first, though still in the dominions of the
Emperor of China, but lay for the most part in the vil-
lages, some of which were fortified, because of the incur-
sions of tha Tartars. When we were come tc one of those
towns (about two days and a half's journey before we came
to the city of Naum), I wanted to ouy a camel, of which
there are plenty to be sold all the way upon that road, and
horses also, such as they are, because, so many caravans
coming that way, they are often wanted. The person that
I spoke to to get me a camel would have gone and fetched
one for me; but I, like a fool, muBt be officious, and go
myself along with him; the place was about two miles out
of the village, where it seems they kept the camels and
horses feeding under a guard.
1 walked in on foot, with my old pilot and a Chinese,
being very desirous of a little variety. When we came to
the place it was a low, marshy ground, walled round with
stones, piled up dry/without mortar or earth among them,
like a park, with a little guard of Chinese soldiers at the
door. Having bought a camel, and agreed for the price,
1 came away, and the Chinese that went with me led the
camel, when on a sudden came up five Tartars on horse-
back. Two of them seized the fellow and took the camel
from him, while the other three stepped up to me and my
old pilot, seeing us, as it were, unarmed, for I had no
weapon about me but my sword, which could but ill de-
fend me against three horsemen. The first that came up
stopped short upon my drawing my sword, for they are
arrant cowards; but a second, coming upon my left, gave
me a blow on the head, which I never felt till afterward,
and wondered, when I came to myself, what was the Shat-
ter, and where I was, for he laid me flat on the ground;
but my never-failing old pilot, the Portuguese, had a pis-
tol in his pocket, Which I knew nothing of, nor the Tar-
tars either; if they had, I suppose they would not have at-
tacked us, for cowards are always boldest when there is no
danger. The old man, seeing me down, with a bold heart
stepped up to the fellow that had struck me, and laying
hold of his arm with one hand, and pulling him down by
main force a little toward him, with the other shot him in
the head, and laid him dead upon the spot. He then
immediately stepped up to him who had stopped us, as I
said, and before he could come forward again, made a blow
at him with a scimitar, which he always wore, but, miss-
ing the man, struck his horse in the side of the head, cut
one of the ears off by the root, and a great slice down by
the side of his face. The poor beast, enraged with the
wound, was no more to be governed by hk rider, though
the fellow sat well enough too, but away he flew, and car-
ried him quite out of the pilot's reach; and at some dis-
tance, rising upon his hind legs, threw down the Tartar,
»nd fell upon him.
In this interval the poor Chinese came in who had lost
the camel, but he had no weapon; however, seeing the
Tartar down, and his horse fallen upon him, away he runs
to him, and seizing upon an ugly weapon he had by his
side, something like a pole-ax, he wrenched it from him,
and made shift to knock his Tartarian brains out with it.
But my old man had the third Tartar to deal with still;
and seeing he did not fly, as he expected, nor come on to
fight him, as he apprehended, but stood stock still, the old
man stood still too, and fell to work with his tackle to
charge his pistol again; but as soon as the Tartar saw the
pistol away he scoured, and left my pilot, my champion I
called him afterward, a complete victory.
By this time 1 was a little recovered. I thought, when
I first began to wake, that I had been in a sweet sleep; but,
as 1 said above, I wondered where I was, how 1 came upon
the ground, and what was the matter. A few moments
after, as sense returned, I felt pain, though I did notjcnow
where; so I clapped my hand to my head, and took it away
bloody; then I felt my head ache; and in a moment mem-
ory returned, and everything was present to me again. I
iunipad upon my feet instantly, and got hold of my sword,
but no enemies were in view; I found a Tartar lying dead,
and his horse standing very quietly by him; and, looking
further, I saw my deliverer, who had been to see what the
Chinese had done, conr'ng back with his hanger in his
hand. The old man, seeing me on my feet, came run-
ning to me, and joyfully embraced me, being afraid before
that I had been killed. Seeing me bloody, he would see
how 1 was hurt; but it was not much, only what we call a
broken head; neither did I afterward find any great incon-
venience from the blow, for it was well again in two or
three days.
We made no great gain, however, by this victory, for we
lost a camel and gained a horse. I paid for the lost camel,
and sent for another; but I did not go to fetch it myself;
I had had enough of that.
The city of Naum, which we were approaching, is a
frontier of the Chinese Empire, and is fortified in their
fashion. We wanted, as I have said, above two days' jour-
ney of this city when messengers were sent express to every
part of the road to tell all travelers and caravans to halt
till they had a guard sent for them; for that an unusual
body of Tartars, making ten thousand in all, had appeared
in the way, about thirty miles beyond the city.
This was very bad news to travelers; however, it was
carefully done of the governor, and we were very glad to
hear we should have a guard. Accordingly, two days
after, we had two hundred soldiers sent us from a garrison
of the Chinese on our left, and three hundred more from
the city of Naum, and with these we advanced boldly.
The three hundred soldiers from Naum marched in our
front, the two hundred in our rear, and our men on each
side of our camels, with' our baggage and the whole cara-
van in the center; in this order, and well prepared for bat-
tle, we thought ourselves a match for the whole ten thou-
sand Mogul Tartars, if they had appeared; but the next
day, when they did appear, it was quite another thing.
SECTION XLI1I.
Further Account of our Journey.—Description of an Idol, "Which
We Destroy.—Great Dunger We Incur Thereby—Account of
Our Travels Through Muscovy.
Early in the morning, when marching from a little
town called Changu, we had a river to pass, which we were
obliged to ferry; and, had the Tartars had any intelli-
gence, then had been the time to have attacked us, when,
the caravan being over, the rear-guard was behind; but
they did not appear there. About three hours after, when
we were entered upon a desert of about fifteen or sixteen
miles over, we knew, by a cloud of dust they raised, that
the enemy was at hand, and presently they came on upon
the spur.
Our Chinese guards in the front, who had talked so big
the day before, began to stagger; and the soldiers fre-
quently looked behind them, a certain sign in a soldier that
he is just ready to run away. My old pilot was of my
mind; and being near me, called out, "Seuor Inglese,
these fellows must be encouraged, or they will ruin us all;
for if the Tartars come on they will never stand it." "I
am of your mind," said I; "but what must be done?"
"Done?" says he; "let fifty of our men advance, and
flank them on each wing, and encourage them. They will
fight like brave fellewsin brave company; but without this
they will every man turn his back." Immediately I rode
up to our leader and told him, who was exactly of our
mind; accordingly, fifty of us marched to the right wing,
and fifty to the left, and the rest made a line of rescue;
and so we marched, leaving (he last two hundred men to
make a body of themselves, and to guard the camels; only
that, if need were, they should send a hundred men to as-
sist the last fifty.
At last the Tartars came on, and an innumerable com-
pany they were; how many we could not tell, but ten thou-
sand, we thought, at the least. A party of them came on
first, and viewed our posture, traversing the ground in the
front of our line; and, as we found them within gunshot,
our leader ordered the. two wings to advance swiftly, and
give them a salvo on each wing with their shot, which was
done. They then went off, I suppose, to give an account
of the reception they were like to meet with; indeed, that
salute cloyed their stomachs, for they immediately halted,
stood awhile to consider of it, and wheeling off to the left,
they gave over their design for that time, which was very
agreeable to our circumstances.
Two days after we came to the city of Naun, or Naum;
we thanked the governor for his care of us, and collected
to the value of a hundred crowns, or thereabouts, which
we gave to the soldiers sent to guard us; and here we
rested one day. This is a garrison indeed, and there were
nine hundred soldiers kept here; but the reason of it was,
that formerly the Muscovite frontiers lay nearer to them
than they now do, the Muscovites having abandoned that
part of the country, which lies from this city west for
about two hundred miles, as desolate and unfit for use;
and more especially being so very remote, and so difficult
to send troops thither for its defense; for we were yet
above two thousand miles from Muscovy properly bo called.
After this we passed several rivers, and two dreadful des-
erts; one of which we were sixteen days passing over;
and, on the 13th of April, we came to the frontiers of the
Moscovite dominions. I think the first town or fortress,
whichever it may be called, that belonged to the ozar, wa?
called Arguna, being on the west side of the river Arguna.
I could not but feel great satisfaction that I was arrived in
a country governed by Christians; for though the Mus-
covites do, in my opinion, but just deserve the name of
Christians, yet such they pretend to be, and are very de-
vout in their way. It would certainly occur to any reflect-
ing man who travels the world as I have done, what a
blessing it is to be brought into the world where the name
of God and a Redeemer is known, adored, and worshiped;
and not where the people, given up to strong delusions,
worship the devil, and prostrate tliemselve to monsters,
elements, horrid-shaped animals, and monstrous images.
Not a town or city we passed through but had their pago-
das, their idols, and their temples, and ignorant people
worshiping even the works of their own hands. Now we
came where, at least, a face of the Christian worship ap-
peared; where the knee was bowed to Jesus; and whether
ignorantly or not, yet the Christian religion was owned,
and the name of the true God was called upon and adored;
and it made my soul rejoice to see it. 1 saluted the brave
Scots merchant with my first acknowledgment of this; and
taking him by the hand, I said to him, " Blessed be God,
we are once again among Christians." He smiled, and
answered, "Do not rejoice too soon, countryman; these
Muscovites are but an odd sort of Christians; and but for
the name of it you maj see very little of the substance for
some months further of our journey." "Well," says 1,
"but still it is better than paganism, and worshiping of
devils." "Why, I will tell you," says he; "except the
Russian soldiers in the garrisons, and a few of the in-
habitants of the cities upon the road, all the rest of this
country, far above a thousand miles further, is inhabited
by the worst and most ignorant of pagans." And so, in-
deed, we found it.
We now launched into the greatest piece of solid earth
that is to be found in any part of the world; we had, at
least, twelve thousand miles to the sea eastward; two thou-
sand to the bottom of the Baltic Sea westward; and above
three thousand, if we left that sea, and went on west, to
the British and French channels; we had full five thou-
sand miles to the Indian or Persian Sea south; and about
eight hundred to the Frozen Sea north.
We advanced from the river Arguna by easy and moder-
ate journeys, and were very visibly obliged to the care the
czar has taken to have cities and towns built in as many
places as it is possible to place them, where his soldiers
keep garrison, something like the stationary soldiers placed
by the Romans in the remotest countries of their empire;
some of which I had read of were placed in Britain, for
the security of commerce, and for the lodging of travelers.
Thus it was here; for wherever we came, though at these
towns and stations the garrisons and governors were Rus-
sians, and professed Christians, yet the inhabitants were
mere pagans, sacrificing to idols, and worshiping the sun,
moon, and stars, or all the host of heaven; and not only
so, but were, of all the heathens and pagans that ever I
met with, the most barbarous, except only that they did
not eat men's flesh.
Some instances of this we met with in the country be-
tween Arguna, where we enter the Muscovite dominions,
and a city of Tartars and Russians together, called Nortzi-
ousky, in which is a continued desert or forest, which cost
us twenty days to travel over. In a village near the last
of these places I had the curiosity to go and see their way
of living, which is most brutish and unsufferable. They
had, 1 suppose, a great sacrifice that day; for there stood
out, upon an old stump of a tree, a diabolical kind of idol
made of wood; it was dressed up, too, in the most filthy
manner; its upper garment was of sheep-skins, with the
wool outward; a great Tartar bonnet on the head, with
two horns growing through it; it was about eight feet high,
yet had no feet or legs, nor any other proportion of parts.
This scarecrow was set up at the outer side of the vil-
lage; and when I came near to it there were sixteen or
seventeen creatures all lying flat upon the ground round
this hideous block of wood; I saw no motion among them,
any more than if they had been all logs, like the idol, and
at first 1 really thought they had been so; but, when I
came a little nearer, they started up upon their feet, and
raised a howl, as if they had been so many deep-mouthed
hounds, and walked away, as if they were displeased at our
disturbing them. A little way off from the idol, and at
the door of a hut, made of sheep and cow-skins dried, stood
three men with long knives in their hands; and in the
middle of the tent appeared three sheep killed, and one
youag bullock. These, it seems, were sacrifices to that
senseless log of an idol; the three men were priests belong-
ing to it, and the seventeen prostrated wretches were the
people who brought the offering, and were making their
prayers to that stock.
I confess I was more moved at their stupidity and brutish
worship of a hobgoblin than ever I was at anything in my
life, and, overcome with rage, I rode up to the hideous
idol, and with my sword made a stroke at the bonnet that
was on its head, and cut it in two; and one of our men
that was with me, taking hold of the sheep-skin that cov-
ered it, pulled at it, when, behold! a most hideous outcry
ran through the village, and two or three hundred people
came about my ears, so that I was glad to ticour for it, tor
some had bows and arrows; but I resolved from that mo-
ment to visit them again. Our caravan rested .three nights
at the town, which was about four miles off, in order to
Erovide some horses which they wanted, several of the
orses having been lamed and jaded with the long march
over the last desert; so we had some leisure here to put
my design in execution. I communicated it to the
Scots merchant, of whose courage 1 had sufficient testi-
mony; I told him what I had seen, and with what indig-
nation 1 had since thought that human nature could be so
degenerate; I told him if 1 could get but four or five men
well armed to go with me, I was resolved to go and destroy
that vile, abominable idol, and let them see that it had no
power to help itself, and consequently could not be an ob-
ject of worship, or to be prayed to, much less help them
that offered sacrifices to it.
He at first objected to my plan as useless, seeing that,
owing to the gross ignorance o, the people, they could not
be brought to profit by the less^, I meant to teach them;
and added that, from his knowledge of the country and its
customs, he feared we should fall into great peril by giving
offense to these brutal idol worshipers. This somewhat
stayed my purpose, but 1 was still uneasy all that day to
put my project in execution; and that evening, meeting
the Scots merchant in our walk about the town, 1 again
called upon him to aid me in it. When he found me reso-
lute he said that, on further thought, he could not but
applaud the design, and told me. I should not go alone,
but he would go with me; but he would go first and bring
a stoat fellow, one of his countrymen, to go also with us;
"and one," said he, "as famous for his zeal as you cam
desire any one to be against such devilish things as these."
So we agreed to go, only we three and my man-servant,
and resolved to put it in execution the following night
about midnight, with all possible secrecy.
We thought it better to delay it till the next night, be-
cause the caravan being to set forward in the morning, we
lupposed the governor could not pretend to give them any
satisfaction upon us when we were out of his power. The
Scota merchant, as steady in his resolution for the enter-
prise as bold in executing, brought me a Tartar's robe or
gown of sheep-skins, and a bonnet, with a bow and arrows,
and had provided the same for himself and his country-
man, that the people, if they saw us, should not determine
who we were. All the first night we spent in mixing up
some combustible matter, with aqua vita, gunpowder, and
such other materials as we could get; and having a good
quantity of tar in a little pot, about an hour after night
we set out upon our expedition.
We came to the place about eleven o'clock at night, and
found that the people had not the least suspicion of danger
attending their idol. The night was cloudy: yet the moon
gave us light enough to see that the idol stood just in the
same posture and place that it did before. The people
seemed to be all at their rest; only that in the great hut,
where we saw the three priests, we saw a light, and going
up close to the door, we heard people talking as if there
were five or six of them; we concluded, therefore, that if
we set wildfire to the idol, those men would come out im-
mediately, and run up to the place to rescue it from de-
struction; and what to do with them we knew not. Once
we thought of carrying it away, and setting fire to it at a
distance; but when we came to handle it, we found it too
bulky for our carriage, so we were at a loss again. The
second Scotsman was for setting fire to the hut, and knock-
ing the creatures that were there on the head when they
came out; but I could not join with that; I was against
killing them, if it were possible to avoid it. "Well,
then, said the Scots merchant, " I will tell you what we
will do: we will try to make them prisoners, tie their
hands, and make them stand and see their idol destroyed."
As it happened, we had twine or pack-thread enough
about us, which we used to tie our fire-locks together with;
so we resolved to attack these people first, and with as little
noise as we could. The Srst thing we did we knocked at
the door, when one of the priests coming to it, \fe imme-
diately seized upon him, stopped his mouth, and tied his
hands behind him, and led him to the idol, where we
gagged him that he might not make a noise, tied his feet
also together, and left him on the ground.
Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that
another would come out to see what the matter was; but
we waited so long till the third man came back to us; and
then nobody coming out, we knocked again gently, and
immediately out came two more, and we served them just
in the same manner, but were obliged to go all with them,
and lay them down by the idol some distance from one
another; when, going back, we found two more were come
out of the door, and a third stood behind them within the
door. We seized the two, and immediately tied them,
when the third, stepping back and crying out, my Scots
merchant went in after them, and taking out a composition
we had made that would only smoke and stink, he set fire
to it, and threw it in among them. By that time the other
Scotsman and my man, taking charge of the two men
already bound, and tied together also by the arm, led
them away to the idol, and left them there, to see if their
idol would relieve them, making haste back to us.
When the furze we had thrown in had filled the hut with
so much smoke that they were almost suffocated, we threw
in a small leather bag of another kind, which flamed like a
candle, and following it in, we found there were but four
people, who, as we supposed, had been about some of their
diabolical sacrifices. They appeared, in short, frightened
to death, at least so as to sit trembling and stupid, and not
able to speak either, for the smoke.
We quickly took them from the hut, where the smoke
soon drove us out, bound them as we had done the others,
and all without any noise. Then we carried them alto-
gether to the idol; when we came there, we fell to work
with him. First, we daubed him all over, and his robes
also, with tar, and tallow mixed with brimstone; then we
stopped his eyes, and ears, and mouth full of gunpowder,
and wrapped up a great piece of wildfire in his bonnet;
then sticking all the combustibles we had brought with us
upon him, we looked about to see if we could find anything
else to help to burn him; when my Scotsman remembered
that by the hut, where the men were, there lay a heap of
dry forage; away he and the other Scotsman ran and
fetched their arms full of that. When we had done this,
we took all our prisoners, and brought them, having untied
their feet and ungagged their mouths, and made them
stand up, and set them before their monstrous idol, and
then set fire to the whole.
We stayed by it a quarter of an hour or thereabouts, till
the powder in the eyes, and mouth, and ears of the idol
blew up, and as we could perceive, had split altogether;
and in a word, till we saw it burned so that it would soon
be quite consumed. We then began to think of going
away; but the Scotsman said, " No, we must not go, for
these poor deluded wretches will all throw themselves into
the fire, and burn themselves with the idol." So we re-
solved to stay till the forage was burned down too, and
then came away and left them. After the feat was per-
formed, we appeared in the morning among our fellow-
travelers, exceedingly busy in getting ready for our jour-
ney; nor could any man suppose that we had been anywhere
but in our beds.
But the affair did not end so; the next day came a great
number of the country people to the town gates, and in a
most outrageous manner demanded satisfaction of the Rus-
sian governor for the insulting their priests and burning
their great Cham Chi-Thaungu. The people of Nortziousky
were at first in a great consternation, for they said the
Tartars were already no less than thirty thousand strong.
The Russian governor sent out messengers to- appease
them, assuring them that he knew nothing of it, and that
there had not a soul in his garrison been abroad, so that it
could not be from anybody there: but if they could let him
know who did it, they should be exemplarily punished.
They returned haughtily, that all the country reverenced
the great Cham Thi-Thaungu, who dwelt,in the sun,
and no mortal would have dared to offer violence to his
image but some Christian miscreant; and they therefore
resolved to denounce war against him and all the Russians,
who, they said, were miscreants and Christians.
The governor, unwilling to make a breach, or to have
any cause of war alleged to be given by him, the czar hav-
ing strictly charged him to treat the conquered country
',
with gentleness, gave them all the good if or In He could.
At last he told them there was a caravan gone toward Ruh-
sia that morning, and perhaps it was some of them who
had done them this injury; and that if they would be satis-
fied with that, he would send after them to inquire into it.
This seemed to appease them a little; and accordingly the
governor sent after us, and gave us a particular account
how the thing was; intimating withal, that if any in our
caravan had done it they should make their escape; but
that whether we had done it or no, we should make all the
haste forward that was possible: and that, in the mean-
time, he would keep them in play as long as he could.
This was very friendly in the governor: however, when
it came to the caravan, there was nobody knew anything
of the matter; and as for us that were guilty, we were least
of all suspected. However, the captain of the caravan for
the time took the hint that the governor gave us, and we
traveled two days and two nights without any considerable
stop, and then we lay at a village called Plothus: nor did
we make any long stop here, but hastened on toward Jara-
wena, another Muscovite colony, and where we expected
we should be safe. But upon the second day's march from
Plothus, by the clouds of dust behind us at a great dis-
tance, it was plain we were pursued. We had entered a
vast desert, and had passed by a great lake called Schanks
Oser, when we perceived a large body of horse appear on
the other side of the lake, to the north, we traveling west.
We observed they went away west, as we did, but had sup-
posed we would have taken that side of the lake, whereas,
we very happily took the south side; and in two days more
they disappeared again: for they, believing we were still
before them, pushed on till they came to the Udda, a very
great river when it passes further north, but when we
came to it we found it narrow and fordable.
The third day they had either found their mistake, or
had intelligence of us, and came pouring in upon us toward
dusk. We had, to our great satisfaction, just pitched upon
a convenient place for our camp; for as we had just enterod
upon a desert about five hundred miles over, where we had
no towns to lodge at, and, indeed, expected none but the
city Jarawena, which we had yet two days' march to; the
desert, however, had some few woods in it on this side,
and little rivers, which ran all into the great river Udda;
it was in a narrow strait, between little but very thick
woods, that we pitched our camp that night, expecting to
be attacked before morning. As it was usual for the
Mogul Tartars to go about in troops in that desert, so the
cararans always fortify themselves every night against
them, as against armies of robbers; and it was, therefore,
no new thiug to be pursued. But we had this night a
most advantageous camp: for as we lay between two
woods, with a little rivulet running just before our front,
we could not be surrounded, or attacked any way but in
our front or rear. We took care also to make our front as
strong as we could, by placing our packs, with the camels
and horses, all in a line, on the inside of the river, and
felling some trees in our rear.
In this posture we encamped for the night; but the
enemy was upon us before we had finished. They did not
come on like thieves, as we expected, but sent three mes-
sengers to us, to demand the men to be delivered to them
that had abused their priests and burned their idol, that
they might burn them with fire; and upon this, they said,
they would go away, and do us no further harm, otherwise
they would destroy us all. Our men looked very blank at
this message, and began to stare at one another to see who
looked with the most guilt in their faces; but nobody was
the word—nobody did it. The leader of the caravan sent
word he was well assured that it was not done by any of
our camp; that we were peaceful merchants, traveling on
our business; that we had done no harm to them or to any
one else; and that, therefore, they must look further for
the enemies who had injured them, for we were not the
people; so they desired them not to disturb us, for if they
did we should defend ourselves.
They were far from being satisfied with this for an
answer; and a great crowd of them came running down in
the morning, by break of day, to our camp; but seeing us
so well posted, they durst come no further, than the brook
in our front, where they stood in such number as to terrify
us very much; indeed, some spoke of ten thousand. Here
they stood and looked at us awhile, and then, setting up a
great howl, let fly a crowd of arrows among us; but we
were well enough sheltered under our baggage, and I do
not remember that one of us was hurt.
Somo time after this we saw them move a little to our
right, and expected them on the rear: when a cunning
fellow, a Cossack of Jarawena, calling to the leader of the
caravan, said to him, "I will send all these people away
to Sibeilka." This was a city four or fire days' journey
at least to the right, and rather behind us. So he takes
his bow and arrows, and getting on horseback, he rides
away from our rear directly, as it were back to Nortziou-
sky; after this he takes a great circuit about, and comas
directly on the army of the Tartars as if he had been sent
expressly to tell them a long story that the people who had
burned the Cham Chi-Thaungu were gone to Sibeilka, with
a caravan of miscreants, as he called them—that is to say,
Christians; and that they had resolved to burn the god
Scal-lsar, belonging to the Tonguses. As this fellow was
himself a Tartar, and perfectly spoke their language, he
eounterfeited so well that they all believed him, and away
they drove in a violent hurry to Sibeilka. In less than
three hours they were entirely out of our sight, and we
never heard any more of them, nor whether they went to
Sibeilka or no. So we passed away safely on to Jarawena,
where there was a Russian garrison, and there we rested
five days.
Prom this city we had a frightful desert, which held us
twenty-three days' march. We furnished ourselves with
some tents here, for the better accommodating ourselves
in the night; and the leader of the caravan procured six-
teen wagons of the country, for carrying our water or pro-
visions, and these carriages were our defense every night
round our little camp; so that had the Tartars appeared,
unless they had been very numerous indeed, they would
not have been able to hurt us. We may well be supposed
to have wanted rest again after this long journey; for in
this desert we neither saw house nor tree, and scarce a
bush; though we saw abundance of the sable-hunters, who
are all Tartars of Mogul Tartary, of which this country is
a part; and they frequently attack small caravans, but we
saw no numbers of them together.
After we had passed this desert we came into a country
pretty well inhabited—that is to say, we found frowns and
castles, settled by the czar with garrisons of stationary
soldiers, to protect the caravans and defend the country
against the Tartars, who would otherwise make it very
dangerous traveling; and his czarish majesty has fliven
10
such strict orders for the well guarding the caravans, that,
if there are any Tartars heard of in the country, detach-
ments of the garrison are always sent to see the traveler
safe from station to station. Thus the governor of Adin-
skoy, whom I had an opportunity to rua&e a visit to, by
means of the Scots merchant, who was acquainted with
him, offered us a guard of fifty men, if we thought there
was any danger, to the next station.
I thought, long before this, that as we came nearer to
Europe we should find the country better inhabited, and
the people more civilized; but I found myself mistaken in
both; for we had yet the nation of the Tonguses to pass
through, where we saw the same tokens of paganism aud
barbarity as before; only, as they were conquered by the
Muscovites, they were not so dangerous, but for rudeness
of manners and idolatry no people in the world ever went
beyond them. They are all clothed in skins of beasts, and
their houses are built of the same; you know not a man
from a woman, neither by the ruggedness of their counte-
nances nor their clothes; and in the winter, when the
ground is covered with snow, they live underground in
vaults, which have cavities going from one to another. If
the Tartars had their Cham Chi-Thaungu for a whole vil-
lage or country, these had idols in every hut and every
cave. This country, I reckon, was, from the desert I
spoke of last, at least four hundred miles, half of it being
another desert, which took us up twelve days' severe
traveling, without house or tree; and we were obliged
again to carry our own provisions, as well water as bread.
After we were out of this desert, and had traveled two
days, we came to Janezay, a Muscovite city, or station, on
the great fiver Janezay, which, they told us there, parted
Europe from Asia.
All the country between the river Oby and the river
Janezay is as entirely pagan, and the people as barbarous,
as the remotest of the Tartars. I also found, which I ob-
served to the Muscovite governors whom 1 had an opportu-
nity to converse with, that the poor pagans are not much
wiser, or nearer Christianity, for being under the Musco-
vite government, which they acknowledged was true
enough—but that, as they said, was none of their busi-
ness; that if the czar expected to convert his Siberian,
Tonguse, or Tartar subjects, it should be done by sending
B0BIN80K CBU80S, 483
clergymen among them, not soldiers; and they added,
with more sincerity than I expected, that it was not so
much the concern of their monarch to make the people
Christians as to make them subjects.
From this river to the Oby we crossed a wild, unculti-
vated country, barren of people and good management,
otherwise it is in itself a pleasant, fruitful, and agreeable
conntry. What inhabitants we found in it are all pagans,
except suoh as are sent among them from Russia; for this
is the country—I mean on both sides the river Oby—
whither the Muscovite criminals that are not put to death
are banished, and from whence it is next to impossible they
should ever get away. I have nothing material to say of
my particular affairs till I came to Tobolski, the capital
city of Siberia, where I continued some time on the follow-
ing account:
We had now been almost seven months on our journey,
and winter began to come on apace; whereupon my part-
ner and I called a council about our particular affairs, in
which we found it proper, as we were hound for England,
to consider how to dispose of ourselves. They told us of
sledges and reindeer to carry us over the snow in the winter
time, by which means, indeed, the Russians travel more in
winter than they can in summer, as in these sledges they
are able to run night and day: the snow, being frozen, is
one universal covering to nature, by which the hills, vales,
rivers, and lakes are all smooth and hard as a stone, and
they run upon the surface, without any regard- to what is
underneath.
But I had no occasion to urge a winter journey of this
kind. 1 was bound to England, not to Moscow, and my
route lay two ways: either 1 must go on as the caravan
went, till I came to Jarislaw, and then go off west for
Narva and the Gulf of Finland, and so on to Dantzic,
where I might possibly sell my China cargo to good ad-
vantage;^ I must leave the caravan at a little town on
the Dwina, from whence 1 bad but six days by water to
Archangel, and from thence might be sure of shipping
either to England, Holland, or Hamburg.
Now, to go any of these journeys in the winter would
have been preposterous, for as to Dantzic, the Baltic wouhi
have been frozen up and I could not get passage; and to
go by land in those countries was far less safe than among
the Mogul Tartars: likewise, as to Archangel in October
all the ships would be gone from thence, and even the
merchants who dwell there in summer retire south to Mos-
cow in the winter, when the ships are gone; so that I could
have nothing but extremity of cold to encounter, with a
scarcity of provisions, and must lie in an empty town all
! the winter. Therefore, upon the whole, I thought it much
my better way to let the caravan go, and make provisions
to winter where I was, at Tobolski, in Siberia, in the lati-
tude of about sixty degrees, where I was sure of three
things to wear out a cold winter with—viz., plenty t»'f pro-
visions, such as the country afforded, a warm house, with
fuel enough, and excellent company.
I was now in quite a different climate from my beloved
island, where 1 never felt cold, except when 1 had my
ague; on the contrary, 1 had much to do to bear any
clothes on my back, and never made any fire but without.
doors, which was necessary for dressing my food, etc.
Now I had three good vests, with large robes or gowns
over them, to hang down to the feet, and button close to
the wrists; and all these lined with furs, to make them
sufficiently warm. As to a warm house, I must confess I
greatly dislike our way in England of making fires in
every room in the house, in open chimneys, which, when
the fire is out, always keeps the air in the room cold as the
climate. So I took an apartment in a good house in the
town, and ordered a chimney to be built like a furnace, in
the center of six or seven rooms, like a stove; the funnel
to carry the smoke went up one way, the door to come at
the fire went in another, and all the rooms were kept
equally warm, but no fire seen, just as they heat baths in
England. By this means we had always the same climate
in all the rooms, and an equal heat was preserved; and yet
we saw no fire, nor were ever incommoded with smoke.
The most wonderful thing of all was, that it should be
possible to meet with good company here, in a country so
barbarous as this—one of the most northernly 'parts of
Europe. But this being the country where the state crimi-
nals of Muscovy, as I observed before, are all banished,
this city was full of Russian noblemen, gentlemen, soldiers,
and courtiers. Here was the famous Prince Galitzin, the
old German Robostiski. and several other persons of note,
and some ladies. By means of my Scotch merchant.
whom, nevertheless, I parted with here, I made an ac-
quaintance with several of these gentlemen; and from
these, in the long winter nights in which I stayed here, I
received several very agreeable visits.
SECTION XLIV.
Conversations with a Russian Grandee.—Set out on My Journey
Homeward.—Harassed by Kalmucks on the Road.—Arrival at
Archangel.—Sail From Thence, and Arrive Safely in England.
It was talking one night with a certain prince, one of
the banished ministers of state belonging to the czar, that
the discourse of my particular case began. He had been
telling me abundance of fine things of the greatness, the
magnificence, the dominions, and the absolute power of
the Emperor of the Russians: I interrupted him, and told
him I was a greater and more powerful prince than ever
the czar was, though my dominion were not so large, or
my people so many. The Russian grandee looked a little
surprised, and, fixing his eyes steadily upon me, began to
wonder what 1 meant. I said his wonder would cease
when I had explained myself, and told him the story at
large of my living in the island; and then how 1 managed
both myself and the people that were under me, just as I
have since minuted it down. They were exceedingly taken
with the story, and especially the prince, who told me,
with a sigh, that the true greatness of life was to be mas-
ters of ourselves; that he would not have exchanged such a
state of life as mine to be Czar of Muscovy; and that he
found more felicity in the retirement he seemed to be ban-
ished to there, than ever he found in the highest authority
he enjoyed in the court of his master the czar; that the
height of human wisdom was to bring our tempers down
to our circumstances, and to make a calm within, under
the weight of the greatest storms without. When he came
first hither, he said, he used to tear the hair from his
head, and the clothes from his back, as others had done
before him; but a little time and consideration had made
him look into himself, as well as round him to things with-
out: that he found the mind of man, if it was but once
brought to reflect upon the state of universal life, and how
little this world was concerned in its troe felicity, was per-
V
fectly capable ot making a felicity for rtself, fully satisfy-
ing to itself, and suitable to its own best ends and desires,
with but very little assistance from the world. That being
now deprived of all the fancied felicity which he enjoyed
in the full exercise of worldly pleasures, he said he was at
leisure to look upon the datk side of them, where he found
all manner of deformity; and was now convinced that virt-
ue only makes a man truly wise, rich, and great, and
preserves him in the way to a superior happiness in a
future state; and in this, he said, they were more happy in
their banishment than all their enemies were, who had full
possession of all the wealth and power they had left behind
them. "Nor, sir," says he, "do I bring my mind to this
politically, from the necessity of my circumstances, which
some call miserable; but, if I know anything of myself, I
would not now go back, though the czar my master should
call me, and reinstate me in all my former grandeur."
He spoke this with so much warmth in his temper, so
much earnestness and motion of his spirits, that it was evi-
dent it was the true sense of his soul; there was no room
to doubt his sincerity. 1 told him I once thought myself
a kind of monarch in my old station, of which 1 had given
him an account; but that 1 thought he was not only a
monarch, but a great conqueror; for that he had got a vic-
tory over his own exorbitant desires, and the absolute
dominion over himself, he whose reason entirely governs
his will, is certainly greater than he that conquers a city.
I had been here eight months, and a dark, dreadful win'
ter I thought it; the cold so intense that I could not so
much as look abroad without being wrapped in furs, and
a kind of mask of fur before my face, with only a hole for
breath, and two for sight: the little daylight we had was
for three months not above five hours a day, and six at
most; only that the snow lying on the ground continually,
and the weather being clear, it was never quite dark. Our
horses were kept, or rather starved, underground; and as
for our servants, whom we hired here to look after our-
selves and horses, we had, every now and then, their
fingers and toes to thaw and take care of, lest they should
mortify and fall off.
It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses being
close, the walls thick, the windows small, and the glass all
double. Our food was chiefly the flesh of deer, dried and
»,u»rNSON crusok. 487
cured in the season; bread good enough, but baked as bis-
cuits; dried fish of several sorts, and some flesh of mutton,
and of bufialoes, which is pretty good meat. All the stores
of provisions for the winter are laid up in the summer, and
well cured: our drink was water, mixed withaqua vitm in-
stead of brandy; and for a treat, mead instead of wine,
which, however, they have very good. The hunters, who
venture abroad all weathers, frequently brought us in fine
venison, and sometimes bear's flesh, but we did not much
care for the last. We had a good stock of tea, with which
we treated our friends, and we lived cheerfully and well,
all things considered.
It was now March, the days grown considerably longer,
and the weather at least tolerable; so the other travelers
began to prepare sledges to carry them over the snow, and
to get things ready to be going; but my measures being
fixed, as 1 have said, for Archangel, and not for Muscovy
or the Baltic, I made no motion; knowing very well that
"the ships from the south do not set out for that part of the
world till May or June, and that if 1 was there by the be-
ginning of August, it would be as soon as any ships would
be ready to sail. Therefore 1 made no haste to be gone,
as others did: in a word, 1 saw a great many people, nay,
all the travelers, go away before me. It seems every year
they go from thence to Muscovy for trade, to carry furs,
and buy necessaries, which they bring back with them to
furnish their shops: also others went on the same errand to
Archangel.
In the month of May I began to make all ready to pack
up; and, as I was doing this, it occurred to me that, see-
ing all these people were banished by the czar to Siberia,
and yet, when they came there, were left at liberty to go
whither they would, why they did not then go away to any
part of the world, wherever they thought fit; and I began
to examine what should hinder them from making such an
attempt. But my wonder was over when I entered upon
that subject with the person 1 have mentioned, who
answered me thus: "Consider, first, sir," said he, "the
place where we are; and, secondly, the condition we are
in; especially the generality of the people who are banished
thither. We are surrounded with stronger things than
bars or bolts; on the north side, an unnavigable ocean,
where ship never sailed, and boat never swam; every other
way we have above a thousand miles to pass- through the
czar's own dominions, and by ways utterly impassable, ex-
cept by the roads made by the government, and through
the towns garrisoned by his troops; in short, we .could
neither pass undiscovered by the road, nor subsist any
. other way, so that it is in.vain to attempt it."
I was silenced at once, and found that they were in a
prison every jot as secure as if they had been locked up in
the castle at Moscow: however, it came into my thoughts
that I might certainly be made an instrument to procure
the escape of this excellent person; and that, whatever
hazard I ran, I would certainly try if I could carry him
off. Upon this, I took an occasion one evening to tell him
my thoughts. I represented to him that it was very easy
for me to carry him away, there being no guard over him
in the country; and as I was not going to Moscow, but to
Archangel, and that I went in the retinueof a caravan, by
which I was not obliged to lie in the stationary towns in
the desert, but could encamp every night where 1 would,
we might easily pass uninterrupted to Archangel, where
I would immediately secure him on board an English ship,
and carry him safe along with mo; and as to his subsis-
tence and other particulars, it should be my care till he
could better supply himself.
He heard me very attentively, and looked earnestly on
me all the while I spoke; nay, I could see in his very face
that what 1 said put his spirits into an exceeding ferment;
his color frequently changed, his eyes looked red, and his
heart fluttered, till it might be even perceived in his
countenance; nor.could he immediately answer me when I
had dose, and, as it were, hesitated what he would say to
it: but after he had paused a little, he embraced me, and
said, "How unhappy are we, unguarded creatures as we
are, that even our greatest acts of friendship are made
snares unto us, and we are made tempters of one another!"
He then heartily thanked me for my offers of service, but
withstood resolutely the arguments 1 used to urge him to
set himself free. He declared, in earnest terms, that he
was fully bent on remaining where he was rather than seek
to return to his former miserable greatness, as he called it:
where the seeds of pride, ambition, avarice, and luxury
might revive, take root, and again overwhelm him. "Let
me remain, dear sir," he said, in conclusion—" let me re-
main in this blessed confinement, banished from the crimes
of life, rather than purchase a show of freedom at the ex-
pense of the liberty of my reason, and at the future happi-
ness which I now have in my view, but should then, I fear,
quickly lose sight of; for I am but flesh; a man, a mere
inan; and have passions and affections as likely to possess
and overthrow me as any man. Oh, be not my friend and
tempter both together!".
If I was surprised before, I was quite dumb now, and
stood silent, looking at him, and, indeed, admiring what I
saw. The struggle in his soul was so great that, though
the weather was extremely cold, it put him into a most
violent heat; so I said a word or two, that 1 would leave
him tc consider of it, and wait on him again, and then I
withdrew to my own apartment.
About two hours after I heard somebody at or near the
door of my room, and I was going to open the door, but
he had opened it and come in. "My dear friend," says
he, "you had almost overset me, but 1 am recovered. Do
not take it ill that I do not close with your offer. I assure
you it is not for want of sense of the kindness of it in you;
and I came to make the most sincere acknowledgment of
it to you; but 1 hope I have got the victory over myself."
"My lord," said I, "I hope you are fully satisfied that
you do not resist the call of Heaven." "Sir," said he,
"if it had been from Heaven, the same power would have
influenced me to have accepted it; but I hope, and am
fully satisfied, that it is from Heaven that I decline it, and
I have infinite, satisfaction in the parting, that you shall
leave me an honest man still, though not a free man."
I had nothing to do but to acquiesce, and make pro-''
fessions to him of my having no end in it but a sincere de-
sire to serve him. He embraced me very passionately, and
assured me he was sensible of that, and should always
acknowledge it; and with that he offered me a very fine
present of sables—too much, indeed, for me to accept
from a man in his circumstances, and I would have avoided
them, but he would not be refused. The next morning I
sent my servant to his lordship with a small present of tea,
anil two pieces of China damask, and four little wedges of
,lupan gold, which did not all weigh above six ounces or
i hereabouts, but were far short of the value of his sables,
fciuuh, when I came to England, 1 found worth near tw«
Hundred pounds. He accepted the tea, and one piece of
the damask, and one of the pieces of gold, which had a
fine stamp upon it, of the Japan coinage, which I found
he took for the rarity of it, but would not take any more:
and he sent word by my servant that he desired to speak
with me.
When 1 came to him he told me I knew what had passed
between us, and hoped I would not move him any more in
that affair; but that, since 1 had made such a generous
offer to him, he asked me if I had kindness enough to offer
the same to another person that he would name to me, in
whom he had a great share of concern. In a word, he
told me it was his only son; who, though I had not seen
him, was in the same condition with himself, and above
two hundred miles from him, on the other side of the Oby;
but that, if 1 consented, he would send for him.
I made no hesitation, but told him I would do it. I
made some ceremony in letting him understand that it was
wholly on his account; and that, seeing I could not prevail
on him, I would show my respect to him by my concern
for his son. He sent the next day for his son; and in
about twenty days he came back with the messenger,
bringing six or seven horses, loaded with very rich furs,
which, on the whole, amounted to a very great value. His
servants brought the horses into the town, but let the
young lord at a distance till night, when he came incognito
into our apartment, and his father presented him to me;
and, in short, we concerted the manner of our traveling,
and everything proper for the journey.
I had bought a considerable quantity of sables, black
fox-skins, fine ermines, and such other furs as are very
rich in that city, in exchange for some of the goods I had
brought from China; in particular for the cloves and nut-
megs, of which 1 sold the greatest part here, and the rest
afterward at Archangel, for a much better price than T
could have got at London; and my partner, who was sensi-
ble of the profit, and whose business, more particularly
than mine was merchandise, was mightily pleased with our
stay, on account of the traffic we made here.
It was the beginning of June when I left thjs remote
Elace. We were now reduced to a very small' caravan,
aving only thirty-two horses and camels in all, which
passed for mine, though my new guest was proprietor of
eleven of them. It was natural also that I should take
more servants with me than 1 had before; and the young
lord passed for my steward; what great man I passed for
myself I know not, neither did it concern me to inquire.
We had here the worst and the largest desert to pass over
that we met with in our whole journey; I call it the worst,
because the way was very deep in some places, and very
uneven in others; the best we had to say for it was, that
we thought we had no troops of Tartars or robbers to fear,
as they never came on this side of the river Oby, or at least
very seldom; but we found it otherwise.
My young lord had a faithful Siberian servant, who was
perfectly acquainted with the country, and led us by
private roads, so that we avoided coming into the principal
towns and cities upon the great road, such as Tumeu, Soloy
Kamaskoy, and several others; because the Muscovite gar-
risons which are kept there are very curious and strict in
their observation upon travelers, and searching lest any of
the banished persons of note should make their escape that
way into Muscovy; but, by this means, as we were kept
out of the cities, so our whole journey was a desert, and
we were obliged to encamp and lie in our tents, when we
might have had very good accommodation in the cities on
the way; this the young lord was so sensible of, that he
would not allow us to lie abroad when we came to several
cities on the way, but lay abroad himself, with his servant,
in the woods, and met us always at the appointed places.
We had just entered Europe, having passed the river
Kama, which in these parts is the boundary between
Europe and Asia, and the first city on the European side
was called Soloy Kamaskoy, that is, the great city on the
river Kama. And here we thought to see some evident
alteration in the people; but we were mistaken; for as we
bad a vast desert to pass, which is near seven hundred
miles long in some places, but not above two hundred milei
over where we passed it, so, till we came past that horrible
place, we found very little difference between that country
and Mogul Tartary. The people are mostly pagans; their
houses and towns full of idols; and their way of living
wholly barbarous, except in the cities and villages near
them, where they are Christians, as they call themselves,
of the Greek Church: but have their religion mingled with
so many relics of superstition, that it is scarce to be known
in some places from mere sorcery and witchcraft.
In passing this forest (after all our dangers were, to om
imagination, escaped), 1 thought, indeed, we must have
been plundered and robbed, and perhaps murdered, by a
troop of thieves: of what country they were I am yet at a
loss to know; but they were all on horseback, carried bows
and arrows, and were at first about forty-five in number.
They came so near to us as to be within two musket shot,
and, asking no questions, surrounded us with their horses,
and looked very earnestly upon us twice; at length, they
placed themselves just in our way; upon which we drew
up in a little line, before our camels, being not above six-
teen men in all. Thus drawn up, we halted, and sent out
the Siberian servant, who attended his lord, to see who
they were; his master was the more willing to let him go,
because he was not a little apprehensive that they were a
Siberian troop sent out after bim. The man came up near
them with a flag of truce, and called to them; but though
he spoke several of their languages, or dialects of languages
rather, he could not understand a word they said; however,
after some signs to him not to come near them at his peril,
the fellow came back no wiser than he went; only that by
their dress, he said, he believed them to be some Tartars
of Kalmuck, or of the Circassian hordes, and that there
must be more of them upon the great desert, though he
never heard that any of them were seen so far north before.
This was small comfort to us; however, we had no
remedy: there was on our left hand, at about a quarter of
a mile distance, a little grove, aud very near the road. I
immediately resolved we should advance to those trees, and
fortify ourselves as well as we could there; for, first, I
considered that the trees would in a great measure cover us
from their arrows; and, in the next place, they could not
come to charge us in a body: it was, indeed, my old Portu-
guese pilot who proposed it, and who had this excellency
attending him, that he was always readiest and most apt
to direct and encourage us in cases of the most danger.
We advanced immediately, with what speed we could, and
gained that little wood; the Tartars, or thieves, for we
knew not what to call them, keeping their stand, and not
attempting to hinder us. When we came thither, we
found, to our great satisfaction, that it was a swampy
piece of ground, and on the one side a very great spring of
water, which, running out in a little brook, was a little
further joined by another of the like size; and was, in
short, the source of a considerable river, called afterward
the Wirtska; the trees which grew about this spring were
not above two hundred, but very large, and stood pretty
thick, so that as soon as we got in, we saw ourselves per-
fectly safe from the,enemy unless they attacked us on foot.
While we stayed here waiting the motion of the enemy
some, hours, without perceiving that they made any move-
ment, our Portuguese, with some help, cut several arms
of trees half off, and laid them hanging across from one
tree to another, and in a manner fenced us in. About two
hours before night they came down directly upon us; and
though we had not perceived it, we found they had been
joined by some more, so that they were near fourscore
horse; whereof, however, we fancied some were women.
They came on till they were within half shot of our little
wood, when we fired one musket without ball, and called
to them in the Russian tongue to know what they wanted,
and bade them keep off; but they came on with a double
fury up to the wood-side, not imagining we were so barri-
caded that they could not easily break in. Our old pilot
was our captain as well as our engineer, and desired us not
to fire upon them till they came within pistol-shot, that
we might be sure to kill, and that when we did fire we
should be sure to take good aim; we bade him give the
word of command, which he delayed so long that they were
some of them within two pikes' length of us when we let
fly. We aimed so true that we killed fourteen of them,
and wounded several others, as also several of their horses;
for we had all of us loaded our pieces with two or three
bullets apiece at least.
They were terribly surprised with our fire, and retreated
immediately about one hundred rods from.us; in which time
we loaded our pieces again, and seeing them keep that dis-
tance, we sallied out, and caught four or five of their
horses, whose riders we supposed were killed; and coming
up to the dead, we judged they were Tartars, but knew
not how they came to make an excursion such an unusual
length.
About an hour after they again made a motion to attack
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 498
*
break in; but finding ns always ready to face them, they
went oft again; and we resolved not to stir for that night.
We slept little, but spent the most part of the night in
strengthening our situation, and barricading the entrances
into the wood, and keeping a strict watch. We waited for
daylight, and when it came, it gave us a very unwelcome
discovery indeed; for the enemy, who we thought were
discouraged with the reception they rnet with, were now
greatly increased, and had set up eleven or twelve huts or
tents, as if they were resolved to besiege us; and this little
camp they had pitched upon the open plain, about three
quarters of a mile from us. I confess I now gave myself
over for lost, and all that 1 had; the loss of my effects did
not lie so near me, though very considerable, as the
thoughts of falling into the hands of such barlariansat the
latter end of my journey, after so many difficulties and
hazards as I had gone through, and even in sight of our
port, where we expected safety and deliverance. As to my
partner, he was raging, and declared that to lose his goods
would be his ruin, and that he would rather die than be
starved, and he was for fighting to the last drop.
The young lord, a most gallant youth, was for fighting
to the last also; and my old pilot was of opinion that we
were able to resist them all in the situation we were then
in. Thus we spent the day in debates of what we should
do; but toward evening we found that the number of onr
enemies still increased, and we did not know but by the
morning they might still be a greater number: so 1 began
to inquire of those people we had brought from Tobolski
if there were no private ways by which we might avoid
them in the night, and perhaps retreat to some town, or
get help to guard us over the desert. The young lord's
Siberian servant told us, if we designed to avoid them, and
not fight, he would engage to carry us off in. the night, to
a way that went north, toward the river Petruz, by which
he made no question but we might get away, and the Tar-
tars never discover it; but, he said, his lord had told him
he would not retreat, but would rather choose to fight. I
told him he mistook his lord: for that he was too wise a
man to love fighting for the sake of it; that I knew he was
brave enough by what he had showed already; but that he
knew better than to desire seventeen or eighteen men to
fight five hundred, unless an unavoidable necessity forced
them to it; and that if he thought it possible for us to
escape in the night, we had nothing else to do but to
attempt it . He answered, if his lordship gave him such
orders, he would lose his life if he did not perform it; we
soon brought his lord to give that order, though privately,
and we immediately prepared for puttmg it in practice.
And Grstir as soon as it began to be dark, we kindled a
fire in our little camp, which we kept burning, and pre-
pared so as to make it burn all night, that the Tartars
might conclude we were still there; but as soon as it was
dark, and we could see the stars (for our guide would not
stir before), having all our.horsos and camels ready loaded,
we followed our new guided who I soon found steered him-
self b^r the north star, the country being level for a long
way.
After we had traveled two hours very hard, it began to
be lighter still; not that it was dark all night, but the
moon began to rise, so that, in short, it was rather lighter
than we wished it to be; but by six o'clock the next morn-
ing we had got above thirty miles, having almost spoiled
our horses. Here we found a Kussian village, named
Kermazinskoy, where we rested, and heard nothing of the
Kalmuck Tartars that day. About two hours before night
we set out again, and traveled till eight the next morning,
though not quite so hard as before; and about seven o'clock
we passed a little river, eall.d Kirtza, and came to a good
large town inhabited by Bussians, called Ozomys; there we
heard that several troops of Kalmucks had been abroad
upon the desert, but that wo were now completely out of
danger of them, which ;vas to our great satisfaction. Here
we were obliged to get some fresh horses, aud having need
enough of rest, we stayed five days; aud my partner and I
agreed to give the honest Siberian who conducted us thither
the value of ten pistoles.
In five days more we came to VeuSs'mai upou. the river
Witzogda, and running into the Dwina: we were there,
very happily, near the end of our travels by land, that
river being navigable, in seven days' passage, to Archangel.
From heuce we came to Lawrenskoy, the 3d of July; and
providing ourselves with two luggage boats, and a barge
for our own convenience, we embarked the 7th, and arrived
ill safe at Archangel the 18th; having been a year, five
months, and three days on the journey, inoluding our stay
of about eight months at Tobolski.
We were obliged to stay at this place six weeks for the
arrival of the ships, and must have tarried longer, had not
a Hamburgher come in above a mouth sooner than any of
the English ships; when, after some consideration that the
city of Hamburgh might happen to be as good a market
for our goods as London, we all took freight with him;
and, having put our goods on board, it was most natural
for me to put my steward on board to take care of them;
by which means my young lord had a sufficient opportu-
nity to conceal himself, never coming on shore again all
the time we stayed there; and this he did that he might
not be seen in the city, where some of the Moscow mer-
chants would certainly have seen and discovered him.
We then set sail for Archangel the 20th of August, the
same year; and, after no extraordinary bad voyage, arrived
Bafe in the Elbe the 18th of September. Here my partner
and I found a very good sale for our goods, as well those
of China as the sables, etc., of Siberia: and, dividing the
produce, my share amounted to three thousand four hun-
dred and seventy-five pounds, seventeen shillings, and three
pence, including about six hundred pounds' worth of dia-
monds, which I purchased at Bengal.
Here the young lord took his leave of us, and went up
the Elbe, in order to go to the court of Vienna, where he
resolved to seek protection, and could correspond with those
of his father's friends who were left alive. He did not part
m without testimonials of gratitude for the service 1 had done
. him, and for my kindness to the prince, his father.
To conclude: having stayed near four months in Ham-
burgh, I came from thence by land to the Hague, where 1
embarked in the packet, and arrived in London the 10th
of January 1705, having been absent from England ten
years and nine months. And here, resolving to harass
myself no more, I am preparing for a longer journey than
all these, having lived seventy-two years a life of infinite
variety, and learned sufficiently to know the value of re-
tirement, and the blessing of ending our days in peace.
THE BSD,
L, -2.2-S985
w,
i
i ',
i
f
DANIEL DEFOE.
»n -
NEW YORK:
THE F. M. LUPTON PUBLISHING OOMPAWY,
Nos. 72-76 Walker Street.
SECTION 1.
fiobinson's Family, etc.—His Elopement from his Parents.
I was born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of a
good family, though not of that country, my father being
a foreigner of Bremen, named Kreutznaer, who settled
first at Hull. He got a good estate by merchandise, and
leaving off his trade, lived afterward at York; from whence
he had married my mother, whose relations were named
Robinson, a very good family in that country, and after
whom I was so called, that is to say, Robinson Kreutznaer;
but, by the usual corruption of words in England, we are
now called, nay, we call ourselves, and write our name,
Crusoe; and so my companions always called me.
I had two elder brothers, one of whom was lieutenant-
colonel to an English regiment of foot in Flanders, former-
ly commanded by the famous Colonel Lockhart, and waa
killed at the battle near Dunkirk against the Spaniards.
What became of my second brother, I never knew, any
more than my father and mother did know what was be-
come of me.
Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any
trade, my head began to be filled very early with rambling
thoughts. My father, who was very aged, had given me a
competent share of learning, as far as house education and
a country free school generally go, and designed me for the
law; but 1 would be satisfied with nothing but going to
sea; and my inclination to this led me so strongly against
the will, nay, the commands of my father, and against all
the entreaties and persuasion of my mother and other
friends, that there seemed to be something fatal in that
propension of nature, tending directly to the life of misery
which was to befall me.
My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and
excellent counsel against what he foresaw was my deiign.
He called me one morning into his chamber, where he was
confined by the gout, and expostulated very warmly with
me upon this subject: he asked me what reasons, more
than a mere wandering inclination, I had for leaving his
house, and my native country, where I might be well in-
troduced, and had a prospect of raising my fortune, by ap-
plication and industry, with a life of ease and pleasure. He
told me it was men of desperate fortunes, on one hand, or
of superior fortunes, on the other, who went abroad upon
adventures, aspiring to rise by enterprise, and make them-
selves famous in undertakings of a nature out of the com-
mon road; that these things were all either too far above
me, or too far below me; that mine was the middle state,
or what might be called the upper station of low life,
which he had found, by long experience, was the best state
in the world, the most suited to human happiness; not ex-
posed to the miseries and hardships, the labor and suffer-
ings, of the mechanic part of mankind, and not embar-
rassed with the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of the
upper part of mankind: he told me, 1 might judge of the
happiness of this state by one thing, viz., that this was the
state of life which all other people envied; that kings have
frequently lamented the miserable consequences of being
born to great things, and wished they had been placed in
the middle of two extremes, between the mean and the
great; that the wise man gave his testimony to this as the
just standard of true felicity, when he prayed to have
"neither poverty nor riches."
He bade me observe it, and I should always find, that
the calamities of life were shared among the upper and
lower part of mankind; but that the middle station had
the fewest disasters, and was not exposed to so many vicis-
situdes as the higher or lower part of mankind: nay, they
were not subjected to so many distempers and uneasinesses,
either of body or mind, as those were, who, by vicious liv-
ing, luxury, and extravagancies, on one hand, or, by hard
labor, want of necessaries, and mean and insufficient diet,
on the other hand, bring distempers upon themselves by
the natural consequences of their way of living; that the
middle station of lite was calculated for all kind of virtues,
and all kind of enjoyments: that peace and plenty were
the handmaids of a middle fortune; that temperance,
moderation, quietness, health, society, all agreeable diver-
sions, and all desirable pleasures were the blessings attend-
ing the middle station of life; that this way men went
silently and smoothly through the world, and comfortably
out of it, not embarrassed with the labors of the hands or
of the head, not sold to the life of slavery for daily bread,
or harassed with perplexed circumstances, which rob the
soul of peace, and the body of rest; not enraged with the
passion of envy, or secret burning lust of ambition for
great things; but, in easy circumstances, sliding gently
through the world, and sensibly tasting the sweets of liv-
ing, without the bitter; feeling that they are happy, and
learning by every day's experience to know it more
sensibly.
After this he pressed me earnestly, and in the most
affectionate manner, not to play the young man, nor to
precipitate myself into miseries which nature, and the
station of life I was born in, seemed to have provided
against; that I was under no necessity of seeking my bread;
that he would do well for me, and endeavor to enter me
fairly into the station of life which he had been just recom-
mending to me; and that if 1 was not very easy and happy
in the world, it must be my mere fate, or fault, that must
,binder it; and that he should have nothing to answer for,
having thus discharged his duty in warning me against
measures which he knew would be to my hurt; in a word,
that as he would do very kind things for me if I would stay
and settle at home as he directed, so he would not have so
much hand in my misfortunes as to give me any encour-
agement to go away; and, to close all, he told me 1 had
my elder brother for an example, to whom he had used the
same earnest persuasions to keep him from going into the
Low Country wars; but could not prevail, his young de-
sires prompting him to run into the army, where he was
killed; and though, he said, he would not cease to pray for
me, yet he would venture to say to me, that if I did take
this foolish step, God would not bless me: and I would
have leisure, hereafter, to reflect upon having neglected
his counsel, when there might be none to assist in my
recovery.
I observed, in this last part of his discourse, which was
truly prophetic, though, I suppose, my father did not know
it to be so himself; I say, I observed the tears run down
his face very plentifully, especially when he spoke of my
brother who was killed; and that, when he spoke of my
having leisure to repent, and none to assist me, he was so
moved, that he broke off the discourse, and told me his
heart was so full he could say no more to me.
1 was sincerely affected with this discourse; as, indeed,
who could be otherwise? and I resolved not to think of go-
ing abroad any more, but to settle at home, according to
my father's desire. But alas! a few days wore it all off:
and, in short, to prevent any of my father's further im-
portunities, in a few weeks after 1 resolved to run quite
away from him. However, 1 did not act so hastily, neither,
as my first heat of resolution prompted; but I took my
mother, at a time when I thought her a little pleasanter
than ordinary, and told her that my thoughts were so en-
tirely bent upon seeing the world, that I should never settle
to anything with resolution enough to go through with it,
and my father had better give me his consent than force
me to go without it; that 1 was now eighteen years old,
which was too late to go apprentice to a trade, or clerk to
an attorney; that 1 was sure, if I did, I should never serve
out my time, and 1 should certainly run away from my
master before my time was out, and go to sea; and if she
would speak to my father to let me make but one voyage
abroad, if I came home again, and did not like it, I would
go no more; and I would promise by a double diligence, to
recover the time I had lost.
This put my mother into a great passion; she told me
she knew it would be to no purpose to speak to my father
upon any such a subject; that he knew too well what was
my interest to give his consent to anything so much for my
hurt; and that she wondered how I could think of any
such thing, after such a discourse as I had from my father,
and such kind and tender expressions as she knew my
father had used to me; and that, in short, if 1 would ruin
myself, there was no help for me; but 1 might depend I
should never have their consent to it; that for her part,
she would not have so much hand in my destruction; and
I should never have it to say that my mother was willing
when my father was not.
Though my mother refused to move it to my father, yet,
as 1 have heard afterward, she reported all the discourse to
him; and that my father, after showing a great concern at
it, said to her with a sigh, Thac boy might be happy if he
would stay at home; but if he goes abroad, he will be the
most miserable wretch that ever was born: I can give no
consent to it.
It was not till almost a year after this that 1 broke loose;
though in the meantime I continued obstinately deaf to all
proposals of settling to business, and frequently expostulat-
ing with my father and mother about their being so posi-
tively determined against what they knew my inclinations
prompted me to. But being one day at Hull, whither I
went casually, and without any purpose of making an
elopement at that time, and one of my companions then
going to London by sea in his father's ship, and prompting
me to go with them by the common allurement of seafar-
ing men, viz., that it should cost me nothing for my pass-
age, I consulted neither father nor mother any more, nor
so much as sent them word of it; but left them to hear of
it as they might, without asking God's blessing, or my
father's, without any consideration of circumstances or
consequences, and in an ill hour, God knows.
SECTION 11.
First Adventures at Sea, and Experience of a Maritime Life.—Voy-
age to Guinea.
On the 1st of September, 1651, I went on board a ship
bound for London. Never any young adventurer's mis-
fortunes, 1 believe, began younger, or continued longer,
than mine. The ship had no sooner got out of the Hum-
ber, than the wind began to blow, and the waves to rise,
in a most frightful manner; and as I had never been at sea
before, I was most inexpressibly sick in body, and terrified
in mind: I began now seriously to reflect upon what I had
done, and how justly I was overtaken by the judgment of
Heaven for wickedly leaving my father's house. All the
good counsels of my parents, my father's tears, and my
mother's entreaties, came now fresh into my mind; and
ray conscience, which was not yet come to the pitch of
hardness to which it has been since, reproached me with
the contempt of advice and the abandonment of my duty.
All this while the storm increased, and the sea, which I
had never been upon before, went very high, though noth-
ing like what I have seen many times since; no, nor what
1 saw a few days after; but, such as it was, enough to
affect me then, who was but a young sailor, and had never
known anything of the matter. 1 expected every wave
would have swallowed us up, and that every time the ship
fell down, as I thought, in the trough or hollow of the sea,
we should never rise more; and in this agony of mind I
made many vows and resolutions, that if it would please
God to spare my life this voyage, if ever 1 got my foot once
on dry land, I would go directly home to my father, and
never set it into a ship again while 1 lived; that I would
take his advice, and never run myself into such miseries as
these any more. Now I saw plainly the goodness of his
observations about the middle station of life; how easy,
how comfortable, he had lived all his days, and never had
been exposed to tempests at sea or troubles on shore; and
I resolved that I would, like a true repenting prodigal, go
home to my father.
These wise and sober thoughts continued during the
storm, and indeed some time after; but the next day, as
the wind was abated, and the sea calmer, I began to be a
little inured to it. However, I was very grave that day,
being also a little sea-sick still; but toward night the
weather cleared up, the wind was quite over, and a charm-
ing fine evening followed; the sun went down perfectly
clear, and rose so the next morning; and having little or
no wind, and a smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, the
sight was, as 1 thought, the most delightful that I ever
saw.
1 had slept well in the night, and was now no more sea-
sick, but very cheerful, looking with wonder upon the sea
that was so rough and terrible the day before, and could be
so calm and pleasant in a little time after.
And now, lest my good resolutions should continue, my
companion, who had indeed enticed me away, came to me,
and said, Well, Bob, clapping me on the shoulder, how do
you do after it? I warrant you "you were frightened,
wa'n't you, last night, when it blew but a capful of wind?
—A capful, do.you call it? said I; 'twas a terrible storm.
—A storm, you fool! replies he, do you call thai a storm?
Why, it was nothing at all; give us but a good ship, and
sea-room, and we think nothing of such a squall of wind as
that: you are bar & fresh-water sailor, Bob; come, let us
make a bowl of pwnch, and we'll forget all that . D'ye see
what charming weather 'tis now? To make short this sad
part of my story, we went the way of all sailors; the punch
was made, and I was made drunk with it; and in that one
night's wickedness I drowned all my repentance, all my re-
flections upon my past conduct, and all my resolutions for
the future. In a word, as the sea was returned to its
smoothness of surface and settled calmness by the abate-
ment of the storm, so the hurry of my thoughts being
over, my fears and apprehensions of being swallowed up by
the sea iorgotten, and the current of my former desires re-
turned, I entirely forgot the vows and promises 1 had made
in my distress. I found, indeed, some intervals of reflec-
tion; and serious thoughts did, as it were, endeavor to re-
turn again sometimes; but I shook them off and roused
myself from them, as it were from a distemper, and, ap-
plying myseif to drink and company, soon mastered the
Teturn of those fits—for so I called them; and 1 had in five
or six days got as complete a victory over conscience as any
young sinner, that resolved not to be troubled with it,
could desire. But 1 was to have another trial for it still;
and Providence, as in such cases generally it does, resolved
to leave me entirely without excuse: for if I would not take
this for a deliverance, the next was to be such a one as the
worst and most hardened wretch among us would confess
both the danger and the mercy of. The sixth day of our
being at sea we came into Yarmouth Roads; the wind hav-
ing been contrary and the weather calm, we had made be*
little way since the storm. Here we were obliged to com*
to an anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing con-
trary, viz., at south-west, for seven or eight days, during
which time a great many ships from Newcastle came into
the same roads, as the common harbor where the ships
might wait for a wind for the River Thames. We had not,
however, rid here so long, but we should have tided up the
river, but that the wind blew too fresh; and, after we had
lain four or five days, blew very hard. However, the roads
being reckoned as good as a harbor, the anchorage good,
and c-nr ground tackle very strong, our men were uncon-
cerned, and not in the leaRt apprehensive of danger, but
spent the time in rest and mirth, after the manner of the
sea. But the eighth day, in the morning, the wind in*
creased, and we had all hands at work to strike our top-
masts, and make everything snug and close, that the ship
might ride as easy as possible. By noon the sea went very
high indeed, and our ship rode forecastle in, shipped several
seas, and we thought, once or twice, our anchor had come
home; upon which our master ordered out the sheet
anchor; so that we rode with two anchors ahead, and the
cables veered out to the better end.
By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now I
began to see terror and amazement in the faces of even the
seamen themselves. The master was vigilant in the busi-
ness of preserving the ship; but, as he went in and out of
his cabin by me, I could hear him softly say to himself
several times, Lord, be merciful to us! we shall be all lost;
we shall be all undone! and the like. During these first
hurries I was stupid, lying still in my cabin, which was in
the steerage, and can not describe my temper. I could ill
reassume the first penitence, which I had so apparently
trampled upon, and hardened myself against; I thought
that the bitterness of death had been past, and that this
would be nothing too, like the first: but when the master
himself came by me, as I said just now, and said we should
be all lost, I was dreadfully frightened. I got up out of
my cabin, and looked out; but such a dismal sight 1 never
saw; the sea went mountains high, and broke upon us
every three or four minutes. When I could look about, I
could see nothing but distress around us; two ships, that
rid near us, we found had cut their masts by the board,
being deeply laden; and our men cried out that a ship
which rid about a mile ahead of us was foundered. Two
more ships, being driven from their anchors, were run out
of the roads to sea, at all adventures, and that with not a
mast standing. The light ships fared the best, as not sn
much laboring in the sea; but two or three of them drove,
and came close by us, running away, with only their sprit-
sails out, before the wind. Toward evening, the mate and
boatswain begged the master of our ship to let them cut
away the foremast, which he was very loath to do; but the
boatswain protesting to him, that if he did not, the ship
would founder, he consented; and when they had cut away
the foremast, the mainmast stood so loose, and shook the
snip bo much, they were obliged to out it away also, and
make a clear deck,
Any one may judge what a condition I must be in at all
this, who was but a young sailor, and who had been in such
a fright before at but a little. But if I can express, at this
distance, the thoughts 1 had about me at that time, I was
in tenfold more horror of mind upon account of my former
convictions, and the having returned from them to the res-
olutions I had wickedly taken at first, than I was at death
itself; and these, added to the terror of the storm, put me
into such a condition that I can by no wards describe it.
But the worst was not come jet; the storm continued with
such fury that the seamen themselves acknowledged they
had never known a worse. We had a good ship, but she
was deep laden, and so wallowed in the sea, that the sea-
men every now and then cried out she would founder. It
was my advantage, in one respect that 1 did not know what
tpey meant by founder, till I inquired. However, the
storm was so violent that 1 saw, what is not often seen, the
master, the boatswain, and some others, more sensible than
the rest, at their prayers, and expecting every moment the
ship would go to the bottom. In the middle of the night,
and under all the rest of our distresses, one of the men.,
that had been down on purpose to see, cried out, we had
sprung a leak; another said there was four feet of water in
the hold. Then all hands were called to the pump. At
that very word my heart, as I thought, died within me,
and 1 fell backward upon the side of my bed, where I sat
in the cabin. However, the men roused me, and told me
that I, who was able to do nothing before, was as well able
to pump as another: at which 1 stirred up and went to the
pump, and worked very heartily. While this was doing,
the master seeing some light colliers, who, not able to ride
out the storm, were obliged to slip and run away to sea,
and would not come near us, ordered us to fire a gur>, as; a
signal of distress. I, who knew nothing what that meant,
was so surprised, that I thought the ship had broke, or
some dreadful thing had happened. In a word, I was so
surprised, that I fell down in a swoon. As this was a time
when everybody had his own life to think of, no one mind-
ed me, or what was become of me: but another man
stepped up to the pump, and thrusting me aside with his
foot, let me lie, thinking I had been dead; and it was a
great while before I came to myself.
We worked on; but the water increasing in the hold, it
-
was apparent that the ship would founder; and though the
storm began to abate a little, yet as it was not possible she
could swim till we might run into a port, the master
continued firing guns for help; and a light ship, who had
rid it out just ahead of us, ventured a boat out to help us.
It was with the utmost hazard the boat came near us, but
it was impossible for us to get on board, or for the boat to
lie near the ship's side; till at last the men rowing very
heartily, and venturing their lives to save ours, our men
cast them a rope over the stern with a buoy to it, and then
veered it out a great length, which they, after great labor,
and hazard, took hold of, and we hauled them close under
our stern, and got all into their boat. It was to no pur-
pose for them or us, after we were in the boat, to think of
reaching their own ship; so all agreed to let her drive, and
only to pull her in toward shore as much as we could; and
our master promised them, that if the boat was staved
upon shore, he would make it good to their master; so,
partly rowing and partly driving, our boat went away to
the northward, sloping toward the shore almost as far as
Winterton-Ness.
We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out
of our ship when we saw her sink; and then I understood,
for the first time, what was meant by a ship foundering in
the sea. 1 must acknowledge, I had hardly eyes to look
up when the seamen told me she was sinking; for, from
that moment, they rather put me into the boat, than that
1 might be said to go in. My heart was, as it were, dead
within me, partly with fright, partly with horror of mind,
and the thoughts of what was yet before me.
While we were in this condition, the men yet laboring at
the oar to bring the boat near the shore, we could see
(when, our boat mounting the waves, we were able to see
the shore) a great many people running along the strand,
to assist us when we should come near; but we made slow
way toward the shore; nor were we able to reach it, till,
being past the light-house at Winterton, the shore falls off
to the westward, toward Cromer, and so the land broke off
a little the violence of the wind. . Here we got in, and,
though not without much difficulty, got all safe on shore,
and walked afterward on foot to Yarmouth; where, as un-
fortunate men, we were used with great humanity, as well
by the magistrates of the town, who assigned us good
quarters, as by the particular merchants and owners of
ships: and had money given us sufficient to carry us either
to London or back to Hull, as we thought fit.
Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull, and
have gone home, 1 had been happy: and my father, an
emblem of our blessed Saviour's parable, had even killed
the fatted calf for me; for, hearing the ship I went in was
cast away in Yarmouth Roads, it was a great while before
he had any assurance that I was not drowned.
But my ill fate pushed me on with an obstinacy that
nothing could resist; and though I had several times loud
calls from my reason, and my more composed judgment,
to go home, yet I had no power to do it.—1 know not what
to call this, nor will I urge that it is a secret, overruling
decree, that hurries us on to be the instruments of our own
destruction, even though it be before us, and that we rush
upon it with our eyes open. Certainly, nothing but some
such decreed unavoidable misery attending, and which it
was impossible for me to escape, could nave pushed me
forward against the calm reasonings and persuasions of my
most retired thoughts, and against two such visible instruc-
tions as I had met with in my first attempt
.
My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and
who was the master's son, was now less forward than I;
the first time he spoke to me after we were at Yarmouth,
which was not till two or three days, for we were separated
in the town to several quarters; I say, the first time he saw
me, it appeared his tone was altered, and, looking very
melancholy, and shaking his head, he asked me how I did;
telling his father who I was, and how I had come this voy-
age only for a trial, in order to go further abroad. His
father, turning to me, with a grave and concerned tone,
Young man, says be, you ought never to go to sea any
more; you ought to take this for a plain and visible token,
that you are not to be a seafaring man.—Why, sir? said I;
will you go to sea no more?—That is another case, said he;
it is my calling, and therefore my duty; but as you made
this voyage for a trial, you see what a taste Heaven has
given you of what you are to expect if you persist. Per-
haps this has all befallen us on your account, like Jonah in
the ship of Tarshish.—Pray, continues he, what are you,
and on what account did you go to sea? Upon that I told
him some of my story; at the end of which he burst out
with a strange kind of passion. What had I done, said ne,
that such an unhappy wretch should come into my ship?
I would not set my foot in the same ship with thee again
for a thousand pounds. This indeed was, as 1 said, an ex-
cursion of his spirits, which were yet agitated by the sense
of his loss, and was further than he could have authority
to go.—However, he afterward talked very gravely to me.
exhorted me to go back to my father, and not tempt Provi-
dence to my ruin; told' me, I might see a visible hand of
Heaven against me; and, young man, said he, depend upon
it, if you do not go back, wherever you go, you will meet
with nothing but disasters and disappointments, till your
father's words are fulfilled upon you.
We parted soon after, for 1 made him little answer, and
I saw him no more; which way he went, I know not; as
for me, having some money in my pocket, I traveled to
London by land; and there, as well as on the road, had
many struggles with myself what course of life 1 should
take, and whether I should go home or go to sea. As to
going home, shame opposed the best motions that offered
to my thoughts; and it immediately occurred to me how I
should be laughed at among the neighbors, and should be.
ashamed to see, not my father and mother only, but even
everybody else. From whence I have often since observed,
how incongruous and irrational the common temper oi
mankind is, especially of youth, to that reason which ought
to guide them in such cases, viz., that they are not
ashamed to sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not
ashamed of the action, for which they ought justly to be
esteemed fools; but are ashamed of the returning, which
only can make them be esteemed wise men.
In this state of life, however, I remained some time, un-
certain what measures to take, and what course of life to
lead. An irresistible reluctance continued to going home;
and as I stayed awhile, the remembrance of the distress 1
had been in wore off; and as that abated, the little motion
1 had in my desires to a return wore off with it, till at last
I quite laid aside the thoughts of it, and looked out for a
voyage. That evil influence which carried me first away
from my father's house, that hurried me into the wild and
indigested notion of raising my fortune, and that impressed
those conceits so forcibly upon me as to make me deaf to
all good advice, and to the entreaties, and even the com*
mands of my father; I say, the same influence, whatever
it was, presented the most unfortunate of all enterprises to
my view, and I went on board a vessel bound to the coast
of Africa, or, as our sailors vulgarly call it, a voyage to
Guinea.
It was my great misfortune, that in all these adventures
1 did not ship myself as a sailor; whereby, though I might
indeed have worked a little harder than ordinary, yet, at
the same time, I had learned the duty and office of a fore-
mast-man, and in time might have qualified myself for a
mate or lieutenant, if not a master; but as it was always
my fate to choose for the worse, so I did here, for having
money in my pocket, and good clothes upon my back, I
would always go on board in the habit of a gentleman;
and so I neither had any business in the ship, nor learned
to do any. It was my lot, first of all, to fall into pretty
good company in London; which does not always happen
to such loose and misguided young fellows as I then was;
the devil, generally, not omitting to lay some snare for
them very early. But it was not so with me. 1 first fell
acquainted with the master of a ship, who had been on the
coast of Guinea, and who, having had very good success
there, was resolved to go again. He, taking a fancy to my
conversation, which was not at all disagreeable at that
time, and hearing me say I had a mind to see the world,
told me that if I would go the voyage with him, I should
be at no expense; 1 should be his messmate and his com-
panion; and if 1 could carry anything with me, 1 should
nave all the advantage of it that the trade would admit,
and perhaps I might meet with some encouragement. I
embraced the offer, and entering into a strict friendship
with this captain, who was an honest and plain-dealing
man, 1 went the voyage with him and carried a small ad-
venture with me, which, by the disinterested honesty of
my friend the captain, 1 increased very considerably; for I
carried about forty pounds in such toys and trifles as the
captain directed me to buy. This forty pounds I had mus-
tered together by the assistance of some of my relations
whom I corresponded with, and who, 1 believe, got my fa-
ther, or, at least, my mother, to contribute so much as that
to my first adventure. This was the only voyage which 1
may say was successful in all my adventures, and which 1
owe to the integrity and houesty of my friend the captain;
under whom a.V. I got a competent knowiedge of n.Mr.o
matics and the rn*es of navigation, learned how to keep an
account of the ship's course, take an observation, and, in
short, to understand some things that were needf al to be
understood by a sailor; for, as he took delight to instruct
me, I took delight to learn; and, in a word, this voyage
made me both a sailor and a merchant; for I brought home
five pounds nine ounces of 'gold dust for my adventure,
which yielded me in London, at my return, almost three
hundred pounds, and this filled me with those aspiring
thoughts which have since so completed my ruin. Yec
even in this voyage 1 had my misfortunes too; particular-
ly, that I was continually sick, being thrown into a violent
calenture by the excessive heat of the climate; our princi-
pal trading being upon the coast, from the latitude of fif-
teen degrees north, even to the Line itself.
SECTION III.
Robinson's Captivity at Sallee.—Escape with Xury.—Arrival at
the Brazils.
I was now set up for a Goinea trader, and my friend,
to my great misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I re-
solved to go the same voyage again, and 1 embarked in the
same vessel with one who was his mate in the former voy-
age, and had now got the command of the ship. This was
the unhappiest v«yage that ever man made; for though I
did not carry quite a hundred pounds of my new-gained
wealth, so that I had two hundred pounds left, and which
1 lodged with my friend's widow, who was very just to me,
yet I fell into terrible misfortunes in this voyage; and the
first was this, viz.—our ship, making her course toward
the Canary Islands, or rather between those islands and
the African shore, was surprised, in the gray of the morn-
ing, by a Turkish rover, of Sallee, who gave chase to us
with all the sail she could make. We crowded also as
much canvas as our yards would spread, or our masts
carry, to get clear; but finding the pirate gained upon us,
and would certainly come up with us in a few hours, we
prepared to fight, our ship having twelve guns and the
rover eighteen. About three in the afternoon he came up
with as, and bringing to, by mistake, just athwart our
V
quarter, instead of athwart our stern, as he intended, we
brought eight of our guns to bear on that side, and poured
in a broadside upon him, which made him sheer off again,
after returning our fire, and pouring in also his small shot
from near two hundred men which he had on board. How-
ever, we had not a man touched, all our men keeping
close. He prepared to attack us again, and we to defend
ourselves; but laying us on board the next time upon our
other quarter, he entered sixty men upon our decks, who
immediately fell to cutting and hacking the sails and rig-
ging. We plied them with small shot, half-pikes, powder-
chests, and such like, and cleared our deck of them twice.
However, to cut short this melancholy part of our story,
our ship being disabled, and three of our men killed and
eight wounded, we were obliged to yield, and were carried
all prisoners into Sallee, a port belonging to the Moors.
The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first 1
apprehended; nor was I carried up the country to the em-
peror's court, as the rest of our men were, but was kept by
the captain of the rover as his proper prize, and made his
slave, being young and nimble, and fit for his business. At
this surprising change of my circumstances, from a mer-
chant to a miserable slave, I was perfectly overwhelmed;
and now looked back upon my father's prophetic discourse
to me, that 1 should be miserable, and have none to relieve
me, which I thought was now so effectually brought to
pass that it could not be worse, that now the hand of
Heaven had overtaken me, and I was undone, without re-
demption. But, alas! this was but a taste of the misery 1
was to go through, as will appear in the sequel of this
story.
As my new patron, or master, had taken me home to his
house, so I was in hopes he would take me with him when
he went to sea again, believing that it would, some time or
other, be his fate to be taken by a Spanish or Portuguese
man-of-war, and that then I should be set at liberty. But
this hope of mine was soon taken away, for when he went
to sea he left me on shore to look after his little garden, and
do the common drudgery of slaves about his house, and when
he came home again from his cruise, he ordered me to lie
in the cabin, to look after the ship.
. Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what
method 1 might take to effect it, but found no way that
had the least probability in it. Nothing presented to
make the supposition of it rational; for I had nobody to
communicate it to that would embark with me, no fellow-
slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotchman there but
myself; so that for two years, though I often pleased my-
self with the imagination, yet I never had the least encour-
aging prospect of putting it in practice.
After about two years, an odd circumstance presented
itself, which put the old thought of making some attempt
for my liberty again in my head. My patron lying at
home longer than usual, without fitting out his ship,
which, as 1 heard, was for want of money, he used con-
stantly, once or twice a week, sometimes oftener, if the
weather was fair, to take the ship's pinnace, and go out
into the road a-fishing; and as he always took me and a
young Moresco with him to row the boat, we made him
very merry, and 1 proved very dexterous in catching fish,
insomuch that sometimes he would send me with a Moor,
one of his kinsmen, and the youth, the Moresco, as they
called him, to catch a dish of fish for him.
It happened one tims, that going a-fishing in a stark
calm morning, a fog vose so tfrick, that though we were
not half a league from the shore, we lost sight of it; and
rowing, we knew not whither, or which way, we labored
all day and all the next night, and when the morning
came, we found we had pulled off to sea, instead of pull-
ing in for the shore, and that we were at least two leagues
from the shore; however, we got well in again, though
with a great deal of labor, and some danger, for the wind
began to blow pretty fresh in the morning; but particular-
ly we were all very hungry.
But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take
more care of himself for the future; and having lying by
him the long-boat of our English ship he had taken, he re-
solved he would not go a-fishing any more without a com-
pass and some provision; so he ordered the carpenter of
the ship, who was an English slave, to build a little state-
room or cabin in the middle of the long-boat, like that of a
barge, with a place to stand behind it, to steer and haul
home the main sheet, and room before for a hand or two
to stand and work the sails. She sailed with what we
called a shoulder-of-mutton sail, and the boom jibed
ever the t»p of the cabin, which lay very snug and low,
and had in it room for him to lie, with a slave or two, and
a table to eat on, with some small lockers to put in some
bottles of such liquor as he thought fit to drink, and par-
ticularly his bread, rice, and coffee.
We went frequently out with this boat a-fishing, and aa
I was most dexterous to catch fish for him, he never went
without me. It happened that he had appointed to go out
in this boat, either for pleasure or for fish, with two or
three Moors of some distinction in that place, and for
whom he had provided extraordinarily, and had therefore
sent on board the boat, overnight, a larger store of pro-
visions than ordinary, and had ordered me to get ready
three fusees, with powder and shot, which were on board
his ship, for that they designed some sport of fowling aa
well as fishing.
I got all things ready as he directed, and waited the next
morning with the boat washed cleau,her ensign and pennants
out, and everything to accommodate his guests; when, by
and by, my patron came on board alone, and told me his
guests had put off going, upon some business that fell out,
and ordered me with a man and boy, as usual, to go out
with the boat, and catch them some fish, for that his
friends were to sup at his house, and commanded that as
soon as I had got some fish I should bring it home to his
house; all which 1 prepared to do.
This moment my former notions of deliverance darted
into my thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a
little ship at my command; and my master being gone, 1
prepared to furnish myself, not for a fishing business, but
for a voyage; though I knew not, neither did I so much as
consider, whither 1 should steer, for anywhere, to get out
of that place, was my way.
My first contrivance was to make a pretense to speak to
this Moor, to get something for our subsistence on board;
for I told him we must not presume to eat of our patron's
bread. He said that was true; so he brought a large
basket of rusk or biscuit, of their kind, and three jars with
fresh water, into the boat. 1 knew where my patron's
case of bottles stood, which, it was evident by the makev
were taken out of some English prize, and 1 conveyed
them into the boat while the Moor was on shore, as if they
had been there before our master. I conveyed also a great
lamp of beeswax into the boat, which weighed above half
a hundredweight, with a parcel of twine or thread, a
hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all which were of great use
to us afterward, especially the wax, to make candles. An-
other trick I tried upon him, which he innocently came
into also; his name was Ismael, whom they call Muley, or
Moley; so 1 called to him. Moley, said 1, our patron's guna
are on board the boat; can you not get a little powder aud
shot? it may be we may kill some alcamies (fowls like our
curlews) for ourselves, for 1 know he keeps the gunner>
stores in the ship. Yes, says he, I will bring some; and
accordingly he brought a great leather pouch, which held
about a pound and a half of powder, or rather more, and
another with shot, that had fire or six pounds, with some
bullets, and put all into the boat; at the same time 1 found
some powder of my master's in the great cabin, with which
I filled one of the large bottles in the sase, which waa
almost empty, pouring what was in it fc,to another; and
thus furnished with everything needful, we sailed out of
the port to fish The castle, which ia at the entrance of
the port, knew who we were, and tock no notice of us;
and we were not above a mile out c,i the port before wa
hauled in our sail, and set us dorm to fish. The wind
blew from NN.E., which was contrary to my desire; for,
had it blown southerly, I had been sure to have made the
coast of Spain, and at last reached to the Bay of Cadis,
but my resolutions were, blow which way it would, 1 would
be gone from the horrid place where I was, and leave the
rest to fate.
After we had fished some time and catched nothing, for
when 1 had fish on my hook I would not pull them up,
that he might not see them, I said to the Moor: This will
not do; our master will not be thus served; we must stand
further off. He, thinking no harm, agreed, and being at
the head of the boat, set th& sails; and as I had the helm,
1 run the boat near a league further, and then brought to,
as if 1 would fish. Then giving the boy the helm, 1
stepped forward to where the Moor was, and I took him
b_ surprise, with my arm under his waist, and tossed him
clear overboard into the sea. He rose immediately, for he
swan?, like a cork, and called to me, begged to be taken in,
and toid me he would go all the world over with me. He
swam so strong after the boat, that he would have reached
me very quickly, there being but little wind; upon which
I stepped into the cabin, and fetching one of the fowling-
pieces, 1 presented it at him, and told him I had done him
no hurt, and if he would be quiet I would do him none.
But, said I, you swim well enough to reach the shore, and
the sea is calm; make the best of your way to shore, and I
will do you no harm; but if you come near the boat I will
shoot you through the head; for I am resolved to have my
liberty. So he turned himself about, and swam for the
shore, and 1 make no doubt but he reached it with ease,
for he was an excellent swimmer.
I could have been content to have taken this Moor with
me and have drowned the boy, but there was no venturing
to trust him. When he was gone I turned to the boy,
whom they called Xury, and said to him: Xury, if you
will be faithful to me I will make you a great man; but if
you will not stroke your face to be true to me (that is,
swear by Mahomet and his father's beard), 1 must throw
you into the sea too. The boy smiled in my face, and
spoke so innocently, that 1 could not mistrust him, and
swore to be faithful to me and go all over the world with
me.
'While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming, 1
stood out directly to sea with the boat, rather stretching to
windward, that they might think me gone toward the
strait's mouth (as indeed any one that had been in their
wits must have been supposed to do); for who would have
supposed we were sailing on to the southward, to the truly
Barbarian coast, where whole nations of negroes were sure
to surround us with their canoes and destroy us; where we
could never once go on shore but we should be devoured
by savage beasts, or more merciless savages of human
kind?
But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening I changed my
course, and steered directly south and by east, bending my
course a little toward the east, that I might keep in with
the shore; and having a fair, fresh gale of wind, and a
smooth, quiet sea, 1 made such sail that 1 believe by the
next day, at three o'clock in the afternoon, when 1 made
the land, I could not be less than one hundred and fifty
miles south of Sallee, quite beyond the Emperor of Moroc-
co's dominions, or indeed of any other king thereabout;
for we saw no people.
Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, and
the dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into their hands,
that I would not stop, or go on shore, or come to an an-
chor, the wind continuing fair, till I had sailed in that
manner five days; and then the wind shifting to the south-
ward, I concluded also that if any of our vessels were in
chase of me, they also would now give over; so 1 ventured
to make to the coast, and came to an anchor in the mouth
of a little river; 1 knew not what or where, neither what
latitude, what country, what nation, or what river. I
neither saw, nor desired to see, any people; the principal
thing 1 wanted was fresh water. We came into this creek
in the evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon as it was
dark, and discover the country; but as soon as it was quite
dark we heard such dreadful noises of the barking, roar-
ing, and howling of wild creatures, of we knew not what
kinds, that the poor boy was ready to die with fear, and
begged of me not to go on shore till day. Well, Xury,
said I, then I will not; but it may be we may see men by
day, who will be as bad to us as those lions. Then we may
give them the shoot-gun, says Xury, laughing; make
them run away. Such English Xury spoke by conversing
among us slaves. However, 1 was glad to see the boy so
cheerful, and I gave him a dram out of our patron's case
of bottles to cheer him up. After all, Xury's advice was
good, and I took it. We dropped our little anchor, and
lay still all night; 1 say still, for we slept none; for in two
or three hours we saw vast creatures (we knew not what to
call them), of many sorts, come down to the sea-shore, and
run into the water, wallowing and washing themselves, for
the pleasure of cooling themselves, and they made such
hideous howlings and yellings, that I never indeed heard
the like.
Xury was dreadfully frightened, and indeed so was I too;
but we were both more frightened when we heard one of
these mighty creatures swimming toward our boat; we
could not see him, but we might hear him, by his blowing,
to be a monstrous, huge, and furious beast. Xury said it
was a lion, and it might be so, for aught I know; but poor
Xury cried to me to weigh the anchor and row away. No,
says 1, Xury; we can slip our cable with a buoy to it, and
go off to sea; they can not follow us far. 1 had no sooner
said so, but 1 perceived the creature (whatever it was)
within two oars' length, which something surprised me;
however, 1 immediately stepped to the cabin door, and
taking up my gun, fired at him; upon which he immedi-
ately turned about, and swam to the shore again.
But it is impossible to describe the horrible noises and
hideous cries and howlings that were raised, as well upon
the edge of the shore as higher within the country, upon
the noise or report of the gun; a thing, I believe, those
creatures had never heard before. This convinced me
there was no going on shore for us in the night upon that
coast; and how to venture on shore in the day, was another
question too; for to have fallen into the hands of any of
the savages, had been as bad as to have fallen into the
Eaws of lions and tigers; at least, we were equally appre-
ensive of the danger of it.
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore
somewhere or other for water, for we had not a pint left in
the boat; when and where to get it was the point. Xury
said if I would let him go on shore with one of the jars, he
would find if there was any water, and bring some to me.
1 asked him why he would go, why I should not go, and he
stay in the boat. The boy answered with so much affec-
tion that he made ine love him ever after. Says he, If
wild mans conn.1, they eat me, you go away. Well, Xury,
said I, we will both go; and if the wild mans come, we
will kill them; they shall eat neither of us. So I gave
X'iry a piece of rusk bread to eat and a dram out of our
patron's case of bottles, which 1 mentioned before; and we
hauled in the boat as near the shore as we thought was
proper, and so Waded-to shore, carrying nothing but our
arms, and two jars for water.
1 did not care to go out oi sight of the boat, fearing the
coming of canoes with savages down the river; but, the
boy, seeing a low place about a mile up the country, ram-
bled to it; and by and by 1 saw him come running toward
me. I thought he was pursued by some savage, or fright-
ened by some wild beast, and 1 therefore ran forward to
help him; but when I came nearer to him, I saw some-
thing hanging over his shoulders, which was a creature
that he had shot, like a hare, but different in color, and
loDger legs; however, we weie very glad of it, and it was
very good meat; but the great joy that poor Xury came
with was to tell me he had found good water and seen no
wild mans.
But we found afterward that we need net take such pains
for water; for a little higher up the creek where we were,
we found the water fresh when the tide was out, which
flowed but a little way up; so we filled our jars, and hav-
ing a fire, feasted on the hare we had killed, and prepared
to go on our way, having seen no footsteps of any human
creature in that part of the country.
As 1 had been one voyage to this coast before, 1 knew
very well that the Islands of the Canaries and the Cape de
Verd Islands also, [ay not far from the coast. But as I
had no instruments to take an observation, to find what
latitude we were in, and did not exactly know, or at least
remember, what latitude they were in, I knew not where
to look for them, or when to stand off to sea toward them,
otherwise 1 might now have easily found some of these
islands. But my hope was that if I stood along this coast
till I came to the part where the English traded, 1 should
find some of their vessels upon their usual design of trade,
that would relieve and take us in.
By the best of my calculation, the place where I now
was, must be that country which, lying between the Em-
peror of Morocco's dominions and the Negroes, lies waste
and uninhabited, except by wild beasts; the Negroes hav-
ing abandoned it, and gone further south, for fear of the
Moors, and the Moors not thinking it worth inhabiting, by
reason of its Barrenness; and, indeed both forsaking it be-
cause of the prodigious number of tigers, lions, leopards,
and other furious creatures which harbor there, so that the
Moors use it for their hunting only, where they go like an
army, two or three thousand men at a time; and, indeed,
for near a hundred miles together upon this coast, we saw
nothing but a waste, uninhabited country by day, and
heard nothing but howlings and roaring of wild beasts by
night.
Once or twice, in the day-time, I thought I saw the Pico
of Teneriffe, being the top of the mountain of Teneriffe,
in the Canaries, and had a great mind to venture out, in
hopes of reaching thither; but having tried twice, I was
forced in again By contrary winds; the sea also going too
high for my little vessel; so I resolved to pursue my first
design, and keep along the shore.
Sever*! times I was obliged to land for fresh water, after
we had left this place; and once, in particular, being early
in the merning, we came to an anchor under a little point
of land which was pretty high; and the tide beginning to
flow, we lay still, to go further in. Xury, whose eyes were
more about him than, it seems, mine were, calls softly to
me and tells me that we had best go further off the shore;
for, says he, Look, yonder lies a dreadful monster on the
side of that hillock, fast asleep. I looked where he
pointed, and saw a dreadful monster indeed, for it was a
terrible great lion, that lay on the side of the shore, under
the shade of a piece of the hill, that hung, as it were, over
him. Xury, says I, you shall go on shore and kill him.
Xury looked frightened, and said, Me kill! he eat me at
one mouth; one mouthful he meant. However, I said no
more to the boy, but bade him be still; and 1 took our
biggest gun, which was almost musket-bore, and loaded it
with a good charge of powder, and with two slugs, and laid
it down; then I loaded another gun with two bullet*; and
a third, for we had three pieces, I loaded with five smaller
bullets. 1 took the best aim 1 could with the first piece,
to have shot him in the head; but he lay so, with his leg
raised a little above his nose, that the slugs hit his leg
about the knee, and broke the bone; he started up, growl-
ing at first, but finding his leg broke, fell down again, and
then got up upon three legs, and gave the most hideous
roar that ever I heard. I was a little surprised that I had
ttot hit him on the head; however, I took up the second
piece immediately, and though he began to move off, fired
again and shot him in the head, and had the pleasure to
see him drop, and make but little noise, but lie struggling
for life. Then Xury took heart, and would have me let
him go on shore. Well, go, said I; so the boy jumped
into the water, and taking a little gun in one hand, swam
to shore with the other hand, and coming close to the creat-
ure, put the muzzle of the piece to his ear, and shot him in
the head again, which dispatched him quite.
This was game, indeed, to us, but it was no food; and 1
was very sorry to lose three charges of powder and shot
upon a creature that was good for nothing to us. How-
ever, Xury said he would have some of him; so he oomes
on board, and asked me to give him the hatchet: For
what, Xury? said I. Me cut off his head, said he. How-
ever, Xury could not cut off his head; but he cut off a
loot, and brought it with him, and it was a monstrous
X
great one. I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the
skin of him might one way or other, be of some value to
us; and I resolved to take off his skin, if I could. So
Xury and 1 went to work with him: but Xury was much
the better workman at it, for 1 knew very ill how to do it
.
Indeed, it took us both up the whole day; but at last we
got off the hide of him, and spreading it on the top of our
cabin, the sun effectually dried it in two days' time, and it
afterward served me to lie upon.
After this stop we made on to the southward continual-
ly, for ten or twelve days, living very sparingly on our
provisions, which began to abate very much, and going no
oftener into the shore than we were obliged to for fresh
water. My design in this, was to make the River Gambia,
or Senegal: that is to say, anywhere about the Cape de
Verd, where I was in hopes to meet with some European
ship; and if I did not, I knew not what course I had to
take, but to seek for the islands or perish among the
Negroes. 1 knew that all the ships from Europe, which
sailed either to the coast of Guinea, or to Brazil, or to the
East Indies, made this Cape, or those islands: and in a
word I put the whole of my fortune upon this single
point, either that I must meet with some ship, or must
perish.
"When 1 had pursued this resolution about ten days
longer, as I have said, 1 began to see that the land was in-
habited; and in two or three places, as we sailed by, we
saw people stand upon the shore to look at us: we could
also perceive they were quite black and stark naked. I was
once inclined to have gone on shore to them; but Xury
was my better counselor, and said to me: No go, no go.
However, I hauled in nearer the shore, that 1 might talk
to them; and 1 found they ran along the shore by me a
good way. I observed they had no weapons in their hands,
except one, who had a long slender stick, which Xury said
was a lance, and that they would throw them a great way
with good aim; so 1 kept at a distance, but talked to them
by signs, as well as 1 could, and particularly made signs
for something to eat. They beckoned to me to stop my
boat, and they would fetch me some meat: upon this I
lowered the top of my sail, and lay by, and two of them
ran up into the country; and in less than half an hour
came back, and brought with them two pieces of dry flesh
\
and some corn, such as the produce of their country; but
we neither knew what the one or the other was; however,
we were willing to accept it. But how to come at it wad
our next dispute, for I was not for venturing on shore to
them, and they were as much afraid of us: but they took
a safe way for us all, for they brought it to the shore, and
laid it down, and went and stood a great way off till we
fetched it on board, and then came close to us again.
We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing
to make them amends; but an opportunity offered that
very instant to oblige them wonderfully; for while we were
lying by the shore, came two mighty creatures, one pursu-
ing the other (as we took it) with great fury, from the
mountains toward the sea; whether it was the male pursu-
ing the female, or whether they were in sport or in rage, we
could not tell,, any more than we could tell whether it was
usual or strange; but I believe it was the latter, because,
in the first place, those ravenous creatures seldom appear
but in the night; and, in the second place we found the
people terribly frightened, especially the women. The
man that had the lance, or dart, did not fly from them,
but the rest did; however, as the two creatures ran directly
into the water, they did not seem to offer to fall upon any
of the Negroes, but plunged themselves into the sea, and
swam about, as if they had come for their diversion; at
last, one of them began to come nearer our boat than I at
first expected; but I lay ready for him, for I had loaded
my gun with all possible expedition, and bade Xury load
both the others. As soon as he came fairly within my
reach, I fired, and shot him directly in the head: immedi-
ately he sunk down into the water, but rose instantly, and
plunged up and down, as if he was struggling for life, and
so indeed he was: he immediately made to the shore, but
between the wound which was his mortal hurt, and the
strangling of the water, he died just before he reached the
shore.
It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor
creatures, at the noise and fire of my gun; some of them
were even ready to die for fear, and fell down as dead with
the very terror; but when they saw the creature dead, and
sunk in the water, and that 1 made signs to them to come
to the shore, they took heart and came to the shore, and
began to search for the creature. I found him by his
blood staining the water; and by the help of a rope, which
I slung round him, and gave the Negroes to haul, they
dragged him on shore, and found that it was a most curi-
ous leopard, spotted, and fine to an admirable degree; and
the negroes held up their hands with admiration, to think
what it was I had killed him with.
The other creature, frightened with the flash of fire, and
the noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up directly
to the mountains from whence they came; nor could I, at
that distance, know what it was. I found quickly the
Negroes were for eating the flesh of this creature, so I was
willing to have them take it as a favor from me; which,
when I made signs to them that they might take him, they
were very thaukful for. Immediately they fell to work
with him; and though they had no knife, yet with a sharp-
ened piece of wood, they took off his skin as readily, and
much more readily, than we could have done with a knife.
They offered me some of the flesh, which I declined, mak-
ing as if I would give it them, but made signs for the skin,
which they gave me very freely, and brought me a great
deal more of their provisions, which, though I did not un-
derstand, yet I accepted. I then made signs to them for
some water, and held out one of my jars to them, turning
it bottom upward, to show that it was empty, and that I
wanted to have it filled. They called immediately to some
of their friends, and there came two women, and brought
a great vessel made of earth, and burned, as I suppose, in
the sun; this they set down to me, as before, and 1 sent
Xury on shore with my jars, and filled them all three.
The women were as stark naked as the men.
1 was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it was,
and water; and leaving my friendly Negroes, I made for-
ward for about eleven days more, without offering to go
near the shore, till I saw the land run out a great length
into the sea, at about the distance of four or five leagues
before me; and the sea being very calm, 1 kept a large
offing, to make this point. At length, doubling the point,
at about two leagues from the land, I saw plainly land on
the other side, to seaward: then I concluded, as it was
most certain indeed, that this was the Cape de Verd, and
those the islands, called, from thence, Cape de Verd
Islands. However, they were at a great distance, and I
could not well tell what I had best to do; ior if I should
fee taken with a gale of wind, 1 might neither reach one
nor the other.
In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, 1 stepped into
the cabin, and Bat me down, Xury having the helm; when,
on a sudden, the boy cried out, master, master, a ship with
a sail! and the foolish boy was frightened out of his wits,
thinking it must needs be some of his master's ships sent
to pursue us, when 1 knew we were got far enough out of
their reach. I j umped out of the cabin, and immediately
saw, not only the ship, but what she was, viz., that it was
a Portuguese ship, and, as 1 thought, was bound to the
coast of Guinea, for Negroes. But, when I observed the
course she steered, I was soon convinced they were bound
some other way, and did not design to come any nearer to
the shore; upon which, I stretched out to sea as much as I
could, resolving to speak with them, if possible.
With all the sail I could make, 1 found I should not be
able to come in their way, but that they would be gone by
before I could make any signal to them; but after 1 had
crowded to the utmost, and began to despair, they, it
seems, saw me, by the help of their perspective glasses,
and that it was some European boat, which, they sup-
posed, must belong to some ship that was lost: so they
shortened sail, to let me come up. I was encouraged with
this, and as 1 had my patron's ensign on board, I made a
waft of it to them, for a signal of distress, and fired a gun,
both which they saw; for they told me they saw the smoke,
though they did not hear the gun. Upon these signals,
they very kindly brought to, and lay by for me; and in
about three hours' time I came up with them.
They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and in
Spanish, and in French, but I understood none of them;
but, at last, a Scotch sailor who was on board, called to
me, and I answered him, and told him I was an English-
man, that 1 had made my escape out of slavery from the
Moors, at Sallee: they then bade me come on board, and
very kindly took me in, and all my goods.
It was an inexpressible joy to me, which any one will
believe, that I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from
such a miserable, and almost hopeless, condition as 1 was
in; and I immediately offered all 1 had to the captain of
the ship, as a return for my deliverance; but he generously
told me, he would take nothing from me, but that all I
had should be delivered safe to me, when 1 came to th»
Brazils. For, says he, I have saved your life on no. other
terms than I would be glad to be saved myself; and it
may, one time or other, be my lot to be taken up in the
same condition. Besides, said he, when 1 carry you to the
Brazils, so great a way from your own country, if 1 should
take from you what you have, you will be starved there,
and then I only take away that life 1 had given. No, no,
Senhor Ingles (Mr. Englishman), says he, 1 will carry you
thither in charity, and these things will help to buy your
subsistence there, and your passage home again.
SECTION IV.
He settles in the Brazils as a Planter.—Makes another Voyage, and
is Shipwrecked.
As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was just in
the performance, to a tittle: for he ordered the seamen,
that none should offer to touch anything I had: then he
took everything into his own possession, and gave me back
an exact inventory of them, that I might have them, even
so much as my three earthen jars.
As to my boat, it was a very good one; and that he saw,
and told me he would buy it of me for the ship's use; and
asked me what 1 would have for it? I told him, he hail
been so generous to me in everything, that 1 could not
offer to make any price of the boat, but left it entirely to
him: upon which, he told me he would give me a note of
hand to pay me eighty pieces of eight for it at Brazil; and
when it came there, if any one offered to give more, he
would make it up. He offered me also sixty pieces of
eight more for my boy Xury, which 1 was loath to take;
not that 1 was not willing to let the captain have him, but
I was very loath to sell the poor boy's liberty, who had as-
sisted me so faithfully in procuring my own. However,
when I let him know my reason, he owned it to be just,
and offered me this medium, that he would give the boy an
obligation to set him free in ten years, if he turned Christ-
ian; upon this, and Xury saying he was willing to go to
him, I left the captain have him.
We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and arrived
In the Bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints' Bay, iii
about tvrenty-two days after. And now 1 was ouoe more
delivered from the most miserable of all conditions of life;
and what to do next with myself, 1 was now to consider.
The generous treatment the captain gave me, 1 can never
enough remember: he would take nothing of me for my
passage, gave me twenty ducats for the leopard's skin, and
forty for the lion's skin, which I had in my boat, and
caused everything 1 had in the ship to be punctually de-
livered to me; and what 1 was willing to sell, he bought of
me; such as the case of bottles, two of my guns, and a
piece of the lump of bees-wax—for I had made candles of
the rest: in a word, 1 made about two hundred and twenty
pieces of eight of all my cargo; and with this stock, I went
on shore in the Brazils.
1 had not been long here, before I was recommended to
the house of a good honest man, like himself, who had an
ingenio as they call it (that is, a plantation and a sugar-
house). I lived with him some time, and acquainted my-
self, by that means, with the manner of planting and of
making sugar; and seeing how well the planters lived, and
how they got rich suddenly, I resolved, if I could get a
license to settle there, I would turn planter among them:
endeavoring, in the meantime, to find out some way to get
my money, which I had left in London, remitted to me.
To this purpose, getting a kind of letter of naturalization,
1 purchased as much land that was uncured as my money
would reach, and formed a plan for my plantation and
settlement; such a one as might be suitable to the stock
which 1 proposed to myself to receive from England.
1 had a neighbor, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born of
English parents, whose name was Wells, and in much such
circumstances as I was. I call him my neighbor, because
his plantation lay next to mine, and we went on very soci-
ably together. My stock was but low, as well as his; and
we rather planted for food than anything else, for about two
years. However, we began to increase, and our land be-
gan to come into order; so that the third year we planted
some tobacco, and made each of us a large piece of ground
ready for planting canes in the year to come; but we both
wanted help; and now 1 found more than before, I had
done wrong in parting with my boy Xury.
But, alas! for me to do wrong, that never did right, was
no great wonder. I had no remedy, but to go on: I had
f
got into an employment quite remote to my genius, and
directly contrary to the life I delighted in, and for which 1
forsook my father's house, and broke through all his good
advice: nay, I was coming into the very middle station, or
upper degree of lower life, which my father advised me to
before; and which, if I resolved to go on with, I might as
well have stayed at home, and never have fatigued myself
in the world, as I had done; and I used often to say to my-
self, I could have done this as well in England, among my
friends, as have gone five thousand miles off to do it among
strangers and savages, in a wilderness, and at such a dist-
ance as never to hear from any part of the world that had
the least knowledge of me.
In this manner, I used to look upon my condition with
the utmost regret. I had nobody to converse with, but
now and then this neighbor; no work to be done, but by
the labor of my hands: and 1 used to say, I lived just like
a man cast away upon some desolate island, that had no-
body there but himself. £i*t how just has it been! and
how should all men reflect, that when they compare their
present conditions with others that are worse, Heaven may
oblige them to make the exchange, and be convinced of
their former felicity by their experience: 1 say, how just
has it been, that the truly solitary life I reflected on, in an
island of mere desolation, should be my lot, who had so
often unjustly compared it with the life which I then led,
in which, had 1 continued, I had, in all probability, been
exceeding prosperous and rich!
1 was, in some degree, settled in my measures for carry-
ing on the plantation, before my kind friend, the captain
of the ship that took me up at sea, went back; for the ship
remained there, in providing his lading, and preparing
for his voyage, near three months; when telling him what
little stock I had left behind me in London, he gave me
this friendly and sincere advice: Senhor lnglez, says he
(for so he always called me), if you will give me letters,
and a procuration here in form to me, with orders to the
person who has your money in London, to send your effects
to Lisbon, to such persons as I shall direct, and in such
goods as are proper for this country, 1 will bring you the
produce of them, God willing, at my return: but since hu-
man affairs are all subject to changes and disasters, I would
have you give orders for but one hundred pounds sterling,
which, you say, is half your stock, and let the hazard be
run for the first, so that if it come safe, you may order the
rest the same way; and, if it miscarry, you may have the
other half to have recourse to for your supply. This was
so wholesome advice, and looked so friendly, that I could
not but be convinced it was the best course I could take;
so I accordingly prepared letters to the gentlewoman with
whom I left my money, and a procuration to the Portu-
guese captain, as he desired me.
I wrote the English captain's widow a full account of
all my adventures; my slavery, escape, and how I had met
with the Portuguese captain at sea, the humanity of his be-
havior, and what condition 1 was now in, with all other
necessary directions for my supply; and when this honest
captain came to Lisbon, he found means, by some of the
English merchants there, to send over, not the order only,
but a full account of my story to a merchant at London,
who represented it effectually to her, whereupon she not
only delivered the money, but, out of her own pocket, sent
the Portuguese captain a very handsome present for his
humanity and charity to me.
The merchant in London, vesting this hundred pounds
in English goods, such as the captain had wrote for, sent
them directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought them all
Bafe to me at the Brazils among which, without my direc-
tion (for I was too young in my business to think of them),
he had taken care to have all sorts of tools, iron work, and
utensils, necessary for my plantation, and which were of
great use to me. When this cargo arrived, 1 thought my
fortune made, for I was surprised with the joy of it; and
my good steward, the captain, had laid out the five pounds,
which my friend had sent him as a present for himself, to
purchase and bring me over a servant, under bond for six
years' service, and would not accept of any consideration,
except a little tobacco, which I would have him accept, be-
ing of my own produce. Neither was this all: but my
goods being all English manufactures, such as cloths,
stuffs, baize, and things particularly valuable and desirable
:n the country, 1 found means to sell them to a very great
advantage; so that I might say, I had more than four
times the value of my first cargo, and was now infinitely
beyond my poor neighbor, I mean in the advancement of
my plantation: for the first thing_I did, I bought me a
Negro slave, and a European servant also; I mean another
besides that which the captain brought me from Lisbon.
But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very
means of our adversity, so was it with me. I went on the
next year with great success in my plantation; I raised fifty
great rolls of tobacco on my own ground, more than 1 had
disposed of for necessaries among my neighbors: and these
fifty rolls, being each of above one hundred pounds weight,
were well cured, and laid by against the return of the fleet
from Lisbos: and now, increasing in business and in wealth,
my head began to be full of projects and undertakings be-
yond my reach; such as are, indeed, often the ruin of the
best heads in business. Had I continued in the station I
was now in, I had room for all the happy things to have
yet befallen me, for which my father so earnestly recom-
mended a quiet, retired life, and which he had so sensibly
described the middle station of life to be full of: but other
things attended me, and I was still be to be the willful
agent of all my own miseries; and, particularly, to increase
my fault, and double the reflections upon myself, which in
my future sorrows I should have leisure to make, all these
miscarriages were procured by my apparent obstinate ad-
hering to my foolish inclination, of wandering about, and
pursuing that inclination, in contradiction to the clearest
views of doing myself good in a fair and plain pursuit oi
those prospects, and those measures of life, which nature
and Providence concurred to present me with, and to make
my duty.
As I had once done thus in breaking away from my par-
ents, so I could not be content now, but I must go. and
leave the happy view 1 had of being a rich and thriving
man in my new plantation, only to pursue a rash and im-
moderate desire of rising faster than the nature of the
thing admitted; and thus I cast myself down again into
the deepest gulf of human misery that ever man fell into,
or perhaps could be consistent with life, and a state of
health in the World.
To come then, by just degrees, to the particulars of this
f>art of my story—You may suppose, that having now
ived almost four years in the Brazils, and beginning to
thrive and prosper very well upon my plantation, I had
not only learned the language, but had contracted an ac-
quaintance and friendship among my fellow-planters, m
well as among th< merchants at St. Salvador, which was
our port: and that, in my discourees among them, 1 had
frequently given them an account of my two voyages to
the coast of Guinea, the manner of trading with the
Negroes there, and h>' w easy it was to purchase on the
coast for trifles—suet as beads, toys, knives, scissors,
hatchets, bits of glass, tfud the like—not only gold dust,
Guinea grains, elephants' teeth, etc., but Negroes, for the
service of the Brazils, in {Treat numbers.
They listened always very attentively to my discourses
on these heads, but especially to that part which related to
the buying of Negroes; which was a trade, at that time, not
only not far entered into, bat, as far as it was, had been
carried on by the assientos, ,or permission of the kings of
Spain and Portugal, and en^.-ossed from the public; so
that few Negroes were bought, and those excessively dear.
It happened, being in company with some merchants
and planters of my acquaintance, and talking of those
things very earnestly, three of them came to me the next
morning, and told me they had been musing very much
upon what I had discoursed with them of the last night,
and they came to make a secret proposal to me: and, after
enjoining me to secrecy, they told me that they had a mind
to fit out a ship to go to Guinea; that they had all planta-
tions as well as I, and were straitened vor nothing so much
as servants; that as it was a trade that'" could not be carried
on, because they could not publicly sell the Negroes when
they came home, so they desired to m&ke but one voyage
to bring the Negroes on shore privately- and divide them
among their own plantations; and, in a word, the question
was, whether I would go their supercargo in the ship, to
manage the trading part upon the coast of Guinea; and
they offered me that 1 should have an eq'ial share of the
Negroes, without providing any part of the stock.
This was a fair proposal, it must be confessed, had it
been made to any one that had not a settlement and plan-
tation of his own to look after, which was in a fair way of
coming to be very considerable, and with a good stock
upon it. But for me, that was thus entered and estab-
lished, and had nothing to do but go on as I h*d begun,
for three or four years more, and to have sent for the other
hundred pounds from England; and who, in that ii;»ie and
with that little addition, coald scarce have failed r*A bofetflj
worth three or four thousand pounds sterling, and that in.
creasing too, for me to think of such a voyage, was the
most preposterous thing that ever man, in such circum-
stances, could be guilty of.
But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could no
more resist the offer, than 1 could restrain my first ramb-
ling designs, when my father's good counsel was lost upon
me. In a word, I told them I would go with all my heart,
if they would undertake to look after my plantation in my
absence, and would dispose of it to such as 1 should direct,
if I miscarried. This they all engaged to do, and entered
into writings or covenants to do so: and I made a formal
will, disposing of my plantation and effects, in case of my
death; making the captain of the ship that had saved my
life, as before, my universal heir; but obliging him to dis-
pose of my effects as 1 had directed in my will; one-half of
the produce being to himself, and the other to be shipped
to England. In short, I took all possible caution to pre-
serve my effects, and to keep up my plantation: had I used
half as much prudence to have looked into my own inter-
est, and have made a judgment of what I ought to have
done and not to have done, I had certainly never gone away
from so prosperous an undertaking, leaving all the prob-
able views of a thriving circumstance, and gone a voyage
to sea, attended with all its common hazards, to say noth-
ing of the reasons I had to expect particular misfortunes
to myself.
But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates of
my fancy, rather than my reason: and accordingly, the
ship, being fitted out, and the cargo furnished, and all
things done as by agreement, by my partners in the voy-
age, I went on board in an evil hour again, the first of
September, 1659, being the same day eight years that I
went from my parents at Hull, in order to act the rebel to
their authority, and the fool to my own interest.
Our ship was about one hundred and twenty tons bur«
den, carried six guns and fourteen men, besides the master,
his boy, and myself; we had on board no large cargo of
goods, except of such toys as were fit for our trade with
ithe Negroes, such as beads, bits of glass, shells, and odd
trifles, especially little looking-glasses, knives, scissors,
Hatchets, and the like.
The very same day I went on board we set sail, standing
away to tks northward upon our own oeask, witk design to
stretch over for the African coast. When they came about
ten or twelve degrees of northern latitude, which, it seems,
was the manner of their course in those days, we had very
good weather, only excessively hot all the way upon our
own coast, till we came to the height of Cape St. August-
ino; from whence, keeping further off at sea, we lost sight
of land, and steered as if we were bound for the isle Fer-
nando de Noronha, hold'ng our course N.E. by N. and
leaving those isles on th last. In this course we passed
the Line in about twelve iys' time, and were, by our last
observation, in seven degv ,js twenty-two minutes northern
latitude, when a violent tornado, or hurricane, took us
quite out of our knowledge: it began from the south-east,
came about to the north-west, and then settled in the
north-east; from whence it blew in such a terrible manner,
that for twelve days together we could do nothing but
drive, and, scudding away before it, let it carry us whither-
soever fate and the fury of the winds directed; and, during
these twelve days, 1 need not say that 1 expected every day
to be swallowed up; nor, indeed, did any in the ship expect
to save their lives.
In this distress, we had, besides the terror of the storm,
one of our men dead of the calenture, and one man and a
boy washed overboard. About the twelfth day, the
weather abating a little, the master made an observation
as well as he could, and found that he was in about eleven
degrees north latitude, but that he was twenty-two degrees
of longitude difference, west from Cape St. Augustino; so
that he found he was got upon the coast of Guiana, or the
north part of Brazil, beyond the river Amazon, toward
that of the river Oronoco, commonly called the Great
River; and began to consult with me what course he
should take, for the ship was leaky and very much dis-
abled, and he was for going directly back to the coast of
Brazil.
1 was positively against that; and looking over the charts
of the sea-coast of America with him, we concluded there
was no inhabited oountry for us to have recourse to, till
we came within the circle of the Carribee Islands, and
therefore resolved to stand away for Barbadoes; which by
keeping off to sea, to avoid the indraft of the Bay or Gulf
of Mexico, we might easily perform, as we hoped, in about
fifteen days' sail; whereas we could not possibly make our
voyage to the coast of Africa without some assistance, both
to our ship and ourselves.
With this design we changed our course and steered away
N. W. by W., in order to reach some of our English islands,
where 1 hoped for relief; but our voyage was otherwise de-
termined; for being in the latitude of twelve degrees eigh-
teen minutes, a second storm came upon us which carried
us away with the same impetuosity westward, and drove us
so out of the way of all human commerce, that had
all our lives been saved, as to the sea, we were rather in
danger of being devoured by savages than ever returning
to our own country.
In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one of
our men early in the morning, cried out, Land! and we
had no sooner run out of the cabin to look out, in hopes of
seeing whereabouts in the world we were, than the ship
struck upon a sand, and in a moment, her motion being
so stopped, the sea broke over her in such a manner that
we expected we should all have perished immediately; and
we were immediately driven into our close quarters, to
shelter us from the foam and spray of the sea.
It is not easy for any one who has not been in the like
condition to describe or conceive the consternation of men
in such circumstances; we knew nothing where we were,
or upon what land it was we were driven, whether an island
or the main, whether inhabited or not inhabited; and as
the rage of the wind was still great, though rather less than
at first, we could not so much as hope to have the ship hold
many minutes without breaking in pieces, unless the wind,
by a kind of miracle, should immediately turn about. In
a word we sat looking upon one another, and expecting
death every moment, and every man acting accordingly, as
preparing for another world; for there was little or noth-
ing more for us to do in this. That which was our present
comfort, and all the comfort we had, was that, contrary to
our expectation, the ship did not break yet, and that the
master said the wind began to abate.
Now, though we thought that the wind did a little abate,
yet the ship having thus struck upon the sand, and stick-
ing too fast for us to expect her getting off, we were in a
dreadful condition indeed, and had nothing to do, but to
*.hink of saving our lives as well as we could. We had a
boat at, our stern just before the storm, but she was first
staved by dashing against the ship's rudder, and, in the
next place, she broke away, and either sunk, or was driven
off to sea; so there was no hope from her; we had another
boat on board, but how to get her off into the sea was a
doubtful thing; however, there was no room to debate, for
we fancied the ship would break in pieces every minute,
and some told us she was actually broken already.
In this distress the mate of our vessel laid hold of the
boat, and with the help of the rest of the men they got her
flung over the ship's side; and getting all into her, we let
her co and committed ourselves, being eleven in number,
to God's mercy, and the wild sea; for though the storm
was abated considerably, yet the sea went dreadfully high
upon the shore, and might be well called den wild zee, as
the Dutch call the sea in a storm.
And now our case was very dismal indeed; for we all saw
plainly, that the sea went so high, that the boat could not
live, and that we should be inevitably drowned. As to
making sail, we had none; nor, if we had, could we have
done anything with it; so we worked at the oar toward the
land, though with heavy hearts, like men going to execu-
tion; for we all knew that when the boat came nearer to
the shore, she would be dashed in a thousand pieces by the
breach of the sea. However, we committed our souls to
God in the most earnest manner; and the wind driving us
toward the shore, we hastened our destruction with our
own hand, pulling as well as we could toward land.
What the shore was—whether rock or sand, whether
steep or shoal—we knew not; the only hope that could
rationally give us the least shadow of expectation, was, if
we might happen into some bay or gulf, or the mouth of
some river, where by great chance we might have run our
boat in, or got under the lee of the land, and perhaps made
smooth water. But nothing of this appeared; and as we
made nearer and nearer the shore, the land looked more
frightful than the sea.
After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league
and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-
'ikfi, came rolling astern of us, and plainly bade us expect
ih'f roup de grace. In a word, it took us with such fury,
that it overset the boat at once; and separating us, as well
from the boat as from one another, gave us no time hardly
to say, " Oh, God!" for we were all swallowed up in a mo-
ment.
Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I
felt, when I sunk into the water; for though I swam very
well, yet I could not deliver myself from the waves so as
to draw my breath, till that wave having driven me, or
rather carried me, a vast way on toward the shore, aud
having spent itself, went back, and left me upon the land
almost dry, but half dead with the water I took in. I had
so much presence of mind, as well as breath left, that see-
ing myself nearer the main land than I expected, 1 got
upon my feet and endeavored to make on toward the land
as fast as I could, before another wave should return aud
take me up again; but I soon found it was impossible to
avoid it; for I saw the sea come after me as high as a great
hill, and as furious as an enemy which I had no means or
strength to contend with; my business was to hold my
breath and raise myself upon the water, if 1 could; and so,
by swimming, to preserve my breathing and pilot myself
toward the shore, if possible; my greatest concern now be-
ing that the wave, as it would carry me a great way toward
the shore when it came on, might not carry me back again
with it when it gave back toward the sea.
The wave that came upon me again buried me at once
twenty or thirty feet deep in its own body, and I could feel
myself carried with a mighty force and swiftness toward
the shore, a very great way; but 1 held my breath, and
assisted myself to swim still forward with all my might.
I was ready to burst with holding my breath, when, as 1
felt myself rising up, so, to my immediate relief, 1 found
my head and hands shoot out above the surface of the
water; and though it was not two seconds of time that 1
could keep myself so, yet it relieved me greatly, gave me
breath and new courage. 1 was covered again with water
a good while, but not so long but I held it out; and find-
ing the water had spent itself, and began to return, 1 struck
forward against the return of the waves, and felt ground
again with my feet. I stood still a few moments, to re-
cover breath, and till the water went from me, and then
took to my heals and ran with what strength I had further
toward the shore. But neither would this deliver me from
the fury of the sea, which came pouring in after me again;
And twice mare 1 was lifted up by the waves and carried
forward as before, the shore being very flat.
The last time of these two had well-nigh been fatal to
me; for the sea, having hurried me along, as before, landed
me, or rather dashed me, against a piece of rock, and
that with such force that it left me senseless, and indeed
ielpless, as to my own deliverance; for the blow, taking
my side and breast, beat the breath, as it were, quite out
of my body; and had it returned again immediately, I must
have been strangled in the water; but I recovered a little
before the return of the waves, and, seeing 1 should again
be covered with the water, I resolved to hold fast by a
piece of the rock, and so to hold my breath, if possible, till
the wave went back. Now as the waves were not so high
as the first, being nearer land, I held my hold till the wave
abated, and then fetched another run, which brought me
so near the shore that the next wave, though it went over
me, yet did not so swallow me up as to carry me away; and
the next run I took, I got to the mainland; where, to my
great comfort, 1 clambered up the cliffs of the shore, and,
sat me down upon the grass, free from danger, and quite
out of the reach of the water.
I was now landed, and safe on shore; and began to look
up and thank God that my life was saved, in a case where-
in there were, some minutes before, scarcely any room to
hope. I believe it is impossible to express, to the life,
what the ecstasies and transports of the soul are, when it is
so saved, as I may say, out of the grave; and I did not
wonder now at the custom, viz., that when a malefactor,
who has the halter about his neck, is tied up, and just go-
ing to be turned off, and has a reprieve brought to him; 1
say, I do not wonder that they bring a surgeon with it, to
let him blood that very moment they tell him of it, that
the surprise may not drive the animal spirits from the
heart and overwhelm him.
"Few sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first."
I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands, and
my whole being, as I may say, wrapped up in the contem-
plation of my deliverance, making a thousand gestures ami
motions, which I can not describe; reflecting upon my
comrades that were drowned, and that there should not be
ene soul saved but myself; for, as for them* I Dffef taw
them afterward, or any sign of them, except three of their
hats, one cap, and two shoes that were not fellows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel—when the breach
and froth of the sea being so big 1 could hardly see it, it lay
so far off—and considered, Lord! how was it possible I
could get on shore?
After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable pait
of my condition 1 began to look around me, to see what
kind of a place 1 was in, and what was next to be done;
and I soon found my comforts abate, and that, in a word,
I had a dreadful deliverance; for I was wet, had no clothes
to shift me, nor anything either to eat or drink, to com-
fort me; neither did I see any prospect before me, but that
of perishing with hunger, or being devoured by wild beasts;
and that which was particularly afflicting to me was that
I had no weapon either to hunt and kill any creature for
my sustenance, or to defend myself against any other creat-
ure that might desire to kill me for theirs. In a word, I
had nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a
little tobacco in a box. This was all my provision; and
this threw me into such terrible agonies of mind, that for
awhile 1 ran about like a madman. Night coming upon
me, I began, with a heavy heart, to consider what would
be my lot if there were-any ravenous beasts in that coun-
try, seeing at night they always come abroad for their
prey.
All the remedy that offered to my thoughts, at that
time, was to get up into a thick, bushy tree, like a fir, but
thorny—which grew near me, and where I resolved to sit
all night—and consider the next day what death I should
die, for as yet I saw no prospect of life. I walked about a
furlong from the shore, to see if I could find any fresh
water to drink, which I did, to my great joy; and having
drunk, and put a little tobacco into my mouth to prevent
hunger, I went to the tree, and getting up into it, en-
deavored to place myself so as that, if I should fall asleep,
I might not fall; and having cut me a short stick, like a
truncheon, for my defense, I took up my lodging, and hav-
ing been excessively fatigued, I fell fast asleep and slept as
comfortably as, 1 believe, few could have done in my con-
dition, and found myself the most refreshed with it that I
think 1 ever was on such an occasion.
SECTION V.
toWiison finds Himself in a Desolate Island.—Procures a Stock of
Articles from the Wreck.—Constructs his Habitation.
When I waked it was broad day, the weather clear, and
the storm abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell as
before; but that which surprised me most was that the
ship was lifted off in the night from the sand where she
lay, by the swelling of the tide, and was driven up almost
as far as the rock which I at first mentioned, where I had
been so bruised by the wave dashing against it. This be-
ing within about a mile from the shore where I was, and
the ship seeming to stand upright still, I wished myself on
board, that at least I might save some necessary things for
my use.
When I came down from my apartment in the tree, 1
looked about me again, and the first thing I found was the
boat, which lay, as the wind and the sea had tossed her up,
upon the land, about two miles on my right hand. I
walked as far as I could upon the shore to have got to her,
but found a neck or inlet of water between me and the
boat, which was about half a mile broad; so I came back
for the present, being more intent upon getting at the ship,
where I hoped to find something for my present subsist-
ence.
A little after noon, I found the sea very calm, and the
tide ebbed so far out that 1 could come within a quarter of
a mile of the ship; and here I found a fresh renewing of
my grief, for I saw evidently that if we had kept on board
we had been all safe; that is to say, we had all got safe on
shore, and I had not been so miserable as to be left entire-
ly destitute of all comfort and company as 1 now was.
This forced tears from my eyes again; but as there was lit-
tle relief in that, I resolved, if possible, to get to the ship;
so I pulled off my clothes, for the weather was hot to ex-
tremity, and took the water; but when I came to the ship
my difficulty was still greater to know how to get on board,
for as she lay aground, and high out of the water, there
was nothing within my reach to lay hold of. I swam round
her twice, and the second time I spied a small piece of
rope, which 1 wondered I did not aee at first hanging down
by the fore-chains so high that with great difficulty I got
hold of it, and by the help of that rope got into the fore-
castle of the ship. Here I found that the ship was bulged,
and had a great deal of water in her hold; but that she lay
so on the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather earth, that
her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head low,
almost to the water. By this means all her quarter was
free, and all that was in that part was dry; for you may
be sure my first work was to search and to see what was
spoiled and what was free; and, first, I found that all the
ship's provisions were dry and untouched by the water,
and, being very well disposed to eat, I went to the bread-
room and filled my pockets with biscuit, and eat it as 1
went about other things, for 1 had no time to lose. 1 also
tound some rum in the great cabin, of which I took a large
dram, and which I had indeed need enough of to spirit me
for what was before me. Now I wanted nothing but a
boat to furnish myself with many things which I foresaw
would be very necessary to me.
It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to
be had, and this extremity roused my application; we had
several spare yards, and two or three large spars of wood,
and a spare topmast or two in the ship; I resolved to fall
to work with these, and flung as many overboard as I could
manage for their weight, tying every one with a rope, that
they might not drive away. When this was done I went
down the ship's side, and pulling them to me, I tied four
of them fast together at both ends, as well as I could, in
the form of a raft, and laying two or three short pieces of
plank upon them crossways, 1 found I could walk upon it
very well, but that it was not able to bear any great weights
the pieces being too light; so 1 went to work, and with the
carpenter's saw I cut a spare topmast into three lengths
and added them to my raft, with a great deal of labor and
pains. But the hope of furnishing myself with necessaries
encouraged me to go beyond what I should have been able
to have done upon another occasion.
My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonablt
weight. My next care was what to load it with, and how
to preserve what I laid upon it from the surf of the sea;
but I was not long considering this. I first laid all the
planks or boards upon it that I could get, and having con-
sidered well what I .most wanted. I got three of the sett,
men's chests, which I had broken open and emptied and
iowered them down upon my raft; these 1 filled with pro-
:sions, viz., bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of
: Lied goat's flesh (which we lived much upon), and a little
:*F!uuiuder of European corn, which had been laid by for
::nme f wis which we had brought to sea with us, but the
fowl were killed. There had been some barley and wheat
rtgether, but, to my great disappointmnt, I found after-
ward that the rats had eaten or spoiled it all. As for
liquors, 1 found several cases of bottles belonging to our
skipper, in which were some cordial waters; and in all
about five or six gallons of rack. These I stowed by them-
selves, there being no need to put them into the chests, nor
any room for them. While I was doing this I found the
tide began to flow, though very calm; and I had the mor-
tification to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had
left on shore, upon the sand, swim away;,as for my
breeches, which were only linen, and open-kneed, I swam
on board in them, and my stockings. However, this put
me upon rummaging for clothes, of which 1 found enough,
but took no more than I wanted for present use, for 1
had other things which my eye was more upon; as, first,
tools to work with on shore; and it was after long search-
ing that 1 found the carpenter's chest, which was indeed a
very useful prize to me, and much more valuable than a
ship-lading of gold would have been at that time. 1 got it
down to my raft, even whole as it was, without losing time
to look into it, for I knew in general what it contained.
My next care was for some ammunition and arms.
There were two very good fowling-pieces in the great
cabin, and two pistols; these I secured first, with some
powder-horns and a small bag of shot, and two old rusty
swords. I knew there were three barrels of powder in the
ship, but knew not where our gunner had stowed them;
but with much search I found them, two of them dry and
good, the third had taken water. Those two I got to my
raft, with the arms. And now I thought myself pretty
well freighted, and began to think how I should get to
shore with them, having neither sail, oar, nor rudder; and
the least capful of wind would have overset all my naviga-
tion.
I had three encouragements: 1st. A smooth, calm sea;
Sdly. The tide rising, and setting in to the shore; 3dly.
I
What little wind there was blew me towuwi ,4\b land. And
Ihus, having found two or three broken oiys lelonging to
the boat, and besides the tools which were in the chest, I
found two saws, an ax, and a hammer; and with this cargo
1 put to sea. For a mile or thereabouts my raft went very
well, only that 1 found it drive a little distant from the
place where I had landed before; by which I perceived tha,
there was some indraft of the water, and consequently 1
hoped to find some creek or river there, which I wight
make use of as a port to get to land with my cargo.
As 1 imagined, so it was; there appeared before me u lit-
tle opening of the land, and 1 found a strong curreni of
the tide set into it; so 1 guided my raft as well as I could,
to get into the middle of the stream. But here I had lite
to have suffered a second shipwreck, which, if I had, I
think it verily would have broken my heart; for, knowing
nothing of the coast, my raft ran aground at one end of it
upon a shoal, and not being aground at the other end, it
wanted but a little that all my cargo had slipped off toward
that end that was afloat, and so fallen into the water. I
did my utmost, by setting my back against the chests, to
keep them in their places, but could not thrust off th«
raft with all my strength; neither durst I stir from the
posture I was in, but holding up the chests with all my
might, I stood in that manner near half an hour, in which
time the rising of the water brought me a little more upon
a level; and a little after, the water still rising, my raft
floated again, and 1 thrust her off with the oar I had into
the channel, and then driving up higher, I at length found
myself in the mouth of a little river, with land on both sides,
and a strong current or tide running up. 1 looked on both
sides for a proper place to get to shore, for I was not will-
ing to be driven too high up the river, hoping in time to
see some ship at sea, and therefore resolved to place my.
self as near the coast as I could.
At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the
creek, to which, with great pain and difficulty, I guided
my raft, and at last got so near as that, reaching ground
with my oar, I could thrust her directly in; but here I had
like to have dipped all my cargo into the sea again, for
that shore lying pretty steep, that is to say, sloping, there
was no place to land but where one end of my float, if it
ran on shore, would lie so high, and the other sink lower,
as before, that it would endanger my cargo again. All
that 1 could do was to wait till the tide was at the highest,
keeping the raft with my oar like an anchor, to hold the
side of it fast to the shore, near a flat piece of ground,
which 1 expected the water would flow over; and so it did.
As soon as I found water enough, for my raft drew about
a foot of water, 1 thrust her upon that flat piece of ground,
and there fastened or moored her by sticking my two
broken oars into the ground, one on one side near one end,
and one on the other side near the other end; and thus I
lay till the water ebbed away, and left my raft and all my
cargo safe on shore.
My next work was to view the country, and seek a proper
place for my habitation, and where to stow my goods, to
secure them from whatever might happen. Where I was 1
yet knew not; whether on the continent or on an island;
whether inhabited or not inhabited; whether in clanger of
wild beasts or not. There was a hill, not above a mile
from me, which rose up very steep and high, and which
seemed to overtop some other hills, which lay as in a ridge
from it, northward. I took out one of the fowling-pieces,
and one of the pistols, and a horn of powder, and thu,
armed I traveled for discovery up to the top of that hills
where, after I had, with great labor and difficulty, got up
to the top, I saw my fate, to my great affliction, viz., that
I was in an island, environed every way with the sea, no
land to be seen, except some rocks which lay a great way
off, and two small islands, less than this, which lay about
three leagues to the west.
I found also that the island I was in was barren, and, as
I saw good reason to believe, uninhabited, except by wild
beasts, of whom, however, I saw none; yet 1 saw abund-
ance of fowls, but knew not their kinds; neither, when 1
killed them, could 1 tell what was fit for food and what
not. At my coming back I shot at a great bird, which I
saw sitting upon a tree, on the side of a great wood. 1 be-
lieve it was the first gun that had been fired there since
the oreatfon of the world; I had no sooner fired, but from
all the parts of the wood there arose an innumerable num-
ber of fowls, of many sorts, making a conf used screaming,
and orying, and every one according to hie usual note; but
not one of them of any kind that I knew. As for the
creature I killed, I took it to be a kind of a hawk, its color
t
and beak resembling it, but it bad no talons or claws mora
than common. Its flesh was carrion and fit for nothing.
Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft,
and fell to work to bring my cargo on shore, which took
me up the rest of that day; what to do with myself at
night 1 knew not, nor indeed where to rest, for I was
afraid to lie down on the ground, not knowing but some
wild beast might devour me; though, asl afterward found,
there was really no need for those fears. However, as well
as I could, I barricaded myself round with the chests and
boards that I had brought on shore, and made a kind of
hut for that night's lodging. As for food, I yet saw not
which way to supply myself, except that I had seen two or
three creatures, like hares, run out of the wood where 1
shot the fowl.
I now began to consider that I might yet get a great
many things out of the ship, which would be useful to me,
and particularly some of the rigging and sails, and such
other things as might come to land; and I resolved to
make another voyage on board the vessel, if possible. And
as 1 knew that the first storm that blew must necessarily
break her all in pieces, I resolved to set all other things
apart, till I got everything out of the ship that I could get.
Then I called a council, that is to say, in my thoughts,
whether 1 should take back the raft; but this appeared im-
practicable; so I resolved to go as before, when the tide was
down; and I did so, only that I stripped before I went
from my hut; having nothing on but a checked shirt, a
pair of linen drawers, and a pair of pumps on my feet.
I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second
raft; and having had experience of the first, I neither mada
this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard, but yet 1 brougat
away several things very useful to me; as, first, in the oar-
penter's stores, I found two or three bags of nails and
spikes, a great screw-jack, a dozen or two of hatchets, ana,
above all, that most useful thing called a grind-stone. All
these I secured together, with several things belonging to
the gunner; particularly two or three iron crows, and two
barrels of musket-bullets, seven muskets, and another
fowling-piece, with some small quantity of powder more; a
large bagful of small shot, and a great roll of sheet-lead;
but this last Was so heavy I could not hoist it up to get it
over the ship's side, Besides these things, I took all the
mea's clothes that I could find, and a spare fare-tepgail, a
hammock, and some bedding; and with this I loaded my
second raft, and brought them all safe on shore, to my
very great comfort.
1 was under some apprehensions lest, during my absence
from the land, my provisions might be devoured on shore:
but when 1 came back, 1 found no sign of any visitor; only
there sat a creature like a wild cat, upon one of the chests,
which, when 1 camo toward it, ran away a little distance,
and then stood still. She sat very composed and uncon-
cerned, and looked full in my face, as if she had a mind
to be acquainted with me. I presented my gun to her,
but, as she did not understand it, she was perfectly uncon-
cerned at it, nor did she offer to stir away; upon which I
tossed uSi <=» bit of biscuit, though, by the way, I was not
veryfi'Co oi it, for my store was not great; however, 1
spared her a bit, 'I say, and she went to it, smelled of it,
and. eat it, and leaked (as pleased) for more; but I thank-
ed her, and could spare no more; so she marched off.
Having got my secoiic cargo on shore—though I was fain
oO open the barrels of powder, and bring them by parcels,
^or the/ were too heavy, being large casks—I went to work
io make me a little tent with the sail and some poles which
i cut for that purpose; and into this tent 1 brought every-
thing that I knew would spoil either with rain or sun, and
i piled all the empty chests and casks up in a circle round
the tent, to fortify it from any sudden attempt either from
raan or beast.
When I had done this I blocked up the door ef the tent
with some boards within, and an empty chest set up on
end without, and spreading one of the beds upon the
ground, laying my two pistols just at my head, and my
gun at lengih by me, 1 went to bed for the first time, and
slept very quietly all night, for 1 was very weary and heavy ,,
for the night before 1 had slept little, and had labored very
hard all day, as well to fetch all those things from the shr:
as to get them on shore.
I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever-
was laid up, 1 believe, for one man; but £ was not satisfied
still, for while the ship sat upright iu that posture I
thought I ought to get everything oat of her that 1 couids
so every day at low wa-'^r t went on board and brought
away something or other; but particularly the third time it
went 1 brought away as mnch of the rigging as 1 could, as
also all the small ropes and rope-twine 1 could get, with a
piece of spare canvas, which was to mend the sails upon
occasion, and the barrel of wet gunpowder. In a word, I
brought away all the sails firsb and last; only that 1 was
fain to cut them in pieces and bring as much at a time as
1 could; for they were no more useful to be sails, but as
mere canvas only.
But that which comforted me still more was that, last of
all, after I had made five or six such voyages as these, and
thought I had nothing more to expect from the ship that
was worth my meddling with; I say, after all this, I found
a great hogshead of bread, and three large runlets of rum or
spirits, and a box of sugar, and a barrel of fine flour; this
was surprising to me, because 1 had given over expecting
any more provisions, except what was spoiled by the water.
1 soon emptied the hogshead of that bread, and wrapped
it up, parcel by parcel, in pieces of the sails which 1 cut
out; and, in a word, I got all this safe on shore also.
The next day 1 made another voyage, and now having
plundered the ship of what was portable and fit to hand
out, I began with the cables, and cutting the great cable
into pieces such as 1 could move, I got two cables and a
hawser on shore, with all the iron work 1 could get; and
having cut down the spritsail-yard, and the mizzen-yard,
and everything I could, to make a large raft, 1 loaded it
with all those heavy goods, and came away; but my good
luck began now to leave me, for this raft was so unwieldy
and so overladen that after I was entered the little cove,
where I had lauded the rest of my goods, not being able to
guide it so handily as I did the other, it overset, and threw
me and all my cargo into the water; as for myself, it was.
no great harm, for 1 was near the shore, but as to my
cargo, it was a great part of it lost, especially the iron,
which I expected would have been of great use to me; how-
ever, when the tide was out I got most of the pieces of cabl«
ashore, and some of the iron, though with infinite labor;
for I was fain to dip for it into the water, a work which
fatigued me very much. After this I went every day on
board, and brought away what 1 could get.
1 had now been thirteen days ashore, and had been
eleven times on board the ship, in which time I had
brought away all that one pair of hands could well be sup-

capable to bring; though I believe verily, had the
calm weather held, 1 should have brought away the whole
ship piece by piece, but preparing, the twelfth time, to go
on board, 1 found the wind began to rise: however, at low
water, I went on board, and though 1 thought 1 had rum-
maged the cabin so effectually as that nothing could be
found, yet 1 discovered a locker with drawers in it, in one
of which I found two or three razors, and one pair of large
scissors, with some ten or a dozen of good knives and forks;
in another I found about thirty-six pounds in money, some
European coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight, some
gold, and some silver.
I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. Oh, drug'.
I exclaimed, what art thou good for? Thou art not worth
to me, no, not the taking off the ground; one of those
knives is worth all this heap. 1 have no manner of use for
thee; e'en remain where thou art, and go to the bottom, as
a creature whose life is not worth saving. However, upon
second thoughts, I took it away, and wrapping all this in a
piece of canvas, I began to think of making another raft;
out while 1 was preparing this I found the sky overcast,
and the wind began to rise, and in a quarter of an hour it
blew a fresh gale from the shore. It presently occurred to
me that it was in vain to pretend to make a raft with the
wind off shore; and that it was my business to be gone be-
fore the tide of flood began, or otherwise 1 might not be
able to reach the shore at all. Accordingly 1 let myself
down into the water, and swam across the channel which
lay between the ship and the sands, and even that with
difficulty enough, partly with the weight of the things
1 had about me, and partly the roughness of the water; for
the wind rose Tery hastily, and before it was quite high
water it blew a storm.
But I was got home to my little tent, where I lay, with
all my wealth about me very secure. It blew very hard all
that night, and in the morning when I looked out, behold,
no more ship was to be seen! 1 was a little surprised, but
recovered myself with the satisfactory reflection, viz., that
I had lost no time nor abated no diligence to get everything
out of her that could be useful to me, and that indeed
there was little left in her that 1 was able to bring away, if
1 had had more time.
1 now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of
anything :>ut of her, except what might drive on shore,
from her wreck; as, indeed, divers pieces of her at'teiwaiti
did; but those things were of small use to me.
My thoughts were now wholly employed about securing
myself against either savages, if any should appear, or
wild beasts, if any were in the island; and I hud many
thoughts of the method how to do this, aud what kind of
dwelling to make, whether 1 should make me a cave in the
earth or a tent upon the earth; and, in short, 1 resolved
upon both; the manner and description of which it may
not be improper to give an account of.
I soon found the place I was in was not for my settle-
ment, particularly because it was upon a low, moorish
ground, near the sea, and I believed it would not be whole-
some; and more particularly because there was no fresh
water near it. So I resolved to find a more healthy and
more convenient spot of ground.
1 consulted several things in my situation, which I found
would be proper for me: First, air and fresh water, 1 just
now mentioned; secondly, shelter from tha host of the sun;
thirdly, security from ravenous creatures, whether men or
beasts; fourthly, a view to the sea, that if God sent any
ship in sight, I might not lose any advantage for my de-
liverance, of which 1 was not willing to banish all my ex-
pectation yet.
In search for a place proper for this, I found a little
plain on the side of a rising hill, whose front toward this
little plain was steep as a house-side, so that nothing could
come down upon me from the top. On the side of this
rock, there was a hollow place, worn a little way in, like
the entrance or door of a cave; but there was not really
any cave or way into the rock at all.
On the flat of the green, just before this hollow place, I
resolved to pitch my tent . This plain was not above a
hundred yards broad, and about twice as long, and lay like
a green before my door; and, at the end of it, descended
irregularly every way down into the low ground by the sea-
side. It was on the N.N.W. side of the hill; so that it was
sheltered from the heat every day, till it came to a W. and
by S. sun, or thereabouts, which, in those countries, is
near the setting.
Before I set up my tent, I drew a half-circle before the
hollow place, which took in about ten yards in its semi.
liameter from the rock, and twenty yards in its diameter,
Erom its beginning and ending.
In this half-circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes,
driving them into the ground till they stood very firm like
piles, the biggest end being out of the ground, about five
feet and a half, and sharpened on the top. The two rows
did not stand above six inches from each other.
Then 1 took the pieces of cable which I cut in the ship,
and laid them in rows, one upon another, within the circle,
between these two rows of stakes, up to the top, placing
other stakes in the inside, leaning against them, about two
feet and a half high, like a spur to a post; and this fence
was so strong that neither man nor beast could .get into it
or over it. This cost me a great deal of time and labor,
especially to cut the piles in the woods, bring them to the
place, and drive them into the earth.
The entrance into this place I made to be not by a door,
but by a short ladder to go over the top; which ladder,
when 1 was in, I lifted over after me; and so 1 was com-
pletely fenced in and fortified, as 1 thought, from all the
world, and consequently slept secure in the night, which
otherwise 1 could not have done; though, as it appeared
afterward, there was no need of all this caution against the
enemies that 1 apprehended danger from.
SECTION VI.
Carries all his Riches.Provisions, etc., into his Habitation.—Dreari-
ness of Solitude.—Consolatory Reflections.
Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite labor, 1 carried
til my riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and stores,
of which you have the account above; and I made a large
tent, which, to preserve me from the rains that in one part
of the year are very violent there, I made double, viz., one
smaller tent within and one larger tent above it, and cov-
ered the uppermost with a large tarpaulin, which I had
saved among the sails.
And now I lay no more for awhile in the bed which I
had brought on shore, but in a hammock, which was indeed
a very good one, and belonged to the mate of the ship.
Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and every-
thing that would spoil by the wet; and having thus inclosed
all my goods, I made up the entrance, which till now I had
left open, and so passed and repassed, as 1 said, by a short
ladder.
When I had done this I began to work my way into the
rock, and bringing all the earth and stones that 1 dag
down out through my tent, 1 laid them up within my fence
in the nature of a terrace, so that it raised the ground
within about a foot and a half; and thus I made me a cave,
just behind my tent, which served me like a cellar to my
house. It cost me much labor and many days, before all
these things were brought to perfection; and therefore 1
must go back to some other things which took up some of
my thoughts. At the same time it happened, after I had
laid my scheme for the setting up my tent, and making
the cave, that a storm of rain falling from a thick, dark
cloud, a sudden flash of lightning happened, and after that
a great clap of thunder, as is naturally the effect of it. I
was so much surprised with the lightning, as 1 was with a
thought which darted into my mind as swift as the light-
ning itself: Oh, my powder! My very heart sunk within
me when 1 thought, that at one blast, all my powder might
be destroyed; on which, not my defense only, but the pro-
viding me food, as 1 thought, entirely depended. 1 was
nothing near so anxious about my own danger, though,
had the powder taken fire, 1 should never have known who
had hurt me.
Such impression did this make upon me, that after the
storm was over 1 laid aside all my works, my building and
fortifying, and applied myself to make bags and boxes to
separate the powder, and to keep it a little and a little5 in a
parcel, in hope that whatever might come, it might not all
take fire at once; and to keep it so apart that it should not
be possible to make one part fire another. I finished this
work in about a fortnight, and 1 think my powder, which
in all was about two hundred and forty pounds weight,
was divided into not less than a hundred parcels. As to
the barrel that had been wet, 1 did not apprehend any dan-
ger from that; so 1 placed it in my new cave which, in my
fancy, I called my kitchen, and the rest I hid up and down
in holes among the rocks, so that no wet might come to it,
marking very carefully where 1 laid it.
In the interval of time while this was doing, I went out
at least once every day with my gun, as well to divert my-
i
X
self as to see if 1 ecu e\!_^aything fit for food; and, as
near as I could, to ac .. .,3.J5*myself with what the island
produced. The first time I went out I presently discov-
ered that there were goats upon the island, which was a
great satisfaction to me; but then it was attended with this
misfortune to me, viz., that they were so shy, so subtle,
and so swift of foot, that it was the most difficult thing in
the world to come at them; but I was not discouraged at
this, not doubting but 1 might now and then shoot one,
as it soon happened; for after I had found their haunts a
little, 1 laid wait in this manner for them; I observed, if
they saw me in the valleys, though they were upon the
rocks, they would run away as in a terrible fright; but if
they were feeding in the valleys, and I was upon the rocks,
they took no notice of me, from whence I concluded that
by the position of their optics, their sight was so directed
downward that they did not leadily see objects that wero
above them; so afterward, I took this method—I always
climbed the rocks first, to get above them, and then had
frequently a fair mark. The first shot I made among
these creatures I killed a she-goat, which had a little kid
by her, which she gave suck to, which grieved me heartily;
but when the old one fell the kid stood stock-still by her
till I came and took her up; and not only so, but when I
carried the old one with me, upon my shoulders, the kid
followed me quite to my inclosure; upon which I laid down
the dam, and took the kid in my arms, and carried it
over my pale, in hopes to have bred it up tame; but it
would not eat, so I was forced to kill it and eat it myself.
These two supplied me with flesh a great while, for I eat
sparingly and preserved my provisions (my bread espe-
cially) as much as possibly I could.
Having now fixed my habitation, I found it absolutely
necessary to provide a place to make a fire in, and fuel to
burn; and what I did for that, as also how I enlarged my
cave, and what conveniences 1 made, 1 shall give a full ac-
count of it in its proper place; but 1 must first give soma
little account of myself, and of my thoughts about living,
which, it may well be supposed, were not a few.
I had a dismal prospect of my condition; for as I was
not oast away upon that island without being driven, as is
said, by a violent storm quite out of the course of our in-
tended voyage, and a great way, tis.. some hundreds of
V
98 BOBINta CRUSOE..
leagues, oat of the ordinal entranc*" of the trade of man-
kind, 1 had great reason to ooassder it as a determination
of Heaven, that in this desolate place, and in this desolate
manner, I should end my life. The tears would run
plentifully down my face when I made these reflections;
*nd sometimes I would expostulate with myself why Provi-
dence should thus completely ruin its creatures, and rendei
them so absolutely miserable; so abandoned without help,
9o entirely depressed, that it could hardly be rational to be
thankful for such a life.
But something always returned swift upon me to check
these thoughts, and to reprove me; and particularly, one
day walking with my gun in my hand, by the sea-side, I
was very pensive upon the subjct of my present condition,
when reason, as it were, expostulated with me the other
way, thus: Well, you are in a desolate condition, it is true;
but, pray remember, where are the rest of you? Did not
you come eleven of you into the boat? Where are the
ten? Why were not they saved, and you lost? Why were
you singled out? Is it better to be here or there? And
then I pointed to the sea. All evils are to be considered
with the good that is in them, and with what worse attends
them.
Then it occurred to me again, how well 1 was furnished
for my subsistence, and what would have been my case if
it had not happened (which was a hundred thousand to
one) that the ship floated from the place where she first
struck, and was driven so near to the shore, that I had
time to get all these things out of her; what would have
been my case if I had been to have lived in the condition
in which I at first came on shore, without necessaries of
life, or necessaries to supply and procure them? Particu-
larly, said I aloud (though to myself), what should I have
done without a gun, without ammunition, without any tools
to make anything, or to work with, without clothes, bed-
ding, a tent, or any manner of covering? and that now 1
had all these to a sufficient quantity and was in a fair way
to provide myself in such a manner as to live without mj
gun, when my ammunition was spent; so that 1 had a
tolerable view of subsisting, without any want, as long as 1
lived; for 1 considered, from the beginning, how I would
provide for the acoidents that might happen, and for the
tfme that was to come, not only after my ammunition
v,<
BCffil / JTLTT80M. 5$
should be spent, but even after my health or strength
should decay.
I confess, I had not entertained any notion of my am-
munition being destroyed at one blast, I mean my powder
being blown up by lightning; and this made the thoughts
of it so surprising to me when it lightened and thundered,
as I observed just now.
And now being about to enter into a melancholy relation
of a scene of silent life, such, perhaps, as was never heard of
in the world before, I shall take it from its beginning and
continue it in its order. It was, by my account, the 30th
of September, when, in the manner as above said, I first
set foot upon this horrid island, when the sun being to us
in its autumnal equinox, was almost just over my head;
for I reckoned myself, by observation, to be in the latitude
of nine degrees twenty-two minutes north of the Line.
SECTION VII.
Robinson's Mode of reckoning Time.—Difficulties arising from
Want of Tools.—He arranges his Habitation.
After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it
came into my thoughts that I should lose my reckoning of
time for want of books and pen and ink, and should even
forget the Sabbath days from the working days; but, to
prevent this, I cut it with my knife upon a large post, in
capital letters ; and making it into a great cross, I set it up
on the shore where I first landed, viz., "I came on shore
here on the 30th of September, 1659." Upon the sides of
this square post I cut every day a notch with my knife, and
every seventh notch was as long again as the rest, and
every first day of the month as long again as that long one;
and thus I kept mv calendar, or weekly, monthly and
yearly reckoning of time.
But it happened that among the many things which I
brought out of the ship, in the several voyages which, as
above mentioned, I made to it, I got several things of less
value, but not at all less useful to me, which I found som«
time after in rummaging the chests; as, in particular,
pens, ink, and paper; several narcels in the captain's
mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's keeping; three or foal
compasses, some mathematical instruments, dials, per-
spectives, charts and books of navigation; all of which I
huddled together, whether 1 might want them or no; also
1 found three very good Bibles, which came to me in my
cargo from England, and which 1 had packed up among
my things; some Portuguese books also, and among them
two or three popish prayer-books, and several other books,
all which I carefully secured. And 1 must hot forget that
we had in the ship a dog and two cats, of whose eminent
history 1 may have occasion to say something in its place;
for 1 carried both the cats with me, and as for the dog, he
jumped out of the ship himself and swam on shore to me
the day after 1 went on shore with my first cargo, and was
a trusty servant to me for many years. I wanted nothing
that Le could fetch me, nor any company that he could
make up to me, 1 only wanted to have him talk to me, but
that would not do. As I observed before, I found pens,
ink, and paper, and I husbanded them to the utmost; and
I shall show that while my ink lasted, I kept things very
exact, but after that was gone, I could not; for I could not
make any ink, by any means that I could devise.
And this put me in mind that I wanted many things,
notwithstanding all that 1 had amassed together; and of
these this of ink was one, as also a spade, pick-ax, and
shovel, to dig or remove the earth, needles, pins, and
thread; as for linen, I soon learned to want that without
much difficulty.
This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily,
and it was near a whole year before 1 had entirely finished
my little pale, or surrounded my habitation. The piles or
stakes, which were as heavy as I could well lift, were a long
time in cutting and preparing in the woods, and more by
far, in bringing home; so that 1 spent sometimes two days
in cutting and bringing home one of those posts, and a
third day in driving it into the ground; for which purpose
I got a heavy piece of wood at first, but at last bethought
myself of one of the iron crows, which, however, though I
found it answer, made driving these posts qr piles very
laborious and tedious work. But what need I have been
concerned at the tediousness of anything I had to do, see*
ing I had time enough to do it in? nor had 1 any othei
employment, if that had been over, at least that I could
iTOBiKeoifcgtTsoEr; ', 61
foreBee, except the ranging the island to seek for food,
which I did, more Or less, every day.
1 now began to consider seriously my condition, and the
circumstance I was reduced to; and I drew up the state of
my affairs in writing, not so much to leave them to any
that were to come after me (for 1 was like to have but few
heirs), as to deliver my thoughts from daily poring upon
them, and afflicting my mind; and as my reason began
now to master my despondency, I began to comfort my-
self as well as 1 could, and to set the good against the evil,
that I might have something to distinguish my case from
worse; and 1 stated very impartially, like debtor and credi-
tor, the comforts 1 enjoyed against the miseries I suffered,
thus:
EVIL. GOOD.
I am cast upon a horrible, des- But I am alive; and not drown-
olate island; void of all hope of ed, as all my ship's company
recovery. were.
I am singled out and separated, But I am singled out too from all
as it were, from all the weld, to the ship's crew, to be spared from
be miserable. death; and He that miraculously
saved me from death, can deliver
me from this condition.
I am divided from mankind, But I am not starved, and per-
a solitaire; ene banished from hu- ishing in a barren place, aifording
man society. no sustenance.
I have no clothes to cover me. But I am in a hot climate,
where, if I had clothes, I could
hardly wear them.
I am without any defense, or But I am cast on an island
means to resist any violence of where I see no wild beast to hurt
man or beast. me, as I saw on the coast of
Africa; and what if I had been
shipwrecked there?
I have no soul to speak to, or But God wonderfully sent fr"
relieve me. ship in near enough to the show.
that I have got out so many nec-
essary things, as will either supply
my wants, or enable me to supply
myself, even as long as I live.
Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony, that
there was scarce any condition in the world so miserable,
but there was something negative, or something positiye,
to be thankful for in it: and let this stand as a direction.
horn the experience of the most miserable of all conditions
in this world, that we may always find in it something to
comfort ourselves from, and to set, in the description of
good and evil on the credit side of the account.
Having now brought my mind a little to relish my condi-
tion, and given over looking out to sea, t.o see if I could
spy a ship; I say, given over these things, I began to apply
myself to accommodate my way of living, and to make
things as easy to me as 1 could.
I have already described my habitation, which was a
tent under the side of a rock, surrounded with a strong
pale of posts and cables; but 1 might now rather call it a
wall, for 1 raised a kind of wall against it of turfs, about
two feet thick on the outside: and after some time (1 think
it was a year and a half) I raised rafters from it, leaning to
the rock, and thatched or covered it with boughs of trees,
and such things as 1 could get, to keep out the rain; which
I found, at some times of the year, very violent.
I have already observed how 1 brought all my goods into
this pale, and into the cave which 1 had made behind me..
&joao 'sSmq^ jo iiuamSpnf ibhoi^b.1 ^som eift Strafem £<\
pnb 'aoeb&i Aq Saiq^aoAO Snubnbs pun Sui^s Aq os
'sorrBuiaqqbin aqq. jo vbuiSijo pus oonb^sqns oq^ si uosbai
sb ireqi OAiosqo spaau ^snra I aiaq puy -^iom. o% quaA j os
'.Q\qvi b ^noq^iM. ainsbOid qonui o3 u:iiay sSniq^ puoAas op ao
'ysz jo 9}iu %ou ppAoo I '. ojjoav oq^ ut pbq I s;a:ojuioo aibj
«q^ Aofuo 0!j aiqb ^ou sba£ I esaq^ ^noqijAV joj i ajqb!} b pne
jruqo b Apttrnorjibd 'pa^abii ;soui I punoj I sb sSutq^ Axbs
-sraoan qons ojrBin 0$ JiasAra Afddb o^ ub§aq I Avon pay
-spooS Am mo^s o% uiooj
sni 9ab3 iinq 'osnoqojo^s Ara o^ pnb ^uo^ Am o^ Aba 3[OBq
e 'ejoAv qi sb 'ssaiSoj pab ssaaSa A^uo ^oa era oab§ siqj,
-uoi^boni^j.oj jo ored Am jo opts^no oq^ m irno amoo
o% aoop b era apbra pnb '^no o^mb po^ioM 'uibSb ^qSu
oqq. oi Saining uaq^ pub 'spoi oifl oiiui 'pnbq ;rq2u eqi
o^ sAbavopts pasfiOA I 'Aead jo s^sbaq aqq. o^ sb ojbs A^oid
sbav I paaoj I uaqM. pnb I %i no poAO^saq I ioqb[ aqq. o^
Aitsbo papjaiA qoiqiA 'jjooj ApubS (9soo{ b sbav ^i joj I q^JbO
aq; o^uj jaminj '^joa pttb 'oabo Ara a&reraa o^ i{esA*ra qas
I as i jpsAra jtiu% o% raooj on pbq I i oob{d Ara \\v. dn
5[oo^ Aaq^ os 'iapjo ou ui Ab^ Aaqij sb 'qoiqAV 'epooS jo draaq
©asnjaoo B s*& siq; ^s.tij ;b iraq^ 'oo!j 'eA-wsqp ^snra I i»g
: - - - ROBINSON CRUSOE. 09
man may be, in time, master of every mechanic art. i
had never handled a tool in my life; and yet, in time, by
labor, application, and contrivance I found at'last, that 1
wanted nothing but I could have made, especially if I had
had tools. However, I made abundance of things, even
without tools; and some with no more tools that an adze
and a hatchet, which perhaps were never made that way
before, and that with infinite labor. For example, if I
wanted a board, I had no other way but to cut down a
tree, set it on an edge before me, and hew it flat on either
side with my ax, till I had brought it to be as thin as a
plank, and then dub it smooth with my adze. It is trne,
by this method, I could make but one board oi a whole
tree; but this I had no remedy for but patience, any more
than I had for a prodigious deal of time and labor which
it took me up to make a plank or board: but my time or
labor was little worth, and so it was as well employed one
way as another.
However, I made me a table and a chair, as I observed
above, in the first place; and this I did out of the short
pieces of boards that 1 brought on my raft from the ship.
But when I wrought out some boards, as above, I made
large shelves, of the breadth of a foot and a half, one over
another, all along one side of my cave, to lay all my tools,
nails, and iron work on; and, in a word, to separate every-
thing at large in their places, that I might easily come at
them. I knocked pieces into the wall of the rock, to hang
my guns, and all things that would hang up: so that had
my cave been seen, it looked like a general magazine of all
necessary things; and 1 had everything so ready at my
hand, that it was a great pleasure to me to see all my goods
in such order, and especially to find my stock of all neces-
saries so great.
And now it was that I began to keep a journal of every
day's employment; for, indeed, at first, I was in too much
hurry, and not only as to labor, but in much discomposure
of mind; and my journal would, too, have been full of
many dull things: for example, I must have said thus—
"Sept. 30th. After I had got to shore, and had escaped
drowning, instead of being thankful to God for my deliver-
ance, having first vomited, with the great quantity of salt
'water which had got into my stomach, and recovering my
Mlf a little, I ran about the shore, wringing my hands, and
beating my head and face, exclaiming at my misery, anfl
crying out I was undone, undone! till, tired and faint, 1
was forced to lie down on the ground to repose; but durst
not sleep, for fear of being devoured.''
Some days after this, and after I had been on board the
ship and got all that 1 could out of her, I could not forbear
getting up to the top of a little mountain, and looking out
to sea, in hopes of seeing a ship: then fancy that, at a vast
distance, I spied a sail, please myself with the hopes of it,
and, after looking steadily, till I was almost blind, lose it
quite, and sit down and weep like a child, and thus in-
crease my misery by my folly.
But, having got over these things in some measure, and
having settled my household stuff and habitation, made
me a table and a chair, and all as handsome about me as I
could, 1 began to keep my journal: of which 1 shall here
give you the copy (though in it will be told all these partic-
ulars over again) as long as it lasted; for, having no more
ink, 1 was forced to leave it off.
SEC&O* VIII.
Robinson's Journal.—Details o* his Domestic Economy and Con-
trivances.—Sh^ck of an Earthquake.
THB JOURNAL.
September 30th, 1659. I, poor miserable Robinson
Crusoe, being shipwrecked, during a dreadful storm, in
the offing, came on shore on this dismal unfortunate island,
which I called the Island of Despair; all the rest of the
ship's company being drowned, and myself almost dead.
All the rest of that day I spent in afflicting myself at the
dismal circumstances I was brought to, viz., 1 had neither
food, house, clothes, weapon, nor place to fly to: and, in
despair of any relief, saw nothing but death before me;
that I should either be devoured by wild beasts, murdered
by savages, or starved to death for want of food. At the
approach of night I slept in a tree, for fear of wild creat-
ures; but slept soundly, though it rained all night.
October 1. In the morning I saw, to my great surprise,
the ship had floated with the high tide, and was driven on
shore again much nearer the island; which, as it was some
comfort on one hand (for seeing her sit upright, and not
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 63
broken in pieces, I hoped, if the wind abated, I might get
on board, and get some food and necessaries out of her for
my relief,) so, on the other hand, it renewed my grief at
the loss of my comrades, who, 1 imagined, if we had all
stayed on board, might have saved the ship, or, at least, .
that they would not have been all drowned, as they were:
and that, had the men been saved, we might perhaps have
built us a boat, out of the ruins of the ship, to have carried
us to some other part of the world. 1 spent great part of
this day in perplexing myself on these things; but, at
length, seeing the ship almost dry, 1 went upon the sand
as near as I could, and then swam on board. This day
also it continued raining, though with no wind at all.
Prom the 1st of October to the 34th. All these days
entirely spent in many several voyages to get all I could
out of the ship; which I brought on shore, every tide of
flood, upon rafts. Much rain also in these days, though
with some intervals of fair weather: but, it seems, this was
the rainy season.
Oct. 20. I overset my raft, and all the goods I had got
upon it; but being in shoal water, and the things being
chiefly heavy, I recovered many of them when the tide was
out.
Oct. 25. It rained all night and all day, with some gusts
of wind; during which time the ship broke in pieces (the
wind blowing a little harder than before) and was no more
to be seen, except the wreck of her, and that only at low
water. I spent this day in covering and securing the goods
Which I had saved, that the rain might not spoil them.
Oct. 26. I walked about the shore almost all day, to find
out a place to fix my habitation; greatly concerned tc
secure myself from any attack in the night, either from
wild beasts or men. Toward night 1 fixed upon a proper
place, under a rock, and marked out a semicircle for my
encampment; which I resolved to strengthen with a work,
wall, or fortification, made of double piles lined within with
cables, and without with turf.
From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in carry-
ing all my goods to my new habitation, though some part
of the time it rained exceedingly hard.
The 31st, in the morning, f went out into the island
with my gun, to see for some food, and discover the coun-
ty. when I killed a she-goat, and her kid followed w
ft
home, which I afterw&rd killed also, because it would not
feed.
November 1. I <wfc up my tent under a rock, and la-p
there for the first night; making it as large as I could,
with stakes driven in to swing my hammock upon.
Nov. 2. I set up all my chests and boards, and the pieces
of timber which made my rafts; and with them formed a
fence round me, a little within the place I had marked out
for my fortification.
Nov. 3. I went out with my gun, and killed two fowls
like ducks, which were very good food. Is the afternoon
I went to work to make me a table.
Nov. 4. This morning 1 began to order my times of
work, of going out with my gun., time of sleep, and time
of diversion; viz., every morning I walked out with my gun
for two or three hours, if it did not rain; then employed
myself to work till about eleven o'clock; then eat what I
had to live on; and from twelve to two I lay down to sleep,
the weather being excessive hot; and then, in the evening,
to work again. The working part of this day and the next
was wholly employed in making my table, for I was yet
but a very sorry workman: though time and necessity
made me a complete natural mechanic soon after, as I be-
iieve they would any one else.
Nov. 5. This day went abroad with my gun and dog,
and killed a wild cat; her skin pretty soft, but her flesh
good for nothing: of every creature that I killed I took off
the skins, and preserved them. Coming back by the sea-
shore, I saw many sorts of seafowl which I did not under-
stand: but wa3 surprised, and almost frightened, with two
or three seals; which while I was gazing at them (not well
knowing what they were) got into the sea, and escaped me
lor that time.
Nov. 6. After my morning walk, I went to work with
lay table again, and finished it, though not to my liking:
aor was it long before I learned to mend it
.
i Nov. 7. Now it began to be settled fair weather. The
7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and part of the 12th (for the 11th was
Sunday, according to my reckoning), I took wholly up to
make me a chair, and with much ado brought it to a toler-
able shape, but never to please me; and, even in the mak-
ing, 1 pulled it in pieces several times.
Kote. i soon neglected my keeping Sundays; for, oi^.i>

ting my mark for them on my post, 1 forgot which was
which.
Nov. 13. This day it rained; which refreshed me exceed-
ingly, and cooled the earth: but it was accompanied with
terrible thunder and lightning, which frightened me dread-
fully, for fear of my powder. As soon as it was over, 1 re-
solved to separate my stock of powder into as many little
parcels as possible, that it might not be in danger.
Nov. 14, 15, 16. These three days I spent in making
little square chests or boxes, which might hold about a
pound, or two pounds at most, of powder: and so, putting
the powder in, I stowed it in places as secure and as re-
mote from one another as possible. On one of these three
days 1 killed a large bird that was good to eat; but 1 knew
not what to call it.
Kor. 17. This day 1 began to dig behind my tent, intc
the rock, to make room for my further convenience.
Note. Three things 1 wanted exceedingly for this work,
viz., a pickax, a shovel, and a wheelbarrow, or basket; ea
1 desisted from my work, and began to consider how to
supply these wants, and make me some tools. As for a
piekax, I made use of the iron crows, which were proper
enough, though heavy: but the next thing was a shovel or
spade; this was so absolutely necessary, that, indeed, 1
could do nothing effectually without it; but what kind of
one to make I knew not.
Nov. 18. The next day, in searching the woods, 1 found
a tree of that wood, or like it, which, in the Brazils, they
call the iron-tree, from its exceeding hardness: of this,
with great labor, and almost spoiling my ax, I cut a piece;
and brought it home, too, with difficulty enough, for it was
exceeding heavy. The excessive hardness of the wood,
and my having no other way, made me a long while upon
this machine: for I worked it effectually, by little and
little, into the form of a shovel or spade; the handle exact-
ly shaped like ours in England, only that the broad part
having no iron shod upon it at bottom, it would not last
jne so Jong: however, it served well enough for the uses
which 1 had occasion to put it to; but never was a shovel,
I believe, made after that fashion, or so long in making.
I was still deficient; for 1 wanted a basket, or a wheel-
Wrow. A basket I could not make b"any means, ha?-
iug uo such things as twigs that would bend to
wicker ware; at least, none yet found out: and as to the
wheelbarrow, I fancied 1 could make all but the wheel, but
that 1 had no notion of; neither did I know how to go
about it: besides, I had no possible way to make iron gud-
geons for the spindle or axle of the wheel to run in; so I
gave it over: and, for carrying away the earth which 1 dug
out of the cave, I made me a thing like a hod, which the
laborers carry mortar in for the bricklayers. This was not
so difficult to me as the making the shovel: and yet this
and the shovel, and the attempt which 1 made in vain to
make a wheelbarrow, took me up no less than four days; I
mean, always excepting my morning walk with my gun,
which I seldom omitted, and very seldom failed also bring-
ing home something fit to eat.
Nov. 23. My other work having now stood still, because
of my making these tools, when they were finished I went
on; and working every day, as my strength and time
allowed, 1 sperft eighteen days entirely in widening and
deepening my cave, that it might hold my goods commodl. ,
ously.
Note. During all this time, I worked to make this room
or cave, spacious enough to accommodate me as a ware-
house, or magazine, a kitchen, a dining-room, and a cellar.
As for a lodging, 1 kept to the tent: except that some-
times, in the wet season of the year, it rained so hard that
1 could not keep myself dry; which caused me afterward
to cover all my place within my pale with long poles, and
in the form of rafters, leaning against the rock, and load
them with flags and large leaves of trees, like a thatch.
December 10. I began now to think my cave or vault
finished; when on a sudden (it seems 1 had made it too
large) a great quantity of earth fell down from the top and
one side; so much, that, in short, it frightened me, and
not without reason too; for if I had been under it, I should
never have wanted a grave-digger. Upon this disaster, I
had a great deal of work to do over again, for 1 had the
loose earth to carry out; and, which was of more import-
ance, 1 had the ceiling to prop up, so that I might be sure
no more would come down.
Dec. 11. This day 1 went to work with it accordingly:
and got two shores or posts pitched upright to the top,
with two pieces of board across over each post: this I
finished the next day; and setting more posts up with
BOBINBON CRUSOE. fiti
boards, in about a week more I had the roof secured; and
the posts, standing in rows, served me for partitions to
part off my house.
Dec. 17. From this day to the 30th, I placed shelves, and
knocked up nails on the posts, to hang everything up that
could be hung up: and now I began to be in some order
within doors.
Dec. 20. I carried everything into the cave, and began to
furnish my house, and set up some pieces of boards, like a
dresser, to order my victuals upon; but boards began to be
very scarce with Hie: also I made me another table.
Dec. 24. Much rain all night and all day: no stirring
out.
Dec. 25. Rain all day.
Dec. 26. No rain; and the earth much cooler than be-
fore, and pleasanter.
Dec. 27. Killed a young goat; and lamed another, so
that 1 catched it, and led it home in a string: when I had
it home, 1 bound and splintered up its leg, which was
broke.
N. B. 1 took such care of it that it lived; and the leg
grew well, and as strong as ever: but, by nursing it so
long, it grew tame, and fed upon the little green at my
door, and would not go away. This was the first time that
I entertained a thought of breeding up some tame creat-
ures, that I might have food when my powder and shot was
all spent.
Dec. 28, 29, 30, 31. Great heats, and ho breeze; so that
there was no stirring abroad, except in the evening, for
food; this time I spent in putting all my things in order
within doors.
January 1. Very hot still; but I went abroad early and
late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of the day.
This evening, going further into the valleys which lay
toward the center of the island, I found there was plenty
oi! goats, though exceeding shy, and hard to come at; how-
ever, I resolved to try if I could not bring my dog to hunt
ihem down. Accordingly, the next day, I went out with
my dog, and set him upon the goats: but 1 was mistaken,
x'or they all faced about upon the dog: aud he knew his
danger too well, for he would not come near them.
Jan. 3. 1 began my fence or wall; which, being stiH
jealous of my being attacked by somebody, I resolved t«
make very thick and strong.
N. B. This wall being described before, 1 purposely
omit what was said in the journal; it is sufficient to ob-
serve, that I was no less time than from the 3d of January
to the 14th of April, working, finishing, and perfecting
this wall; though it was no more than about twenty-five
yards in length, being a half circle, from one place in the
rock to another place, about twelve yards from it, the door
i the cave being in the center, behind it.
All this time 1 worked very hard; the rains hindering
me many days, nay, sometimes weeks together: but I
thought 1 should never be perfectly secure till this wall was
finished; and it is scarce credible what inexpressible labor
everything was done with, especially the bringing piles out
of the woods, and driving them into the ground; for I
made them much bigger than I needed to have done.
When this wall was finished, and the outside double
fenced, with a turf wall raised up close to it, 1 persuaded
myself that if any people were to come on shore there they
would not perceive anything like a habitation: and it was
very well I did so, as may be observed hereafter, upon a
very remarkable occasion.
During this time, I made my rounds in the woods for
same every day, when the rain permitted me, and made
frequent discoveries, in these walks, of something or other
to my advantage; particularly, I found a kind of wild
pigeons, who build, not as wood-pigeons, in a tree, but
rather as house-pigeons, in the holes of the rocks: and,
taking some young ones, I endeavored to breed them up
tame, and did so; but when they grew older, they flew all
away; which, perhaps, was, at first, for want of feeding
them, for 1 had nothing to give them; however, I fre-
quently found their nests, and got their young ones, which
were very good meat. And now, in the managing my
household affairs, I found myself wanting in many things,
which I thought at first it was impossible for me to make;
as indeed, as to some of them, it was: for instance, 1 could
never make a cask to be hooped. 1 had a small runlet or
two, as 1 observed before; but I could never arrive et the
capacity of making one by them, though 1 spent many
weeks about it: I could neither put in the heads, nor join
uiy staves so true to one another as to make them bold
ROBINSON CRUSOK. 71
water; so 1 gave that also over. In the next place, I was
at a great loss for candle; so that as soon as it was dark,
which was generally by seven o'clock, I was obliged to go
to bed. 1 remember the lump of bees-wax with which I
made candles in my African adventure; but 1 had none of
that now: the only remedy I had was, that when I had
killed a goat, 1 saved the tallow; and with a little dish
made of clay, which I baked in the sun, to which 1 added
a wick of some oakum, I made me a lamp; and this gave
me light, though not a clear steady light like a candle. In
the middle of all my labors it happened, that in rummag-
ing my things, I found a little bag; which, as I hinted be-
fore, had been filled with corn, for the feeding of poultry;
not for this voyage, but before, as I suppose, when the ship
came from Lisbon. What little remainder of corn had
been in the bag was all devoured by the rats, and I saw
nothing in the bag but husks and dust; and being willing
to have the bag for some other use (1 think it was to put
powder in, when I divided it for fear of the lightning, or
some such use), I shook the husks of corn out of it, on one
side of my fortification, under the rock.
It was a little before the great rain just now mentioned,
that I threw this stuff away; taking no notice of auythiug,
and not so much as remembering that I had thrown any-
thing there, when, about a month after, 1 saw some few
blades of something green, shooting out of the ground,
which I fancied, might be some plant 1 had not seen; but I
was surprised, and perfectly astonished, when, after a little
longer time, I saw about ten or twelve ears come out,
which were perfect green barley, of the same kind as our
European, nay, as our English barley.
It is impossible to express the astonishment and confu-
sion of my thoughts on this occasion. 1 had hitherto acted
upon no religious foundation at all: indeed, I had very few
notions of religion in my head, nor had entertained any
sense of any things that had befallen me, otherwise than as
chance, or, as we lightly say, what pleases God; without so
much as inquiring into the end of Providence in these
things, or his order in governing events in the world. But
after I saw barley grow there, in a climate which I knew
was not proper for corn, and especially as I knew not how
it came there, it startled me strangely; and I began to sug-
gest, that God had miraculously caused this grain tr. grow
12 ROBINSON CRUSOE.
without any help of seed sown, and that it was so directed
purely for my sustenance, on that wild miserable place.
This touched my heart a little, and brought tears out ol
my eyes; and I began to bless myself that such a prodigy
of nature should happen upon my account: and this was
the more strange to me, because 1 saw near it still, all
along by the side of the rock, some other straggling stalks,
which proved to be stalks of rice, and which 1 knew, be*
cause I had seen it grow in Africa, when I was ashore
there.
1 not only thought these the pure productions of Provi-
dence for my support, but, not doubting that there was
more in the place, 1 went over all that part of the island
where I had been before, searching in every corner, and
under every rock, for more of it; but 1 could not find any.
At last it occurred to my thoughts, that I had shook out a
bag of chicken's-meat in that place, and then the wonder
began to cease; and 1 must confess, my religious thankful-
ness to God's providence began to abate too, upon the dis-
covering that all this was nothing but what was common:
though I ought to have been as thankful for so strange and
unforeseen a providence, as if it had been miraculous: for
it was really the work of Providence, as to me, that should
order or appoint that ten or twelve grains of corn should
remain unspoiled, when the rats had destroyed all the rest,
as if it had been dropped from heaven; as also, that I
should throw it out in that particular place, where, it be-
ing in the shade of a high rock, it sprung up immediately;
whereas, if 1 had thrown it anywhere else, at that time, it
Would have been burned up and destroyed.
1 carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be sure,
in their season, which was about the end of June; and,
laying up every corn, 1 resolved to sow them all again:
hoping, in time, to have some quantity sufficient to supply
me with bread. But it was not till the fourth year that I
could allow myself the least grain of this corn to eat, and
even then but sparingly, as 1 shall show afterward in ita
order; for I lost all that 1 sowed the first season, by no ob-
serving the proper time; as 1 sowed just before the dry
season, so that it never came up at all, at least not as it
would have done; of which in its place.
Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or
thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved with the same care;
And whose use was of the same kind, or to the same pur-
pose, viz., to make me bread, or rather food; for I found
ways to cook it up without baking, though I did that also
after some time. But to return to my journal.
I worked excessively hard these three or four months, to
get my wall done; and the 14th of April 1 closed it up;
contriving to get into it, not by a door, but over the wall,
by a ladder, that there might be no sign on the outside of
my habitation.
April 16. I finished the ladder; so I went up with the
ladder to the top, and then pulled it up after me, and let
it down in the inside: this was a complete enclosure to me;
for within I had room enough, and nothing could come at
me from without, unless it could first mount my wall.
The very next day after this wall was finished, 1 had
almost all my labor overthrown at once, and myself killed;
the case was thus:—As I was busy in the inside of it, be-
hind my tent, just at the entrance into my cave, 1 was ter-
ribly frightened with a most dreadful surprising thing in-
deed; for, all on a sudden, 1 found the earth come crumb-
ling down from the roof of my cave, and from the edge of
the hill over my head, and two of the posts 1 had set up in
the cave cracked in a frightful manner. I was heartily
scared; but thought nothing of what really was the cause,
only thinking that the top of my cave was falling in, as
some of it had done before: and for fear 1 should be buried
in it, I ran forward to my ladder, and not thinking myself
safe there neither, I got over my wall for fear of the pieces
of the hill which I expected might roll down upon me. I
had no sooner stepped down upon the firm ground, than I
plainly saw it was a terrible earthquake: for the ground I
stood on shook three times at about eight minutes' dis-
tance, with three such shocks as would have overturned the
strongest building that could be supposed to have stood on
the earth; and a great piece of the top of a rock, which
stood about half a mile from me, next the sea, fell down
with such a terrible noise as I never heard in all my life.
1 perceived also that the very sea was put into a violent
motion by it; and I believe the shocks were stronger under
the water than on the island.
I was so much amazed with the thing itself (having
never felt the like, nor discoursed with any one that had)
that I was like one dead or stupefied; and the motion of
the earth made my stomach sick, like one that was tossed
at sea: but the noise of the falling of the rock awaked me,
as it were; and rousing me from the stupefied condition I
was in, filled me with horror, and 1 thought of nothing but
the hill falling upon my tent and my household goods, and
burying all at once; this sunk my very soul within me a
second time.
After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for
some time, I began to take courage; yet I had not heart
enough to go over my wall again, for fear of being buried
alive; but sat still upon the ground greatly cast down, and
disconsolate, not knowing what to do. All this while I
had not the least serious religious thought; nothing but
the common " Lord, have mercy upon me!" and when it
was over that went away too.
While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow
cloudy, as if it would rain; and soon after the wind rose by
little and little, so that in less than half an hour it blew a
most dreadful hurricane: the sea was, all on a sudden,
covered with foam and froth; the shore was covered with a
breach of the water; the trees were torn up by the roots;
and a terrible storm it was. This held about three hours,
and then began to abate; and in two hours more it was
quite calm, and began to rain very hard. All this while 1
sat upon the ground, very much terrified and dejected;
when, on a sudden, it came into my thoughts that these
winds and rain being the consequence of the earthquake,
the earthquake itself was spent and over, and I might vent-
ure into my cave again. With this thought my spirits be-
gan to revive; and the rain also helping to persuade me, 1
went in, and sat down in my tent; but the rain was so vio-
lent, that my tent was ready to be beaten down with it;
and 1 was forced to get into my cave, though very much
afraid and uneasy, for fear it should fall on my head.
This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz., to cut a
hole through my new fortification, like a sink, to let the
water go out, which would else have drowned my cave.
After I had been in my cave for some time, and found no
more shocks of the earthquake follow, 1 began to be more
composed. And now, to support my spirits, which indeed
wanted it very much, I went to my little store, and took a
small cup of rum; which, however, I did then, and always,
very sparingly, knowing I could have no more when that
was gone. It continued raining all that night and great
part of the next day, so that I could not stir abroad: but
my mind being more composed, I began to think of what I
had best do; concluding, that if the island was subject to
these earthquakes, there would be no living for me in a
cave, but I must consider of building me some little hut in
an open place, which I might surround with a wall, as 1
had done here, and so make myself secure from wild beasts
or men: for if I stayed where I was, I should certainly,
one time or other, be buried alive.
With these thoughts, I resolved to remove my tent from
the place where it now stood, being just under the hanging
precipice of the hill, and which, if it should be shaken
again, would certainly fall upon my tent. I spent the next
two days, being the 19th and 20th of April, in contriving
where and how to remove my habitation.. The fear of be-
ing swallowed alive affected me so that I never slept in
quiet; and yet the apprehension of lying abroad, without
any fence, was almost equal to it; but still, when I looked
about, and saw how everything was put in order, how
pleasantly 1 was concealed, and how safe from danger, it
made me very loath to remove. In the meantime, it
occurred to me that it would require a vast deal of time
for me to do this; and that I must be contented to run the
risk where I was, till I had formed a convenient camp,
and secured it so as to remove to it. With this conclusion
I composed myself for a time; and resolved that 1 would
go to work with all speed to build me a wall with piles and
cables, etc., in a circle as before, and set up my tent in it
when it was finished; but that I would venture to stay
where 1 was till it was ready, and fit to remove to. This
was the 21st.
April 22. The next morning I began to consider of
means to put this measure into execution; but 1 was at. a
great loss about the tools. I had three large axes, and
abundance of hatchets (for we carried the hatchets for
traffic with the Indians); but with much chopping and
cutting knotty hard wood, they were all full or notches,
and dull: and though I had a grindstone, I could not turn
it and grind my tools too. This caused me as much
thought as a statesman would have bestowed upon a grand
point of politics, or a judge upon the life ana death of a
man. At length I contrived a wheel with a string, to turn
it with my foot, that I might, have both my hands at lib«
erty.
Note. I had never seen any such thing in Eugland, or
at least not to take notice how it was done, though since 1
have observed it is very common there: besides that, my
grindstone was very large and heavy. This machine cost
me a full week's work to bring it to perfection.
April 28, 29. These two whole days 1 took up in grind-
ing my tools, my machine for turning my grindstone per-
forming very well.
April 30. Having perceived that my bread had been low
a great while, I now took a survey of it, and reduced my-
self to one biscuit-cake a day, which made my heart very
heavy.
SECTION IX.
Robinson obtains more Articles from the Wreck.—His Illness and
Affliction.
May 1. In the morning, looking toward the sea-side,
the tide being low, 1 saw something lie on the shore bigger
than ordinary, and it looked like a cask; when I came to
it 1 found a small barrel, and two or three pieces of the
wreck of the ship, which were driven on shore by the late
hurricane; and looking toward the wreck itself, I thought
it seemed to lie higher out of the water than it used to do.
I examined the barrel that was driven on shore, and soon
found it was a barrel of gunpowder; but it had taken
water, and the powder was caked as hard as a stone; how-
ever, I rolled it further on the shore for the present, and
went on upon the sands, as near as I could to the wreck of
the ship, to look for more.
When 1 came down to the ship I found it strangely re-
moved. The forecastle, which lay before buried in the
sand, was heaved up at least six feet; and the stern (which
was broke to pieces, and parted from the rest, by the force
of the sea, soon after I had left rummaging of her) was
tossed, as it were, up, and cast on one side; and the sand
was thrown so high on that side next her stern, that I could
now walk quite up to her when the tide was out; whereas
there was a great piece of water before, so that I could not
come within a quarter of a mile of the wreck without swim-
ming. I was surprised with thia at first, but soon con-
ROBINSOST CRUSOE. 77
nluded it must be done by the earthquake; and as by this
violence the ship was more broken open than formerly, so
mauy things came daily on shore, which the sea had
loosened, and which the winds and water rolled by degrees
to the land.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of re-
moving my habitation; and 1 busied myself mightily, that
day especially, in searching whether 1 could make any way
into the ship; but I found nothing was to be expected of
that kind, for all the inside of the ship was choked up with
sand. However, as I had learned not to despair of any-
thing, 1 resol' ed to pull everything to pieces that I could
of the ship- concluding that everything I could get from
her would r ;of some use or other to me.
May 3. 1 began with my saw, and cut a piece of a
beam though, which I thought held some of the upper
part or juarter-deck together; and when I had cut it
through, 1 cleared away the sand as well as I could from
th<j sK/e which lay highest; but the tide coming in, I was
obliged to give over for that time.
l/.ay 4. 1 went a-fishing, but caught not one fish that
I <7,nrst eat of, till 1 was weary of my sport; when, just go-
i'ig to leave off, I caught a young dolphin. I had made
ne a long line of some rope-yarn, but I had no hooks; yet
I frequently caught fish enough, as much as I cared to eat;
all which I dried in the sun and eat them dry.
May 5. Worked on the wreck; cut another beam
asunder, and brought three great fir planks off from the
decks, which I tied together, and made swim on shore
when the tide of flood came on.
May 6. Worked on the wreck; got several iron bolts
out of her, and other pieces of iron work; worked very
bard, and came home very much tired, and had thoughts
of giving it over.
May 7. Went to the wreck again, but not with an in-
tent to work; but found the weight of the wreck had broke
itself down, the beams being cut; that several pieces of the
ship seemed to lie loose; and the inside of the hold lay so
open that I could see into it; but almost full of water and
sand.
May 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron crow
to wrench up the deck, which lay now quite clear of the
-water and sand. I wrenched up two planks, and brought
78 ROBINSON CRUSOE.
them on shore also with the tide. I left tke iron crow in
the wreck for next day.
May 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crow made
way into the body of the wreck, and felt several casks, and
loosened them with the crow, but could not break them
up. I felt also a roll of English lead, and could stir it;
but it was too heavy to remove.
May 10 to 14. Went every day to the wreck, and got
a great many pieces of timber, and boards, or plank, and
two or three hundredweight of iron.
May 15. I carried two hatchets, to try if 1 could not
cut a piece off the roll of lead, by placing the edge of one
hatchet, and driving it with the other; but as it lay about
a foot and a half in the water, I could not make any blow
to drive the hatchet.
May 1C. It had blown hard in the night, and the
wreck appeared more broken by the force of the water;
but I stayed so long in the woods, to get pigeons for food,
that the tide prevented my going to the wreck that day.
May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on
shore, at a great distance, two miles off me, but resolved
to see what they were, and found it was a piece of the head,
but too heavy for me to bring away.
May 24. Every day, to this day, I worked on the
wreck; and with hard labor I loosened some things so
much, with the crow, that the first blowing tide several
casks floated out, and two of the seamen's chests; but the
wind blowing from the shore, nothing came to land that
day but pieces of timber, and a hogshead, which had some
Brazil pork in it; but the salt-water and the sand had
spoiled it. I continued this work every day to the 15 th of
June, except the time necessary to get food; which 1 always
appointed, during this part of my employment, to be
when the tide was up, that I might be ready when it was
ebbed out; and by this time I had got timber, and plank,
and iron-work enough to have built a good boat, if I had
known how; and I also got, at several times, and in several
pieces, near one hundred-weight of the sbeet-lead.
June 16. Going down to the sea-side, I found a large
tortoise, or turtle. This was the first I had seen, which,
it seems, was only my misfortune, not any defect of the
place, or scarcity, for had 1 happened to be on the other side
of the island, I might have had hundreds of them every
\
ROBINSON CUC8OE. 79
day, as I found afterward; bai perhaps have paid dear
enough for them.
June 17. 1 spent in cooking ihe turtle. I found in
her three-score eggs, and her flesh was to me, at that time,
the most savory and pleasant that I ever tasted in my life,
having had no flesh but of goats and fowls since I landed
in this horrid place.
June 18. Pained all that day, and I stayed within. 1
thought, at this time, the rain felt cold, and I was some-
what chilly, which I knew was not usual in that latitude.
June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather
had been cold.
June 20. No rest all night; violent pains in my head,
and feverish.
June 21. Very ill; frightened almost to death with
apprehensions of my sad condition, to be sick and no help;
prayed to God for the first time since the storm off Hull;
but scarce knew what I said, or why, my thoughts being
all confused.
June 22. A little better, but under dreadful appre-
hensions of sickness.
June 23. Very bad again; cold and shivering, and
then a violent headache.
June 24. Much better.
June 25. An ague very violent; the fit held me seven
hours; cold fit, and hot, with faint sweats after it
.
June 26. Better; and having no victuals to eat, took
my gun, but found myself very weak; however, 1 killed a
she goat, and with much difficulty got it home, and broiled
some of it, and eat. I would fain have stewed it, and
made some broth, but had no pot.
June 27. The ague again so violent that I lay abed all
day and neither eat nor drank. 1 was ready to perish for
thirst; but so weak 1 had not strength to stand up or to
get myself any water to drink. Prayed to God again, but
was light-headed; and when I was not, 1 was so ignorant
that I knew not what to say, only lay and cried, Lord,
look upon me! Lord, pity me! Lord, have mercy upon
me! 1 suppose 1 did nothing else for two or three hours,
till the fit wearing off, 1 fell asleep, and did not wake till
far in the night. When 1 awoke, I found myself much re-
freshed, but weak and exceeding thirsty; however, as I
had no water in my whole habitation, I was forced to Ha
till moming, and went to sleep again. In this second sleep
I had thfs terrible dream: I thought that 1 was sitting on
the ground, on the outside of my wall, where 1 sat when
the storm blew after the earthquake, and that I saw a man
descend from a great black cloud, in a bright flame of fire,
and light upon the ground; he was all over as bright as a
flame, so that 1 could but just bear to look toward him;
his countenance was most inexpressibly dreadful, impossi-
ble for words to describe; when he stepped upon the
ground with his feet, I thought the earth trembled, just as
it had done before in the earthquake; and all the air
looked, to my apprehension, as if it had been filled with
flashes of fire. He had no sooner landed upon the earth,
but he moved forward toward me with a long spear or
weapon in his hand, to kill me; and when he came to a
rising ground, at some distance, he spoke to me, or I heard
a voioe so terrible that it is impossible to express the ter-
ror of it; all that 1 can say I understood was this: Seeing
all these things have not brought thee to repentance, now
thou shalt die; at which words I thought he lifted up the
spear that was in his hand to kill me.
No one that shall ever read this account will expect that
I should be able to describe the horrors of my soul at this
terrible vision; 1 mean, that even while it was a dream, I
even dreamed of those horrors; nor is it any more possible
to describe the impression that remained upon my mind
when 1 awaked, and found it was but a dream.
I had, alas! no divine knowledge; what I had received
by the good instruction of my father was then worn out,
by an uninterrupted series, for eight years, of seafaring
wickedness, and a constant conversation with none but such
as were, like myself, wicked and profane to the last de-
gree. I do not remember that 1 had, in all that time, one
thought that so much as tended either to looking upward
toward God, or inward toward a reflection upon my own
ways; but a certain stupidity of soul, without desire of
good: or consciousness of evil, had entirely overwhelmed
me, and I was all that the most hardened, unthinking,
wicked creature among our common sailors can be sup-
posed to be; not having the least sense, either of the fear
of God, in danger, or of thankfulness to Him. in deliver-
ances.
In the relating what is already part of my story, this will
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 81
be the more easily believed, when 1 shall add, that through
all the variety of miseries that had to this day befallen me,
I never had so much as one thought of its being the hand
of God, or that it was a just punishment for my sin;
either my rebellious behavior against my father, or my
present sins, which were great; or even as a punishment
for the general course of my wicked life. When 1 was on
the desperate expedition on the. desert shores of Africa, I
never had so much as one thought of what would become
of me, or one wish to God to direct me whither 1 should
go, or to keep me from the danger which apparently sur-
rounded me, as well from voracious creatures as cruel sav-
ages; but I was quite thoughtless of a God or a Providence;
aoted like a mere brute, from the principles of nature, and
by the dictates of common sense only, and indeed hardly
that. When 1 was delivered and taken up at sea by the
Portuguese captain, well used, and dealt with justly and
honorably, as well as charitably, 1 had not the least thank-
fulness in my thoughts. When, again, I was shipwrecked,
ruined, and in danger of drowning, on this island, 1 was as
far from remorse, or looking on it as a judgment; I only
said to myself often that 1 was an unfortunate dog, and
born to be always miserable.
It is true, when I first got on shore here, and found all
my ship's crew .drowned, and myself spared, 1 was sur-
prised with a kind of ecstasy, and some transports of soul,
which, had the grace of God assisted, might have come up
to true thankfulness; but it ended where it began, in a
mere common flight of joy; or, as I may say, being glad I
was alive, without the least reflection upon the distin-
guished goodness of the hand which had preserved me, and
had singled me out to be preserved when all the rest were
destroyed, or any inquiry why Providence had been thus
merciful to me; just the same common sort of joy which
seamen generally have, after they are got safe ashore from
a shipwreck; which they drown all in the next bowl of
punch, and forget almost as soon as it is over; and all the
rest of my life was like it. Even when 1 was, afterward,
on due consideration, made sensible of my condition—how
1 was cast on this dreadful place, out of the reach of hu-
man kind, out of all hope of relief, or prospect of redemp-
tion—%b soon as I saw but a prospect of living, and thai 1
Bhoala dot starve and perish for hunger, all the ^euse of
B« ROBINSON CRUSOB.
my affliction wore off, and I began to bo very easy, applied
myself to the works proper for my preservation and supply,
and was far enough from being afflicted at my condition,
as a judgment from Heaven, or as the hand of God against
me; these were thoughts which very seldom entered into
my head.
The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my journal,
had at first some little influence upon me, and began to
affect me with seriousness, as long as I thought it had
something miraculous in it; but as soon as that part of the
thought was removed, all the impression which was raised
from it wore off also, as 1 have noted already. Even the
earthquake, though nothing could be more terrible in its
nature, or more immediately directing to the invisible
Power which alone directs such things, yet no sooner was
the fright over, but the impression it had made went off
also. I had no more sense of God or His judgments, much
less of the present affliction of my circumstances being
from His hand, than if I had been in the most prosperous
condition of life. But now, when I began to be sick, and
a leisure view of the miseries of death came to place itself
before me; when my spirits began to sink under the bur-
den of a strong distemper, and nature was exhausted with
the violence of the fever; conscience, that had slept so
long, began to awake, and 1 reproached myself with my
past life, in which 1 had so evidently, by uncommon
wickedness, provoked the justice of God to lay me under
uncommon strokes, and to deal with me in so vindictive a
manner. These reflections oppressed me for the second
or third day of my distemper; and, in the violence as well
of the fever as of the dreadful reproaches of my conscience,
extorted from me some words like praying to God; though
I can not say it was a prayer attended either with desires
or with hopes; it was rather the voice of mere fright and
distress. My thoughts were confused; the convictions great
upon my mind, and the horror of dying in such a miserable
condition, raised vapors in my head with the mere appre-
hension; and, in these hurries of my soul, I knew not what
my tongue might express; but it was rather exclamation,
such as, Lord, what a miserable creature am 1! If I should
be sick, I shall certainly die for want cf help; and what
will become of me? Then the tears burst out of my eyes,
and I could say no more for a good while. In this interval
EOBINSON CRUSOE. 89
the good advice of my father came to my mind, and pres-
ently his prediction, which I mentioned at the beginning of
this story, viz., that if 1 did take this foolish step, God
would not bless me; and 1 should have leisure hereafter to
reflect upon having neglected his counsel, when there might
be none to assist in my recovery. Now, said 1, aloud, my
dear father's words are come to pass. God's justice has
overtaken me, and I have none to help or hear me. 1 re>
jected the voice of Providence, which had mercifully put
me in a station of life wherein I might have been happy
and easy; but I would neither see it myself nor learn from
my parents to know the blessing of it. I left them to
mourn over my folly; and now 1 am left to mourn under
the consequences of it. I refused their help and assistance,
who would have pushed me in the world, and would have
made everything easy to me; and now I have difficulties to
struggle with, too great for even nature itself to support;
and no assistance, no comfort, no advice. Then I cried
out, Lord, be my help, for I am in great distress. This
was the first prayer, if I may call it so, that I had made
for many years. But I return to my journal.
SECTION X.
His Recovery.—His Comfort in Reading the Scriptures.—Makes an
Excursion into the Interior of the Island.—Forms his " Bower."
June 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with the
sleep I had had, and the fit being entirely off, I got up;
and though the fright and terror of my dream were very
great, yet I considered that the fit of the ague would re-
turn again the next day, and now was my time to get some-
thing to refresh and support myself when I should be ill.
The first thing 1 did was to fill a large square case-bottle
with water, and set it upon my table, in reach of my bed;
and to take off the chill or aguish disposition of the water,
I put about a quarter of a pint of rum into it, and mixed
them together. Then 1 got me a piece of the goat's flesh,
and broiled it on the coals, but could eat very little, I
walked about, but was very weak, and withal very sad and
heavy-hearted in the sense of my miserable condition,
dreading the return of my dist' mper the next day. At
night, I made my supper of three of the turtle's eggs,
84 ««ai*fsdc cEusoar
which I roasted in the ashes, and eat, as we call it, in the
shell; and this was the first bit of meat 1 had ever asked
God's blessing to, as I could remember, in my whole life.
After I had eaten I tried to walk; but found myself so
Weak that I could hardly carry the gun (for 1 never went
out without that); so I went but a little way, and sat down
upon the ground, looking out upon the sea, which was just
before me, and very calm and smooth. As I sat here,
some such thoughts as these occurred to me: What is this
earth and sea, of which I have seen so much? Whence is
it produced? And what am I, and all the other creatures,
wild and tame, human and brutal? Whence are we?
Surely, we are all made by some secret powei, who
formed the earth and sea, the air and sky. And who is
that? Then it followed most naturally, It is God that has
made all. Well, but then, it came on, if God has made all
these things, He guides and governs them all, and all
things that concern them, for the power that could make
all things must certainly have power to guide and direct
them; if so, nothing can happen in the great circuit of His
works, either without His knowledge or appointment.
And if nothing happens without His knowledge He
knows that I am here, and am in this dreadful condition;
and if nothing happens without His appointment, He has
appointed all this to befall me. Nothing occurred to my
thought to contradict any of these conclusions; and there-
fore it rested upon me with the greatest force that it must
needs be that God had appointed all this to befall me; that
I was brought to this miserable circumstance by His direc-
tion, He having the sole power, not of me only, but of
everything that happens in the world. Immediately it
followed, Why has God done this to me? What have I
done to be thus used? My conscience presently checked
me in that inquiry, as if 1 had blasphemed; and methought
it spoke to me like a voice! Wretch, dost thou ask what
thou hast done? Look back upon a dreadful misspent life,
and ask thyself what thou hast not done. Ask why is it
that thou wert not long ago destroyed? Why wert thou
not drowned in-Yarmouth Roads; killed in the fight when
the ship was taken by the Bailee man-of-war; devoured by
the wild beasts on the coast of Africa, or drowned here,
when all the crew perished but thyself? Dost thou ask
what thou hast done? 1 was struck dumb with these re-
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 85
flections, as one astonished, and had not a word to say; no,
not to answer to myself; and, rising up pensive and sad,
walked back to my retreat, and went over my wall, as if 1
had been going to bed; but my thoughts were sadly dis-
turbed, and I had no inclination to sleep; so I sat down in
the chair, and lighted my lamp, for it began to be dark.
Now, as the apprehension of the return of my distemper
terrified me very much, it occurred to my thought, that
the Brazilians take no physic but their tobacco for almost
all distempers; and 1 had a piece of a roll of tobacco in one
of the chests, which was quite cured; and some also that
was green, and not quite cured.
1 went, directed by Heaven, no doubt; for in this chest
I found a cure both for soul and body. 1 opened the chest,
and found what 1 looked for, viz., the tobacco; and as the
few books I had saved lay there too, 1 took out one of the
Bibles which 1 mentioned before, and which, to this time,
I had not found leisure, or so much as inclination, to look
into. I say I took it out, and brought both that and the
tobacco with me to the table. What use to muke of the
tobacco I knew not, as to my distemper, nor whether it
was good for it or not; but 1 tried several experiments
with it, as if I was resolved it should hit one uay or other.
I first took a piece of .a leaf, aud chewed it in my mouth,
which indeed at first almost stupefied my brain, the tobac-
co being green and strong, and such as I had not been
much used to. Then I took some and steeped it an hour
or two in some rum and resolved to take a dose of it when
I lay down; and lastly, I burned some upon a pan of coals,
and held my nose close over the smoke of it as long as I
could bear it, as well for the heat as almost for suffocation.
In the interval of this operation I took up the Bible and
began to read; but my head was too much disturbed by
the tobacco to bear reading, at least at that time; only,
Having opened the book casually, the first words that oc-
curred to me were these: "Call on Me in the day of
trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify
Me." These words were very apt to my case, and made
some impression upon iny thoughts at the time of reading
them, though not so much as they did afterward; for, as
for being delivered, the word had no sound, as I may say,
to me; the thing was so remote, so impossible in my appre-
hension of things, that, as the children of Israel said when
J
86 BOBINSON CRUSOBL
they were promised flesh to eat, " Can God spread a table
in the wilderness?" so 1 began to say, Can even God him-
self deliver me from this place? And as it was not for
many years that any hopes appeared, this prevailed very
often uppn my thoughts; but, however, the words made a
great impression upon me, and 1 mused upon them very
often. It now grew late, and the tobacco had, as I said,
dazed my head so much that I inclined to sleep; so 1 left
my lamp burning in the cave, lest 1 should want anything
in the night, and went to bed. But before I lay down 1
did what I never had done in all my life; I knelt down,
and prayed to God to fulfill the promise to me, that if 1
called upon Him in the day of trouble He would deliver
me. After my broken and imperfect prayer was over 1
drank the rum in which 1 had steeped the tobacco, which
was so strong and rank of the tobacco that indeed I could
scarce get it down; immediately upon this I went to bed.
I found presently the rum flew up into my head violently,
but I fell into a sound sleep, and waked no more till, by
the sun, it must necessarily be near three o'clock in the
afternoon the next day; nay, to this hour, 1 am partly of
opinion that I slept all the next day and night, and till
almost three the day after; for otherwise I know not how
I should lose a day out of my reckoning in the days of the
week, as it appeared some years after 1 had done; for if I
had lost it by crossing and recrossing the Line, I should
have lost more than one day; but certainly 1 lost a day in
my account, and never knew which way. Be that, how-
ever, one way or the other, when 1 awaked 1 found myself
exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful;
when I got up 1 was stronger than 1 was the day before,
and my stomach better, for I was hungry; and, in short, 1
had no fit the next day, but continued much altered for
the better. This was the 29th.
The 30th was my well day, of course; and I went abroad
with my gun, but did not care to travel too far. I killed
a sea-fowl or two, something like a brand goose, and
, brought them home; but was not very forward to eat them;
so 1 eat some more of the turtle's eggs, which were very
good. This evening I renewed the medicine, which I had
supposed did me good the day before, viz., the tobacco
steeped in rum; only I did not take so much as before, nor
did 1 chew any of the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke;

however, I was not so well the next day, which was the 1st
of July, as 1 hoped I should have been, for I had a little
of the cold fit, but it was not much.
July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three ways; and
dosed myself with it as at first, and doubled the quantity
which I drank.
July 3. I missed the fit for good and all, though I did
not recover my full strength for some weeks after. While
I was thus gathering strength, my thoughts ran exceeding-
ly upon this Scripture, "I will deliver thee;" and the im-
possibility of my deliverance lay much upo^ my mind, in
bar of my ever expecting it; but as I was discouraging my-
self with such thoughts, it occurred to my mind that I
pored so much upon my deliverance from the main afflic-
tion, that 1 disregarded the deliverance 1 had received; and
I was, as it were, made to ask myself such questions as
these, viz.: Have I not been delivered, and wonderfully,
too, from sickness, from the most distressed condition that
could be and that was so frightful to me? and what notice
have 1 taken of it? Have I done my part? God has de-
livered me, but I have not glorified Him; that is to say, I
have not owned and been thankful for that as a deliver-
ance; and how can I expect a greater deliverance? This
touched my heart very much, and immediately I knelt
down and gave God thanks aloud for my recovery from my
sickness,
July 4. In +he morning I took the Bible; and beginning
at the New Testament, 1 began seriously to read it; and
imposed upon myself to read awhile every morning and
every night; not binding myself to the number of chapters,
but as long as my thoughts should engage me. It was not
long after I set seriously to this work, that I found my
heart more deeply and sincerely affected with the wicked-
ness of my past life. The impression of my dream re-
vived; and the words, All these things have not brought
thee to repentance, ran seriously in my thoughts. 1 was
earnestly begging of God to give me repentance, when it
happened providentially, the very same day, that, reading
the Scripture, I came to these words, "He is exalted a
Prince and a Saviour; to give repentance and to give remis-
sion." 1 threw down the book; and with my heart as well
as my hands lifted up to heaven, in a kind of ecstasy of
joy, 1 cried out aloud, Jesus, thou son of Davidl Jesus,
88 ROBINSON CRUSOE.
thou exalted Prince and Saviour! give me repentance! This
was the first time in all my life I could say, in the tme
sense of the words, that I prayed; for now I prayed with a
sense of my condition, and with a true scripture view of
hope, founded on the encouragement of the word of God:
and from this time, I may say, 1 began to have hope that
God would hear me.
Now 1 began to construe the words mentioned above,
"Call on Me, and 1 will deliver thee," in a different sense
from what I had ever done before; for then I had no notion
of anything being called deliverance, but my being deliv-
ered from the captivity I was in: for though I was indeed
at large in the place, yet the island was certainly a prison
to me, and that in the worst sense of the word. But now
I learned to take it in another sense: now I looked back
upon my past life with such horror, and my sins appeared
so dreadful, that my soul sought nothing of God but deliv-
erance from the load of guilt that bore down all my com-
fort. As for my solitary life, it was nothing; I did not so
much as pray to be delivered from it, or think of it; it was
all of no consideration, in comparison with this. And I
add this part here, to hint to whoever shall read it, that
whenever they come to a true sense of things, they will
find deliverance from sin a much greater blessing than de-
liverance from affliction.
My condition began now to be, though not less miserable
as to my way of living, yet much easier to my mind: and
my thoughts being directed, by constantly reading the
Scripture and praying to God, to things of a higher nature,
I had a great deal of comfort within, which, till now, I
knew nothing of; also, as my health and strength re-
turned, 1 bestirred me to furnish myself with everything
that I wanted, and make my way of living as regular as 1
could.
From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly employee,
in walking about with my gun in my hand, a little and u
little at a time, as a man that was gathering up hh
strength after a fit of sickness: for it is hardly to be im>
agined how low I was, and to what weakness 1 was reduced
The application which I made use of was perfectly new,
and perhaps what had never cured an ague before: neithei-
oan I recommend it to any one to practice, by this experi-
ment: and though it did carry off the fit, yet it rather con^
KOBINSON CKUSOE. 89
tributed to weakening me; for 1 had frequent convulsions
in my nerves and limbs for some time: I learned from it
also this, in particular; that being abroad in the rainy sea-
son was the most pernicious thing to my health that could
be, especially in those rains which came attended with
storms and hurricanes of wind; for as the rain which came
in the dry season was almost always accompanied with such
storms, so 1 found that this rain was much more dangerous
than the rain which fell in September and October.
1 had now been in this unhappy island above ten months:
all possibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to
be entirely taken from me; and 1 firmly believed that no
human shape had ever set foot upon that place. Having
secured my habitation, as I thought, fully to my mind, I
had a great desire to make a more perfect discovery of the
island, and to see what other productions 1 might find,
which I yet knew nothing of.
It was on the 15th of July that 1 began to take a more
particular survey of the island itself. 1 went up the creek
first, where, as I hinted, I brought my rafts on shore. I
found, after 1 came about two miles up, that the tide did
not flow any higher; and that it was no more than a little
brook of running water, very fresh ajid good: but this be-
ing the dry season, there was hardly any water in some
parts of it; at least, not any stream. On the banks of this
brook 1 found many pleasant savannas or meadows, plain,
smooth, and covered with grass; and on the rising parts of
them, next to the higher grounds (where the water, as it
might be supposed, never overflowed), 1 fouud a great deal
of tobacco, green, and growing to a very great and strong
stalk: and there were divers other plants, which I had no
knowledge of, or understanding about, and that might,
perhaps, have virtues of their own, which I could not find
out. I searched for the cassava root, which the Indians,
in all that climate, make their bread of; but I could find
none. I saw large plants of aloes, but did not understand
them. I saw several sugar-caues, but wild; and, for want
of cultivation, imperfect. I contented myself with these
discoveries for this time; and came back, musing with my-
self what course I might take to know the virtue and good-
ness of any of the fruits or plants which I should dicover;
but could bring it to no conclusion; for, in short, I had
made so little observation while I was in the Brazils, that 1
knew little of the plants in the field; at least, very little
that might serve me to any purpose now in my distress.
The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again;
and after going something further than 1 had gone the day
before, I found the brook and the savannas begin to
cease, aud the country become more woody than before.
In this part I found different fruits; and particularly I
found melons upon the ground in great abundance, and
grapes upon the trees: the vines, indeed, had spread over
the trees, and the clusters of grapes were now just in their
prime, very ripe and rich. This was a surprising discov-
ery, and I was exceedingly glad of them, but I was warned
by my experience to eat sparingly of them; remembering
that when I was ashore in Barbary, the eating of grapes
killed several of our Englishmen, who were slaves there,
by throwing them into fluxes and fevers. I found, how-
ever, an excellent use for these grapes; and that was to
cure or dry them in the sun, and keep them as dried grapes
or raisins are kept; which I thought would be (as indeed
they were) as wholesome and as agreeable to eat, when no
grapes were to be had.
I spent all that evening there, and went not back to my
habitation; which, by ttie way, was the first night, as I
might say, 1 had lain from home. At night, I took my
first contrivance, and got up into a tree, where 1 slept well;
and the next morning proceeded on my discovery, travel-
ing near four miles, as I might judge by the length of the
valley, keeping still due north, with a ridge of hills on the
south and north sides of me. At the end of this march I
came to an opening, where the country seemed to descend
to the west; and a little spring of fresh water, which issued
out at the side of the hill by me, ran the other way, that
is, due east; and the country appeared so fresh, so green,
so flourishing, everything being in a constant verdure, or
flourish of spring, that it looked like a planted garden. I
descended a little on the side of that delicious vale, survey-
ing it with a secret kind of pleasure (though mixed with
other afflicting thoughts), to think that this was all my
own; that 1 was king and lord of all this country indefeas-
ibly, and had a right of possession; and, if I could convey
it, 1 might have it in inheritance as completely as any lord
of a manor in England. I saw here abundance of cocoa-
trees, and orange, lemon, and citron-trees, but all wild.
ROBIXSON CRUSOE. 91
1
and very few bearing any fruit; at least not then. How-
ever, the green limes that 1 gathered were not only pleas-
ant to eat, but very wholesome; and I mixed their juice
afterward with water, which made it very wholesome, and
very cool and refreshing. 1 found now 1 had business
enough, to gather and carry home; and I resolved to lay
up a store, as well of grapes as limes and lemons, to fur-
nish myself for the wet season, which I knew was approach-
ing. In order to do this, I gathered a great heap of grapes
in one place, a lesser heap in another place; and a great
parcel of limes and lemons in another place; and taking a
few of each with me, I traveled homeward; and resolved
to come again, and bring a bag or sack, or what I could
make, to carry the rest home. Accordingly, having spent
three days in this journey, I came home (so I must now
call my tent and my cave): but before I got fchither, the
grapes were spoiled; the richness of the fruita, and the
weight of the juice, having broken and bruised them, they
were good for little or nothing: as to the limes, they were
good, but I could bring only a few.
The next day being the 19th, I went back, having made
me two small bags to bring home my harvest; but I was
surprised, when coming to my heap of grapes, which were
so rich and fine when I gathered them, 1 found them all
spread about, trod to pieces, and dragged about, some
here, some there, and abundance eaten and devoured. By
this 1 concluded there were some wild creatures thereabouts
which had done this, but what they were I knew not.
However, as I found there was no laying them up in heaps
and no carrying them away in a sack; but that one way
they would be destroyed, and the other way they would be
crushed with their own weight; 1 took another course: 1
then gathered a large quantity of the grapes, and hung
them upon the out-branches of the trees, that they might
cure and dry in the sun; and as for the limes and lemons,
I carried as many back as 1 could well stand under.
When I came home from this journey, 1 contemplated
with great pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley, and the
pleasantness of the situation; the security from storms on
that side; the water and the wood; and concluded that I
had pitched upon a place to fix my abode in, which was by
far the worst part of the country. Upon the whole, I be-
gan to consider of removing my habitation, and to look out
for a place equally safe as where I was now situated; if pos-
sible, in the pleasant fruitful part of the island.
This thought ran long in my head; and 1 was exceeding
fond of it for some time, the pleasantness of the place tempt-
ing me: but when I came to a nearer view of it, 1 consid-
ered that I was now by the sea-side, where it was at least
possible that something might happen to my advantage,
and, by the same ill-fate that brought me hither, might
bring some other unhappy wretches to the same place; and
though it was scarce probable that any such thing should
e^er happen, yet to inclose myself among the hills and
woods in the center of the island, was to anticipate my
bondage, and to render such an affair not only improbable,
but impossible; and that therefore I ought not by any
means to remove. However, I was so enamored of this
place, that I spent much of my time there for the whole
remaining part of the month of July; and though, upon
second thoughts, I resolved, as above stated, not to re-
move, yet 1 built me a little kind of a bower, and sur-
rounded it at a distance with a strong fence, being a double
hedge, as high as 1 could reach, well-staked, and filled be-
tween with brushwood. Here I lay very secure sometimes
two or three nights together; always going over it with a
ladder, as before: so that 1 fancied now I had my country
and my sea-coast house. This work took me up till the
beginning of August.
I had but newly finished my fence, and began to enjoy
my labor, when the rains came on, and made me stick
close to my first habitation: for though I had made a tent
like the other, with a piece of sail, and spread it very well,
yet I had not the shelter of a hill to keep me from storms,
nor a cave behind me to retreat into when the rains were
extraordinary.
About the beginning of August, as I said, 1 had finished
my bower, and began to enjoy myself. The 3d of August,.
1 found the grapes I had hung up were perfectly dried, and
indeed were excellent good raisins of the sun; so I began to
take them down from the trees; and it was very happy
that 1 did so, as the rains which followed would have
spoiled them, and I should have lost the best part of my
winter food; for I had above two hundred large bunches of
them. No sooner had I taken them all down, and carried
most of them home to my cave, but it began to rain: and
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 93
from hence, which was the 14th of August, io rained, more
or less, every day till the middle of October; and some-
times so violently, that I could not stir out of my cave for
several days.
In this season, I was much surprised with the increase of
my family. I had been concerned for the loss of one of
my cats, who ran away from me, or, as I thought, had
been dead; and I heard no more of her, till, to my aston-
ishment, she came home with three kittens. This was the
more strange to me, because, about the end of August,
though I had killed a wild cat, as 1 called it, with my gun,
yet I thought it was quite a different kind from our Euro-
pean cats: yet the young cats were the same kind of house-
breed as the old one; and both of my cats being females, I
thought it very strange. But from these three, 1 afterward
came to be so pestered with cats that 1 was forced to kill
them like vermin, or wild beasts, and to drive them from
my house as much as possible.
From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant rain; so
that I could not stir, and was now very careful not to be
much wet. In this confinement, I began to be straitened
for food; but venturing out twice, 1 one day killed a goat,
and the last day, which was the 24th, found a very large
tortoise, which was a treat to me. My food was now regu-
lated thus; I eat a bunch of raisins for my breakfast; a
piece of the goat's flesh, or of the turtle, broiled, for my
dinner (for, to my great misfortune, I had no vessel to boil
or stew anything;) and two or three of the turtle's eggs for
my supper.
During this confinement in my cover from the rain, I
worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave; and
by degrees worked it on toward one side, till 1 came to the
outside of the hill; and made a door, or way out, which
came beyond my fence or wall; and so I came in and out
this way. But I was not perfectly easy at lying so open: for
as 1 had managed myself before, 1 was in a perfect enclos-
ure; whereas now, I thought I lay exposed; and yet I
could not perceive that there was any living thing to fear,
the biggest creature that I had as yet seen upon the island
being a goat.
September 30. I was now come to the unhappy anniver-
sary of my landing: I cast up the notches on my post, and
found 1 had been on shore three hundred and sixty-five
days. 1 kept this day as a solemn fast! setting it apart
for leligious exercise, prostrating myself on the ground
with the most serious humiliation, confessing my sins to
God, acknowledging His righteous judgments upon me, and
praying to Him to have mercy on me through Jesus Christ,
and having not tasted the least refreshment for twelve
hours, even till the going down of the sun. I then eat a
biscuit and a bunch of grapes, and went to bed, finishing
the day as I began it. 1 had all this time observed no
Sabbath-day; for as at first I had no sense of religion upon
my mind, 1 had, after some time, omitted to distinguish
the weeks, by making a longer notch than ordinary for the
Sabbath-day, and so did not really know what any of the
days were: but now having cast up the days, as above, I
found I had been there a year; so I divided it into weeks,
and set apart every seventh day for a Sabbath; though 1
found, at the end of my account, I had lost a day or two
in my reckoning. A little after this, my ink beginning to
fail me, 1 contented myself to use it more sparingly; and
to write down only the most remarkable events of my life,
without continuing a daily membrandum of other things.
The rainy season and the dry season began now to ap-
pear regular to me, and 1 learned to divide them so as to
provide for them accordingly; but 1 bought all my experi-
ence before I had it; and what I am going to relate was
one of the most discouraging experiments that I had made
at all.
1 have mentioned that I had saved a few ears of barley
and rice, which 1 had so surprisingly found sprung up, as
I thought, of themselves. I believe there were about
thirty stalks of rice, and about twenty of barley; and now
I thought it a proper time to sow it after the rains; the sun
being in its southern position, going from me. Accord-
ingly I dug a piece of ground, as well as 1 could., with my
wooden spade; and dividing it into two parts, I sowed my
grain; but as I was sowing, it casually occurred to my
thoughts that I would not sow it all at first, because I did
not know when was the proper time for it; so 1 sow? ti
about two thirds of the seed, leaving about a handful of
each: and it was a great comfort to me afterward that 1
did so, for not one grain of what I sowed this time came te
anything; for the dry month following, and the earth haw
ing thus had no rain after the seed was sown, it had no
ROBINSON CRUSOE. M
moisture to assist its growth, and never came up at all till
the wet season had como again, and then it grew as if it
had been but newly sown. Finding my first seed did not
grow, which I easily imagined was from the drought, 1
sought for a moister piece of ground to make another trial
in; and I dug up a piece of ground near my new bower,
and sowed the rest of my seed in February, a little befora
the vernal .equinox. This having the rainy months of
March and April to water it, sprung up very pleasantly,
and yielded a very good crop; but having only part of the
seed left, and not daring to sow all that I had, 1 got but a
small quantity at last, my whole crop not amounting to
above half a peck of each kind. But by this experiment I
was made master of my business, and knew exactly when
was the proper time to sow; and that I might expect two
seed-times, and two harvests, every year.
While this corn was growing, I made a little discovery,
which was of use to me afterward. As soon as the rains
were over, and the weather began to settle, which was
about the month of November, 1 made a visit up the coun-
try to my bower; where, though I had not been for some
months, yet I found all things just as I had left them.
The circle or double hedge that 1 had made was not only
firm and entire, but the stakes which 1 had cut out of
some trees that grew thereabouts, were all shot out and
grown with long branches, as much ai a willow-tree usual-
ly shoots the first year after lopping its head; but 1 could
not tell what tree to call it that these stakes were cut from.
I was surprised, and yet very well pleased, to see the young
trees grow; and 1 pruned them, and led them to grow as
much alike as I could: and it is scarce credible how beau-
tiful a figure they grew into in three years: so that, though
the hedge made a circle of about twenty-five yards in diam-
eter, yet the trees, for such I might now call them, soon
covered it, and it was a complete shade, sufficient to lodge
under all the dry season. This made me resolve to cut
some more stakes, and make me a hedge like this, in a
semicircle round my wall (I mean that of my first dwell-
ing), which 1 did: and placing the trees or stakes in a
double row, at about eight yards distance from my first
fence, they grew presently; and were at first a fine cover
to my habitation, and afterward served for a defense also,
as I shall observe in its order.
SECTION XI.
Robinson Makes a Tour to Explore his Island.—Employed In
Basket-making.
I found now that the seasons of the year might general-
ly be divided, not into summer and winter as in Europe,
but into the rainy seasons and the dry seasons, which were
generally thus; From the middle of February to the mid-
dle of April, rainy; the sun being then on or near the
equinox. From the middle of April till the middle of
August, dry; the sun being then north of the Line. From
the middle of August till the middle of October, rainy; the
sun being then come back to the Line. From the middle
of October till the middle of February, dry; the sun being
then to the south of the Line.
The rainy seasons held sometimes longer and sometimes
shorter, as the winds happened to blow; but this was the
general observation I made. After I had found, by experi-
ence, the ill consequences of being abroad in the rain, 1
took care to furnish myself with provisions beforehand,
that I might not be obliged to go out; and I sat within
doors as much as possible during the wet months. This
time I found much employment, and very suitable also to
the time; for I found great occasion for many things which
I had no way to furnish myself with but by hard labor and
constant application: particularly, I tried many ways to
make myself a basket: but all the twigs I could get for the
purpose proved so brittle that they would do nothing. It
proved of excellent advantage to me now, that when 1 was
a boy, 1 used to take great delight in standing at a basket-
maker's in the town where my father lived, to see them
make their wicker-ware; and being, as boys usually are,
very officious to help, and a great observer of the manner
how they worked those things, and sometimes lending a
hand, I had by these means full knowledge of the methods
of it, so that I wanted nothing but the materials; when it
came into my mind, that the twigs of that tree from
whence I cut my stakes that grew might possibly be as
tough as the sallows, willows, and osiers, in England; and
1 resolved to try. Accordingly, the next day, I went to
my country-house, as I called it; and cutting some of the
smaller twigs, 1 found them to my purpose as much as I
could desire: whereupon 1 came the next time prepared
with a hatchet to cut down a quantity, which I soon found,
for there was great plenty of them. These 1 set up to dry
within my circle or hedge: and when they were fit for use,
I carried them to my cave: and here, during the next sea-
son, I employed myself in making, as well as I could, sev-
eral baskets; both to carry earth, or to carry or lay up any-
thing as I had occasion for. Though I did not finish them
very handsomely, yet 1 made them sufficiently serviceable
for my purpose: and thus, afterward, 1 took care never to
be without them; and as my wicker-ware decayed, I made
more; especially strong deep baskets, to place my corn in,
instead of sacks, when I should come to have any quantity
of it.
Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a world
of time about it, 1 bestirred myself to see, if possible, how
to supply two other want?. I had no vessel to hold any-
thing that was liquid, except two runlets, which were almost
full of rum; and some glass bottles, some of the common
size, and others (which were case bottles) square, for the
holding of waters, spirits, etc. I had not so much as a pot
to boil anything; except a great kettle, which I saved out
of the ship, and which was too big for such use as I desired
it, viz., to make broth, and stew a bit of meat by itself.
The second thing I would fain have had, was a tobacco-
pipe; but it was impossible for me to make one; however,
I found a ccntrivauce for that too at last. 1 employed
myself in planting my second row of stakes or piles, and
also in this wicker-working all the summer or dry season;
when another business took me up more time than it could
be imagined I could spare.
I mentioned before, that I had a great mind to see the
whole island; and that I had traveled up the brook, and so
on to where 1 had built my bower, and where I had an
opening quite to the sea, on the other side of the island. I
now resolved to travel quite across to the seashore, on that
side: so taking my gun, a hatchet, and my dog, and a
larger quantity of powder and shot than usual; with two
biscuit-cakes, and a great bunch of raisins in my pouch,
for my store; I began my journey. When I had passed the
vale where my bower stood, as above, I came within view
of the sea, to the west; and it being a very clear day, I
fairly descried land, whether an island or continent 1 could
not tell; but it lay very high, extending from W. to W.S.-
W. at a very great distance; by my guess, it could not be
less than fifteen or twenty leagues off.
I could not tell what part of the world this might be;
otherwise than that I knew it must be part of America;
and, as I concluded, by all my observations, must be near
the Spanish dominions; and perhaps was all inhabited by
savages, where, if 1 should have landed, 1 had been in a
worse condition than I was now. I therefore acquiesced in
the dispositions of Providence, which I began now to own
and to believe ordered everything for the best; I say, 1
quieted my mind with this, and left off afflicting myself
with fruitless wishes of being there. Besides, after some
pause upon this affair, I considered that if this land was
the Spanish coast, 1 should certainly, one time or other,
see some vessel pass or repass one way or other; but if not,
then it was the savage coast between the Spanish country
and the Brazils, whose inhabitants are indeed the worst of
savages; for they are cannibals, or men-eaters, and fail not
to murder and devour all human beings that fall into their
hands.
With these considerations, walking very leisurely for-
ward, I found this side of the island, where 1 now was,
much pleasanter than mine; the open or savanna fields
sweetly adorned with flowers and grass, and full of very
fine woods. 1 saw abundance of parrots, and fain would
have caught one, if possible, to have kept it to be tame,
and taught it to speak to me. I did, after taking some
pains, catch a young parrot; for I knocked it down with a
stick, and having recovered it, I brought it home, but
it was some years before 1 could make him speak; how-
ever, at last 1 taught him to call me by my name very fa-
miliarly. But the accident that followed, though it be a
trifle, will be very diverting in its place.
1 was exceedingly amused with this journey. I found in
the low grounds hares, as 1 thought them to be, and foxes;
but they differed greatly from all the other kinds I had
met with; nor could I satisfy myself to eat them, though
I killed several. But I had no need to be venturous; for
1 had no want of food, and of that which was very good
too; especially these three sorts, viz.. goats, pigeons, and
turtle, or tortoise. With these, added to my grapes,

Leadeuhall Market could not have furnished a table better
than I, in proportion to the company; and though my case
was deplorable enough, yot I had great cause for thankful-
ness; as I was not driven to any extremities for food, but
had rather plenty, even to dainties.
I never traveled on this journey above two miles outright
in a day, or thereabout; but I took so many turns and re-
turns to see what discoveries 1 could make, that I came
weary enough to the place where I resolved to sit down for
the night; and then 1 either reposed myself in a tree, or
surrounded myself with a row of stakes, set upright in the
ground, either from one tree to another, or so as no wild
creature could come at me without waking me.
As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised to
see that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of the
island; for here indeed the shore was covered with innum-
erable turtles; whereas, on the other side, 1 had found but
three in a year and a half. Here was also an infinite num-
ber of fowls of many kinds; some of which I had seen, and
some of which I had not seen before, and many of them
very good meat; but such as I knew not the names of, ex-•
cept those called penguins.
1 could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very
sparing of my powder and shot; and therefore had more
mind to kill a she-goat, if I could, which 1 could better'
feed on. But, though there were many goats here, more*
than on my side the island, yet it was with much more
difficulty that I could come near them; the country being
flat and even, and they saw me much sooner than when I
was upon a hill.
1 confess this side of the country was much pleasanter
than mine; yet 1 had not the least inclination to remove,
for as I was fixed in my habitation, it became natural to
me, and I seemed all the while I was here to be, as it were,
upon a journey and from home. However, 1 traveled along
the sea-shore toward the east, I suppose about twelve miles;
and then setting up a great pole upon the shore for a mark,
I concluded I would go home again, and that the next
journey I took should be on the other side of the island,
east from my dwelling, and so round till I came to my
post agliin; of which in its place.
I tooK another way to come back than that I went,
thinking I could easily keep so much of the island in my
view, that I could net miss my first dwelling by viewing
the country; but r found myself mistaken; for being come
about two or three miles, I found myself descended into a
very large valley, but so surrounded with hills, and those
hills covered with wood, that I could not see which was my
way by any direction but that of the sun, nor even then,
unless I knew very well the position of the sun at that time
of the day. And it happened to my further misfortune
that the weather proved hazy for three or four days while
I was in this valley; and not being able to see the sun, I
wandered about very uncomfortable, and at last was obliged
to find out the sea-side, look for my post, and come back
the same way I went; and then by easy journeys I turned
homeward, the weather being exceeding hot, and my gun,
ammunition, hatchet, and other things very heavy.
SECTION XII.
He Returns to his Cave.—His Agricultural Labors and Success.
In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and
seized upon it; and running to take hold of it, I caught it
and saved it alive from the dog. I had a great mind to
bring it home if I could; for I had often been musing
whether it might not be possible to get a kid or two, and
so raise a breed of tame goats, which might supply me
when my powder and shot should be all spent. I made a
collar for this little creature, and with a string which I had
made of some rope-yarn, which I always carried about me,
I led him along, though with some difficulty, till I came to
my bower, and there I inclosed him and left him; for 1 was
very impatient to be at home, from whence I had been ab-
sent above a month.
I can not express what a satisfaction it was to me to
come into my old hutch, and lie down in my hammock-
bed. This little wandering journey, without a settled place
of abode, had been so unpleasant to me that my own
house, as I called it to myself, was a perfect settlement to
me, compared to that; and it rendered everything about
me so comfortable that 1 resolved I would never go a great
way from it again while it should be my lot to stay on the
island.
1 reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale myself
BOBINSON CRUSOE. iJl
ifter my long journey; during which, most of the time
was taken up in the weighty affair of making a cage for
my Poll, who began now to be more domestic, and to be
mighty well acquainted with me. Then I began to think
of the poor kid which I had penned within my little circle,
and resolved to fetch it home, or give it some food; accord
ingly 1 went, and found it where I left it (for indeed ii
could not get out), but was almost starved for want of
food. I went and cut boughs of trees, and branches of
such shrubs as I could find, and threw it over, and having
fed it, I tied it as 1 did before, to lead it away; but it was
so tame with being hungry that I had no need to have tied
it, for it followed me like a dog; and as I continually fed
it, the creature became so loving, so gentle, and so fond,
that it was from that time one of my domestics also, and
would never leave me afterward.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now come,
and I kept the 30th of September in the same solemn man-
ner as before, being the anniversary of my landing on the
island, having now been there two years, and no more
frospect of being delivered than the first day I came there,
spent the whole day in humble and thankful acknowl-
edgments for the many wonderful mercies which my soli-
tary condition was attended with, and without which it
might have been infinitely more miserable. I gave hum-
ble and hearty thanks to God for having been pleased to
discover to me that it was possible I might be more happy
even in this solitary condition, than I should have been in
the enjoyment of society, and in all the pleasures of the
world; that He could fully make up to me the deficiencies
of my solitary state, and the want of human society, by
His presence, and the communications of His grace to my
soul, supporting, comforting, and encouraging me to de-
pend upon His Providence here, and to hope for His eter
nal presence hereafter.
It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much more
kappy the life I now led was, with all its miserable circum-
jtances, than the wicked, cursed, abominable life I led all
she past part of my days; and now 1 changed both my
arrows and my joys; my very desires altered, my affec-
tions changed their gusts, and my delights were perfectly
pew from what they were at my first coming, or indeed for
the two years past. Before, as 1 walked about, either on
my hunting, or for viewing the country, tho angnish of
my soul at my condition would break out upon me on a
eudden, and my verv heart would die within me, to think
of the woods, the mountains, the deserts 1 was in; and
how 1 was a prisoner, locked up with the eternal bars and
bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness, without
redemption. In the midst of the greatest composures of
my mind, this would break out upon me like a storm, and
make me wring my hands and weep like a child; some-
times it would take me in the middle of my work- and I
would immediately sit down and sigh, and look upo.-i the
ground for an hour or two together; this was still worse to
me; but if I could burst into tears or give vent to my feel-
ings by words, it would go off, and my grief being ex
hausted, would abate.
-But now I began to exercise myself with new thouglitsj
I daily read the word of God, and applied all the comforts
of it to my present state. One morning, being very sad, .
I opened the Bible upon these words, " I will never Itave
thee, nor forsake thee;" immediately it occurred that these
words were to me, why else should they be directed in such
a manner, just at the moment when I was mourning over
my condition, as one forsaken of God and man? Well,
then, said I, if God does not forsake me, of what ill conse-
quence can it be, or what matters it, though the world
should forsake me; seeing, on the other hand, if 1 had all
the world, and should lose the favor and blessing of God,
there would be no comparison in the loss?
Prom this moment I began to conclude in my mind that
it was possible for me to be more happy in this forsaken,
solitary condition than it was probable 1 should ever have
been in any other particular state of the world; and with
ihis thought 1 was going to give thanks to God for bring-
ing me to this place. I know not what it was, but some-
thing shocked my mind at that thought, and I durst not
speak the words. How canst thou be such a hypocrite,
said I, even audibly, to pretend to be thankful for a con-
dition, which, however thou mayest endeavor to be con-
tented with, thou wouldst rather pray heartily to be de-
livered from? Here 1 stopped; but though I could not
say I thanked God for being here, ytt 1 sincerely gave
thanks to God for opening my eyes, by whatever afflicting
providences, to see the former condition of mj life, and to
ROBINSON' CRUSOE. 103
ttiourn for my wickedness, and repent. I never opened
the Bible, or shut it, but my very soul within me blessed
God for directing my friend in England, without any order
of mine, to pack it up among my goods; and for assisting
me afterward to save it out of the wreck of the ship.
Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third
year; and though 1 have not given the reader the trouble
of so particular an account of my works this year as the
first, yet in general it may be observed, that I was very
seldom idle; but having regularly divided my time, accord-
ing to the several daily employments that were before me;
such as, first, My duty to God, and the reading the Script-
ures, which 1 constantly set apart some time for, thrice
every day; secondly, Going abroad with my gun for food,
which generally took me up three hours every morning,
when it did not rain; thirdly, Ordering, curing, preserv-
ing, and cooking what I had killed or catched for my sup-
ply; these took up great part of the day; also it is to be
considered, that in the middle of the day, when the sun
was in the zenith, the violence of the heat Was too great to
stir out; so that about four hours in the evening was all
the time 1 could be supposed to work in; with this excep-
tion, that sometimes I changed my hours of hunting and
working, and went to work in the morning, and abroad
with my gun in the afternoon.
To this short time allowed for labor, 1 desire may be
added the exceeding laboriousness of my work; the many
hours which, for want of tools, want of help, and want of
skill, everything I did took up out of my time; for ex-
ample, 1 was full two-and-forty days making me a board
for a long shelf, which 1 wanted in my cave; whereas, two
sawyers, with their tools and a sawpit, would have cut six
of them out of the same tree in half a day.
My case was this: it was a large tree that was to be cut
down, because my board was to be a broad one. This tree
I was three days cutting down, and two more in cutting off
the boughs, and reducing it to a log, or piece of timber.
With inexpressible hacking and hewing, I reduced both the
sides of it into chips till it was light enough to move; then
I turned it, and made one side of it smooth and flat as a
board, from end to end; then turning that side downward,
cut the other side, till I brought the plank to be about
three inches thick, and smooth on both sides. Any one
may judge the labor of my hands in such a piece of work;
but labor and patience carried me through that, and many
other things; 1 only observe this in particular, to show the
reason why so much of my time went away with so little
work, viz., that what might be a little to be done with help
and tools, was a vast labor, and required a prodigious time
to do alone, and by hand. Notwithstanding this, with
patience and labor I went through many things; and, in-
deed, everything that my circumstances made necessary for
me to do, as will appear by what follows.
I was now in the months of November and December,
expecting my crop of barley and rice. The ground I had
manured or dug up for them was not great; for, as 1 ob-
served, my seed of each was not above the quantity of half
a peck, having lost one whole crop by sowing in the dry
season; but now my crop promised very well; when, on a
sudden, I found 1 was in danger of losing it all again bj
enemies of several sorts, which it was scarce possible to
keep from it as, first, the goats, and wild creatures which
I called hares, who, tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay
in it night and day, as soon as it came up, and eat it so
close, that it could get no time to shoot up into stalk.
I saw no remedy for this, but by making an inclosure
about it with a hedge, which I did with a great deal of toil
and the more because it required speed. However, as my
arable land was but small, suited to my crop, I got it tol-
erably well fenced in about three weeks' time; and shoot-
ing some of the creatures in the day-time, I set my dog to
guard it in the night, tying him up to a stake at the gate,
where he would stand and bark all night long; so in a lit-
tle time the enemies forsook the place, and the corn grew
very strong and well, and began to ripen apace.
But as the beasts ruined me before, while my corn was
in the blade, so the birds were as likely to ruin me now,
when it was in the ear; for going along by the place to see
how it throve, 1 saw my little crop surrounded with fowls,
I know not of how many sorts, who stood, as it were,
watching till I should be gone. I immediately let fly
among them (for I always had my gun with me); I had no
sooner shot but there rose up a little cloud of fowls, which
I had not seen at all, from among the corn itself.
This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that in a few
days they would devour all my hopes; that I should be
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 105
starved, and never be able to raise a crop at all; and what
to do I could not tell; however, I resolved not to lose my
corn, if possible, though I should watch it night and day.
In the first place, 1 went among it to see what damage was
already done, and found they had spoiled a good deal of it;
but that as it was yet too green for them the loss was not
so great, but that the remainder was likely to be a good
crop, if it could be saved.
I stayed by it to load my gun, and then coming away I
could easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees about
me, as if they only waited till 1 was gone away; and the
event proved it to be so; for as 1 walked off, as if gone, I
was no sooner out of their sight than they dropped down,
one by one, into the corn again. 1 was so provoked that I
could not have patience to stay till more came on, know-
ing that every grain they eat now was, as it might be said,
a peck loaf to me in the consequence; so coming up to the
hedge 1 fired again and killed three of them. This was
what I wished for; so 1 took them up and served them as
we serve notorious thieves in England, viz., hanged them
in chains, for a terror to others. It is impossible to im-
agine that this should have such an effect as it had, for the
fowls not only never came to the corn, but, in short, they
forsook all that part of the island, and I could never see a
bird near the place as long as my scare-crows hung there.
This I was very glad of, you may be sure, and about the
latter end of December, which was our second harvest ol
the year, 1 reaped my corn.
I was sadly put to for a scythe or sickle to cut it down;
and all I could do was to make one as well as I could, out
of one of the broad swords or cutlasses, which I saved
among the arms out of the ship. However, as my first
crop was but small, I had no great difficulty to cut it down;
in short, 1 reaped it my way, for 1 cut nothing off but the
ears, and carried it away in a great basket which 1 had
made, and so rubbed it out with my hands; and at the end
of all my harvesting I found that out of my half peck of
seed I had near two bushels of rice, and above two bushels
and a half of barley; that is to say, by my guess, for 1 had
no measure.
However, this was great encouragement to me, and I
't-psaw that, in time, it would please God to supply mo
With bread; and yet here 1 was perplexed again, for 1
neither knew how to grind or make meal of my corn, ot
indeed how to clean it and part it; nor if made into meal,
how to make bread of it; and if how to make it, yet I
knew not how to bake it; these things being added to my
desire of having a good quantity for store, and to secure a
constant supply, I resolved not to taste any of this crop,
but to preserve it all for seed against the next season; and,
in the meantime, to employ all my study and hours of
working to accomplish this great work of providing myself
with^corn and bread.
It might be truly said that now 1 worked for my bread.
It is a little wonderful, and what I believe few people have
thought much upon, viz., the strange multitude of little
things necessary in the providing, producing, curing,
dressing, making, and finishing this one article of bread.
I, that was reduced to a mere state of nature, found this
to my daily discouragement, and was made more sensible
of it every hour, even after I had got the first handful of
seed-corn which, as 1 have said, came up unexpectedly, and
indeed to a surprise.
First, I had no plow to turn up the earth; no spade or
shovel to dig it; well, this I conquered by making a wooden
spade, as I observed before; but this did my work in but a
wooden manner; and though it cost me a great many days
to make it, yet, for want of iron, it not only wore out the
Booner, but made my work the harder, and performed it
much worse. However, this 1 bore with, and was content
to work it out with patience, and bear with the badness of
the performance. When the corn was sown I had no har-
row, but was forced to go over it myself, and drag a great
heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch it, as it may be
called, rather than rake or harrow it. When it was grow-
ing and grown, I have observed already how many things
1 wanted to fence it, secure it, mow or reap it, cure and
carry it home, thresh, part it from the chaff, and save it;
then 1 wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast
and salt to make it into bread, and an oven to bake it; and
yet all these things I did without, as will be observed; and
the corn was an inestimable comfort and advantage to me;,
all this, as I said, made everything laborious and tedious to
me, but that there was no help for; neither was my time
so much loss to me, because, as I had divided it, a certain
part of it was every day appointed to these works; and as I
ROBINSOU CRUSOE. 107
resolved to use none of the corn for bread till I had a
greater quantity by me, I had the next six months to apply
myself wholly, by labor and invention, to furnish myself
with utensils proper for performing all the operations nec-
essary for making corn fit for my use.
SECTION XIII.
His Manufacture of Pottery, and Contrivance for Baking Bread.
But now I was to prepare more land, for I had seed
enough to sow above an acre of ground. Before I did this
I bad a week's work at least to make me a spade, which,
when it was done, was but a sorry one indeed, and very
heavy, and required double labor to work with it; however,
I went through that, and sowed my seed in two large flat
pieces of ground, as near my house as I could find them to
my mind, and fenced them in with a good hedge; tha
stakes of which were all cut off that wood which I had set
before, and knew it would grow; so that in one year's time
1 knew 1 should have a quick or living hedge, that would
want but little repair. This work took me up full three
months, because a great part of the time was in the wet
season, when 1 could not go abroad. Within doors, that
is, when it rained, and I could not go out, I found em-
ployment on the following occasions, always observing that
while I was at work I diverted myself with talking to my
parrot and teaching him to speak; and I quickly taught
him to know his own name, and at last to speak it out
pretty loud, Poll, which was the first word 1 ever heard
spoken in the island by any mouth but my own. This,
therefore, was not my work, but an assistant to my work;
for now, as I said, I had a great employment upon my
hands, as follows: I had long studied, by some means or
other, to make myself some earthen vessels, which indeed
I wanted much, but knew not where to come at them;
however, considering the heat of the climate, I did not
doubt but if 1 could find out any clay, I might botch up
some such pot as might, being dried in the sun, be hard
and strong enough to bear handling, and to hold anything
that was dry, and required to be kept so; and as this was
necessary in the preparing corn, meal, etc., which was (he
thing I was upon, I resolved to make some as large a^I
oould, and fit only to stand like jars, to hold what should
be put into them.
It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at
me, to tell how many awkwarcl ways 1 took to raise this
pastil; what odd, misshapen, ugly things I made; how
many of them fell in, and how many fell out, the clay not
being stiff enough to bear its own weight; how many
cracked by the overviolent heat of the sun, being set out
too hastily, and how many fell in pieces with only remov-
ing, as well before as after they were dried; and, in a word,
how, after having labored hard to find the clay, to dig it,
to temper it, to bring it home, and work it, I could not
make above two large earthen ugly things (I can not call
them jars) in about two months' labor.
However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard,
I lifted them very gently up, and set them down again in
two great wicker baskets, which I had made on purpose for
them, that they might not break; and as between the pot
and the basket there was a little room to spare, I stuffed it
full of the rice and barley straw, and these two pots being
to stand always dry, I thought would hold my dry corn,
and perhaps the meal, when the corn was bruised.
Though I miscarried so much in my design for large
pots, yet I made several smaller things with better success;
such as little pound pots, flat dishes, pitchers, and pipkins,
and anything my hand turned to, and the heat of the sun
baked them very hard.
But all this would not answer my end, which was to get
an earthen pot to hold liquids, and bear the fire, which
none of these could do- It happened some time after,
making a pretty large fire for cooking my meat, when I
went to put it out after I had done with it, 1 found a
broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels in the fire,
burned as hard as a stone and red as a tile. I was agreea-
bly surprised to see it, and said to mystlf that certainly
they might be made to burn whole if they would burn
broken.
This set me to study how to order my fire, so as to make
it burn some pots. 1 had no notion of a kiln, such as the
potters burn in, or of glazing them with lead, though I
Had some lead to do it with; but I placed three large pip
kins and two or three pots in a pile, one upon another, and
placed my fire-wood all round it, with a great heap of em.
bers under them. I plied the fire with fresh fuel round
the outside, and upon the top," till I saw the pots in the in-
side red-hot quite through, and observed that they did not
crack at all; when I saw them clear red, I let them stand
in that heat about five or six hours, till I found one of
them, though it did not crack, did melt or run; for the
sand which was mixed with the clay melted by the violence
of the heat, and would have run into glass, if I had gone
on; so 1 slacked my fire gradually, till the pots began to
abate of the red color; and watching them all night, that
] might not let the fire abate too fast, in the morning 1
had three very good, 1 will not say handsome, pipkins, and
two other earthen pots, as hard burned as could be de-
sired; and one of them perfectly glazed with the running
of the sand.
After this experiment I need not say that I wanted no
sort of earthenware for my use; but I must needs say, as
to the shapes of them, they were very indifferent, as any
one may suppose, as I had no way of making them but as
the children make dirt-pies, 6r as a woman would make
pies that never learned to raise paste. No joy at a thing
of so mean a nature was ever equal to mine, when 1 found
I had made an earthen pot that would bear the fire, and I
had hardly patience to stay till they were cold, before 1 set
one on the fire again, with some water in it, to boil me
some meat, which it did admirably well; and with a piece
of a kid I made some very good broth, though 1 wanted oat-
meal and several other ingredients requisite to make it so
good as 1 would have had it been.
My next concern was to get a stone mortar to stamp or
beat some corn in; for as to the mill, there was no thought
of arriving to that perfection of art with one pair of hands.
To supply this want I was at a great loss; for, of all trades
in the world, I was as perfectly unqualified for a stone-cut-
ter as for any whatever; neither had 1 any tools to go about
it with. I spent many a day to find out a great stone big
enough to cut hollow, and make fit for a mortar; but could
find none at all, except what was in the solid rock, and
which 1 had no way to dig or cut out; nor, indeed, were
the rocks in the island of sufficient hardness, as they were
all of a sandy crumbling stone, which would neither bear
the weight of a heavy pestle, nor would break the corn
without filling it with sand: so, after a great deal of thne
lost in searching for a stone, I gave it over, and resolved
to look out a great block of hard wood, which I found in-
deed much easier; and getting one as big as 1 had strength
to stir, I rounded it, and formed it on the outside'with my
ax and hatchet; and then, with the help of the fire, and
infinite labor, made a hollow place in it, as the Indians in
Brazil make their canoes. After this, I made a great
heavy pestle, or beater, of the wood called iron-wood: and
this 1 prepared and laid by against I had my next crop of
corn, when I proposed to myself to grind, or rather pound,
my corn into meal, to make my bread.
My next difficulty was to make a sieve, or search, to
dress my meal, and to part it from the bran and the husk,
without which I did not see it possible 1 could have any
bread. This was a most difficult thing, even but to think
'On; for 1 had nothing like the necessary thing to make it;
I mean fine thin canvas or stuff, to search the meal
through. Here 1 was at a full stop for many months; nor
lid I really know what to do: linen I had none left, but
what was mere rags; I had goats' hair, but neither knew
how to weave it nor spin it; and had I known how, here
were no tools to work it with: all the remedy I found for'
this was, at last recollecting I had, among the seamen's
clothes which were saved out of the ship, some neckcloths
of calico or muslin; with some pieces of these I made three
small sieves, proper enough for the work; and thus I made
shift for some years: how I did afterward, I shall show in
its place.
The baking part was the next thing to be considered,
and how I should make bread when 1 came to have corn:
for, first, I had no yeast: as to that part, there was no sup-
plying the want, so I did not concern myself much about
it; but for an oven I was indeed puzzled. At length 1
found out an expedient for that also, which was this: I
made some earthen vessels, very broad, but not deep, that
is to say, about two feet diameter, and not above nine
inches deep: these 1 burned in the fire, as I had done the
others, and laid them by; and when I wanted to bake, I
made a great fire upon my hearth, which I had paved with
some square tiles, of my own making and burning also;
but 1 should not call them square. When the firewood
was burned into embers, or live coals, I drew them forward
upon the hearth, so as to cover it all over, and there let
ROBINSON- CRUSOE. Ill
tl..i,m lie till the hearth was very hot; then sweeping away
all the embers, I set down my loaf, or loaves, and covering
them with the earthen pot, drew the embers all round the
outside of the pot, to keep in and add to the heat; and
thus, as well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my
barley loaves, and became, in a little time, a good pastry-
cook into the bargain; for 1 made myself several cakes and
puddings of the rice; but made no pies, as 1 had nothing
to put into them except the flesh of fowls or goats.
It need not be wondered at, if all these things took ma
up most part of the third year of my abode here; for, it is
to be observed, in the intervals of these things, I had my
new harvest and husbandry to manage: I reaped my corn
in its season, and carried it home as well as I could, and
Jaid it up in the ear, in my large baskets, till 1 had time
to rub it out; for I had no floor to thresh it on, or instru-
ment to thresh it with.
And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, 1 really
wanted to build my barns bigger: I wanted a place to lay
it up in; for the increase of the corn now yielded me so
much, that 1 had of the barley about twenty bushels, and
of rice as much, or more, insomuch that now I resolved to
begin to use it freely; for my bread had been quite gone a
great while: 1 resolved also to see what quantity would be
sufficient for me a whole year, and to sow but once a year.
Upon the whole, 1 found that the forty bushels of barley
and rice were much more than 1 could consume in a year;
so I resolved to sow just the same quantity every year that
I sowed the last, in hopes that such a quantity would fully
provide me with bread, etc.
SECTION XIV.
Meditates his Escape from the Island.—Builds a Canoe.—Failure of
his Scheme.—Resignation to his Condition.—Makes Himself a
New Dress.
All the while these things were doing, you may be sure
my thoughts ran many times upon the prospect of land
which I had seen from the other side of the island; and 1
was not without some secret wishes that I was on shore
there; fancying, that seeing the main-land, and an inhab-
ited countrj, 1 might find some way or other to convej
112 ROBINSON" CRUSOE.
myself farther, and perhaps at last find some means of
escape.
But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers
of such a condition, and that I might fall into the hands of
savages, and perhaps such as I might have reason to think
far worse than the lions and tigers of Africa, that if I once
came in their power, 1 should run a hazard Of more than a
thousand to one of being killed, and perhaps of being
eaten; for 1 had heard that the people of the Carribean
coast were cannibals, or man-eaters; and I knew, by the
latitude, that I could not be far off from that shore.
Then supposing they were not cannibals, yet that they
might kill me, as they had many Europeans who had fallen
into their hands, even when they were ten or twenty
together; much more 1, who was but one, and could make
little or no defense; all these things, I say, which I ought
to have considered well of, and did cast up in my thoughts
afterward, took up none of my apprehensions at first; yet
my head ran mightily upon the thought of getting over to
the shore.
Now 1 wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat with
the shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed above a
thousand miles on the coast of Africa: but this was in
vain: then I thought I would go and look at our ship's
boat, which, as I have said, was blown up upon the shore a
great way, in the storm, when we were first cast away.
She lay nearly where she did at first, but not quite; having
turned, by the force of the waves and the winds, almost
bottom upward, against a high ridge of beachy rough sand;
but no water about her, as before. If I had had hands to
have refitted her, and to have launched her into the water,
the boat would have done very well, and I might have gone
back into the Brazils with her easily enough; but I might
have foreseen that I could no more turn her and set her
upright upon her bottom, than I could remove the island:
however, I went to the woods, and cut levers and rollers,
and brought them to the boat, resolving to try what 1 could
do; suggesting to myself, that if I could but turn her
down, and repair ine damage she had received, she would
be a very good boat, and 1 might venture to sea in her.
I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless toil,
and spent, I think, three or four weeks about it: at last,
finding it impossible to heave her up with my little
itrength, I fell to digging away the sand, to undermine
her, and to as to mate her fall down, setting pieces of
wood to thrust and guide her right in the fall. But when
1 had done ohis, I was unable to' stir her up again, or to
get under her, much less to move her forward toward the
water; so 1 was forced to give it over: and yet, though I
gave over the hopes of the boat, my desire to venture over
the main increased, rather than diminished, as the means
for it seemed impossible.
At length, I began to think whether it was not possible
to make myself a canoe, or periagua, such as the natives of
those climates make, even without tools, or, as I might
say, without hands, of the trunk of a great tree. This I
not only thought possible, but easy, and pleased myself ex-
tremely with the idea of making it, and with my having
much more convenience for it than any of the Negroes or
Indians; but not at all considering the particular incon-
veniences which 1 lay under more than the Indians did,
Hz., the want of hands to move it into the water when it
*as made, a difficulty much harder for me to surmount
than all the consequences of want of tools could be to
them: for what could it avail me, if, after I had chosen
my tree, and with much trouble cut it down, and might be
able with my tools to hew and dub the outside into the
proper shape of a boat, and burn or cut out the inside to
make it hollow, so as to make a boat of it—if, after all
this, I must leave it just where 1 found it, and was not able
to launch it into the water?
One would imagine, if 1 had had the least reflection
upon my mind of my circumstances while I was making
this boat, I should have immediately thought how 1 was
to get it into the sea: but my thoughts were so intent upon
my voyage in it, that I never once considered how 1 should
get it off the land; and it was really, in its own nature,
more easy for me to guide it over forty-five miles of sea,
than the forty-five fathoms of land, where it lay, to set it
afloat in the water.
I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that
ever man did, who had any of his senses awake. I pleased
myself with the design, without determining whether I was
able to undertake it; not but that the difficulty of launch-
ing my boat came often into my head; but I put a stop to
my own inquiries into it, by this foolish answer: Let us
first make it; I warrant I will find some way or other to
get it along when it is done.
This was a most preposterous method; but the eagerness
of my fancy prevailed, and to work 1 went. I felled a
cedar-tree, and I question much whether Solomon ever had
such a one for the building of the Temple at Jerusalem; it
was five feet ten inches diameter at the lower part next the
stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter at the end of
twenty-two feet, where it lessened and then parted into
branches. It was not without infinite labor that I felled this
tree; 1 was twenty days hacking and hewing at the bottom,
and fourteen more getting the branches and limbs, and the
vast spreading head of it, cut off: after this, it cost me a
month to shape it and dub it to a proportion, and to some-
thing like the bottom of a boat, that it might swim upright
as it ought to do. It cost me near three months more to
clear the inside, and work it out so as to make an exact
boat of it: this I did, indeed, without fire, by mere mallet
and chisel, and by the dint of hard labor, till I had brought
it to be a very handsome periagua, and big enough to have
carried six-and-twenty men, and consequenty big enough
to have carried me and all my cargo.
When I had gone through this work, I was extremely
delighted with it. The boat was really much bigger than
ever 1 saw a canoe or a periagua that was made of one tree,
in my life. Many a weary stroke it had cost, you may be
sure; and there remained nothing but to get it into the
water; which, had 1 accomplished, 1 make no question but
1 should have begun the maddest voyage, and the most un-
likely to be performed, that ever was undertaken.
But all my devices to get it into the water failed me;
though they cost me inexpressible labor too. It lay about
one hundred yards from the water, and not more; but the
first inconvenience was, it was up hill toward the creek.
Well, to take away this discouragement, 1 resolved to dig
into the surface of the earth, and so make a declivity; this
I began, and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains; (but
who grudge pains that have their deliverance in view?)
when this was worked through, and this difficulty man-
aged, it was still much the same, for 1 could no more stir
the canoe than I could the other boat. Then I measured
the distance of ground, and resolved to cut a dock, or
canal, to bring the water up to the canoe, seeing I could
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 115
not bring the canoe down to the water. Well, I began this
work; and wnen I began to enter upon it, and calculate
now deep it was to be dug, how broad, how the stuff wai
ito be thrown out, 1 found by the number of hands 1 had,
having none but my own, that it must have been ten or
twelve years before I could have gone through with it; for
the shore lay so high, that at the upper end it must have
beer, at least twenty feet deep; this attempt, though with
great reluctaucy, I was at length obliged to give ever also.
This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though too
late, the folly of beginning a work before we count the
cost, and before we judge rightly of our own strength to
go through with it.
In the middle of this work, 1 finished my fourth year in
this place, and kept my anniversary with the same devo-
tion, and with as much comfort as before; for, by a con-
stant study and serious application to the word of God, and
by the assistance of His grace, 1 gained a different knowl-
edge from what I had before; 1 entertained different no-
tions of things; I looked now upon the world as a thing re-
mote, which I had nothing to do with, no expectation
from, aud, indeed, no desires about: in a word, I had noth-
ing to do with it, nor was ever likely to have; I thought it
looked, as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter, viz., as
a place I had lived in, but was come out of it; and well
might I say, as Father Abraham fo Dives, "Between me
aud thee is a great gulf fixed."
In the first place, I was here removed from all the wick-
edness of the world; I had neither the lust of the flesh, the
lust of the eye, nor the pride of life. I had nothing to
covet, for 1 had all that I was now capable of enjoying: I
was lord of the whole manor, or, if I pleased, I might call
myself king or emperor over the whole country which I
had possession of; there were no rivals; I had no competi-
tor, none to dispute sovereignty or command with me: 1
might have raised ship-loadings of corn, but I had no use
for it; so I let as little grow as I thought enough for my
occasion. 1 had tortoise or turtle enough, but now and
then one was as much as I could put to any use; I had
timber enough to have built a fleet of ships; and 1 had
grapes enough to have mads wine, or to have cured into
raisins, to have loaded that fleet when it had been built.
Put all I could make use of was all that was valuable: J
had enough to eat and supply my wants, and what was th«
rest to me? If I killed more flesh than I could eat, the dog
mtist eat it, or vermin; if 1 sowed more corn than I could
eat, it must be spoiled; the trees that I cut down were lying
to rot on the ground; I could make no more use of them than
for fuel, and that 1 had no other occasion for but to dress
my food.
In a word, the nature and experience of things dictated
to me, upon just reflection, that all the good things of this
world are of no further good to us than for our use; and
that whatever we may heap up to give others, we enjoy
only as much as we can use, and no more. The most cov-
etous gripiug miser in the world would have been cured of
the vice of covetousness, if he had been in my case; for I
possessed infinitely more than I knew what to do with. I
had no room for desire, except it was for things which 1
had not, and they were comparatively but trifles, though
indeed of great use to me. 1 had, as I hinted before, a
parcel of money, as well gold as silver, about thirty-six
pounds sterling. Alas! there the nasty, sorry, useless stuff
lay: I had no manner of business for it; and I often
thought within myself, that I would have given a handful
of it for a gross of tobacco-pipes, or for a hand-mill to
grind my corn; nay, I would have given it all for sixpenny-
worth of turnip and carrot seed from England, or for a
handful of pease and beans, and a bottle of ink. As it was,
1 had not the least advantage by it, or benefit from it; but
there it lay in a drawer, and grew moldy with ttie damp of
the cave in the wet seasons; and if 1 had had the drawer
full of diamonds, it had been the same case—they would
have been of no manner of value to me, because of no use.
I had now brought my state of life to be much more
comfortable in itself than it was at first, and much easier
to my mind, as well as to my body. I frequently sat down
to meat with thankfulness, and admired the hand of God's
providence, which had thus spread my table in the wilder-
ness: I learned to look more upon the bright side of my
condition, and less upon the dark side, and to consider
what I enjoyed, rather than what I wanted: and this gave
me sometimes such secret comforts, that 1 can not express
them; and which 1 take notice of here, to put those dis-
contented people in mind of it, who can not enjoy comfort-
ably what God has given them, because they see and covet
KOBINSON CRUSOE. 11?
something thai he has not given them. All our discon-
tents about what we want appeared to me to spring from
the want of thankfulness for what we have.
Another reflection was of great use to me, and doubtless
would be so to any one that should fall into such distress
as mine was; and this was, to compare my present con-
dition with what 1 at first expected it would be: nay, with
what it would certainly have been, if the good providence
of God had not wonderfully ordered the ship to be cast up
near to the shore, where 1 not only could come at her, but
could bring what I got out of her to the shore, for my re-
lief and comfort: without which, I had wanted for tools to
work, wef^iffns for defense, and gunpowder and shot for
getting my food.
1 spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in represent-
ing to myself, in the most lively colors, how 1 must have
acted if 1 had got nothing out of the snip. 1 could not
have so much as got any food, except fish and turtles; and
that, as it was long before I found any of them, I must
have perished; that I should have lived, if I had not per-
ished, like a mere savage; that if 1 had killed a goat or a
fowl, by any contrivance, I had no way to flay or open it,
or part the flesh from the skin and the bowels, or to cut it
up, but must gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it with my
claws, like a beast.
These reflections made me very sensible of the goodness
of Providence to me, and very thankful for my present
condition, with all its hardships and misfortunes; and this
part also I can not but recommend to the reflection of
those who are apt, in their misery, to say, Is any affliction
like mine? Let them consider how much worse the cases
of some people are, and their case might have been, if
Providence had thought fit.
1 had another reflection, which assisted me also to com-
fort my mind with hopes; and this was, comparing my
present condition with what I had deserved, and had there-
fore reason to expect from the hand of Providence. I had
lived a dreadful life, perfectly destitute of the knowledge
and fear of God. I had been well instructed by my father
and moftier; neither had they been wanting to me, in their
endeavors to infuse an early religious awe of God into my
mind, a sense of my duty, and what the nature and end of
jny being required of me. But, alas! falling early into the
118 BOBrsrsoN crusob.
seafaring life, which, of ail lives, is the most destitute of
the fear of God, though his terrors are always before them;
I say, falling early into the seafaring life, and into seafar-
ing company, all that little sense of religion which I had
entertained was laughed out of me by my messmates; by a
hardened despising of dangers, and the Views of death,
which grew habitual to me; by my long absence from all
manner of opportunities to converse with anything but
what was like myself, or to hear anything that was good,
or tending toward it.
So void was I of everything that was good, or of the
least sense of what 1 was, or was to be, that in the greatest
deliverances I enjoyed (such as my escape from Sallee, my
being taken up by the Portuguese master of a ship, my be-
ing planted so well in the Brazils, my receiving the cargo
from England, and the like) I never had once the words,
Thank God, so much as on my mind or in my mouth; nor
in the greatest distress had 1 so much as a thought to pray
to him, or so much as to say, Lord, have mercy upon me!
no, nor to mention the name of God, unless it was to swea]
by, and blaspheme it.
1 had terrible reflections upon my mind for many
months, as I have already observed, on account of mj
wicked and hardened life past; and when 1 looked about
me, and considered what particular providences had attend-
ed me since my coming into this place, and how God had
dealt bountifully with me—had not only punished me less
than my iniquity had deserved, but had so plentifully pro-
vided for me—this gave me great hopes that my repent-
ance waB accepted, and that God had yet mercies in store
for me.
With these reflections I worked my mind up, not only to
a resignation to the will of God in the present disposition
of my circumstances, but even to a sincere thankfulness
for my condition; and that I, who was yet a living man.
ought not to complain, seeing I had not the due punish
ment of my sins; that I enjoyed so many mercies which >
had no reason to have expected in that place, that I ought
never more to repine at my condition, but to rejoice, and
to give daily thanks for that daily bread, which nothing
but a crowd of wonders could have brought; that I ought
to consider 1 had been fed bv a miracle, even as great as
that of feeding Elijah by ravens; nay, by a long series of
ROBINSON CRUSOE. lit
miracles: and that 1 could hardly have named a place in
the uninnabitable part of the world where 1 could have
been cast more to my advantage; a place where, as I had
no society, which was my affliction on one hand, so I found
no ravenous beasts, no furious wolves or tigers, to threaten
my life; no venomous or poisonous creatures, which I
might feed on to my hurt; no savages, to murder and de-
vour me. 1u a word, as my life was a life of sorrow one
way, so it was a life of mercy another; and I wanted noth-
ing to make it a life of comfort, but to make myself sensi-
ble of God's goodness to me, and care over me in this con-
dition; and after I did make a just improvement of these
things, 1 went away, and was no more sad.
I had now been here so long, that many things which I
brought on shore for my help were either quite gone, or
very much wasted, and near spent.
My ink, as 1 observed, had been gone for some time, all
but a very little, which I eked out with water, a little and
a little, till it was so pale, it scarce left any appearance of
black upon the paper. As long as it lasted, I made use of
it to minute down the days of the month on which any re-
markable thing happened to me: and, first, by casting up
times past, I remember that there was a strange concur-
rence of days in the various providences which befell me,
and which, if I had been superstitiously inclined to observe
days as fatal or fortunate, I might have had reason to have
looked upon with a great deal of curiosity.
First, I had observed, that the same day that 1 broke
away from my father and my friends, and ran away to
Hull, in order to go to sea, the same day afterward 1 was
taken by the Sallee man-of-war, and made a slave; the
same day of the year that I escaped out of the wreck of
the ship in Yarmouth Roads, that same day, years after-
ward, I made my escape from Sallee in the boat: and the
same day of the year 1 was born on, viz., the 30th of Sep-
tember, that same day I had my life so miraculously saved
twenty-six years after, when I was cast on shore in this
island: so that my wicked life and my solitary life began
both on one day.
The next thing to my ink being wasted, was that of my
bread, 1 mean the biscuit which I brought out of the ship:
this I had husbanded to the last degree, allowing myself
but one cake of bread a day for above a year; and yet J
was quite without bread for near a year before i got anj
corn of my own; and great reason I had to be thankful
that I had any at all, the getting it being, as has been al-
ready observed, next to miraculous.
My clothes, too, began to decay mightily: as to linen, I
had none for a great while, except some checked shirtg
which I found in the chests of the other seamen, and which
1 carefully preserved, because many times 1 could bear no
clothes on but a shirt, and it was a very great help to me
that I had, among all the men's clothes of the ship, almost
three dozen of shirts. There were also, indeed, several
thick watchcoats of the seamen's which were left, but they
were too hot to wear: and though it is true that the
weather was so violently hot that there was no need of
clothes, yet 1 could not go quite naked, no, though I had
been inclined to it, which 1 was not, nor could 1 abide the
thought of it, though I was all alone. The reason why I
could not go quite naked was, 1 could not bear the heat of
the sun so well when quite naked as with some clothes on;
nay, the very heat frequently blistered my skin: whereas,
with a shirt on, the air itself made some motion, and whist-
ling under the shirt, was twofold cooler than without it. No
more could 1 ever bring myself to go out in the heat of the
sun without a cap or hat; the heat of the sun beating with
Buch violence as it does in that place, would give me the
headache presently, by darting so directly upon my head,
without a cap or hat on, so that 1 could not bear it,
whereas, if I put on my hat, it would presently go away.
Upon these views, I began to consider about putting the
few rags I had, which I called clothes, into some order. I
had worn out all the waistcoats 1 had, and my business
was now to try if I could not make jackets out of the great
watch-coats that 1 had by me, and with such other materials
as I had; so 1 set to work a-tailoring, or rather, indeed, a
botching, for I made most piteous work of it. However,
1 made shift to make two or three new waistcoats, which I
hoped would serve me a great while. As for breeches, or
drawers, I made but a very sorry shift indeed, till after-
ward.
I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the creat-
ures that I killed, I mean four-footed ones; and 1 had
hung them up, stretched out with sticks in the sun, by
which means some of them were so dry and hard that they
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 121
!
were fit for little, but others 1 found very useful. The
first thing 1 made of these was a great cap for my head,
with the hair on the outside, to shoot off the rain; and this
I performed so well, that after this I made me a suit of
clothes wholly of the skins, that is to say, a waistcoat, and
breeches open at the knees, and both loose; for they were
rather wanting to keep me cool than warm. 1 must not
omit to acknowledge that they were wretchedly made, for
if I was a bad carpenter, I was a worse tailor. However,
they were such as 1 made very good shift with, and when I
was abroad, if it happened to rain, the hair of my waist-
coat and cap being uppermost, 1 was kept very dry.
After this I spent a great deal of time and pains to make
me an umbrella; I was indeed in great want of one, and
had a great mind to make one; 1 had seen them made in
the Brazils,, where they were very useful in the great heats
which are there, and I felt the heats every jot as great
here, and greater too, being nearer the equator; besides,
as 1 was obliged to be much abroad, it was a most useful
thing to me, as well for the rains as the heats. 1 took a
world of pains at it, and was a great while before I could
make anything likely to hold; nay, after 1 thought.1 had
hit the way, I spoiled two or three before I made one to
my mind; but at last I made one that answered indiffer-
ently well; the main difficulty I found was to make it to
let down; 1 could make it spread, but if it did not let down
too, and draw in, it was not portable for me any way but
just over my head, which would not do. However, at last,
as I said, 1 made one to answer, and covered it with skins,
the hair upward, so that it cast off the rain like a pent-
house, and kept off the sun so effectually that 1 could walk
out in the hottest of the weather with greater advantage
than 1 could before in the coolest; and when I had no need
of it, could close it and carry it under my arm.
Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being entire-
ly composed by resigning to the will of God, and throwing
myself wholly upon the disposal of His providence. This
made my life better than sociable, for when I began to re-
gret the want of conversation, 1 would ask myself whether
thus conversing mutually with my own thoughts, and, as
I hope I may say, with even God Himself, by ejaculations,
was not better than the utmost enjoyment of human «h
oiety in the world?
SECTION XV.
He makes a Smaller Canoe, in which he Attempts to Cruise Round
the Island.—His perilous Situation at Sea.—He returns Home.
1 can not say that after this, for five years, any ex-
traordinary thing happened to me, but I lived on in the
same course, ia the same posture and place, just as before;
the chief things I was employed in, besides my yearly labor
of planting my barley and rice, and curing my raisins, of
both which 1 always kept up just enough to have sufficient
stock of one year's provision beforehand; I say, besides
this yearly labor, and my daily pursuit of going out with
my gun, I had one labor, to make me a canoe, which at
last 1 finished; so that by digging a canal to it of six feet
wide and four feet deep, I brought it into the creek almost
half a mile. As for the first, which was so vastly big, as
1 made it without considering beforehand, as I ought to
do, how I should be able to launch it, so, never being able
to bring it into the water, or bring the water to it, I was
obliged to let it lie where it was, as a memorandum to teach
me to be wiser the next time; indeed, the next time,
though 1 could not get a tree proper for it, and was in a
place where I could not get the water to it at any less dis-
tance than, as I have said, near half a mile, yet as I saw it
was practicable at last, 1 never gave it over; and though 1
was near two years about it, yet I never grudged my labor,
in hopes of having a boat to go off to sea at last.
However, though my little periagua was finished, yet the
size of it was not at all answerable to the design which 1
had in view when I made the first; I mean, of venturing
over to the terra firma, where it was above forty miles
broad; accordingly, the smallness of my boat assisted to
put an end to that design, and now I thought no more of
it. As I had a boat, my next design was to make a cruise
round the island; for as 1 had been on the other side in
one place, crossing, as I have already described it, over the
land, so the discoveries I made in that little journey made
me very eager to see other parts of the coast; and now I
bad a boat, I thought of nothing but sailing round the
island.
For this purpose, that 1 might do everything with die..
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 123
cretioa and consideration, I fitted up a little mast in my
boat, and made a sail to it out of some of the pieces of the
ship's sails which lay in store, and of which I had a great
stock by me. Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried
the boat, I found she would sail very well; then I made lit-
tle lockers, or boxes, at each end of my boat, to put pro*
visions, necessaries, ammunition, etc., into, to be kept dry,
either from rain or the spray of the sea; and a little long
hollow place I cut in the inside of the boat, where I could
lay my gun, making a flap to hang down over it, to keep
it dry.
1 fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like a
mast, to stand over my head, and keep the hent of the sun
off me, like an awning; and thus every now ,md then took
a little voyage upon the sea, but never went, far out, nor
far from the little creek. At last, being eagor to view the
circumference of my little kingdom, I resolved upon my
cruise; and accordingly, 1 victualed my ship for the voy-
age, putting in two dozen of loaves (cakes I should rather
call them) of barley bread, an earthen pot full of parched
rice (a food I eat a great deal of), a little bottle of rum,
half a goat, and powder and shot for killing more, and two
large watch-coats, of those which, as I mentioned before, I
had saved out of the seamen's chests; these 1 took, one to
lie upon, and the other to cover me in the night.
It was the sixth of November, in the sixth year of my
reign, or my captivity, which you please, that 1 set out on
this voyage, and I found it much longer than 1 expected;
for though the island itself was not very large, yet when I
came to the east side of it, I found a great ledge of rocks
lie out about two leagues into the sea, some above water,
some under it, and beyond that a shoal of sand, lying dry
half a league more, so that I was obliged to go a great way
out to sea to double the point.
When first I discovered them, I was going to give over
my enterprise, and come back again, not knowing how far
it might oblige me to go out to sea, and, above all, doubt-
ing how I should get back again; so 1 came to an anchor;
for I had made me a kind of anchor with a piece of a
broken grappling which I got out of the ship.
Having secured my boat, 1 took ray gun and went on
shore, climbing up on a hill, which seemed to overlook that
point, where 1 saw the full extent of it, and resolved to
venture.
In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, 1
perceived a strong, and indeed a most furious current,
which ran to the east, and even came close to the point;
and 1 took the more notice of it, because 1 saw there might
be some danger that, when I came into it, I might be car-
ried out to sea by the strength of it, and not be able to
make the island again; and indeed, had I not got first
upon this hill, I believe it would have been so; - for there
was the same current on the other side the island, only
that it set off at a further distance, and I saw there was a
strong eddy under the shore; so I had nothing to do but
to get out of the first current, and 1 should presently be in
an eddy.
I lay here, however, two days, because the wind blowing
pretty fresh at E.S.E., and that being just contrary to the
said current, made a great breach of the sea upon the
point; so that it was not safe for me to keep too close to the
shore, for the breach, nor to go too far ofl, because of the
stream.
The third day, in the morning, the wind having abated
overnight, the sea was calm, and I ventured; but I am a
warning-piece again to all rash and ignorant pilots; for no
sooner was I come to the point, when I was not even my
boat's length from the shore, but 1 found myself in a great
depth of water, and a current like the sluice of a mill; it
carried my boat along with it with such violence that all I
, could do could not keep her so much as on the edge of it;
but I found it hurried me further and further out from
the eddy, which was on my left hand. There was no wind
stirring to help me, and all I could do with my paddles
signified nothing; and now 1 began to give myself over for
lost; for as the current was on both sides of the island, I
knew in a few leagues' distance they must join again, and
then 1 was irrecovei'ably gone; nor did I see any possibility
of avoiding it; so that I had no prospect before me but of
perishing, not by the sea, for that was calm enough, but of
starving for hunger. 1 had indeed found a tortoise on the
shore, as big almost as I could lift, and had tossed it into
the boat; and 1 had a great jar of fresh water, that is to
say, one of my earthen pots; but what was all this to being
driven into the vast ocean, where, to be sure, there was n«
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 125
shore, no mainland or island, for a thousand leagues at
least?
And now I saw how easy it was for the Providence of
God to make even the most miserable condition of man-
kind worse. Now I looked back upon my desolate, solitary
island as the most pleasant place in the world; and all the
happiness my heart could wish for was to be but there
again. 1 stretched out my hands to it, with eager wishes:
Oh, happy desert! said 1, I shall never see thee more. Oh,
miserable creature! whither am I going? Then 1 re-
proached myself with my unthankful temper, and how I
had repined at my solitary condition; and now what would
1 give to be on shore there again! Thus we never see the
true state of our condition till it is illustrated to us by its
contraries, nor know how to value what we enjoy, but by
the want of it. It is scarce possible to imagine the con-
sternation I was now in, being driven from my beloved
island (for so it appeared to me now to be) into the wide
ocean, almost two leagues, and in the utmost despair of
ever recovering it again. However, I worked hard, till in-
deed my strength was almost exhausted, and kept my boat
as much to the northward, that is, toward the side of the
current which the eddy lay on, as possibly 1 could; when
about noon, as the sun passed the meridian, I thought I
felt a little breeze of wind in my face, springing up from
S.S.E. This cheered my heart a little, and especially when,
in about half an hour more, it blow a pretty gentle gale.
By this time I was got at a frightful distance trom the
island, and had the least cloudy or hazy weather inter-
vened, I had been undone another way too; for 1 had no
compass on board, and should never have known how to
have steered toward the island, if I had but once lost sight
of it; but the weather continuing clear, I applied myself
'to get up my mast again, and spread my sail, standing
away *fe the north as much as possible, to get out of the
current
.
Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began
to stretch away, I saw even by the clearness of the water
some alteration of the current was near; for where the cur-
rent was so strong the water was foul; but perceiving the
water clear, 1 found the current abate, and presently I
found to the east, at about half a mile, a breach of the sea
upon some rocks; these rocks 1 found caused the current
to part again, and as the main stress of it ran away utora
southerly, leaving the rocks to the north-east, so the other
returned by the repulse of the rocks, and made a wrong
eddy, which ran back again to the north-west, witL a very
sharp stream.
They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to
them upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thitves just
going to murder them, or who have been in sucli-like ex-
tremities, may guess what my present surprise of joy was,
and how gladly I put my boat into the stream of this eddy;
and the wind also freshening, how gladly I spread my sail
to it, running cheerfully before the wind, and with a strong
tide or eddy under foot.
This eddy carried me about a league in my way back
again, directly toward the island, but about two leagues
more to the northward than the current which carried me
away at first; so that when I came near the island, I found
myself open to the northern shore of it, that is to say, the
other end of the island, opposite to that which I went out
from.
When 1 had made something more than a league of way
by the help of this current or eddy, 1 found it was spent,
and served me no further. However, I found that being
between two great currents, viz., that on the south side,
which had hurried me away, and that on the north, which
lay about a league on the other side; I say, between theso
two, in the wake of the island, I found the water at least
still, and running no way; and having still a breeze of wind
fair for me, I kept on steering directly for the island,
though not making such fresh way as I did before.
About four o'clock in the evening, being then within a
league of the island, I found the point of the rocks which
occasioned this disaster stretching out, as is described be-
fore, to the southward, and casting off the current more
southerly, had, of course, made another eddy to the north;
and this 1 found very strong, but not directly setting the
way my course lay, which was due west, but almost full
north. However, having a fresh gale I stretched across
this eddy, slanting north-west; and in about an hour came
within about a mile of the shore, where, it being smooth
water, I soon got to land.
When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God
thanks for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside al?
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 127
i
tfumehts of deliverance by my boat; and refreshing
myself with such things as I had. 1 brought my boat close
to the shore, in a little cove that 1 had spied under some
trees, and laid me down to sleep, being quite spent wiih
the labor and fatigue of the voyage.
I was now at a great loss which way to get home with
my boat; I had run so much hazard, and knew too much
of the case, to thins of attempting it by the way 1 went
out; and what might be at the other side (I mean the west
side) I knew not, nor had I any mind to run any more
ventures; so 1 only resolved in the morning to make my
way westward along the shore, and see if there was no creek
where I might lay up my frigate in safety, so as to have
her again, if I wanted her. In about three miles, or there-
about, coasting the shore, I came to a very good inlet oi-
bay, about a mile over, which narrowed till it came to a
very little rivulet or brook, where 1 found a very conveni-
ent harbor for my boat, and where she lay as if she had
been in a little dock made on purpose for her. Here I put
in, and having stowed my boat very safe, I went on shore,
to look about me, and see where I was.
1 soon found 1 had but a little passed by the place where
I had been before, when I traveled on foot to that shore;
so taking nothing out of my boat but my gun and um-
brella, for it was exceeding hot, I began my march. The
way was comfortable enough after such a voyage as I had
been upon, and I reached my old bower in the evening,
where I found everything standing as 1 had left it; for I
always kept it in good order, being, as 1 said before, my
country-house.
I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade to
rest my limbs, for I was very weary, and fell asleep; but
i'udge you, if you can, that read my story, what a surprise
must be in, when I was awaked out of my sleep by a
voice, calling me by my name several times, Robin, Robin,
Robin Crusoe; poor Robin Crusoe! Where are you, Robin
Crusoe? Where are you? - Where have you been?
I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with rowing,
or paddling, as it is called, the first part of the day, and
with walking the latter part, that 1 did not wake thor-
oughly; but dozing between sleeping and waking, thought
J dreamed that somebody spoke to me; bat as the voice
continued to repeat Robin Crusoe, Robin Crusoe, at last I
began to wake more perfectly, and was at first dreadfully
frightened, and started up in the utmost consternation;
but no sooner were my eyes open, but I saw my Poll sit-
ting on the top of the hedge; and immediately knew it was
he that spoke to me; for just in such bemoaning language
I had used to talk to him and teach him, and he had
learned it so perfectly that he would sit upon my finger,
and lay his bill close to my face, and cry, Poor Robin
Crusoe! Where are you? Where have you been? How
came you here? and such things as 1 had taught him.
However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and
that indeed it could be nobody else, it was a good while be-
fore I could compose myself. First, I was amazed how
the creature got thither; and then how,he should just keep
about the place, and nowhere else; but as I was well satis-
fied it could be nobody but honest Poll, I got over it; and
holding out my hand, and calling him by his name, Poll,
the sociable creature came to me and sat upon my thumb,
as he used to do, and continued talking to me, Poor Robin
Crusoe! and how did 1 come here? and where had I been?
just as if he had been overjoyed to see me again; and so 1
carried him home along with me.
I now had enough of rambling to sea for some time, and
had enough to do for many days to sit still, and to reflect
upon the danger I had been in. 1 would have been very
glad to have had my boat again on my side of the island;
but I knew not how it was practicable to get it about. As
to the east side of the island, which I had gone round, I
knew well enough there was no venturing that way; my
very heart would shrink, and my very blood run chill, but
to think of it; and as to the other side of the island, 1 did
not know how it might be there, but supposing the current
ran with the same force against the shore at the east as it
passed by it on the other, I might run the same risk of be-
ing driven down the stream, and carried by the island, as
I had been before of being carried away from it; so, with
these thoughts, I contented myself to be without any boat,
though it had been the product of so many months' labor
to make it, and of so many more to get it into the sea.
In this government of my temper I remained near a
year, lived a very sedate, retired life, as you may well sup-
pose; and my thoughts being very much composed, as to
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1S9
my condition, and fully comforted in resigning myself to
the dispositions of Providence, 1 thought 1 lived really very
happily in all things, except that of society.
I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic ex-
ercises which my necessities put me upon applying myself
to; and I believe I could, upon occasion, have made a very
good carpenter, especially considering how few tools I had.
Besides this, 1 arrived ac an unexpected perfection in my
earthenware, and contrived well enough to make them with
a wheel, which I found infinitely easier and better; because
I made things round and shapable, which before were
filthy things indeed to look upon. But 1 think 1 was
never more vain of my own performance, or more joyful
for anything I found out, than for my being able to make
a tobacco-pipe; and though it was a very ugly, clumsy
thing when it was done, and only burned red, like other
earthenware, yet as it was hard and firm, and would draw
the smoke, I was exceedingly comforted with it, for I had
been always used to smoke; and there were pipes in the
ship, but 1 forgot them at first, not thinking that there
was tobacco in the island; and afterward, when I searched
the ship again, I could not come at any pipes at all.
In my wickerware also 1 improved much, and made
abundance of necessary baskets, as well ap my invention
showed me; though not very handsome, yet they were such
as were very handy and convenient for my laying things up
in, or fetching things home. For example, if I killed a
goat abroad, 1 could hang it up in a tree, flay it, dress it,
and cut it in pieces, and bring it home in a basket; and
the like by a turtle; I could cut it up, take out the eggs,
and a piece or two of the flesh, which was enough for me,
and bring them home in a basket, and leave the rest be-
hind me. Also large deep baskets were the receivers of
my corn, which I always rubbed out as soon as it was dry,
and cured, and kept it in great baskets.
I began now to perceive my powder abated considerably;
this was a want which it was impossible for me to supply,
and I began seriously to consider what 1 must do when I
should have no more powder, that is to say, how I should
do to kill any goats. 1 had, as is observed, in the third
year of my being here, kept a young kid, and bred her up
tame, and 1 was in hopes of getting a he-goat; but 1 could
not by any means bring it to pass, till my kid grew an old
goat; and as I could never find in my heart to kill her, the
died At last of mere age.
SECTION XVI.
He wars a Flock of Goats.—His Dairy.—His Domestic Habits and
Style of Living.—Increasing Prosperity.
Being now in the eleventh year of my residence, and as
1 have said, my ammunition growing low, I set myself to
study some art to trap and snare the goats, to see whether
I could not catch some of them alive; and particularly, I
wanted a she-goat great with young. For this purpose I
made snares to hamper them; and I do believe they were
more than once taken in them; but my tackle was not
good, for I had no wire, and 1 always found them broken,
and my bait devoured. At length I resolved to try a pit-
fall; so I dug several large pits in the earth, in places where
I had observed the goats used to feed, and over those pits I
placed hurdles, of my own making too, with a great weight
upon them; and several times I put ears of barley and dry
rice, without setting the trap; and 1 could easily perceive
that the goats had gone in and eaten up the corn, for 1
could see the marks of their feet. At length I set three
traps in one night, and going the next morning, 1 found
them all standing, and yet the bait eaten and gone. This
was very discouraging; however, I altered my traps, and,
not to trouble you with particulars, going one morning to
eee my traps, 1 found in one of them a large old he-goat,
and in one of the others three kids, a male and two females.
As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him; he
was so fierce, I durst not go into the pit to him; that is to
iay, to go about to bring him away alive, which was what
1 wanted; 1 could have killed him, but that was not my
business, nor would it answer my end; so 1 even let him
out, and he ran away, as if he had been frightened out of
his wits. But 1 had forgot then what 1 learned after-
ward, that hunger will tame a lion. If I had let him stay
there three or four days without food, and then have car-
ried him some water to drink, and then a little corn, he
would have been as tame as one of the kids; for they are
mighty sagacious, tractable creatures, where they are well
used. However, for the present I let him go, knowing no
better at that time; then I want to the three kids, and
taking them one by one, 1 tied them with strings together,
and with some difficulty brought them all home.
It was a good while before they would feed; but throw-
ing them some sweet corn, it tempted them, and they be-
gan to be tame. And now I found that if I expected to
supply myself with goat's flesh when I had no powder or
shot left, breeding some up tame was my only way; when,
perhaps, I might have them about my house like a flock
of sheep. But then it occurred to me that 1 must keep
the tame from the wild, or else they would always run wild
when they grew up; and the only way for this was, to have
some iuclosed piece of ground, well fenced, either with
hedge or pale, to keep them in so effectually, that those
within might not break out, or those without break in.
This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands; yet
as I saw there was an absolute necessity .for doing it, my
first work was to find out a proper piece of ground, where
there was likely to be herbage for them to eat, water for
them to drink, and cover to keep them from the sun.
Those who understand such inclosures will think 1 had
very little contrivance, when I pitched upon a place very
proper for all these (being a plain open piece of meadow
land, or savanna, as our people call it in the western col-
onies) which had two or three little drills of fresh water in
it, and at one end was very woody; 1 say, they will smile
at my forecast, when I shall tell them, 1 began my inclos-
ing this piece of ground in such a manner that my hedge
or pale must have been at least two miles about. Nor was
the madness of it so great as to the compass, for if it was
ten miles about, I was like to have time enough to do it in;
but I did not consider that my goats would be as wild in
so much compass as if they had had the whole island, and
I should have so much room to chase them in, that I
should never catch them.
My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe about fifty
yards, when this thought occurred to me; so I presently
stopped short, and, for the first beginning, 1 resolved to in-
close a piece of about one hundred and fifty yards in length,
and one hundred yards in breadth; which, as it would main-
tain as many as I should have in any reasonable time, so,
as my stock increased, I could add more ground to my in-
ilosiire.
This was acting with some prudence, and 1 went to work
132 R0BIN80N CRUSOB.
with courage. I was about three months hedging in the
first piece; and, till I had done it, I tethered the three kids
in the best part of it, and used them to feed as near me as
possible, to make them familiar; and very often 1 would
go and carry them some ears of barley, or a handful of
rice, and feed them out of my hand, so that after my in-
closure was finished, and I let them loose, they would fol-
low me up and down, bleating after me for a handful of
corn.
This answered my end; and in about a year and a half I
had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all; and in two
years more, I had three and forty, beside several that I
cook and killed for my food. After that 1 inclosed five
several pieces of ground to feed them in, with little pens to
drive them into, to take them as I wanted, and gates out
of one piece of ground into another.
But this was not all; for now I not only had goat's fles'n
to feed on when 1 pleased, but milk too; a thing which, in-
deed, in the beginning, I did not so much as think of, and
which, when it came into my thoughts, was really an agree-
able surprise; for now I set up my dairy, and had some-
times a gallon or two of milk in a day. And as Nature,
who gives supplies of food to every creature, dictates even
naturally how to make use of it, so I, that had never
milked a cow, much less a goat, or seen butter or cheese
made, only when I was a boy, after a great many essays
and miscarriages, made me both butter and cheese at last,
and also salt (though I found it partly made to my hand
by the heat of the sun upon some of the rocks of the sea),
and never wanted it afterward. How mercifully can our
Creator treat His creatures, even in those conditions in
which they seemed to be overwhelmed in destruction!
How can He sweeten the bitterest providences, and give us
cause to praise him for dungeons and prisons! What a
table was here spread for me in a wilderness, where I saw
nothing, at first, but to perish for hunger!
It would have made a stoic smile to have seen me and
my little family sit down to dinner. There was my
majesty, the prince and lord of the whole island; I had the
lives of all my subjects at my absolute command; I could
hang, draw, give liberty, and take it away; and no rebels
among all my subjects.
Then to see how like a king I dined too, all alone, at.
tended by my servants: Toll, as if he had been my favorite,
was the only person permitted to talk to me. My dog,
who was now grown very old and crazy, and had found no
species to multiply his kind upon, sat always at my right
hand; and two cats, one on one side of the table, and one
on the other, expecting now and then a bit from my hand,
as a mark of special favor.
But these were not the two cats which I brought on
shore at first, for'they were both of them dead, and had
been interred near my habitation by my own hand; but
one of them having multiplied by 1 know not what kind of
creature, these were two which I had preserved tame;
whereas the rest ran wild in the woods, and became indeed
troublesome to me at last; for they would often come into
my house, and plunder me too, till at last I was obliged to
shoot them, and did kill a great many; at length they left
me.—With this attendance, and in this plentiful manner,
I lived: neither could 1 be said to want anything but soci-
ety; and of that, some time after this, 1 was like to have
too much.
1 was something impatient, as I have observed, to have
the use of my boat, though very loath to run any more
hazards; and therefore sometimes 1 sat contriving ways to
get her about the island, and at other times I sat myself
down contented enough without her. But I had a strange
uneasiness in my mind to go down to the point of the
island, where, as I have said, in my last ramble, I went up
the hill to see how the shore lay, and how the current set,
that 1 might see what I had to do: this inclination in-
creased upon me every day, and at length 1 resolved to
travel thither by land, following the edge of the shore. 1
did so; but had any one in England been to meet such a
man as 1 was, it must either have frightened him, or raised
a great deal of laughter; and as I frequently stood still to
look at myself, I could not but smile at the notion of my
traveling through Yorkshire, with such an equipage, and
in such a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch of my figure,
as follows. ,j
I had a great high shapeless cap, made of a goat's skin,
with a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep the sun
from me as to shoot the rain off from running into my
neck; nothing being so hurtful in these climates as the rain
upon the flesh, under the clothes.
f 1 had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming
down to about the middle of the thighs, and a pair of open-
kneed breeches of the same; the breeches were made of
the skin of an old he-goat, whose hair hung down such a
length on either side, that, like pantaloons, it reached to
the middle of my legs: stockings and shoes I had none,
but had made me a pair of somethings, I scarce know what
,to call them, like buskins, to flap over my legs, and lace
on either side like spatterdashes, but of a -most barbarous
shape, as indeed were all the rest of my clothes.
I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which 1 drew
together with two thongs of the same, instead of buckles;
and in a kind of a frog on either side of this, instead of a
sword and dagger, hung a little saw and a hatchet; one on
one side, and one on the other. I had another belt, not so
broad, and fastened in the same manner, which hung over
my shoulder; and at the end of it, under my left arm,
hung two pouches, both made of goat's skin too: in one of
which hung my powder, in the other my shot. At my
back J carried my basket, and on my shoulder my gun;
and over my head a great clumsy ugly goat's-skin um-
brella, but which, after all, was the most necessary thing I
had about me, next to my gun. As for my face, the color
of it was really not so mulatto-like as one might expect
from a man not at all careful of it, and living within nine
or ten degrees of the equator. My beard 1 had once
suffered to grow till it was about a quarter of a yard long;
but as I had both scissors and razors sufficient, I had cut it
Eretty short, except what grew on my upper lip, which 1
ad trimmed into a large pair of Mohammedan whiskers,
such as I had seen worn by some Turks at Sallee; for the
Moors did not wear such, though the Turks did: of these
mustachios or whiskers, 1 will not say they were long
enough to hang my hat upon them, but they were of a
length and shape monstrous enough, and such as, in Eng-
land, would have passed for frightful. s
But all this is by the by; for, as to my figure, I had so
few to observe me that it was of no manner of conse-
quence; so I say no more to that part. In this kind of
figure I went my new journey, and was out five or six
days. I traveled first along the seashore, directly to the
place where 1 first brought my boat to an anchor, to get
upon the rocks; and having no boat now to take care of, I
went over the land, a nearer way, to the same height that
I was upon before; when lookiug forward to the point of
the rocks which lay out, and which I was obliged to double
with my boat, as is said above, I was surprised to see the
sea all smooth and quiet; no rippling, no motion, no cur-
rent, any more than in any other places. I was at s
strange loss to understand this, and resolved to spend some
time in observing it, to see if nothing from the sets of
the tide had occasioned it; but I was presently convinced
how it was, viz., that the tide of ebb, setting from the
west, and joining with the current of waters from some
great river on the shore: must be the occasion of this cur-
rent; and that according as the wind blew more forcibly
from the west, or from the north, this current came nearer,
or went further from the shore: for waiting thereabouts
till evening, I went up to the rock again, aud then the
tide of ebb being made, 1 plainly saw the current again as
before, only that it ran further off, being near half a league
from the shore; whereas, in my case, it set close upon the
shore, and hurried me and my canoe along with it, which,
at another time, it would not have done.
This observation convinced me, that 1 had nothing to do
but to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the tide, and
I might very easily bring my boat about the island again:
but when I began to think of putting it in practice, I had
such a terror upon my spirits at the remembrance of the
danger I had been in, that I could not think of it again
with any patience; but, on the contrary, I took up another
resolution, which was more safe, though more laborious;
and this'was, that I would build, or rather make me
another periagua or canoe; and so have one for one side of
the island, and one for the other.
You are to understand, that now I had, as I may call it,
two plantations in the island; one, my little fortification or
tent with the wall about it, under the rock, with the cave
behind me, which, by this time, I bad enlarged into sev-
eral apartments or caves, one within another. One of
these, which was the driest and largest, and had a door out
beyond my wall or fortification, that is to say, beyond
where my wall joined to the rock, was all filled up with the
large earthen pots, of which I have given an account, and
with fourteen or fifteen great baskets, which would hold
five ©r six bushels each, where 1 laid up my stores of pro*
136 ROBINSON CRUSOE.
vision, especially my corn, some in the ear, cut off short
from the straw, and the other rubbed out with my hand.
As for my wall, made, as before, with long stakes or
piles, those piles grew all like trees, and were by this time
grown so big, and spread so very much, that there was not
the least appearance, to any one's view, of any habitation
behind them.
Near this dwelling of mine, but a little further within
the land, and upon lower ground, lay my two pieces of
corn land, which I kept duly cultivated and sowed, and
which duly yielded me their harvest in its season; and
whenever 1 had occasion for more corn, 1 had more land
adjoining as fit as that.
Besides this, 1 had my country seat; and I had now a
tolerable plantation there also: for, first, 1 had my little
bower, as I called it, which 1 kept in repair; that is to say,
I kept the hedge which encircled it constantly fitted up
to its usual height, the ladder standing always in the in-
side: I kept the trees, which at first were no more than my
stakes, but were now grown very firm and tall, always cut
so, that they might spread and grow thick and wild, and
make the more agreeable shade, which they did effectually
to my mind. In the middle of this 1 had my tent always
standing, being a piece of a sail spread over poles, set up
ior that purpose, and which never wanted any repair or re-
newing; and under this 1 had made me a squab or couch,
with the skins of the creatures I had killed, and with other
.soft things; and a blanket laid on them, such as belonged
to our sea bedding, which I had saved, and a great watch-
coat to cover me; and here, whenever 1 had occasion to be
absent from my chief seat, 1 took up my country habita-
tion.
Adjoining to this I had my inclosures for my cattle, that
is to say, my goats; and as I had taken an inconceivable
deal of pains to fence and inclose this ground, I was so
anxious to see it kept entire, lest the goats should break
through, that I never left off, till, with infinite labor, I
had stuck the outside of the hedge so full of small stakes,
and so near to one another, that it was rather a pale than
a hedge, and there was scarce room to put a hand through
between them; which afterward, when those stakes grew,
as they all did in the next rainy season, made the inclosura
strong, like a wall—indeed, stronger than any wall.
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 13?
This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that I
spared no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared neces-
sary for my comfortable support; for 1 considered the
keeping up a breed of tame creatures thus at my hand
would be a living magazine of flesh, milk, butter, and
cheese for me as long as I lived in the place, if it were to
be forty years; and that keeping them in my reach depend-
ed entirely upon my perfecting my inclosures to such a de-
gree, that I might be sure of keeping them together;
which, by this method, indeed, I so effectually secured,
that when these little stakes began to grow, I had planted
them so very thick, that I was forced to pull some of them
np again.
In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I
principally depended on for my winter store of raisins, and
which I never failed to preserve very carefully, as the best
and most agreeable dainty of my whole diet; and, indeed,
they were not only agreeable, but medicinal, wholesome,
nourishing, and refreshing to the last degree.
As this was also about half-way between my other habi-
tation and the place where I had laid up my boat, I gener-
ally stayed and lay here in my way thither: for 1 used fre-
quently to visit my boat; and I kept all things about or
belonging to her, in very good order: sometimes I went
out in her to divert myself, but no more hazardous voyages
would 1 go, nor scarce ever above a stone's cast or two
from the shore, 1 was so apprehensive of being hurried out
of my knowledge again by the currents or winds, or any
other accident. But now 1 come to a new scene of my
life.
SECTION XVII.
Unexpected Alarm and Cause for Apprehension.—He Fortifies his
Abode.
It happened one day, about noon, going toward my
boat, I was exceedingly surprised with the print of a man's
naked foot on the shore, which was very plain to be seen
in the sand. I stood like one thunderstruck, or as if I had
seen an apparition: 1 listened, I looked round me, but I
could hear nothing, nor see anything; I went up to a ris-
ing ground, to look further; 1 went up the shore and down
188 ROBINSON CRUSOE.
the shore, but it was all one; 1 could see no other impres-
sion but that one. 1 went to it again to see if there were
any more, and to observe if it might not be my fancy; but
there was no room for that, for there was exactly the print
of a foot, toes, heel, and every part of a foot: how it came
thither 1 knew not, nor could 1 in the least imagine; but,
after innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a man perfectly
confused and out of myself, I came home to my fortifica-
tion, not feeling, as we say, the ground 1 went on, but ter-
rified to the last degree; looking behind me at every two
or three steps, mistaking every bush and tree, and fancy-
ing every stump at a distance to be a man. Nor is it pos-
sible to describe bow many various shapes my affrighted
imagination represented things to me in, how many wild
ideas were found every moment in my fancy, and what
strange unaccountable whimsies came into my thoughts by
the way.
When I came to my castle (for so 1 think 1 called it ever
after this), I fled into it like one pursued; whether I went
over by the ladder, as first contrived, or went in at the
hole in the rock, which I had called a door, I can not re-
member; no, nor could 1 remember the next mornmg; tor
never frightened hare fled to cover, or fox to earth with
more terror of mind than 1 to this retreat.
I slept none that night: the further I was from the occa-
sion of my fright, the greater my apprehensions were;
which is something contrary to the nature of such things,
and especially to the usual practice of all creatures in fear;
but I was so embarrassed with my own frightful ideas of
the thing, that 1 formed nothing but dismal imaginations
to myself, even though I was now a great way off it.
Sometimes I fancied it must be the devil, and reason
joined in with me upon this supposition; for how should
any other thing in human shape come into the place?
Where was the vessel that brought them? What marks
were there of any other footsteps? And how was it possi-
ble a man should come there? But then to think that
Satan should take human shape upon him in such a place,
where there could be no manner of occasion for it, but to
leave the print of his foot behind him, and that even for
no purpose too, for he could not be sure I should see it—
this was an amusement the other way. I considered that
the devil might have found out abundance of other wars to
*«ve terrified me than this of the single print of a foot;
that as 1 lived quite on the other side of the island, he
would never have been, so simple as to leave a mark in a
place where it was ten thousand to one whether I should
ever see it or not, and in the sand too, which the first
surge of the sea, upon a high wind, would have defaced
entirely: all this seemed inconsistent with the thing itself,
and with all the notions we usually entertain of the sub-
tlety of the devil.
Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue me
out of all apprehensions of its being the devil; and I pres-
ently concluded, then, that it must be some more danger-
ous creature, viz., that it must be some of ihe savages of
the main land over against me, who had wandered out to
sea in their canoes, and, either driven by the currents or
by contrary winds, had made the island, and had been ou
shore, but were gone away again to sea; being as loath, per-
haps, to have stayed on this desolate island as 1 would have
been to have had them.
While these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was
very thankful in my thoughts that I was so happy as not
to be thereabouts at that time, or that they did not see my
boat, by which they would have concluded that some in-
habitants had been in the place, and perhaps have searched
further for me: then terrible thoughts racked my imagina-
tion about their having found my boat, and that there were
people here; and that if so, I should certainly have them
come again in greater numbers, and devour me: that if it
should happen so that they should not find me, yet they
would find my inclosure, destroy all my corn, and carry
away all my flock of tame goats, and I should perish at
last for mere want.
Thus my fear banished all my religious hope, all that
former confidence in God, which was founded upon such
wonderful experience as I had had of His goodness, as if He
that had fed me by miracle hitherto could not preserve, by
His power, the provision which he had made for me by His
goodness. I reproached myself with my laziness, that
would not sow any more corn one year than would just
ierve me till the next season, as if no accident would inter-
vene to prevent my enjoying the crop that was upon the
ground; and this I thought so just a reproof, that 1 re-
140 ROBINSON CKUSOK.
,
solved for the future to have two or three years' corn be.
forehand, so that, whatever might come, I might not per-
ish for want of bread.
How strange a checker-work of Providence is the life of
man! and by wbat secret different springs are the affec-
tions hurried about, as different circumstances present!
To-day we love what to-morrow we hate; to-day we seek
what to-morrow we shun; to-day we desire what to-morrow
we fear, nay, even tremble at the apprehensions of; this
was exemplified in me, at this time, in the most lively
manner imaginable; for I, whose only affliction was that L
seemed banished from human society, that I was alone,
circumscribed by. the boundless ocean, cut off from man-
kind, and condemned to what 1 called silent life; that I
was as one whom Heaven thought not worthy to be num-
bered among the living, or to appear among the rest of His
creatures; that to have seen one of my own species would
have seemed to me a raising me from death to life, and
the greatest blessing that Heaven itself, next to the
supreme blessing of salvation, could bestow; I say, that I
should now tremble at the very apprehensions of seeing a
man, and was ready to sink into the ground at but the
shadow or silent appearance of a man's having set his foot
on the island.
Such is the uneven state of human life; and it afforded
me a great many curious speculations afterward, when 1
had a little recovered my first surprise. I considered that
this was the station of life the infinitely wise and good
providence of God had determined for me; that as I could
not foresee what the ends of divine wisdom might be in all
this, so I was not to dispute His sovereignty, who, as I was
His creature, had an undoubted right, by creation, to gov-
ern and dispose of me absolutely as He thought fit; and
who, as I was a creature that had offended Him, had like-
wise a judicial right to condemn me to what punishment
He thought fit; and that it was my part to submit to bear
His indignation, because I had sinned against Him. I
then reflected, that as God, who was not only righteous,
but omnipotent, had thought fit thus to punish and afflict
me, so He was able to deliver me; that if He did not think
fit to do so, it was my unquestioned duty to resign myself
absolutely and entirely to His will; and, on the other
hand, it wag my duty also to hope in Him? pray to Him,
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 141
trod quietly to attend the dictates and directions of His i
daily providence.
These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, I
may say, weeks and months; and one particular effect of
my cogitations on this occasion I can not omit. One1
morning early, lying in my bed, and filled with thoughts;
about my danger from the appearance of savages, 1 found
it discomposed me very much; upon which these words of
the Scripture came into my thoughts: "Call upon me in
the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt;
glorify me." Upon this, rising cheerfully out of my bed,
my heart was not only comforted, but I was guided and
encouraged to pray earnestly to God for deliverance: when
1 had done praying, I took up my Bible, and opening it to
read, the first words presented to me were, "Wait on
the Lord, and be of good cheer, and He shall strengthen
thy heart; wait, 1 say, on the Lord." It is impossible to
express the comfort this gave me. In answer, I thankfully
laid down the book, and was no more sad, at least on that
occasion.
In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and
reflections, it came into my thoughts one day, that all this
might be a mere chimera of my own, and that this foot
might be the print of my own foot, when 1 came on shore
from my boat: this cheered me up a little too, and I began
to persuade myself it was all a delusion; that it was noth-
ing else but my own foot: and why might I not come that
way from the boat, as well as I was going that way to the
boat? Again, 1 considered also, that I could by no means
tell, for certain, where 1 had trod, and where 1 had not;
and that if, at last, this was only the print of my own foot,
I had played the part of those fools who try to make
stories of specters and apparitions, and then are fright'
ened at them more than anybody.
Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again,
for 1 had not stirred out of my castle for three days and
nights, so that I began to starve for provisions; for I had
little or nothing within doors but some barley cakes and
water: then 1 knew that my goats wanted to be milked
too, which usually was my evening diversion; and the poor
creatures were in great pain and inconvenience for want of
it: and, indeed, it almost spoiled some of them, and almost
dried up their milk. Encouraging myself, therefore, with
H2 HQBIiiSON CKUSOE.
the belief that this was nothing but the print of one of my
own feet, and that 1 might be truly said to start at my own
shadow, I began to go abroad again, and went to my coun-
try house to milk my flock: but to see with what fear I
went forward, how often 1 looked behind me, how I was
ready, overy now and then, to lay down my basket, and
run for my life, it would have made any one think 1 was
haunted with an evil .conscience, or that I had been lately
most terribly frightened; and so, indeed, I had. How-
ever, as I went down thus two or three days, and having
seen nothing, 1 began to be a little bolder, and to think
there was really nothing in it but my own imagination; but
I could not persuade myself fully of this till I should go
down to the shore again, and see this print of a foot, and
measure it by my own, and see if there was any similitude
or fitness, that I might be assured it was my own foot: but
when 1 came to the place, first, it appeared evidently to
me, that when I laid up my boat, I could not possibly be
on shore anywhere thereabout: secondly, when I came to
measure the mark with my own foot, 1 found my foot not
so large by a great deal. But these things filled my head
with new imaginations, and gave me the vapors again to
the highest degree, so that 1 shook with cold like one in an
ague; and I went home again, filled with the belief that
some man or men had been on shore there; or, in short,
that the island was inhabited, and 1 might be surprised be-
fore I was aware; and what course to take for my security
1 knew not.
Oh, what ridiculous resolutions men take when possessed
with fear! It deprives them of the use of those means
which reason offers for their relief. The first thing 1 pro-
posed to myself was, to throw down my inclosures, and
turn all my tame cattle wild into the woods, lest the enemy
should find them, and then frequent the island in prospect
of the same or the like booty: then to the simple thing of
digging up my two corn fields, lest they should find such a
grain there, and still be prompted to frequent the island:
then to demolish my bower and tent, that they might not
see any vestiges of habitation, and be prompted to look
further, in order to find out the persons inhabiting.
These were the subject of the first night's cogitations
after I was come home again, while the apprehensions
which had so overrun my mind were fresh upon me, and
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 148
my head was full of vapors, as above. Thus fear of dan-
ger is ten thousand times more terrifying than danger itself
when apparent to the eyes; and we find the burden of anx-
iety greater, by much, than the evil which we are anxious
about: and, which was worse than all this, 1 had not that
relief in this trouble from the resignation I used to prac-
tice, that 1 hoped to have. I looked, I thought, like Saul,
who complained not only that the Philistines were upon
him, but that God had forsaken him; for 1 did not now
take due ways to compose my mind, by crying,to God in
my distress, and resting upon his providence, as I had done
before, for my defense and deliverance; which, if 1 had
done, I had at least been more cheerfully supported under
this new surprise, and perhaps carried through it with
more resolution.
This confusion of my thoughts kept me awake all night:
but in the morning I fell asleep; and having, by the
amusement of my mind, been as it were tired, and my
spirits exhausted, I slept very soundly and waked much
better composed than I had ever been before. And now I
began to think sedately; and, upon the utmost debate with
myself, 1 concluded that this island, which was so exceed-
ing pleasant, fruitful, and no further from the main land
than as I had seen, was not so entirely abandoned as I
.might imagine; that although there were no stated inhabit-
ants who lived on the spot, yet that there might sometimes
come boats off from the shore, who, either with design, or
perhaps never but when they were driven by cross winds,
might come to this place; that 1 had lived here fifteen
years now, and had not met with the least shadow or figure
of any people yet; and that if at any time they should be
driven here, it was probable they went away again as soon
as ever they could, seeing they had never thought fit to fix
here upon any occasion; that the most 1 could suggest any
danger from, was from any casual accidental landing of
straggling people from the main, who, as it was likely, if
they were driven hither, were here against their wills, so
they made no stay here, but went off again with all possi-
ble speed; seldom staying one night on shore, lest they
should not have the help of the tides and daylight back
again; and that, therefore, I had nothing to do but to con-
sider of some safe retreat, in case I should see any
land upon the spot.
144 ROBINSON CRCSOE.
Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave m
large as to bring a door through again, which door, as 1
said, came out beyond where my fortification joined to the
rock: upon maturely considering this, therefore, I resolved
to draw me a second fortification, in the same manner of a
semicircle, at a distance from my wall, just where I had
planted a double row of trees about twelve years before, of
which 1 made mention: these trees having been planted so
thick before, they wanted but few piles to be driven be-
tween them, that they might be thicker and stronger, and
my wall would be soon finished: so that 1 had now a double
wall; and my outer wall was thickened with pieces of tim-
ber, old cables, and everything I could think of, to make
it strong, having in it seven little holes about as big as 1
might put my arm out at. In the inside of this, 1 thick-
ened my wall to about ten feet thick, with continually
bringing earth out of my cave, and laying it at the foot of
the wall, and walking upon it; and through the seven holes
I contrived to plant the muskets, of which I took notice
that 1 had got seven on shore out of the ship: these I
Elanted like my cannon, and fitted them into frames, that
eld them like a carriage, so that I could fire all the seven
guns in two minutes' time: this wall I was many a weary
month in finishing, and yet never thought myself safe till
it was done.
When this was done, 1 stuck all the ground without my
wall, for a great length every way, as full with stakes, or
sticks, of the osier-like wood, which 1 found so apt to
grow, as they could wejl stand; insomuch, that 1 believe I
might set in near twenty thousand of them, leaving a
pretty large space between them and my wall, that I might
have room to see an enemy, and they might have no shelter
from the young trees, if they attempted to approach my
outer wall.
Thus, in two years' time, I had a thick grove; and in
five or six years' time 1 had a wood before my dwelling,
growing so monstrous thick and strong, that it was indeed
perfectly impassable; and no men, oi what kind soever,
would everi imagine that there was anything beyond it,
much less a habitation. As for the way which I proposed
to myself to go in and out (for I left no avenue,) it was by
setting two ladders, one to a part of the rock which was
low, and then broke in, and left the room to place another
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 145
..
madder upon that: so when the two ladders were taken
down, no man living could come down to me without do-
ing himself mischief; and if they had come down, they
were still on the outside of my outer wall.
Thus I took all the measures human prudence could
suggest for my own preservation; and it will be seen, at
length, that they were not altogether without just reason,
though I foresaw nothing at that time more than my mere
fear suggested to me.
While this was doing, 1 was not altogether careless of
my other affairs: for 1 had a great concern upon me for
my little herd of goats; they were not only a ready supply
to me on every occasion, and began to be sufficient for me,
without the expense of powder and shot, but also without
ihe fatigue of hunting after the wild ones; aud I was loath
to lose the advantage of them, and to have them all to
nurse up over again.
For this purpose, after long consideration, I could think
of but two ways to preserve them: one was, to find another
convenient place to dig a cave under ground, and to drive
them into it every night; and the other was, to inclose two
or three little bits of land, remote from each other, and as
much concealed as I oulu, where I might keep about half
a dozen young goats in each place: so that if any disaster
happened to the flock in general, I might be able to raise
them again with little trouble and time; and this, though
it would require a great deal of time and labor, I thought
was the most rational design.
Accordingly, I spent some time to find out the most re-
tired parts of the island; and 1 pitched upon one, which
was as private, indeed, as my heart could wish for: it was
a little damp piece of ground, in the middle of the hollow
and thick woods, where, as is observed, 1 almost lost my-
self once before, endeavoring to come back that way from
the eastern part of the island. Here I found a clear piece
of land, near three acres, so surrounded with woods that
it was almost an inclosure by nature; at least, it did not
want near so much labor to make it so as the other pieces
»f ground 1 had worked so hard at.
SECTION xvin.
Precautions against Surprise.—Bobinson discovers that his Island
has been visited by Cannibals.
I immediately went to work with this piece of ground,
and in less than a month's time I had so fenced it round,
that my flock, or herd, call it which you please, who were
not so wild now as at first they might be supposed to be,
were well enough secured in it: so, without any further de-
lay, I removed ten young she-goats and two he-goats to
this piece; and when they were there, I continued to per-
feet the fence, till 1 had made it as secure as the other,
which, however, I did at more leisure, and it took me up
more time by a great deal. All this labor 1 was at the ex-
pense of purely from my apprehensions on account of the
print of a man's foot which I had seen; for, as yet, I never
saw any human creature come near the island; and 1 had
now lived two years under this uneasiness, which, indeed,
made my life much less comfortable than it was before, as
may be well imagined by any who knows what it is to live
in the constant snare of the fear of man. And this I must
observe, with grief too, that the discomposure of my mind
had too great impressions also upon the religious part of
my thoughts: for the dread and terror of falling into the
hands of savages and cannibals lay so upon my spirits, that
1 seldom found myself in a due temper for application to
my Maker, at least not with the sedate calmness and resig-
nation of soul which 1 was wont to do: I rather prayed to
God as under great affliction and pressure of mind, sur-
rounded with danger, and in expectation every night of
being murdered and devoured before morning; and I must
testify from my experience, that a temper of peace, thank-
fulness, love and affection, is much the more proper frame
for prayer than that of terror and discomposure; and that
under the dread of mischief impending, a man is no more
fit for a comforting performance or the duty of praying to
God, than he is for a repentance on a sick-bed; for these
discomposures affect the mind, as the others do the body;
and the discomposure of the mind must necessarily be as
great a disability as that of the body, and much greater;
praying to God being properly an act of the mind, not
of the body.
But to go on: after I had thus secured one part of my
little living stock, I went about the whole island, searching
for another private place to make such another deposit;
when, wandering more to the west point of the island than
I had ever done yet, and looking out to- sea, 1 thought I
saw a boat upon the sea, at a great distance.. I had found
a perspective glass or two in one of the seamen's chests,
which I saved out of our ship, but I had it not about me;
and this was so remote, that I could not tell what to make
of it, though I looked at it till my eyes were not able to
hold to look any longer: whether it was a boat or not, I do
not know, but as 1 descended from the hill 1 could see no
more of it; so I gave it over; only I resolved to go no more
out without a perspective glass in my pocket. When 1
was come down the hill to the end of the island, where, in-
deed, 1 had never been before, I was presently convinced
that the seeing the print of a man's foot was not such a
strange thing in the island as I imagined: and, but that it
was a special providence that 1 was cast upon the side of
the island where the savages never came, I should easily
have known that nothing was more frequent than for the
canoes from the main, when they happened to be a little
too far out air sea, to shoot over to that side of the island
for harbor: likewise, as they often met and fought in their
canoes, the victors, having taken any prisoners, would
bring them over to this shore, where, according to their
dreadful customs, being all cannibals, they would kill and
eat them; of which hereafter.
When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said
above, being the south-west point of the island, 1 was per-
fectly confounded and amazed; nor is it possible for me to
express the horror of my mind, at seeing the shore spread
with skulls, hands, feet, and other bones of human bodies;
and, particularly, 1 observed a place where there had been
a fire made, and a circle dug in the earth, like a cockpit,
where 1 supposed the savage wretches had sat down to
their inhuman feastings upon the bodies of their fellow-
creatures.
I was so astonished with the sight of these things that I
entertained no notions of any danger to myself from it tot
a long while: all my apprehensions were buried in the
thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman, hellish brutality, and
the horror of the degeneracy of human nature, which,
though I had heard of it often, yet I never had so near a
view of before: in short, I turned away my face from the
horrid spectacle; my stomach grew sick, and I was just at
the point of fainting, when nature discharged the disorder
from my stomach: and having vomited with uncommon
violence, 1 was a little relieved, but could not bear to stay
in the place a moment; so 1 got me up the hill again with
all the speed 1 could, and walked on toward my own habi-
tation.
When 1 came a little out of that part of the island, 1
stood still awhile, as amazed, and then recovering myself,
I looked up with the utmost affection of my soul, and,
with a flood of tears in my eyes, gave God thanks, that had
cast my first lot in a part of the world where I was distin-
guished from such dreadful creatures as these; and that,
though I had esteemed my present condition very miser-
able, had yet given me so many comforts in it, that I had
still more to give thanks for than to complain of: and this,
above all, that 1 had, even in this miserable condition,
been comforted with the knowledge of Himself, and the
hope of His blessing, which was a felicity more than suffi-
ciently equivalent to all the misery which 1 had suffered or
could suffer.
In this frame of thankfulness, I went home to my castle,
and began to be much easier now, as to the safety of my
circumstances, than ever I was before: for I observed that
these wretches never came to this island in search of what
they could get; perhaps not seeking, not wanting, or not
expecting, anything here, and having often, no doubt, been
up in the covered woody part of it, without finding any-
thing to their purpose. I knew 1 had been here now
almost eighteen years, and never saw the least footsteps of
human creature there before; and I might be eighteen
years more as entirely concealed as 1 was now, if I did not
discover myself to them, which I had no manner of occa-
sion to do; it being mv only business to keep myself en-
tirely concealed where 1 was, unless 1 found a better sort
of creatures than cannibals to make myself known to. Yet
1 entertained such an abhorrence of the savage wretches
that I have been speaking of, and of the wretched inhu-
man custom of their devouring and eating each Other up,
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 149
that I continued pensive and sad, and kept close within my
own circle, for almost two years after this; when I say my
own circle, I mean by it my three plantations, viz., my
castle, my country seat, which 1 called my bower, and my
inclosure in the woods: nor did I look after this for any
other use than as an inclosure for my goats; for the aver-
sion which nature gave me to these hellish wretches was
such, that I was as fearful of seeing them as of seeing the
devil himself. I did not so much as go to look after mj
boat all this time, but began rather to think of making me
another; for 1 could not think of ever making any more
attempts to bring the other boat round the island to me,
lest 1 should meet with some of these creatures at sea, in
which if 1 happened to have fallen into their hands, I
knew what would have been my lot.
Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that 1 was in
no danger of being discovered by these people, began to
wear off my uneasiness about them; and I began to live
just in the same composed manner as before, only with
this difference, that I used more caution, and kept my eyes
more about me, than I did before, lest 1 should happen to
be seen by any of them; and particularly, I was more cau-
tious of firing my gun, lest any of them being on the
island should happen to hear it. It was therefore a very
good providence to me that I had furnished myself with a
tame breed of goats, and that 1 had no need to hunt any
more about the woods, or shoot at them; and if I did catch
any of them after this, it was by traps and snares, as I had
done before: so that for two years after this, I believe I
never fired my gun once off, though 1 never went out with-
out it; and, which was more, as I had saved three pistols
out of the ship, I always carried them out with me, or at
least two of them, sticking them in my goat's-skin belt. 1
also furbished up one of the great cutlasses that I had out
of the ship, and made me a belt to hang it on also; so that
I was now a most formidable fellow to look at when I went
abroad, if you add to the former description of myself, the
particular of two pistols, and a great broadsword hanging
at my side in a belt, but without a scabbard.
Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time, I
seemed, excepting these cautions, to be reduced to my
former calm sedate way of living. All these things tended
to show me, more and more, how far my condition was
150 ROBINSON CRU90B.
from being miserable, compared to some others; nay, to
many other particulars of life, which it might have pleased
God to have made my lot. It put me upon reflecting how
little repining there would be among mankind at any con-
dition of life, if people would rather compare their condi-
tion with those that were worse, in order to be thankful,
than be always comparing them with those which are bet-
ter, to assist their murmurings and complainings.
As in my present condition there were not really many
things which I wanted, so, indeed, 1 thought that the
frights I had been in about these savage wretches, and the
concern 1 had been in for my own preservation, had taken
off the edge of my invention for my own conveniences; and
1 had dropped a good design, which I had once bent my
thoughts too much upon, and that was, to try if 1 could
not make some of my barley into malt, and then try to
brew myself some beer. This was really a whimsical
thought, and I reproved myself often for the simplicity of
it; for I presently saw there would be the want of several
things necessary to the making my beer, that it would be
impossible for me to supply; as, first, casks to preserve it
in, which was a thing that, as I had observed already, 1
could never compass; no, though 1 spent not only many
days, bat weeks, nay, months, in attempting it, but to no
purpose. In the next place, 1 had no hops to make it
keep, no yeast to make it work, no copper or kettle to
make it boil; and yet, with all these things wanting, I
verily believe, had not the frights and terrors 1 was in
about the savages intervened, 1 had undertaken it, and
perhaps brought it to pass too; for I seldom gave anything
over without accomplishing it, when once 1 had it in my
head to begin it. But my invention now ran quite another
way; for, night and day, I could think of nothing but how
I might destroy some of these monsters in their cruel,
bloody entertainment, and, if possible, save the victim they
should bring hither to destroy. It would take up a large
volume than this whole work is intended to be, to set down
all the contrivances 1 hatched, or rather brooded upon, in
my thoughts, for the destroying these creatures, or at least
frightening them so as to prevent their coming hither any
more; but all this was abortive; nothing could be possible
to take effect, unless I was to be there to do it myself; and
what could one man do among them, when perhaps there
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 151
.
might be twenty or thirty of them together, with their
darts, or their bows and arrows, with which they could
shoot as true to a mark as I could with my gun?
Sometimes I thought of digging a hole under the place
where they made their fire, and putting in five or six
pounds of gun-powder, which, when they kindled their
fire, would consequently take fire, and blow up all that was
near it; but, as, in the first place, I should be unwilling to
waste so much powder upon them, my store being now
within the quantity of one barrel, so neither could be sure
of its going off at any certain time, when it might surprise
<hem: and, at best, that it would do little more than just
blow the fire about their ears and fright them, but not
sufficient to make them forsake the place: so I laid it
aside; and then proposed that 1 would pkce myself in am-
bush in some convenient place, with my three guns all
double-loaded, and, in the middle of their bloody cere-
mony, let fly at them, when 1 should be sure to kill or
wound perhaps two or three at every shot: and then fall-
ing in upon them with my three pistols, and my sword, I
made no doubt but that if there were twenty I should kill
them all. This fancy pleased my thoughts for some weeks;
and 1 was so full of it, that I often dreamed of it, and
sometimes that I was just going to let fly at them in my
sleep. I went so far with it in my imagination, that 1 em-
ployed myself several days to find out proper places to put
myself in ambuscade, as I said, to watch for them; and I
went frequently to the place itself, which was now grown
more familiar to me: but while my mind was thus filled
with thoughts of revenge, and a bloody putting twenty or
thirty of them to the sword, as I may call it, the horror I
had at the place, and at the signals of the barbarous
wretches devouring one another, abetted my malice.
Well, at length, I found a place in the side of the hill,
where I was sastisfied I might securely wait till I saw any
of their boats coming; and might then, even before they
would be ready to come on shore, convey myself, unseen,
into some thickets of trees, in one of which there was a
hollow large enough to conceal me entirely; and there 1
might sit and observe all their bloody doings, and take my
full aim at their heads, when they were so close together
as that it would be next to impossible that I should miss
my shot, or that I could fail wounding three or four el
them at the first shot. In this place, then, I resolved to
fix my design; and, accordingly, I prepared two muskets
and my ordinary fowliug-piece. The two muskets I loaded
with a brace of slags each, and four or five smaller bullets,
about the size of pistol-bullets; and the f owling-pieoe I loaded
with near a handful of swan-shot, of the largest size: 1 also
loaded my pistols with about four bullets each; and in this
posture, well provided with ammunition for a second and
third charge, I prepared myself for my expedition.
After 1 had thus laid the scheme of my design, and, in
my imagination, put it in practice, I continually made my
tour every morning up to the top of the hill, which was
from my castle, as 1 called it, about three miles, or more,
to see if 1 could observe any boats upon the sea, coming
near the island, or standing over toward it: but 1 began to
tire of this hard duty, after I had, for two or three months,
constantly kept my watch, but came always back without
any discovery: there having not, in all that time, been the
least appearance, not only on or near the shore, but on the
whole oce'tfi, so far as my eyes or glasses could reach every
way.
As long is 1 kept my daily tour to the hill to look out,
so long also I kept up the vigor of my design, and my
spirits seemed to be all the while in a suitable form for so
outrageous an execution as the killing twenty or thirty
naked savages, for an offense, which I had not at all en-
tered into a discussion of in my thoughts, any further than
my passions were at first fired by the horror 1 conceived at
the unnatural custom of the people of that country; who,
it seems, had been suffered by Providence, in His wise dis-
position of the world, to have no other guide than that of
their own abominable and vitiated passions; and, conse-
quently, were left, and perhaps had been so for some ages,
to act such horrid things, and receive such dreadful cus-
toms, as nothing but nature, entirely abandoned by
Heaven, and actuated by some hellish degeneracy, could
have run them into. But now, when, as I have said, I
began to be weary of the fruitless excursion, which 1 had
made so long and so far every morning in vain, so my
opinion of the action itself began to alter; and 1 began,
with cooler and calmer thoughts, to consider what I was
going to engage in: what authority or call 1 had to pretend
to be judge and executioner upon these men as criminals,.
BOBINSON CRUSOE. 153
whom Heaven had thought fit, for so many ages, to suffer,
unpunished, to go on, and to be, as it were, the execution-
ers of His judgments one upon another. How far these
people were offenders against me, and what right I had to
engage in the quarrel of that blood which they shed pro-
miscuously one upon another, I debated this very often,
with myself, thus: How do I know what God Himself
judges in this particular case? It is certain these people
do not commit this as a crime; it is not against their own
consciences reproving, or their light reproaching them;
they do not know it to be an offense, and then commit it
in defiance of divine justice, as we do in almost all the sins
we commit . They think it no more a crime to kill a cap-
tive taken in war, than we do to kill an ox; nor to eat hu-
man flesh, than we do to eat mutton.
When 1 considered this a little, it followed necessarily
that I was certainly in the wrong in it; that these people
were not murderers in the sense that I had before con-
demned them in my thoughts, any more than those Chris-
tians were murderers who often put to death the prisoners
taken in battle; or more frequently, upon many occasions,
put whole troops of men to the sword, without giving
quarter, though they threw down their arms and submit-
ted. In the next place, it occurred to me, that although
the usage they gave one another was thus brutish and in-
human, yet it was really nothing to me; these' people had
done me no injury: that if they attempted me, or I saw it
necessary, for my immediate preservation, to fall upon
them, something might be said for it; but that I was yet
out of their power, and they really had no knowledge of
me, and consequently no design upon me; and therefore it
could not be just for me to fall upon them: that this
would justify the conduct of the Spaniards in all their bar-
barities practiced in America, where they destroyed mil-
lions of these people: who, however they were idolaters and
barbarians, and had several bloody and barbarous rites in
their customs, such as sacrificing human bodies to their
idols, were yet, as to the Spaniards, very innocent people;
and that the rooting them cut of the country is spoken of
with the utmost abhorrence and detestation by even the
Spaniards themselves at Ibis time, and by all other Chris-
tian nations in Europe, as a mere butchery, a bloody and
unnatural piece of cruelty, unjustifiable either to God oi
164 BOBINSON CRUSOE.
man, and for which the very name of a Spaniard is reck*
oned to be frightful and terrible to all people of humanity,
or of Christian compassion—as if the kingdom of Spain
were particularly eminent for the produce of a race of men
who were without principles of tenderness, or the common
bowels of pity to the miserable, which is reckoned to be a
mark of generous temper in the mind.
These considerations really put me to a pause, and to a
kind of a full stop; and I began, by little and little, to be
off my design, and to conclude I had taken wrong meas-
ures in my resolution to attack the savages; and that it
was not my business to meddle with them, unless they
first attacked me, and Chat it was my business, if possible,
to prevent; but that if 1 were discovered and attacked by
them, I knew my duty. On the other hand, I argued with
myself, that this really was the way not to deliver myself,
but entirely to ruin and destroy myself; for unless I was
sure to kill every one that not only should be on shore at
that time, but that should ever come on shore afterward,
if but one of them escaped to tell their country-people
what had happened, they would come over again by thou-
sands to revenge the death of their fellows, and I should
only bring upon myself a certain destruction, which, at
present, I had no manner of occasion for. Upon the
whole, I concluded, that neither in principle nor in policy
I ought, one way or other, to concern myself in this affair;
that my business was, by all possible means, to conceal
myself from them, and not to leave the least signal to them
to guess by that there were any living creatures upon the
island, I mean of human shape. Religion joined in with
this prudential resolution, and I was convinced now, many
ways, ,that I was perfectly out of my duty when I was lay-
ing all my bloody schemes for the destruction of innocent
creatures, I mean innocent as to me. As to the crimes
ihey were guilty of toward one another, 1 had nothing to
do with them; they were national, and I ought to leave
them to the justice of God, who is the Governor of na-
tions, and knows how, by national punishments, to make
a just retribution for national offenses, and to bring public
judgments upon those who offend in a public manner, by
such ways as best please Him. This appeared so clear to
me now that nothing was a greater satisfaction to me than
that I had not been suffered to do a thing which 1 now saw
ROBINSON CRUSOE. , 155
bo much reason to believe would have been no leas a sin
than that of willful murder, if I had committed it; and I
gave most humble thanks on my knees to God, that had
thus delievered me from blood-guiltiness; beseeching Him
to grant me the protection of His Providence, that I might
not fall into the hands of the barbarians, or that 1 might
not lay my hands upon them, unless 1 had a more clear
call from Heav« i to do it, in defense of my own life.
SECTION XIX.
Robinson d'scovers a Cave, which serves him as a Butrwt against
the Savages.
In this disposition 1 continued for near a year after this;
mnd so far was I from desiring an occasion for falling upon
shese wretches, that in all that time I never once went up
the hill to see whether there were any of them in sight, or
to know whether any of them had been on shore there or
Dot, that I might not be tempted to renew any of my con-
trivances against them, or be provoked, by any advantage
which might present itself, to fall upon them; only this I
didy I went and removed my boat, which 1 had on the
other side of the island, and carried it down to the east end
of the whole island, where I ran it into a little cove, which
1 found under some high rocks, and where 1 knew, by rea-
son of the currents, the savages durst not, at least would
not, come with their boats upon any account whatever.
With my boat I carried away everything that I had left
there belonging to her, though not necessary for the bare
going thither, viz., a mast and sail which I had made for
her, and a thing like an anchor, but which, indeed, could
not be called either anchor or grapnel; however, it was the
best I could make of its kind; all these I removed, that
there might not be the least shadow of any discovery, or
any appearance of any boat, or of any human habitation,
upon the island. Besides this, I kept myself, as I said,
more retired than ever, and seldom went from my cell,
other than upon my constant employment, viz., to milk
my she-goats, and manage my little flock in the wood,
which, as it was quite on the other part of the island, was
quaite out of danger; for certain it is, that these savage peo-
pie, who sometimes haunted this island, never came with
any thoughts of finding anything here, and consequently
never wandered off from the coast; and I doubt not but
they might have been several times on shore after my ap-
prehensions of them had made me cautious, as well as be-
fore. Indeed, I looked back with some horror upon the
thoughts of what my condition would have been if I had
popped upon them and been discovered before that, when,*
naked and unarmed, except with one gun, and that loaded
often only with small shot, I walked everywhere, peeping
and peering about the island to see what 1 could get; what
a surprise should I have been in, if, when I discovered the
print of a man's foot, I had, instead of that, seen fifteen
or twenty savages, and found them pursuing me, and by
the swiftness of their running, no possibility of my escap-
ing them? The thoughts of this sometimes sunk my very
soul within me, and distressed my mind so much that I
could not soon recover it, to think what I should have
done, and how 1 should not only have been unable to resist
them, but even should not have had presence of mind
enough to do what 1 might have done, much less what
now, after so much consideration and preparation, I might
be able to do. Indeed, after serious thinking on these
things, I would be very melancholy, and sometimes it would
last a great while; but I resolved it all at last, into thank-
fulness to that Providence which had delivered me from so
many unseen dangers, and had kept from me those mis-
chiefs which 1 could have no way been the agent in deliver-
ing myself from, because 1 had not the least notion of any
such thing depending, or the least supposition of its being
possible. This renewed a contemplation which often had
come to my thoughts in former time, when first 1 began to.
see the merciful dispositions of Heaven, in the dangers we
run through in this life; how wonderfully we are delivered
when we know nothing of it; how, when we are in a quan-
dary, as we call it, a doubt or hesitation, whether to go this
way, or that way, a secret hint shall direct us this way,
when wo intonded to go that way; nay, when sense, our
own inclination, and perhaps business, has called to go the
other way, yet a strange impression upon the mind, from
we know not what springs, and by we know not what
power, shall overrule us to go this way; and it shall after-
ward appear that had we gone that way which we should
*iiave gone, and even to our imagination ought to have
gone, we should have been ruined and lost. Upon these,
- and many like reflections, I afterward made it a certain
rule with me, that whenever I found those secret hints or
pressings of mind, to doing or not doing anything that
presented, or going this way or that way, I never failed to
obey the secret dictate; -though 1 knew no other reason for
it than that such a pressure, or such a hint, hung upon
my mind. I could give many examples of the success of
this conduct in the course of my life, but more especially
in the latter part of my inhabiting this unhappy island, be-
sides many occasions which it is very likely 1 might have
taken notice of it, if 1 had seen with the same eyes then
that I see with now. But it is never too late to be wise;
and I can not but advise all considering men, whose lives
are attended with such extraordinary incidents as mine, or
even though not so extraordinary, not to slight such secret
intimations of Providence, let them come from what invisi-
ble intelligence they will. That I shall not discuss, and
perhaps can not account for; but certainly they are a proof
of the converse of spirits, and a secret communication be-
tween those embodied and those unembodied, and such a
proof as can never be withstood; of which 1 shall have oc-
casion to give some very remarkable instances in the re-
mainder of my solitary residence in this dismal place.
I believe the reader of this will not think it strange if I
confess that these anxieties, these constant(dangers 1 lived
in, and the concern that was now upon me, put an end to
,all invention, and to all the contrivances that I had laid
ior my future accommodations and conveniences. 1 had
the care of my safety more now upon my hands than that
of my food. I cared not to drive a nail, or chop a stick of
wood now, for fear the noise I might make should be heard;
much less would I fire a gun, for the same reason; and,
.above all, 1 was intolerably uneasy at making any fire, lest
the smoke, which is visible at a great distance in the day,
should betray me. For this reason 1 removed that part of
my business which required fire, such as burning of pots
and pipes, etc., into my new apartment in the woods,
where, after I had been some time, I found, to my un-
speakable consolation, a mere natural cave in the earth,
which went in a vast way, and where, I dare say, no sav-
age, had he been at the mouth of it, would be so hardy as
158 ROBINSON CRUSUB.
to venture in; nor, indeed, would any man else, but one
who, like me, wanted nothing so much as a safe retreat.
The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a greal
rock, where by mere accident (I would say, if 1 did not see
abundant reason to ascribe all such things now to Provi-
dence), I was cutting down some thick branches of treeB to
make charcoal; and, before I go oh, I must observe the
reason of my making this charcoal, which was thus: 1 was
afraid of making a smoke about my habitation, as I said
before; and yet I could not live there without baking my
bread, cooking my meat, etc.; so I contrived to burn some
wood here, as I had seen done in England, under turf, till
it became chark, or dry coal; and then putting the fire
out, I preserved the coal to carry home, and perform the
other services for which fire was wanting, without danger
of smoke. But this is by the by. While I was cutting
down some wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick
branch of low brushwood, or underwood, there was a kind
of hollow place; I was curious to look in it, and getting
with difficulty into the mouth of it, I found it was pretty
large; that is to say, sufficient for me to stand upright in
it, and perhaps another with me; but I must confess to
you that I made more haste out than 1 did in, when, look-
ing further into the place, and which was perfectly dark, I
saw two broad shining eyes of some creature, whether devil
or man 1 knew not, which twinkled like two stars, the dim
light from the cave's mouth shining directly in, and mak-
ing the reflection. However, after some pause, I recovered
myself, and began to call myself a thousand fools, and to
think that he that was afraid to see the devil was not fit to
live twenty years in an islaud all alone; and that I might
well think there was nothing in this cave that was more
frightful than myself. Upon this, plucking up my cour-
age, I took up a fire-brand, and in 1 rushed again, with the
stick flaming in my hand; I had not gone three steps in
but I was almost as much frightened as I was before; for I
heard a very loud sigh, like that of a man in some pain,
and it was followed by a broken noise, as of words half ex-
pressed, and then a deep sigh again. 1 stepped back, and
was indeed struck with such a surprise, that it put me into
a cold sweat; and if I had had a hat on my head, I will not
answer for it, that my hair might not have lifted it off.
But still plucking up my spirits as well as I could, and en*
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 109
1
couraging myself a little with considering that the power
and presence of God was everywhere, and was able to pro-
tect me, upon this I stepped forward again, and by the
light of the fire-brand, holding it up a little over my head,
I saw lying on the ground a most monstrous, frightful, old
he-goat, just making his will, as we say, and gasping for
life, and dying, indeed, of mere old age. I stirred him a
little to see if I could get him out, and he essayed to get
up, but was not able to raise himself; and I thought with
myself he might even lie there; for if he had frightened
me, so he would certainly frighten any of the savages, if
any of them should be so hardy as to come in there while
he had any life in him.
I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to look
round me, when 1 found the cave was but very small, that
is to say, it might be about twelve feet over, but in no man-
ner of shape, neither round nor square, no hands having
ever been employed in making it but those of mere Nature.
I observed also that there was a place at the further side of
it that went in further, but was so low that it required me
to creep upon my hands and knees to go into it, and whither
it went I knew not; so having no candle, I gave it over for
that time, but resolved to come again the next day, pro-
vided with candles and a tinder-box, which I had made of
the lock of one of the muskets, with some wild-fire in the
pan.
Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six large
candles of my own making (for 1 made very good candles
now of goat's tallow, but was hard set for candle-wick,
using sometimes rags or rope-yarn, and sometimes the
dried rind of a weed like nettles); and going into this low
place, I was obliged to creep upon all fours, as I have said,
almost ten yards; which, by the way, I thought was a
venture bold enough, considering that I knew not how far
it might go, nor what was beyond it. When I had got
through the strait, I found the roof rose higher up, I be-
lieve near twenty feet; but never was such a glorious sight
seen in the island, I dare say, as it was, to look round the
sides and roof of this vault or cave; the wall reflected a
hundred thousand lights to me from my two candles.
What it was in the rocK, whether diamonds, or any other
{recious stones, or gold, which I rather supposed it to be,
knew not. The place I was in was a most delightful
oavity or grotto of its kind, as could be expected, though
perfectly dark; the floor was dry and level, and had a sort
of small loose gravel upon it, so that there was no nauseous
•r venomous creature to be seen, neither was there any
damp or wet on the sides or roof; the only difficulty in it
was the entrance; which, however, as it was a place of
secuiity, and such a retreat as I wanted, 1 thought that
was a convenience; so that I was really rejoiced at the dis-
covery, and resolved, without any delay, to bring some of
those things which I was most anxious about to this place;
particularly, I resolved to bring hither my magazine of
powder, and all my spare arms, viz., two fowling-pieces,
for I had three in all, and three muskets, for of them I
had eight in all; so 1 kept at my castle only five, which
stood ready mountea like pieces of cannon, on my outmost
fence, and were ready also to take out upon any expedition.
Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition, I hap-
pened to open the barrel of powder which 1 took up out of
the sea, and which had been wet; and I found that the
water had penetrated about three or four inches into the
powder on every side, which caking and growing hard, had
preserved the inside like a kernel in the shell; so that 1 had
near sixty pounds of very good powder in the center of the
cask; this was a very agreeable discovery to me at that
time; so I carried all away thither, never keeping above
two or three pounds of powder with me in my castle, for
fear of a surprise of any kind; I also carried thither all the
lead I had left for bullets.
I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants,.
which were said to live in caves and holes in the rocks,
where none could come at them; for 1 persuaded myself,
while I was here, that if five hundred savages were to hunt
me, they could never find me out; or, if they did, they
would not venture to attack me here. The old goat, whom
I found expiring, died in the mouth of the cave the next
day after I made this discovery; and I found it much easier
to dig a great hole there, and throw him in and cover him
with earth than to drag him out; so I interred him
there, to prevent offense to my nose.
1 was now in the twenty-third year of my residence in
this island; and was so naturalized to the place, and the
manner of living, that could I have but enjoyed the cer-
tainty that no savages would come to the place to disturb
me, I could have been content to have capitulated lor
spending the rest of my time there, even to the last mo-
ment, till I had laid me down and died, like the old goat
in the cave. 1 had also arrived to some little diversions
<*nd amusements, which made the time pass a great deal
more pleasantly with me than it did before; as, first, I had
taught my Poll, as 1 noted before, to speak; and he did it
so familiarly, and talked so articulately and plain, that it
was very pleasant to me; for I believe no bird ever spoke
plainer, and he lived with me no less than six-and-twenty
years; how long he might have lived afterward I know not,
though I know they have a notion in the Brazils that they
live a hundred years. My dog was a very pleasant and
loving companion to me for no less than sixteen years of
my time, and then died of mere old age. As for my cats,
they multiplied, as I have observed, to that degree, that I
was obliged to shoot several of them at first, to keep them
from devouring me and all 1 had; but, at length, when
the two old ones I brought with me were gone, and after
some time continually driving them from me, and letting
them have no provision with me, they all ran wild into the
woods, except two or three favorites, which I kept tame,
and whose young, when they had any, 1 always drowned;
and these were part of my family. Besides these, I always
kept two or three household kids about me, whom I taught
to feed out of my hand; and I had two more parrots, which
talked pretty well, and would all call Robin Crusoe, but
none like my first; nor, indeed, did I take the pains with
any of them that I had done with him. 1 had also several
tame sea-fowls, whose names I knew not, that I caught
upon the shore, and cut their wings; and the little stakes
which 1 had planted before my castle wall being now grown
up to a good thick grove, these fowls all lived among these
low trees, and bred there, which was very agreeable to me;
so that, as I said above, I began to be very well contented
with the life I led, if 1 could have been secured from the
dread of the savages. But it was otherwise directed; a?id
it may not be amiss for all people who shall meet with my
«tory to make this just observation from it, viz., How fre-
quently, in the course of our lives, the evil which in itself
we seek most to shun, and which, when we are fallen into,
is the most dreadful to us, is oftentimes the very means or
door of our deliverance, by which alone we can be raised
again from the affliction we are fallen into. I could give
many examples of this in the course of my unaccountable
life, but in nothing was it more particularly remarkable
than in the circumstances of my last years of solitary resi-
dence in this island.
SECTION XX.
Another Visit of the Savages.—Robinson sees them Dancing.—Pet.
ceives the Wreck of a Vessel.
It was now the month of December, as I said above, In
my twenty-third year; and this being the southern solstice
(for winter 1 can not call it), was the particular time of my
harvest, and required my being pretty much abroad in the
fields; when going out pretty early in the morning, even
before it was thorough daylight, 1 was surprised with see-
ing a light of some fire upon the shore, at a distance from
me of about two miles, toward the end of the island where
I had observed some savages had been, as before; and not
on the other side, but, to my great affliction, it was on my
side of the island. -
I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped
short within my grove, not daring to go out, lest 1 might
be surprised; and yet I had no more peace within, from
the apprehensions I had that if these savages, in rambling
over the island, should find my corn standing or cut, or
any of my works and improvements, they would immedi-
ately conclude that there were people in the place, and
would then never give over till they had found me out
.
In this extremity I went back directly to my castle, pulled
up the ladder after me, and made all things without look
as wild and natural as I could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a
posture of defense; I loaded all my cannon, as 1 called
them, that is to say, my muskets, which were mounted
upon my new fortification, and all my pistols, and resolved
to defend myself to the last gasp; not forgetting seriously
to commend myself to the Divine protection, and earnestly
to pray to God to deliver me out of the hands of the bar-
barians. I continued in this posture about two hours, and
began to be mighty impatient for intelligence abroad, for
1 had no spies to send out. After sitting awhile longer,
and musing what I should do in this, 1 was not able to beai
•Itting fn ignorance any longer; so setting up my ladder to
the side of the hill, vhere there was a flat place, as I ob-
served before, and then pulling the ladder up after me, I
set it up again, and mounted to the top of the hill; and
pulling out my perspective glass, which I had taken on
purpose, 1 laid me down flat on my belly on the ground,
and began to look for the place. I presently found there
were no less than nine naked savages, sitting round a small
fire they had made, not to warm them, for they had no
need of that, the weather being extremely hot, but, as I
supposed, to dress some of their barbarous diet of human
flesh, which they had brought with them, whether alive or
dead 1 could not tell.
They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled
up upon the shore; and as it was then tide of ebb, they
seemed to me to wait for the return of the flood to go
away again. It is not easy to imagine what confusion this
sight put me into, especially seeing them come on my side
of the island, and so near me too; but when 1 considered
their coming must be always with the current of the ebb,
1 began, afterward, to\be more sedate in my mind, being
satisfied that 1 might go abroad with safety all the time of
the tide of flood, if they were not on shore before; and
having made this observation, I went abroad about my
harvest work with the more composure.
As I expected, so it proved; for aa soon as the tide made
to the westward, I Baw them all take boat, and row (or
paddle, as we call it), away. I should have ooserved, that
for an hour or more before they went off, they went
a-dancing; and I could easily discern their postures and
gestures by my glass. 1 could not perceive, by my nicest
observation, but that they were stark naked, and bad not
the least covering upon them; but whether they were men
or women, I could not distinguish.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two
guns upon my shoulders, and two pistols in my girdle, and
my great sword by my side, without a scabbard, and with
all the speed 1 was able to make, went away to the hill
where 1 had discovered the first Appearance of all; and as
soon as I got thither, which was not in less than two hours
(for I could not go apace, being so loaden with arms as 1
was), 1 perceived there had been three canoes more of sav-
ages at that place; and looking out further, I saw they
184 B0BIN30N CBUSOR
were all at sea together, making over for the main. This
was a dreadful sight to me, especially as, going down to
the shore, I could see the marks of horror, which the dis-
mal work they had been about had left behind it, viz., the
blood, the bones, and part of the flesh, of human bodies,
eaten and devoured by those wretches with merriment and
sport. I was so filled with indignation at the sight that I now
began to premeditate the destruction of the next that I saw
there, let them be whom or how many soever. It seemed
evident to me that the visits which they made thus to this
island were not very frequent, for it was above fifteen
months before any more of them came on shore there again;
that is to say, I neither saw them, nor any footsteps or
signals of them, in all that time; for, as to the rainy sea-
sons, then they are sure not to come abroad, at least not so
far; yet all this while I lived uncomfortably, by reason of
the constant apprehensions of their coming upon me by
surprise; from whence I observe, that the expectation of
evil is more bitter than the suffering, especially if there is
no room to shake off that expectation, or those apprehen-
sions.
During all this time I was in the murdering humor, and
took up most of my hours, which should have been better
employed, in contriving how to circumvent and fall upon
them, the very next time 1 should see them; especially if
they should be divided, as they were the last time, into two
parties; nor did I consider at all that if 1 killed one party,
suppose ten or a dozen, 1 was still the next day, or week,
or month, to kill another, and so another, even ad infini-
tum, till 1 should be at length no less a murderer than they
wers in being man-eaters, and perhaps much more so. I
spent my days now in great perplexity and anxiety of mind,
expecting that I should, one day or other, fall into the
hands of these merciless creatures; and if I did at any
time venture abroad, it was not without looking round me
with the greatest care and caution imaginable. And now
1 found, to my great comfort, how happy it was that I
provided for a tame flock or herd of goats; for 1 durst not,
upon any account, fire my gun, especially near that side of
the island, where they usually came, lest I should alarm
the savages; and if they had fled from me now, I was sure
to have them come again, with perhaps two or three hun-
dred canoes with them, in a few days, and then 1 knew
what to expect. However, I wore out a year and three
months more before I ever saw any more of the savages, and
then I found them again, as I shall soon observe. It is true,
they might have been there once or twice, but either they
maae no stay, or at least I did not see them; but in the
month of May, as near as 1 could calculate, and in my
four-and-twentieth year, I had a very strange encounter
with them, of which in its place.
The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or six-
teen months' interval, was very great; I slept unquiet,
dreamed always frightful dreams, and often started out of
my sleep in the night; in the day great troubles over-
whelmed my mind, and in the night I dreamed often of
killing the savages and of the reasons why I might justify
the doing of it. But to waive all this for awhile. It was
in the middle of May, on the sixteenth day, 1 think, as
well as my poor wooden calendar would reckon, for 1
marked all upon the post still; I say, it was ou the six-
teenth of May that it blew a very great storm of wind all
day, with a great deal of lightning and thunder, and a very
foul night it was after it. 1 knew not what was the par-
ticular occasion of it, but as I was reading in the Bible,
and taken up with very serious thoughts about my present
condition, I was surprised with the noise of a gun, as I
thought, fired at sea. This was, to be sure, a surprise
quite of a different nature from any I had met with before;
for the notions this put into my thoughts were quite of an-
other kind. 1 started up in the greatest haste imaginable,
and, in a trice, clapped my ladder to the middle place of
the rock, and pulled it after me; and mounting it the
second time, got to the top of the hill the very moment
that a flash of fire bid me listen for a second gun, which
accordingly, in about half a minute, I heard, and, by the
sound, knew that it was from that part of the sea where I
was driven down the current in my boat. I immediately
considered that this must be some ship in distress, and
that they had some comrade, or some other ship in com-
pany, and fired these guns for signals of distress, and to
obtain help. 1 had the presence of mind at that minute
to think that though 1 could not help them, it might be
they might help me; so I brought together all the dry
wood I could get at hand, and making a good handsome
pile, 1 set it on fire upon the hill. The wood was dry, and
166 BOBINSCW CRUSOl.
biased freely; and though the wind blew very hard, yet it
burned fairly out; so that I was certain, if there was any
«uch thing as a ship, they must needs see it; and no doubt
they did, for as soon as ever my fire blazed up 1 heard an-
other gun, and after that several others, all from the same
quarter. I plied my fire all night long till day-break; and
when it was broad day, and the air cleared up, I saw some-
thing at a great distance at sea, full east of the island,
whether a sail or a hull I could not distinguish, no, not
with my glass; the distance was so great, and the weather
still something hazy also; at least it was so out at sea.
I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon perceived
that it did not move; so 1 presently concluded that it was
a ship at anchor; and being eager, you may be sure, to be
satisfied, I took my gun in my hand, and ran toward the
south side of the island, to the rocks where 1 had formerly
been carried away with the current; and getting up there,
the weather by this time being perfectly clear, 1 could
plainly see, to my great sorrow, the wreck of a ship, cast
away in the night upon those concealed rocks which I
found when I was out in my boat; and which rocks, as
they checked the violence of the stream, and made a kind
of counter-stream, or eddy, were the occasion of my re-
covering from the most desperate, hopeless condition that
ever 1 had been in in all my life. Thus, what is one man's
safety is another man's destruction; for it seems these
men, whoever they were, being out of their knowledge,
and the rocks being wholly under water, had been driven
upon them in the night, the wind blowing hard at E.N.E.
Had they seen the island, as I must necessarily suppose
they did not, they must, as I thought, have endeavored to
have saved themselves on shore by the help of their boat;
but their firing oft guns for help; especially when they saw,
as 1 imagined, my fire, filled me with many thoughts:
first, I imagined that upon seeing my light, they might
have put themselves into their boat, and endeavored to
make the shore; but that the sea going very high, they
might have been cast away; other times 1 imagined that
they might have lost their boat before, as might be the case
many ways; as particularly, by the breaking of the sea
upon their ship, which many times obliges men to stave,
or take in pieces, their boat, and sometimes to throw it
overboard with their own hands; other tines I imagined
they had some other ship or ships in company, who, upon
the signals of distress they had made had taken them up
and carried them off; other times I fancied they were all
gone off to sea in their boat, and being hurried away by
the current that I had been formerly in, were carried out
into the great ocean, where there was nothing but misery
and perishing; and that perhaps, they might oy this time
be starving, and in a condition-io think of eating one an-
other.
As all these were but conjectures at best, so, in the con-
dition I was in, I could do no more than look on upon the
misery of the poor men, and pity them; which had still
this good effect on my side, that it gave me more and more
cause to give thanks to God, who had so happily and com-
fortably provided for me in my desolate condition; and
that of two ship's companies who were now cast away upon
this part of the world, not one life should be spared but
mine. I learned here again to observe, that it is very rare
that the Providence of God casts us into any condition of
life so low, or any misery"so great, but we may see some-
thing or other to be thankful for, and may see others in
worse circumstances than our own. Such certainly was
the case of these men, of whom I could not so much as see
room to suppose any of them were saved; nothing could
make it rational so much as to wish or expect that they did
not all perish there, except the possibility only of their be-
ing taken up by another ship in company; and this was
but mere possibility indeed, for I saw not the least sign or
appearance of any such thing. 1 can not explain, hy any
possible energy of words, what a strange longing or han--
teri^g of desires I felt in my soul upon this sight, break-
ing out sometimes thus—Oh, that there had been but one
or two, nay, or but one soul saved out of this ship, to hare
escaped to me, that I might but have had one companion,
one fellow-creature to have spoken to me, and to have con-
versed with! In all the time of my solitary life I never
i'elt so earnest, so strong a desire after the society of my
fellow-creatures, or so deep a regret at the want of it
SECTION XXL
He Visits the Wreck and Obtains many Stores from It.—Agaii
thinks of Quitting the Island.—Has a Remarkable Dream.
There are some secret moving springs in the affections,
which, when they are set a-going by some object in view,
or, though not in view, yet rendered present to the mind
by the power of imagination, that motion carries out the
soul, by its impetuosity, to such violent, eager embracings
of the object that the absence of it is insupportable. Such
were these earnest wishings that but one man had been
saved. I believe 1 repeated the words, "Oh, that it had
been but one!" a thousand times; and my desires were m
moved by it, that when I spoke the words my hands would
clinch together, and my fingers would press the palms of
my hands so, that if 1 had had any soft thing in my hand
\t would have crushed it involuntarily; and the teeth in
my head would strike together, and set against one an-
other so strong that for some time I could not part them
again. Let the naturalists explain these things, and the
reason and manner of them; all I can say to them is to
describe the fact, which was even surprising to me, when
I found it, though 1 knew not from whence it proceeded;
it was doubtless the effect of ardent wishes, and of strong
ideas formed in my mind, realizing the comfort which the
conversation of one of my fellow-Christians would have
been to me. But it was not to be; either their fate or
mine, or both, forbade it; for till the last year of my being
on this island, I never knew whether any were saved out of
that ship or no; and had only the affliction, some days
after, to see the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore at
the end of the island which was next the shipwreck. He
had no clothes on but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair of open-
kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but nothing to
direct me so much as to guess what nation he was of; he
had nothing in his pockets but two pieces-of-eight and a
tobacco-pipe—the last was to me of ten times more value
than the first.
It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out
in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might find
something on board that might be useful to me; but that
ROBINSON CHUSOE. 169
did not altogether press me so much as the possibility that
there might be yet some living creature on board, whose
life I might not only save, but might, by saving that life,
comfort my own to the last degree. And this though*1
clung so to my heart that I could not be quiet night or day,
but I must venture out in my boat on board this wreck;
and committing the rest, to God's Providence, I thought
the impression was so strong upon my mind that it could
not be resisted, that it must come from some invisible
direction, and that I should be wanting to myself if 1 did
not go.
Under the power of this impression, I hastened back to
my castle, prepared everything for my voyage, took a
quantity of bread, a great pot of fresh water, a compass to
steer by, a bottle of rum (for 1 had still a great deal of
that left), and a basket of raisins; and thus loading myself
with everything necessary, I went down to my boat, got
the water out of her, put her afloat, loaded all my cargo in
her, and then went home again for more. My second cargo
was a great bag of rice, the umbrella to set up over my
head for a shade, another large pot of fresh water, and
about two dozen of my small loaves, or barley-cakes, more
than before, with a bottle of goat's milk and a cheese; all
which, with great labor and sweat, I carried to my boat,
and praying to God to direct my voyage, I put out; and
rowing or paddling the canoe along the shore, came at last
to the utmost point of the island on the north-east side.
And now I was to launch out into the ocean, and either to
venture or not to venture. I looked on the rapid currents
which ran constantly on both sides of the island at a dis-
tance, and which were very terrible to me, from the re-
membrance of the hazard I had been in before, and my
heart began to fail me; for I foresaw that if 1 was driven
into either of those currents 1 should be carried a great
way out to sea, and perhaps out of my reach, or sight of
the island again; and that, then, as my boat was but
small, if any little gale of wind should rise, 1 should be
inevitably lost.
These thoughts so oppressed my mind that I began to
give over my enterprise; and having hauled my boat into
a little creek on the shore, I stepped out, and sat me down
upon a rising bit of ground, very pensive and anxious, be-
tween fear and desire, about my voyage; when, m I was
musing, I could perceive that the tide was turned, and the
flood came on; upon which my going was impracticable
for so many hours. Upon this, presently, it occurred to
me that I should go up to the highest piece of ground 1
could find, and observe, if I could, how the sets of the
tide, or currents, lay when the flood came in, that 1 might
judge whether, if 1 was driven one way out, I might not
expect to be driven another way home, with the same
rapidness of the currents. This thought was no sooner in
my head than I cast my eyes upon a little hill, which suffi-
ciently overlooked the sea both ways, and from whence I
had a clear view of the currents, or sets of the tide, and
which way I was to guide myself in my return. Here I
found, that as the current of the ebb was set out close by
the south point of the island, so the current of the flood
set in close by the shore of the north side; and that I had
nothing to do but to keep to the north side of the island in
my return, and 1 should do well enough.
Encouraged with this observation, I resolved the next
morning to set out with the first of the tide; and reposing my-
self for the night in my canoe, under the great watch-coat I
mentioned, 1 launched out. 1 first made a little out to
sea, full north, till I began to feel the benefit of the cur-
rent, which set eastward, and which carried me at a great
rate, and yet did not so hurry me as the current on the
south side had done before, so as to take from me all gov-
ernment of the boat; but having a strong steerage with my
paddle, I went at a great rate directly for the wreck, and
in less than two hours I came up to it. It was a dismal
sight to look at; the ship, which, by its building, was
Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in between two rocks; all the
stern and quarter of her were beaten to pieces with the sea;
and as her forecastle, which stuck in the rocks, had run
on with great violence, her mainmast and foremast were
brought by the board, that is to say, broken short off; but
her bowsprit was sound, and the head and bow appeared
firm. W.hen I came close to her, a dog appeared upon her,
who, seeing me coming, yelped, and cried; and as soon as
I called him jumped into the sea to come to me. 1 took
him into the boat, but found him almost dead with hunger
and thirst. I gave him a cake of my bread, and he de.
voured it like a ravenous wolf that had been starving a fort-
night in the snow. 1 then gave the poor creature some
171
fresh water, with which, if I would have let him, he would
have burst himself. After this, I went on board; but the
first sight I met with was two men drowned in the cook-
room, or forecastle of the ship, with their arms fast about
each other. 1 concluded, as is indeed probable, than
when the ship struck, it being in a storm, the sea broke so
high, and so continually over her, that the men were not
able to bear it, and were strangled with the constant rush-
ing in of the water, as much as if they had been under
water. Besides the dog, there was nothing left in the ship
that had life; nor any goods, that I could see, but what
were spoiled by the water. There were some casks of
liquor, whether wine or brandy I knew not, which lay
lower in the hold, and which, the water being ebbed out,
I could see; but they were too big to meddle with. I saw
several chests, which I believed belonged to some of the
seamen; and I got two of them into the boat, without ex-
amining what was in them. Had the stern of the ship been
fixed, and the forepart broken off, I am persuaded I might
have made a good voyage; for, by what I found in these
two chests, 1 had room to suppose the ship had a great
deal of wealth on board; and, if I may guess from the
course she steered, she must have been bound from
Buenos Ayres, or the Bio de la Plata, in the south part of
America, beyond the Brazils, to the Havanna, in the Gulf
of Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain. She had, no doubt,
a great treasure in her, but of no use, at that time, to any-
body; and what became of her crew, I then knew not.
I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of liquor,
of about twenty gallons, which I got into my boat with
much difficulty. There were several muskets in the cabin,
and a great powder-horn, with about four pounds of pow-
der in it; as for the muskets, 1 had no occasion for them,
so 1 left them, but took the powder-horn. 1 took a fire-
shovel and tongs, which 1 wanted extremely; as also two
little brass kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate, and a
gridiron; and with this cargo, and the dog, I came away,
the tide beginning to make home again; and the same
evening, about an hour within night, 1 reached the island
again, weary and fatigued to the last degree. I repose I
that night in the boat; and in the morning I resolved t >
harbor what I had got in my new cave, and not carry it
home to my castle. After refreshing myself, I got nil uij
17$ BOBINSON CRUSOE.
cargo on shore, and began to examine the particulars.
The cask of liquor 1 found to be a kind of rum, but not,
such as we had at the Brazils, and, in a word, not at all
good; but when I came to open the chests, I found several
things of great use to me; for example, 1 found in one a
fine case of bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and filled
with cordial waters, fine and very good; the bottles held
about three pints each, and were tipped with silver. I
found two pots of very good succades or sweetmeats, so
fastened also on the top, that the salt-water had not hurt
them; and two more of the same, which the water had
spoiled. I found some very good shirts, which were very
welcome to me; and about a dozen and a half of white
linen handkerchiefs and colored neck-cloths; the former
were also very welcome, being exceeding refreshing to wipe
my face in a hot day. Besides this, when 1 came to the
till in the chest, 1 found there three great bags of pieces-
of-eight, which held about eleven hundred pieces in all;
and in one of them, wrapped up in a paper, six doubloons
of gold and some small bars or wedges of gold; 1 suppose
they might all weigh near a pound. In the other chests
were some clothes, but of little value; but, by the circum-
stances, it must have belonged to the gunner's mate;
though there was no powder in it, except two pounds of
fine glazed powder, in three small flasks, kept, I suppose,
for charging their fowling-pieces on occasion. Upon the
whole, 1 got very little by this voyage that was of any use
to me; for, as to the money, 1 had no manner of occasion
for it; it was to me as the dirt under my feet; and I would
have given it all for three or four pair of English shoes and
stockings, which were things I greatly wanted, but had
none on my feet for many years. I had indeed got two
pair of shoes now, which I took off the feet of the two
drowned men whom 1 saw in the wreck, and I found two
pair more in one of the chests, which were very welcome
to me; but they were not like our English shoes, eithar for
ease or service, being rather what we call pumps than
shoes. I found in this seaman's chest about fifty pieces-
of-eight in rials, but no gold; 1 suppose this belonged to a
poorer man than the other, which seemed to belong to
some officer. Well, however, I lugged this money home
to my cave, and laid it up, as 1 had clone that before which
I brought from our own ship; but it was a great pity, as I
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 173
said, that the other part of this ship had not come to my
share; for I am satisfied I might have loaded my canoe
several times over with money; and, thought 1, if 1 ever
escape to England, it may lie here safe enough till I come
again and fetch it.
Having now brought all my things on shore, and secured
them, I went back to my boat, and rowed or paddled her
along the shore, to her old harbor, where I laid her up,
and made the best of my way to my old habitation, where
I found everything safe and quiet. I began now to repose
myself, live after my old fashion, and take care of my
family affairs; and, for awhile, 1 lived easy enough, only
that I was more vigilant than I used to be, looked out
oftener, and did not go abroad so much; and if at any time
I did stir with any freedom, it was always to the east part
of the island, where 1 was pretty well satisfied the savages
never came, and where I could go without so many pre-
cautions, and such a load of arms and ammunition as I
always carried with me if I went the other way. I lived in
this condition near two years more; but my unlucky head,
that was always to let me know it was born to make my
body miserable, was all these two years filled with projects
and designs, how, if it were possible, 1 might get away
from this island; for sometimes I was for making another
voyage to the wreck, though my reason told me that there
was nothing left there worth the hazard of my voyage;
sometimes for a ramble one way, sometimes another; and
1 believe verily, if I had had the boat that I went from
Sallee in, 1 should have ventured to sea, bound anywhere,
I knew not whither. I have been, in all my circumstances,
a memento to those who are touched with the general
plague of mankind, whence, for aught 1 know, one half
of their miseries flow; I mean that of not being satisfied
with the station wherein God and nature hath placed them;
for, not to look back upon my primitive condition, and the
exoellent advice of my father, the opposition to which was,
as I may call it, my original sin, my subsequent mistakes
of the same kind had been the means of my coming into
this miserable condition; for had that Providence which to
happily seated me at the Brazils as a planter blessed me
with confined desires, and 1 could have been contented to
have gone on gradually, I might have been, by this time,
I mean in the time of my being in this island, one of the
most considerable planters in the Brazils; nay, i am per.
,suaded that by the improvements 1 had made in that little
time I lived there, and the* increase 1 should probably have
made if 1 remained, 1 might have been worth a hundred
thousand moidores. And what business had I to leave a
settled fortune, a well-stocked plantation, improving and
increasing, to turn supercargo to Guinea to fetch negroes,
when patience and time would have so increased our stock
at home that we could have bought them at our own door
from those whose business it was to fetch them; and though
it had cost us something more, yet the difference of that
price was by no means worth saving at so great a hazard!
But as this is usually the fate of young heads, so reflection
upon the folly of it is as commonly the exercise of more
years, or of the dear-bought experience of time; so it was
with me now, and yet so deep had the mistake taken root
in my temper, that I could not satisfy myself in my sta-
tion, but was continually poring upon the means and pos-
sibility of my escape from this place. And that I may,
with the greater pleasure to the reader, bring on the re-
maining part of my story, it may not be improper to give
some account of my first conceptions on the subject of this
foolish scheme for my escape, and how, and upon what
foundation I acted.
1 am now to be supposed retired into my castle, after my
late voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up and secured
under water, as usual, and my condition restored to what
it was before; 1 had more wealth, indeed, than I had be-
fore, but was not at all the richer; for 1 had no more use
for it than the Indians of Peru had before the Spaniards
came there.
It was one of the nights in the rainy season in March,
the four-and-twentieth year of my first setting foot in this
island of solitude, I was lying in my bed or hammock,
awake; very well in health, had no pain, no distemper, no
uneasiness of body, nor any uneasiness of mind, more than
ordinary, but could by no means close my eyes, that is, so
as to sleep; no, not a wink all night long, otherwise than
as follows: It is impossible to set down the innumerable
crowd of thoughts that whirled through that great thor-
oughfare of the brain, the memory, in this night's time; I
ran over the whole history of my life in miniature, or hy
abridgment, as I may call it, to my comma to this island)
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 175
and also of that part of my life since I came to this island.
In my reflections upon the state of my case since I came on
shore on this island, I was comparing the happy posture of
my affairs in the first years of my habitation here, com-
pared to the life of anxiety, feari and care which 1 had
lived in, ever since I had seen the print of a foot in the
sand; not that I did not believe the savages had frequented
the island even all the while, and might have been several
hundreds of them at times on shore there; but I had never
known it, and was incapable of any apprehensions about
it; my satisfaction was perfect, though my danger was the
same, and I was as happy in not knowing my danger as if
1 had never really been exposed to it. This furnished my
thoughts with many very profitable reflections, and par-
ticularly this one: How infinitely good that Providence is,
which has provided, in its government of mankind, such
narrow bounds to his sight and knowledge of things; and
though he walks in the midst of so many thousand dan-
gers, the sight of which, if discovered to him, would dis-
tract his mind and sink his spirits, he is kept serene and
calm, by having the events of things hid from his eyes,
and knowing nothing of the dangers which surround him.
After these thoughts had for some time entertained me,
I came to reflect seriously upon the real danger I had been
in for so many years in this very island, and how I had
walked about in the greatest sacurity, and with all possible
tranquillity, even when perhaps nothing but the brow of a
hill, a great tree, or the casual approach of night, had
been between me and the worst kind of destraction, viz.,
that of falling into the hands of cannibals and savages,
who would have seized on me with the same view as 1
would on a goat or a turtle, and have thought it no more
a crime to kill and devour me than I did a pigeon or cur-
lew. I would unjustly slander myself, if I should say I
was not sincerely thankful to my great Preserver, to whose
singular protection I acknowledged, with great humility,
all these unknown deliverances were due, and without
which I must inevitably have fallen into their merciless
hands.
When these thoughts were over, my head was for some
time taken up in considering the nature of these wretched
creatures, I mean the savages, and how it came to pass in
the world, that the wise Governor of all things should give
up any of His creatures to such inhumanity, nay, to some-
thing so much below even brutality itself, as to devour its
own kind; but as this ended in some (at that time) fruit-
less speculations, it occurred to me to inquire what part of
the world these wretches lived in; how far off the coast was
from whence they came; what they ventured over so far
from home for; wbat kind of boats they had; and why I
might not order myself and my business so, that I might
be as able to go over thither as they were to come to me.
I never so much as troubled myself to consider what 1
should do with myself when I went thither, what would
become of me, if I fell into the hands of the savages; or
how I should escape from them, if they attacked me: no.
nor so much as how it was possible for me to reach the
coast, and not be attacked by some or other of them, with-
out any possibility of delivering myself; and if I should not
fall into their hands, what I should do for provision, or
whither I should bend my course: none of these thoughts,
I say, so much as came in my way; but my mind was
wholly bent upon the notion of my passing over in my boat
to the main land. I looked upon my present condition as
the most miserable that could possibly be; that I was not
able to throw myself into anything, but death, that could
be called worse; and if I reached the shore of the main, I
might perhaps meet with relief, or 1 might coast along, as
I did on the African shore, till I came to some inhabited
country, and where I might find some relief; and after all,
perhaps, I might Eall in with some Christian ship that
might take me in; and if the,worst came to the worst, I
could but die, which would put an end to all these miseries
at once. Pray note, all this was the fruit of a disturbed
mind, an impatient temper, made desperate, as it were, by
the long continuance of my troubles, and the disappoint-
ments I had met in the wreck I had been on board of, and
where I had been so near obtaining what 1 so earnestly
longed for, viz., somebody to speak to, and to learn some
knowledge from them of the place where I was, and of the
probable means of my deliverance. I was agitated wholly
by these thoughts; all my calm of mind, in my resignation
to Providence, and waiting the issue of the dispositions of
Heaven, seemed to be suspended; and I had, as it were, no
power to turn my thoughts to anything but to the project
Of a voyage to the main, which came upon me with sucb
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 177
force, and such an impetuosity of desire, that it was not to
6e resisted.
When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or
more, with such violence that it set my very blood into a
ferment, and my pulse beats as if I had been in a fever,
merely with the extraordinary fervor of my mind about
it, nature, as if I had been fatigued and exhausted with
the very thought of it, threw me into a sound sleep. One
would have thought I should have dreamed of it, but I did
not, nor of anything relating to it: but I dreamed that as
1 was going out in the morning, as usual, from my castle, I
saw upon the shore two canoes and eleven savages coming
to land, and that they brought with them another savage,
whom they were going to kill, in order to eat him; when,
on a sudden, the savage that they were going to kill
jumped away, and ran for his life; and I thought, In my
sleep, that he came running into my little thick grove be-
fore my fortification, to hide himself; and that I, seeing
him alone, and not perceiving that the others sought him
that way, showed myself to him, and smiling upon him,
encouraged him: that he knelt down to me, seeming to
pray me to assist him; upon which 1 showed him my lad-
der, made him go up, and carried him into my cave, and
he became my servant: and that as soon as I had got this
man, I said to myself, Now I may certainly venture to the
main land; for this fellow will serve me as a pilot, and will
tell me what to do, and whither to go for provisions, and
whither not to go for fear of being devoured; what places
to venture into, and what to shun. I waked with this
thought; and was under such inexpressible impressions of
joy at the prospect of my escape in my dream, that the dis-
appointments which 1 felt upon coming to myself, and
finding that it was no more than a dream, were equally ex-
travagant the other way, and threw me into a very great
Rejection of spirits.
Upon this, however, I made this conclusion: that my
only way to go about to attempt an escape was, if possible,
eo get a savage into my possession; and, if possible, it
mould be one of their prisoners whom they bad condemned
to be eaten, and should bring hither to kill. But these
thoughts still were attended with this difficulty, that it was
impossible to effect this without attacking a whole caravan
of them, and killing them all: and this was not Only a very
r
178
desperate attempt, and might miscarry: but, on the othef
hand, I had greatly sci upled the lawfulness nf it to myself,
and my heart trembled at the thought of stiedding so much
blood, though it was for my deliverance. I need not re-
peat the arguments which occurred to me against this, they
being the same mentioned before: but though I had other
reasons to offer now, viz., that those men were enemies to
my life, and would devour me if they could; that it was
self-preservation, in the highest degree, to deliver myself
from this death of a life, and was acting in my own defense
as much as if they were actually assaulting me, and the
like; I say, though these things argued for it, yet the
thoughts of shedding human blood for my deliverance were
very terrible to me, and such as I could by no means re-
concile myself to for a great while. However, at last-
after many secret disputes with myself, and after great
perplexities about it (for all these arguments, one way and
another, struggled in my head a long time), the eager pre
vailing desire of deliverance at length mastered all the rest'
and 1 resolved, if possible, to get one of those savages inte
my hands, cost what it would. My next thing was to con*
trive how to do it, and this indeed was very difficult to re-
solve on: but as I could pitch upon no probable means for
it, so I resolved to put myself upon the watch, to see them
when they came on shore, and leave the rest to the event,
taking such measures as the opportunity should present,
let what would be.
With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself upop
the scout as often as possible, and indeed so often that ]
was heartily tired of it; for it was above a year and a halt
that I waited; and for great part of that time went out to
the west end, and to the south-west corner, of the island,
almost every day, to look for canoes, but none appeared.
This was very discouraging, and began to trouole me
much, though I can not say that it did in this case (as it
had done some time before) wear off the edge of my desire
to the thing; but the longer it seemed to be delayed, the
more eager I was for it: in a word, I was not at first so
careful to shun the sight of these savages, and avoid being
seen by them, as I was now eager to be upon them. Be-
sides, I fancied myself able to manage one, nay, two or
three savages, if 1 had them, so as to make them entirely
slaves to me, to do whatever 1 should direct them, and tn
prevent their being able at any time to do me any hurt. It
was a great while that I pleased myself with this affair; but
nothing still presented; all my fancies and schemes came
to nothing, for no savages came near me for a great while.
SECTION XXII.
Robinson Rescues one of Their Captives from the Savages, Whom he
names Friday, and makes his Servant.
About a year and a half after 1 entertained these notions
(and by long musing had, as it were, resolved them all into
nothing, for want of an occasion to put them into execu-
tion), X was surprised, one morning early, with seeing no
less than five canoes all on shore together on my side the
island, and the people who belonged to them all landed,
and out of my sight. The number of them broke all my
measures; for seeing so many, and knowing that they
always came four or six, or sometimes more, hi a boat, I
could not tell what to think of it, or how to take my meas-
ures, to attack twenty or thirty men single-handed; so lay
still in my castle, perplexed and discomforted: however, I
put myself into all the same postures for an attack that I
had formerly provided, and was just ready for action, if
anything had presented. Having waited a good while, list-
ening to hear if they made any noise, at length, being very
impatient, I set my guns at the foot of my ladder, and
clambered up to the top of the hill, by my two stages, as
usual; standing so, however, that my head did not appear
above the hill, so that they could not perceive me by any
means. Here 1 observed, by the help of my perspective
glass, that they were no less than thirty in number; that
they had a fire kindled, and that they had meat dressed.
How they had cooked it 1 knew not, or what it was; but
they were all dancing, in I know not how many barbarous
gestures and figures, their own way, round the fire.
While I was thus looking on them, I perceived, by my
Eerspective, two miserable wretches dragged from the
oats, where, it seems they were laid by, and were now
brought out for the slaughter. 1 perceived one of them
immediately fall, being knocked down, 1 suppose, with a
club or wooden sword, for that was their way, and two or
three others were at work immediately, cutting him open
for their cookery, while the other victim was left standing
by himself, till they should be ready for him. In that very
moment, this poor wretch seeing himself a little at liberty,
and unbound, nature inspired him with hopes of life, and
he started away from them, and ran with incredible swift-
ness along the sands, directly toward me, I mean toward
that part of the coast where my habitation was. 1 was
dreadfully frightened, I must acknowledge, when I per-
ceived him run my way, and especially when, as I thought,
I saw him pursued by the whole body: and now 1 expected
that part of my dream was coming to pass, and that he
would certainly take shelter in my grove; but 1 could not
depend, by any means, upon my dream for the rest of it,
viz., that the other savages would not pursue him thither,
and find him there. However, I kept my station, and my
spirits began to recover, when I found that there was not
above three men that followed him; and still more was 1
encouraged when I found that he outstripped them exceed-
ingly in running, and gained ground of them, so that if he
could but hold it for half an hour, 1 saw easily he would
fairly get away from them all.
There was between them and my castle the creek, which
I mentioned often in the first part of my story, where 1
landed my cargoes out of the ship; and this 1 saw plainly
he must necessarily swim over, or the poor wretch would
be taken there: but when the savage escaping came
thither, he made nothing of it, though the tide was then
up; but plunging in, swam through in about thirty strokes,
or thereabouts, landed, and ran on with exceeding strength
and swiftness. When the three persons came to the creek,
I found that two of them could swim, but the third could
not, and that, standing on the other side, he looked at the
others, but went no further, and soon after went softly
back again; which, as it happened, was very well for him
in the end. I observed, that the two who swam were yet
more than twice as long swimming over the creek as the
fellow was that fled from them. It came now very warmly
upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now was
the time to get me a servant, and perhaps a companion or
assistant, and that I was called plainly by Providence to
save this poor creature's life. I immediately ran down the
ladders with all possible expedition, fetched my two guns,
to %ey were both at the foot of the ladders, as I observed
above, and getting up again, with the same haste, to the
top of the hill, I crossed toward the sea, and having a very
short cut, and all down hill, placed myself in the way be-
tween the pursuers and the pursued, hallooing aloud to
him that fled, who, looking back, was at first, perhaps, as
much frightened at me as at them; but 1 beckoned with
my hand to him to come back; and, in the meantime, I
slowly advanced toward the two that followed: then rush-
ing at once upon the foremost, I knocked him down with
the stock of my piece. 1 was loath to fire, because I would
not have the rest hear; though, at that distance, it would
not have been easily heard, and being out of sight of the
smoke too, they would not have easily known what to
make of it. Having knocked this fellow down; the other
who pursued him stopped, as if he had been frightened,
and I advanced apace toward him: but as I came nearer, 1
perceived presently he had a bow and arrow, and was fit-
ting it to shoot at me: so I was then necessitated to shoot
at him first, which 1 did, and killed him at the first shot.
The poor savage who fled but had stopped, though he saw
both his enemies fallen and killed, as he thought, yet was
so frightened with the fire and noise of my piece that he
stood stock still, and neither came forward nor went back-
ward, though he seemed rather inclined still to fly than to
come on. I hallooed again to him, and made signs to
come forward, which he easily understood, and came a
little way; then stopped again, and then a little further,
and stopped again; and I could then perceive that he stood
trembling, as if he had been taken prisoner, and had just
been to be killed, as his two enemies were. I beckoned to
him again to come to me, and gave him all the signs of en-
couragement that 1 could think of; and he came nearer
and nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve steps, in
token of acknowledgment for saving his life. I smiled at
him, and looked pleasantly, and beckoned to him to come
still nearer: at length he came close to me; and then he
knelt down again, kissed the ground, and laid his head
upon the ground, and taking me by the foot, set my foot
upon his head: this, it seems, was in token of swearing to
be my slave forever. 1 took him up, and made much of
him, and encouraged him all I could. But there was more
work to do yet; for I perceived the savage whom I knocked
down was not killed but stunned with the blow, and began
to come to himself: so I pointed to him, ard showed him
the savage, that he was not dead: upou this he spoke some
words to me, and though I could not understand them, yet
1 thought they were pleasant to hear; for they were the
first sound of a man's voice that I had heard, my own ex-
cepted, for above twenty-five years. But there was no
time for such reflections now; the savage who was knocked
down recovered himself so far as to sit up upon the
fround, and 1 perceived that my savage began to be afraid;
ut when I saw that, I presented my other piece at the
man, as if I would shoot him: upon this my savage, for so
I call him now, made a motion to me to lend him my
sword which hung naked in a belt by my side, which I did.
He no sooner had it, but he ran to his enemy, and, at one
blow, cut off his head so cleverly, no executioner in Ger-
many could have done it sooner or better; which I thought
rery strange for one who, I had reason to believe, never
saw, a sword in his life before, except their own wooden
swords: however, it seems, as I learned afterward, they
made their wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood
was so hard, that they will cut off headseven with them, ay
and arms, and that at one blow too. When he had done
this, he came laughing to me, in sign of triumph, and
brought me the sword again, and with abundance of gest-
ures, which I did not understand, laid it down, with the
head of the savage that he had killed, just before me. But
that which astonished him most was to know how I killed
the other Indian so far off: so pointing to him, he made
signs to me to let him go to him; so 1 bade him go, as well
as I could. When he came to him, he stood like one
amazed, looking at him, turning him first on one side,
then on the other, looked at the wound the bullet had
made, which, it seems, was just in his breast where it hai
made a hole, and no great quantity of blood had followed,
but he had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead. He took
up his bow and arrows, and came back; so 1 turned to go
away, and beckoned him to follow me, making signs to
him that more might come after them. Upon this, he
made signs to me that he should bury them with sand,
that they might not be seen by the rest, if they followed;
and so I made signs to him again to do so. He fell to
work; and, in an instant, he had scraped a hole in the
sand with his hands, big enough to bury the first in, and
then dragged him into it, and covered him; and did so by
the other also: I believe he had buried them both in a
quarter of an hour. Then calling him away, I carried
him, not to my castle, but quite away, to my cave, on the
further part of the land: so I did not let my dream come
to pass in that part, viz., that he came into my grove for
shelter. Here 1 gave him bread and a bunch of raisins
to eat, and a draught of water, which I found he was in-
deed in great distress for, by his running; and having re-
freshed him, I made signs for him to go and lie down to
sleep, showing him a place where I had laid some rice
straw, and a blanket upon it, which I used to sleep upon
myself sometimes; so the poor creature lay down, and went
to sleep.
He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well made,
with straight, strong limbs, not too large, tall, and well-
shaped, and, as I reckon, about twenty-six years of age.
He had a very good countenance, not a fierce and surly
aspect; but seemed to have something very manly in his
face; and yet he had all the sweetness and softness of a
European in his countenance too, especially when he
smiled. His hair was long and black, not curled like
wool; his forehead ve-y high and large; and a great vivac-
ity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes. The color of his
skin was not quite black, but very tawny; and yet not an
ugly yellow, nauseous tawny, as the Brazilians and Virgin-
tans, and other natives of America are, but of a bright kind
of a dun olive color, that had in it something very agree-
able, though not very easy to describe. His face was
round and plump; his nose small, not flat like the Ne-
groes; a very good mouth, thin lips, and his fine teeth
well set, and as white as ivory.
After he had slumbered, rather than slept, about half an.
hour he awoke again, and came out of the cave to me, for
I had been milking my goats, which 1 had in the inclosure
just by: when he espied me, he came running to me, lay-
ing himself down again upon the ground, with all the pos-
sible signs of an humble, thankful disposition, making a
great many antic gestures to show it. At last, he lays his
head flat upon the ground, close to my foot, and sets my
other foot upon bis head, as he had done before; and after
this made all the signs to me of subjection, servitude, and
submission imaginable, to let me know how he would serve
184 n<KOTSClT C-.-3CZ-3.
me as long at lie lived. I understood him in many things,
and let him know I was very well pleased with him. In a
little time I began to speak to him and teach him to speak
to me; and, first, I let him know his name should be
Friday, which was the day 1 saved his life: I called him so
for the memory of the time. I likewise taught him to say
Master: and then let him know that was to be my name: 1
likewise taught him to say yes and no, and to know the
meaning of them. I gave him some milk in an earthen
pot, and let him see me drink it before him, and sop my
bread in it; and gave him a cake of bread to do the like,
which he quickly complied with, and made signs that it
was very good for him. I kept there with him all that
night; but as soon as it was day, I beckoned to him to
come with me, and let him know 1 would give him some
clothes: at which he seemed very glad, for he was stark
naked. As we went by the place where he had buried the
two men, he pointed exactly to the place, and showed me
the marks that he had made to find them again, making
signs to me that we should dig them up again, and eat
them. At this 1 appeared very angry, expressed my ab-
horrence of it, made as if I would vomit at the thoughts of
it, and beckoned with my hand to him to come away, which
he did immediately, with great submission. 1 then led him
up to the top of the hill, to see if his enemies were gone;
and pulling out my glass, I looked, and saw plainly the
place where they had been, but no appearance of them or
their canoes: so that it was plain that they were gone, and
had left their two comrades behind them, without anj
search after them.
But I was not content with this discovery; but having
now more courage, and consequently more curiosity, I took
my man Friday with me, giving him the sword in his
hand, with the bow and arrows at his back, which I found
he could use very dexterously, making him carry one gun
for me, and I two for myself; and away we marched to the
place where these creatures had been, for I had a mind now
to get some fuller intelligence of them. When 1 came to
tne place, my very blood ran chill in my veins, and my
heart sunk within me, at the horror of the spectacle: in-
deed, it was a dreadful sight, at least it was so to me,
though Friday made nothing of it . The place was covered
with numan bones, the ground dyed with *,heir blood, and
great pieces of flesh left here and there, half-eaten,
mangled, and scorched; and, in short, all the tokens of
the triumphant feast they had been making there, after a
victory over their enemies. I saw three skulls, five hands
and the bones of three or four legs and feet, and abun-
dance of other parts of the bodies; and Friday, by his signs,
made me understand that they brought over four prisoners
to feast upon; that three of them were eaten up, and that
he, pointing to himself, was the fourth; that there had
been a great battle between them and their next king,
whose subjects, it seems, he had been one of, and that they
had taken a great number of prisoners; all which were car-
ried to several places by those who had taken them in the
fight, in order to feast upon them, as was done here by
these wretches upon those they brought hither.
I caused Friday to gather up all the skulls, bones, flesh,
and whatever remained, and lay them together in a heap,
and make a great fire upon it, and burned them all to ashes.
I found Friday bad still a hankering stomach after some of
the flesh, and was still a cannibal in his nature; but 1 dis-
covered so much abhorrence, at the very thoughts of it,
and at the least appearance of it, that he durst not discover
it: for 1 had, by some means, let him know that I would
kill him if he offered it.
When he had done this, we came back to our castle; and
there I fell to work for my man Friday: and, first of all, 1
gave him a pair of linen drawers, which I had out of the
poor gunner's chest I mentioned which I found in the
wreck; and which, with a little alteration, fitted him very
well, and then 1 made him a jerkin of goat's skin, as weil
as my skill would allow (for 1 was now grown a tolerable
good tailor); and 1 gave him a cap, which 1 made of hare's
skin, very convenient and fashionable enough; and thus he
was clothed for the present, tolerably well, and was mighty
well pleased to see himself almost as well clothed as his
master. It is true, he went awkwardly in those clothes at
first: wearing the drawers was very awkward to him, and
the sleeves of the waistcoat galled his shoulders, and the in-
side of his arms; but after a little easing them where he
complained they hurt him, and using himself to them, he
took to them at length very well.
The next day after 1 came home to my hutch with hinie
I began to consider where I should lodge him; and that J
might do well for him, and yet be perfeotly easy myself, 1
made a little tent for him in the vacant plane between my
two fortifications, in the inside of the last and in the out-
side of the first. As there was a door or entrance there
mto my cave, I made a formal framed door-case, and a
door to it of boards, and set it up in the passage, a little
within the entrance; and causing the door to open in the
inside, 1 barred it up in the night, taking in my ladders
too; so that Friday could no way come at me in the inside
of my innermost wall, without making so much noise in
getting over that it must needs waken me: for my first
wall had now a complete roof over it of long poles, cover-
ing all my tent, and leaning up to the side of the hill;
which was again laid across with smaller sticks, instead of
laths, and then thatched over a great thickness with the
rice-straw, which was strong, like reeds; and at the hole or
place which was left to go in or out by the ladder, I had
placed a kind of trap-door, which, if it had been attempted
on the outside, would not have opened at all, but would
have fallen down, and made a great noise: as to weapons,
I took them all into my side every night. But I needed
none of all this precaution; for never man had a more
faithful, loving, sincere servant than Friday was to me;
without passions, sullenness, or designs, perfectly obliged
and engaged—his very affections were tied to me, like those
of a child to a father; and I dare say, he would have sacri-
ficed his life for the saving mine upon any occasion whatso-
ever: the many testimonies he gave me of this put it out
of doubt, and soon convinced me that 1 needed to use no
precautions, as to my safety on his account.
This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that
with wonder, that however it had pleased God, in His
providence, and in the government of the works of His
hands, to take from so great a part of the world of His
creatures the best, uses to which their faculties and the
powers of their souls are adapted, yet that He has be-
stowed upon them the same powers, the same reason, the
same affections, th» same sentiments of kindness and obli-
gation, the same passions and resentments of wrongs, the
same sense of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, and all the ca-
pacities of doing good, and receiving good, that He has
given to us; and that when He pleases to offer them occa-
sions of exerting these, they are as ready, nay, more, ready,
to apply them to the right uses for which they were be-
stowed, than we are. This made me very melancholy
sometimes, in reflecting, as the several occasions presented,
how mean a use we make of all these, even though we have
these powers enlightened by the great lamp of instruction,
the Spirit of God, and by the knowledge of His word added
to our understanding; and why it has pleased God to hide
the like saving knowledge from so many millions of souls,
who, if I might judge by this poor savage, would make a
much better use of it than we did. Prom hence, I some-
times was led too far, to invade the sovereignty of Provi-
dence, and as it were arraign the justice of so arbitrary a
disposition of things, that should hide that light from
some, and reveal it to others, and yet expect a Tike duty
from both; but I shut it up, and checked my thoughts
with this conclusion: first, That we did not know by what
light and law these should be condemned: but that as God
was necessarily, and, by the nature of His being, infinitely
holy and just, so it could not be, but if these creatures
were all sentenced to absence from himself, it was on ac-
count of sinning against that light, which, as the Scripture
says, was a law to themselves, and by such rules as their
consciences would acknowledge to be just, though the
foundation was not discovered to us; and, secondly, That
still, as we all are the clay in the hand of the potter, no
vessel could say to him, Why has thou formed me thus?
Bat to return to my new companion: I was greatly de-
lighted with him, and made it my business to teach him
everything that was proper to make him useful, handy, and
helpful; but especially to make him speak, and understand
me when I spoke: and he was the aptest scholar that ever
was; and particularly was so merry, so constantly diligent,
and so pleased when he could but understand me, or make
me understand him, that it was very pleasant to me to talk
to him. Now my life began to be so easy, that I began to
say to myself, that could I but have been safe from more
savages, I cared not if I was never to remove from the
place where I lived.
SECTION XXIII.
Robinson Instructs and Civilizes his Man Friday.—Endeavors t«
give Him an Idea of Christianity.
After I had been two or three days returned to mv
castle, I thought that, in order to bring Friday off from
his horrid way of feeding, and from the relish of a canni-
bal's stomach, I ought to let him taste other flesh; so I
took him out with me one morning to the woods, 1 went,
indeed, intending to kill a kid out of my own flock, and
bring it home and dress it; but as I was going, I saw a she-
goat lying down in the shade, and two young kids sitting
by her. 1 catched hold of Friday: Hold, said I; stand
still; and made signs to him not to stir: immediately I
presented my piece, shot, and killed one of the kids. The
poor creature, who had, at a distance, indeed, seen me kill
the savage, his enemy, but did not know, nor could imag-
ine, how it was done, was sensibly surprised, trembled and
shook, and looked so amazed, that 1 thought he would have
sunk down. He did not see the kid I shot at, or perceive
I had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat, to feel whether
he was not wounded, and, as I found presently, thought I
was resolved to kill him: for he came and knelt down
to me, and embracing my knees, said a great many things
I did not understand; but 1 could easily see the meaning
was, to pray me not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince hia that I would do him
no harm; and taking him up by the hand, laughed at him,
and pointing to the kid which 1 had killed, beckoned to him
to run and fetch it, which he did; and while he was won-
dering and looking to see how the creature was killed, I
loaded my gun again. By and by, I saw a great fowl, like
a hawk, sitting upon a tree, within shot; so, to let Friday
understand a little what 1 would do, I called him to me
again, pointed at the fowl, which was indeed a parrot,
though I thought it had been a hawk; I say, pointing to
the parrot, and to my gun, and to the ground under the
parrot, to let him see I would make it fall, I made him
understand that I would shoot and kill that bird: accord-
ingly, 1 tired, and bade him look, and immediately he saw
the parrot fall. He stood like one frightened agaiD, not.
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 189
withstanding all I had said to him; and I found he was the
more amazed, because he did not see me put anything into
the gun, but thought that there must be some wonderful
fund of death and destruction in that thing, able to kill
man, beast or bird, or anything near or far off; and the
astonishment this created in him was such, as could not
wear off for a long time; and 1 believe, if I would have let
him, he would have worshiped me and my gun. As for
the gun itself, he would not so much as touch it for several
days after; but he would speak to it, and talk to it, as if
it had answered him, when he was by himself; which, as I
afterward learned of him, was to desire it not to kill him.
Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this, 1
pointed to him to run and fetch the bird 1 had shot, which
he did, but stayed some time; for the parrot, not being
quite dead, had fluttered away a good distance from the
place where she fell: however, he found her, took her up,
and brought her to me; and as I had perceived his igno-
rance about the gun before, I took this advantage to charge
the gun again, and not to let him see me do it, that I
might be ready for any other mark that might present;
but nothing more offered at that time: so I brought home
the kid, and the same evening 1 took the skin off, and cut
it out as well as I could; and having a pot fit for that pur-
pose, 1 boiled or stewed some of the flesh, and made some
very good broth. After I had begun to eat some, I gave
some to my man, who seemed very glad of it, and liked it
very well: but that which was strangest to him, was to see
me eat salt with it. He made a sign to me that the salt
was not good to eat; and putting a little into his mouth,
he seemed to nauseate it, and would spit and sputter at it,
washing his mouth with fresh water after it: on the other
hand, I took some meat into my mouth without salt, and
I protended to spit and sputter for want of salt, as fast as
he had done at the salt; but it would not do; he would never
care for salt with his meat or in his broth; at least, not for
a great while, and then but very little.
Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was
resolved to feast him the next day with roasting a piece of
the kid: thisl did, by hanging it before the fire on a string,
as I had seen many people do in England, setting two poles
up, one on each side of the fire, and one across on the top,
and tying the string to the cross stick, letting the mea*
tarn continually. This Friday admired very much: but
when he came to taste the flesh, he took so many ways to
tell me how well he liked it, that I could not but under-
stand him; and at last he told me, as well as he could, he
would never eat man's flesh any more, which 1 was very
glad to hear.
The next day 1 set him to work to beating some corn
out, and sifting it in the manner I used to do, as I observed
before; and he soon understood how to do it as well as I,
especially after he had seen what the meaning of it was,
and that it was to make bread of it: for after that I let
him see me make my bread, and bake it too; and in a lit-
tle time Friday was able to do all the work for me, as well
as I could do it myself.
1 began now to consider, that having two mouths to feed
instead of one, 1 must provide more ground for my harvest,
and plant a larger quantity of corn than I used to do: so 1
marked out a larger piece of land, and began the fence in
the same manner as before, in which Friday worked not
only very willingly and very hard, but did it very cheer-
fully: and 1 told him what it was for; that it was for corn
to make more bread, because he was now with me, and
that 1 might have enough for him and myself too. He ap-
peared very sensible of that part, and let me know that he
thought I had much more labor upon me on his account
than I had for myself; and that he would work the harder
for me, if 1 would tell him what to do.
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this
place. Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand
the names of almost everything I had occasion to call for,
and of every place I had to send him to, and talked a great
deal to me; so that, in short, I began now to hare some
use for my tongue again, which, indeed, 1 had very little
occasion for before, that is to say, about speech. Besides
the pleasure of talking to him, 1 had a singular satisfaction
in the fellow himself: his simple, unfeigned honesty ap-
peared to me more and more every day, and I began really
to love the creature; and, on his side, I believe he loved
me more than it was possible for him ever to love anything
before.
I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering inclin-
ation for his own country again; and having taught him
English so well that he could answer me almost any ques.
tion, I asked him whether the nation that he belonged to
never conquered in battle? At which he smiled, and said.
Yes, yes, we always tight the better: that is, he m: ant, al-
ways get the better in light; and so we began the following
discourse:
Master: You always fight the better? how came you to
be taken prisoner then, Friday?
Friday: My nation beat much, for all that.
Master: How beat? If your nation beat them, how
came you to be taken?
Friday: They more many than my nation in the place
where me was; they take one, two, three, and me; my na-
tion overheat them in the yonder place, where me no was;
there my nation take one, two, great thousand.
Master: But why did not your side recover you from the
hands of your enemies, then?
Friday: They run one, two, three, and me, and make go
in the canoe; my nation have no canoe that time.
Master: Well, Friday, and what does your nation do
with the men they take? Do they carry them away and
eat them, as these did?
Friday: Yes, my nation eat mans too; eat all np.
Master: Where do they carry them?
Friday: Go to other place, where they think.
Master: Do they come hither?
Friday: Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else
place.
Master: Have you been here with them?
Friday: Yes, I have been here; (points to the north-west
side of the island, which, it seems, was their side).
By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly
been among the savages who used to come on shore on the
further part of the island, on the same man-eating occa-
sions he was now brought for: and some time after, when
I took the courage to carry him to that side, being the same
I formerly mentioned, he presently knew the place, and
told me he was there once when they eat up twenty men,
two women, and one child: he could not tell twenty in
English, but he numbered them, by laying so many stones
in a row, and pointing to me to tell them over.
I have told this passage, because it introduces what fol-
lows, that after I had this discourse with him, 1 asked him
how far it was from our island to the shore, and whether
the canoes were not often lost. He told me there was no
danger, no canoes ever lost; but that, after a little way out
to sea, there was a current and wind, always one way in
the morning, the other in the afternoon. This 1 under-
stood to be no more than the sets of the tide, as going out
or coming in; but I afterward understood it was occa-
sioned by the great draft and reflux of the mighty river
Oroonoko, in the mouth or gulf of which river, as I found
afterward, our island lay; and that this land which I per-
ceived to the west and north-west was the great island Trin-
idad, on the north point of the mouth of the river. 1 asked
Friday a thousand questions about the country, the inhab-
itants, the sea, the coast, and what nations were near: he
told me all he knew, with the greatest openness imagin-
able. 1 asked him the names of the several nations of his
sort of people, but could get no other name than Caribs:
from whence 1 easily understood, that these were the Car-
ibbees, which our maps place on the part of America which
reaches from the mouth of the river Oroonoko to Guinea,
and onward to St. Martha. He told me that up a great
way beyond the moon, that was, beyond the setting of the
moon, which must be west from their country, there dwelt
white bearded men, like me, and pointed to my great whis-
kers, which I mentioned before; and that they had killed
much mans, that was his word: by all which I understood,
he meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties in America had
been spread over the whole country, and were remembered
by all the nations, from father to son.
I inquired if he could tell me how I might go from this
island and get among those white men: he told me, Yes,
yes, you may go in two canoe. I could not understand
what he meant, or make him describe to me what he meant
by two canoe; till, at last, with great difficulty, I found he
meant it must be in a large boat, as big as two canoes.
This part of Friday's discourse began to relish with me very
well; and from this time 1 entertained some hopes that,
one time or other, 1 might find an opportunity to make
my escape from this place, and that this poor savage might
be a means to help me.
During the long time that Friday had now been with me,
and that he began to speak to me, and understand me, I
was not wanting to lay a foundation of religioui knowledge
in hu mind: particularly I asked him, one time, who made
SOBINSON CRUSOE. 198
him? The poor creature did not understand me at all, but
thought I had asked him who was his father; but I took it
up by another handles, and asked him who made the sea,
the ground we walked on, and the hills and woods? He
told me, it was one old Benamuckee, that lived beyond all;
he could describe nothing of this great person, but that he
was very old, much older, he said, than the sea or the land,
than the moon or the stars. I asked him then, if this old
Eerson had made all things, why did not all things worship
im? He looked very grave, and with a perfect look of
innocence said, All things say oh to him. 1 asked him if
the people who die in his country went away anywhere?
He said, Yes; they all went to Benamuckee: then I asked
him whether these they eat up went thither too? He said,
Yes.
From these things I began to instruct him in the knowl-
edge of the true God: I told him that the great Maker of
all things lived up there, pointing up toward heaven; that
He governed the world by the same power and providence
by which He made it; that He was omnipotent, and could
do everything for us, give everything to us, take every-
thing from us; and thus, by degrees, 1 opened his eyes.
He listened with great attention, and received with pleasure
the notion of Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us, and of
the manner of making our prayers to God, and His being
able to hear us, even in heaven. He told me one day, that
if our God could hear us up beyond the sun, He must needs
be a greater God than their Benamuckee, who lived but a
little way off, and yet could not hear till they went up to
the great mountains where he dwelt to speak to him. I
asked him if ever he went thither to speak to him? He
said, No; they never went that were young men: none
went thither but' the old men, whom he called their
Oowokakee; that is, as 1 made him explain it to me, their
religious, or clergy; and that they went to say oh (so he
called saying prayers), and then came back, and told them
what Benamuckee said. By this I observed that there ie
priestcraft even among the most blinded, ignorant paganB
in the world; and the policy of making a secret of religion,
in order to preserve the veneration of the people to the
clergy, is not only to be found in the Roman, but perhapi
among all religions in the world, even among the most
brutish and barbarous savages.
1 endeavored to clear up this fraud to my man Friday,
and told him, that the pretense of their old men going up
to the mountains to say oh to their god Benamuckee was a
cheat; and their bringing word from thence what he said
was much mere so; that if they met with any answer, or
spoke with any one there, it must be with an evil spirit;
and then I entered into a long discourse with him about
the devil, the original of him, his rebellion against God,
his enmity to man, the reason of it, his setting himself up
in the dark parts of the world to be worshiped instead of
God, and as God, and the many stratagems he made use of
to delude mankind to their ruin; how he had a secret ac-
eeis to our passions and to our affections, and to adapt his
snares to our inclinations, so as to cause us even to be our
own tempters, and run upon our destruction by our own
choice.
I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions in his
mind about the devil, as it was about the being of a God:
nature assisted all my arguments to evidence to him even
the necessity of a great First Cause and overruling, gov-
erning Power, a secret, directing Providence, and of the
equity and justice of paying homage to Him that made us,
and the like; but there appeared nothing of this kind in
the notion of an evil spirit; of his origin, his being, his
nature, and, above all, of his inclination to do evil, and to
draw us in to do so too: and the poor creature puzzled me
once in such a manner, by a question merely natural and
innocent, that I scarce knew what to say to him. I had
be«n talking a great deal to him of the power of God, His
omnipotence, His aversion to sin, His being a consuming
fire to the workers of iniquity; how, as He had made us all,
He could destroy us and all the world in a mqment; and
he listened with great seriousness to me all the while. After
this, I had been telling him how the devil was God's enemy
in the hearts of men, and used all his malice and skill to
defeat the good designs of Providence, and to ruin the
kingdom of Christ in the world, and the like. Well, says
Friday, but you say God is so strong, so great; is He not
much strong, much might as the devil?—Yes, yes, says 1.
Friday, God is stronger than the devil: God is above the
devil, and therefore we pray to God to tread him down
under our feet, and enable us to resist his temptations, and
quench his fiery darts. But, says he again, if God much
stronger, much might as the devil, why God no kill tht
devil, so make him no more do wicked? I was strangely
surprised at this question; and, after all, though I was
now an old man, yet I was but a young doctor, and ill
qualified for a casuist, or a solver of difficulties,; and, at
first, I could not tell what to say; so 1 pretended not to
hear him, and asked him what he said; but he was too
earnest for an answer to forget his question, so that he re-
peated it in the very same broken words as above. By this
time I had recovered myself a little, and 1 said, God will
at last punish him severely; he is reserved for the judg-
ment, and is to be cast into the bottomless pit, to dwell
with everlasting fire. This did not satisfy Friday; but he
>ituriis upon me, repeating my words, Reserve, at last: me
no uuderstaiid; but why not kill the devil now; not kill
great ago?—You may as well ask me, said 1, why God
does not kill you and me, when we do wicked things here
that offend Him? We are preserved to repent and be par-
doned. He mused some time on this. Well, well, says
he, mighty affectionately, that well: so you, 1, devil, all
wicked, all preserve, repent, God pardon all. Here I was
run down again by him to the last degree; and it was a
testimony to me, how the mere notions of nature, though
they will guide reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a
God, and of a worship or homage due to the supreme being
of God, as the consequence of our nature, yet nothing but
divine revelation can form the knowledge of Jesus Christ,
and of redemption purchased for us, of a Mediator of the
new covenant, and of an Intercessor at the footstool of
God's throne: 1 say, nothing but a revelation from Heaven
can form these in the soul; and that, therefore, the gospel
of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, 1 mean the Word of
God, and the Spirit of God, promised for the guide and
sanctifier of His people, are the absolutely necessary in-
structors of the souls of men in the saving knowledge of
G id and the means of salvation.
I therefore diverted the present disoourse between me
and my man, rising up hastily, as upon some sudden occa-
sion of going out: then sending him for something a good
way off, 1 seriously prayed to God that He would enable
me to instruct savingly this poor savage; assisting, by His
'.^-lirit, the heart of the poor ignorant creature to rsceivs
viae light of the knowledge of God in Christ, reconciling
194 BOBINSON CRUSOE.
him to himself, and would guide me to speak so to hin
from the word of God, as his conscience might be convinced,
his eyes opened, and his soul saved. Wben he came again
to me, I entered into a long discourse with him upon the
subject of the redemption of man by the Saviour of the
world, and of the doctrine of the gospel preached from
heaven, viz., of repentance toward God, and faith in our
blessed Lord Jesns. I then explained to him, as well as 1
could, why our blessed Redeemer took not on Him the
nature of angels, but the seed of Abraham; and how, for
that reason, the fallen angels had no share in the redemp-
tion; that He came only to the lost sheep of the house of
Israel, and the like.
1 had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in all
the methods I took for this poor creature's instruction, and
must acknowledge, what I believe all that act upon the
same principle will find, that in laying things open to him,
I really informed and instructed myself in many things
that either I did not know, or had not fully considered be-
fore, but which occurred naturally to my mind upon search-
ing into them, for the information of this poor savage; and
1 had more affection in my inquiry after things upon this
occasion than ever I felt before: so that, whether this poor
wild wretch was the better for me or no, 1 had great reason
to be thankful that ever he came to me; my grief sat lighter
upon me; my habitation grew comfortablo to me beyond
measure; and when I reflected, that in this solitary life
which I had been confined to, I had not only been moved
to look up to Heaven myself, and to seek the hand that had
brought me here, but was now to be made an instrument,
nnder Providence, to save the life, and, for aught 1 knew,
the soul, of a poor savage, and bring him to the true knowl-
edge of religion, and of the Christian doctrine, that ho
might know Christ Jesus, in whom is life eternal; 1 say,
when I reflected upon all these things, a secret joy ran
through every part of my soul, and 1 frequently rejoiced
that ever I was brought to this place, which I had so often
thought the most dreadful of all afflictions that could pos-
sibly have befallen me.
I continued in this thankful frame all the remainder of
my time; and the conversation which employed the hours
between Friday and me was such as made the three years
which we lived there together perfectly and completely
happy, it any such thing as complete happiness can be
formed in a sublunary state. This savage was now a good
Christian, a much better than I; though I have reason to
hope, and bless God for it, that we were equally penitent,
and comforted, restored penitents. We had here the word
of God to read, and no further off from His Spirit to in-
struct, than if we had been in Englaud. 1 always applied
myself, in reading the Scriptures, to let nim know, as well
as I could, the meaning of what 1 read; and he again, by
his serious inquiries and questionings, made me, as 1 said
before, a much better scholar in the Scripture knowledge
than I should ever have been by my own mere private read-
ing. Another thing I can not refrain from observing here
also, from experience in this retired part of my life, viz.,
how infinite and inexpressible a blessing it is that the
knowledge of God, and of the doctrine of salvation by
Christ Jesus, is so plainly laid down in the word of God,
so easy to be received and understood, that, as the bare
reading the Scripture made me capable of understanding
enough of my duty to carry me directly on to the great
work of sincere repentance for my sins, and laying hold of
a Saviour for life and salvation, to a stated reformation in
practice, and obedience to all God's commands, and this
without any teacher or instructor, 1 mean human; so, the
same plain instruction sufficiently served to the enlighten-
ing this savage creature, and bringing him to be such a
Christian, as! have known few equal to him in my life.
As to all the disputes, wrangling, strife, and contention,
which have happened in the world about religion, whether
niceties in doctrines, or schemes of church government,
they were all perfectly useless to ns, and for aught 1 can
Vet see, they have been so to the rest of the world. We
had the sure guide to heaven, viz., the Word of God; and
we had, blessed be God, comfortable views of the Spirit oi
God teaching and instructing us by His Word, leading us
into all truth, and making us both willing and obedient to
the instructions of His Word. And 1 can not see the least
use that the greatest knowledge of the disputed points of
religion, which have made such confusions in the world,
would have been to us, if we could have obtained it. But
I must go on with the historical part of things, a&d take
avory part in its order.
SECTION XXIV.
Build a Canoe to Can
Country.—Their Scheme Prevented by the Arrival of a Partyoi
Sfcffihuon and Friday Build a Canoe to Carry Than to Friday1*
After Friday and 1 became more intimately acquainted,
and that he could understand almost all I said to him, and
speak pretty fluently, though in broken English, to me, I
acquainted him with my own history, or at least so much
of it as related to my coming to this place; how I had lived
uere, and how long; I let him into the mystery, for such
it was to him, of gunpowder and bullet, and taught him
flow to shoot. I gave him a knife, which he was wonder-
fully delighted with, and I made him a belt with a frog
hanging to it, such as in England we wear hangers in; and
in the frog, instead of a hanger, 1 gave him a hatchet,
which was not only as good a weapon, in some cases, but
much more useful upon other occasions.
1 described to bim the country of Europe, particularly
England, which I came from; how we lived, how we wor-
shiped God, how we behaved to one another, and how we
traded in ships to all parts of the world. I gave him an
account of the wreck which I had been on board of, and
showed him, as near as I could, the place where she lay;
but she was all beaten in pieces before, and gone. 1
showed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when I
escaped, and which I could not stir with my whole strength
then; but was now fallen almost all to pieces. Upon see-
ing this boat, Friday stood musing a great while, and said
nothing. I asked him what it was he studied upon? At
last, says he, Me see such boat like come to place at my
nation. 1 did not understand him a good while; but at
last when I had examined further into it, 1 understood by
him, that a boat, such as that had been, came on shore
upon the country where he lived; that is, as he explained
it, was driven thither by stress of weather. I presently
imagined that some European ship must have been cast
away upon their coast, and the boat might get loose, and
drive ashore; but was so dull that I never once thought of
men making their escape from a wreck thither, much leu
whence they might come; so I only inquired after a de-
scription of the boat.
Friday described the boat to me well enongh; but
brought me better to understand bim when he added, with
Bome warmth, We save the white mans from drown. Then
I presently asked him if there were any white mans, as he
called them, in the boat. Yes, he said; the boat full of
white mans. I asked him how many. Ho told me upon
his fingers seventeen. 1 asked him then what became of
them. He told me, They live, they dwell at my nation.
This put new thoughts into my head, for I presently im-
agined that these might be the men belonging to the ship
that was cast away in the sight of my island, as I now called
it; and who, after the ship was struck on the rock, and
they saw her inevitably lost, had saved themselves in their
boat, and were landed upon that wild shore among the sav-
ages. Upon'this, 1- inquired of him more critically what
was become of them; he assured me they lived still there;
that they had been there about four years; that the sav-
ages let them alone, and gave them victuals to live on. 1
asked him how it came to pass they did not kill them, and
eat them? He said, No, they make brother with them;
that is, as 1 understood him, a truce; and then he added,
They no eat mans but when make the war fight; that is to
say, they never eat any men but such as come to fight
with them, and are taken in battle.
It was after this some considerable time that, being
upon the top of the hill, at the east side of the island, from
whence, as 1 have said, I had, in a clear day, discovered
the main or continent of America, Friday, the weather be-
ing very serene, looks very earnestly toward the main land,
and, in a kind of surprise, falls a jumping and dancing,
and calls out to me, for 1 was at some distance from him.
I asked him what was the matter. Oh, joy, says he! oh,
glad! there see my country, there my nation! I observed
an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared in his face, and
his eyes sparkled, and his countenance discovered a strange
eagerness, as if he had a mind to be in his own country
again. This observation of mine put a great many thought!
into me, which made me at first not so easy about my new
man Friday as I was before; and I made no doubt but that
if Friday could get back to his own nation again, he would
not only forget all his religion, but all his obligation to me,
800 BOBINSON CRUSOE.
and would be forward enough to give his countrymen an
account of me, aud come back perhaps with a hundred or
two of them, and make a feast upon me, at which he
might be as merry as he used to be with those of his
enemies, when they were taken in war. But I wronged
the poor honest creature very much, for which 1 was very
sorry afterward. However, as my jealousy increased, and
held me some weeks, I was a little more circumspect, and
not so familiar and kind to him as before; in which I was
certainly in the wrong too; the honest, grateful creature
having no thought about it, but what consisted with the
best principles, both as a religious Christian, aud as a
grateful friend, as appeared afterward to my full satisfac-
tion.
While my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I was
every day pumping him, to see if he would discover any of
the new thoughts which 1 suspected were in him; but J
found everything he said was so honest and so innocent,
that I could find nothing to nourish my suspicion; and, in
spite of all my uneasiness, he made me at last entirely his
own again; nor did he, in the least, perceive that I was
uneasy, and therefore I could not suspect him of deceit.
One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather be-
ing hazy at sea, so that we could not see the continent, I
called to him and said, Friday, do not you wish yourself in
your own country, your own nation? Yes, he said, I be
much oh, glady, to be at my own nation. What would
you do there? said 1; would you turn wild again, eat men's
flesh again, and be a savage, as you were before? He
looked full of concern, and shaking his head, saul, No, no;
Friday tell them to live good, tell them to pray God, tell
them to eat corn-bread, cattle-flesh, milk; no eat man
again. Why, then, said I to him, they will kill you. He
looked grave at that, and then said, No, no; they no kill
me, they willing love learn. He meant by this they would
be willing to learn. He added, they learned much of the
bearded mans that came in the boat. Then I asked him if
he would go back to them. He smiled at that, and told
me that he could not swim so far. 1 told him I would
make a canoe for him. He told me he would go, if I
would go with him. 1 go! says I; why, they will eat me,
if I come there. No, no, says he; me make they no eat
you; me make they much love you. He meant he would
tell them how 1 had killed his enemies and saved his life,
and so he would make them love me. Then he told me,
as well as he could, how kind they were to seventeen white
men, or bearded men, as he called them, who came on
shore there in distress.
From this time I confess I had a mind to venture over,
and see if I could possibly join with those bearded men,
who, 1 made no doubt, were Spaniards and Portuguese;
not doubting but if 1 could, we might find some method
to escape from thence, being upon the continent, and a
good company together, better than I could from an island
forty miles off the shore, and alone, without help. So,
after some days, 1 took Friday to work again, by way of
discourse, and told him 1 would give him a boat to go back
to his own nation; and accordingly 1 carried him to my
frigate, which lay on the other side of the island, and hav-
ing cleared it of water (for I always kept it sunk in water)
I brought it out, showed it him, and we both went into it.
I found he was a most dexterous fellow at managing it,
and would make it go almost as swift again as I could.
So when he was in I said to him, Well, now, Friday, shall
we go to your nation? He looked very dull at my saying
so; which, it seems, was because he thought the boat too
small to go so far; I then told him 1 had a bigger; so the
next day I went to the place where the first boat lay which
1 had made, but which I could not get into the water. He
said that was big enough; but then, as I had taken no care
of it, and it had lain two or three-and-twenty years there,
the sun had split and dried it, that it was in a manner rot-
ten. Friday told me such a boat would do very well, and
would carry much enough vittle, drink, bread; that wai
his way of talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my de-
sign of going over with him to the continent, that I told
him we would go and make one as big as that, and he
should go home in it. He answered not one word, but
looked very grave and sad. I asked him what was the
matter with him. He asked me again, Why you angry
mad with Friday? What me done? 1 asked him what he
meant. I told him I was not angry with him at all. No
angry? says he, repeating the words several times. Why
send Friday home away to my nation? Why, says I, Fri-
day, did not you say you wished you were there? Yes, yes,
aays he, wish be both there; no wish Friday there, no mas-
ter there. In a word, he would not think of going there
without me. I go there, Friday! says I; what shall I do
there? He returned very quick upon me at this: You do
great'deal much good, says he, you teach wild mans be
good, sober, tame mans; you tell them know God, pray
God, and live new life. Alas! Friday, says I, thou knowest
not what thou sayest; I am but an ignorant man myself.
Yes, yes, says he, you teachee me good, you teachee them
good. No, no, Friday, says I, you shall go without me;
leave me here to live by myself, as I did before. He
looked confused again at that word; and running to one of
the hatchets which he used to wear, he takes it up hastily,
and gives it to me. What must I do with this? says I to
him. You take kill Friday, says he. What must I kill
you for? said 1 again. He returns very quick: What you
send Friday away for? Take kill Friday, no send Friday
away. This he spoke so earnestly, that 1 saw tears stand
in his eyes; in a word, 1 so plainly discovered the utmost
affection in him to me, and a firm resolution in him, that
I told him then, and often after, that I would never send
him away from me, if he was willing to stay with me.
Upon the whole, as I found, by all his discourse, a set-
tled affection to me, and that nothing should part him
from me, so 1 found all the foundation of his desire to go
to his own country was laid in his ardent affection to the
people, and his hopes of my doing them good; a thing
which, as I had no notion of myself, so I had not the
least thought, or intention, or desire of undertaking it.
But still I found a strong inclination to my attempting an
escape, as above, founded on the supposition gathered from
the discourse, viz., that there were seventeen bearded men
there; and therefore, without any more delay, 1 went to
work with Friday, to find out a great tree proper to fell,
and make a large periagua, or canoe, to undertake the voy-
age. There were trees enough in the island to have built a
little fleet, not of periaguas, or canoes, but even of good
large vessels; but the main thing I looked at was, to get
one so near the water that we might launch it when it was
made, to avoid the mistake I committed at first. At last,
Friday pitched upon a tree, for I found he knew much
better than 1 what kind of wood was fittest for it; nor can
I tell, to this day, what wood to call the tree we cut down,
except that it was very like the tree we call fustic, or be-
tween that and the Nicaragua wood; for it was much of the
same color and smell. Friday was for burning the hollow
or cavity of this tree out, to make it for a boat, but 1
showed him how to cut it with tools, which, after 1 had
showed him how to use, he did very handily; and in about
a month's hard labor we finished it and made it very hand-
some; especially when, with our axes, which I showed him
how to handle, we cut and hewed the outside into the true
shape of a boat. After this, however, it cost us near a
fortnight's time to get her along, as it were, inch by inch,
upon great rollers, into the water; but when she was in
«he would have carried twenty men with great ease.
When she was in the water, and though she was bo big,
it amazed me to see with what dexterity, and how swift my
man Friday would manage her, turn her, and paddle her
along. So I asked him if he would, and if we might vent-
ure over in her. Yes, he said; we venture over in her
very well, though great blow wind. However, 1 had a
further design, that he knew nothing of, and that was to
make a mast and a sail, and to fit her with an anchor and
cable. As to a mast, that was easy enough to get; so I
pitched upon a straight young cedar-tree, which I found
near the place, and which there were great plenty of in the
island; and I set Friday to work te cut it down, and gave
him directions how to shape and order it. But as to the
sail, that was my particular care. I knew I had old sails,
or rather pieces of old sails, enough; but as I had had them
now six-and-twenty years by me, and had not been very
careful to preserve them, not imagining that I should ever
have this kind of use for them, 1 did not doubt but they
were all rotten, and, indeed, most of them were so. How-
ever, I found two pieces, which appeared pretty good, and
with these I went to work; and with a great deal of pains,
and awkward stitching, you may be sure, for want of
needles, I at length made a three-cornered ugly thing, like
what we call in England a shoulder-of-mutton sail, to go
with a boom at bottom, and a little short sprit at the top,
suoh as usually our ship's long-boats sail with, and such as
1 best knew how to mauage, as it was such a one I had to
the boat in which 1 made my escape from Barbary, as re-
lated in the first part of my story.
I was near two month* performing this last work, via.,
204 ROBINSON CRUSOE.
rigging and fitting my mast and sails; for I finished them
very complete, making a small stay, and a sail, or foresail
to it, to assist, if we should turn to windward; and, which
was more than all, 1 fixed a rudder to the stern of her to
steer with. I was but a bungling shipwright, yet, as I
knew the usefulness, and even necessity of such a thing, I
applied myself with so much pains to do it, that at last I
brought it to pass; though, considering the many dull con-
trivances 1 had for it that failed, I think it cost me almost
as much labor as making the boat.
After all this was done, I had my man Friday to teach
as to what belonged to the navigation of my boat; for,
though he knew very well how to paddle a canoe, he knew
nothing what belonged to a sail and a rudder, and was the
most amazed when he saw me work the boat to and again
in the sea by the rudder, and how the sail jibed, and filled
this way, or that way, as the course we sailed changed; 1
say, when he saw this, he stood like one astonished and
amazed. However, with a little use, I made all these
things familiar to him, and he became an expert sailor, ex-
cept that, as to the compass 1 could make him understand
very little of that. On the other hand, as there was very
little cloudy weather, and seldom or never any fogs in
those parts, there was the less occasion for a compass, see-
ing the stars were always to be seen by night, and the
shore by day, except in the rainy seasons, and then nobody
cared to stir abroad, either by land or sea.
I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year of my
captivity in this place; though the three last years that 1
had this creature with me ought rather to be left out of
the account, my habitation being quite of another kind
than in all the rest of the time. 1 kept the anniversary of
my landing here with the same thankfulness to God for
His mercies as at first; and if I had such cause of acknowl-
edgment at first, 1 had much more so now, having such
additional testimonies of the care of Providence over me,
and the great hopes I had of being effectually and speedily
delivered; for I had an invincible impression upon my
thoughts that my deliverance was at hand and that I should
not be another year in this place. I went on, however,
with my husbandry; digging, planting, and fencing, as
usual. 1 gathered and cured my grapes, and did every
fceoessgry thing as before.
The rainy season/Was, in the meantime, upon me, when
I kept more within doors than at other times. We had
stowed our own vessel as secure as we could, bringing her
up into the creek, where, as 1 said in the beginning, 1
landed my rafts from the ship; and hauling her up to the
shore, at high-water mark, I made my man Friday dig a
little dock, just big enough to hold her, and just deep
enough to give her water enough to float in; and then,
when the tide was out, we made a strong dam across the
end of it, to keep the water out; and so she lay dry, as to
the tide, from the sea; and to keep the rain off, we laid a
great many boughs of trees, so thick, that she was as well
thatched as a house; and thus we waited for the months of
November and December, in which I designed to make my
adventrue.
When the settled season began to come in, as the thought
of my design returned with the fair weather, I was prepar-
ing daily for the voyage, and the first thing 1 did was to
lay by a certain quantity of provisions, being the stores for
our voyage; and intended, in a week or a fortnight's time,
to open the dock, and launch out our boat. 1 was busy
one morning upon something of this kind, when I called
on Friday, and bid him go to the sea-shore, and see if he
could find a turtle, or tortoise, a thing which we generally
got once a week, for the sake of the eggs as well as the
flesh. Friday had not been long gone, when he came run-
ning back, and flew over my outer wall, or fence, like one
that felt not the ground, or the steps he set his feet on;
and before 1 had time to speak to him, he cries out to me,
Oh, master! oh, master! oh, sorrow! oh, bad! What's
the matter, Friday? says I. Oh, yonder, there, says he,
one, two, three canoe; one, two, three! By this way of
speaking, I concluded there were six; but, on inquiry, I
found it was but three. Well, Friday, says I, do not be
frightened! So I heartened him up as well as I could;
however, 1 saw the poor fellow was most terribly scared.-
for nothing ran in his head but that they were come to look
for him and would cut him in pieces and eat him; and the
poor fellow trembled so that 1 scarce knew.what to do with
him. 1 comforted him as well as 1 could, and told him I
was in as much danger as he, and that they would eat me
as well as him. But, says I, Friday, we must resolve to
fight them. Can you fight, Friday? Me shoot, says he;
206 BOBINSOST CRUSOE.
but there come many great number. No matter for that,
said I, again; our guns will fright them that we do not kill.
So I asked him whether, if 1 resolved to defend him he
would defend me, and stand by me; and do just as I bid
him. He said, Me die when you bid die, master. So 1
went and fetched a good dram of rum and gave him; for 1
had been so good a husband of my rum, that I had a great
deal left. When he drank it, 1 made him take the two
fowling-pieces, which we always carried, and loaded them
with large swan-shot, as big as small pistol-bullets; then I
took four muskets, and loaded them with two slugs and
five small bullets each; and my two pistols I loaded with a
brace of bullets each; 1 hung my great sword, as usual,
naked by my side, and gave Friday his hatchet. When 1
bad thus prepared myself, I took my perspective glass, and
went up to the side of the hill, to see what i could dis-
cover; and I found quickly, by my glass, that there were
one-and-twenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes;
and that their whole business seemed to be the trinmphant
banquet upon these three human bodies; a barbarous feast
indeed! but nothing more than, as I had observed, was
usual with them. I observed also that they were lauded,
not where they had done when Friday made his escape, but
nearer to my creek; where the shore was low, and where a
thick wood came almost close down to the sea. This, with
the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these wretches came
about, filled me with such indignation, that I came down
again to Friday, and told him 1 was resolved to go down to
them and kill them all; and asked him if he would stand
by me. He had now got over his fright, and his spirits be-
ing a little raised with the dram I had given him, he was
very cheerful, and told me, as before, he would die when I
bid die.
In this fit of fury, 1 took and divided the arms which I
had charged, as before, between us; I gave Friday one pis-
tol to stick in his girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder;
and I took one pistol, aud the other three guns myself;
and in this posture we marched out. I took a small bottle
of rum in my pocket, aud gave Friday a large bag with
more powder and bullets; and, as to orders, I charged him
to keep close behind me, and not to stir, or shoot, or do
anything, till 1 bid him; and in the meantime not to speak
a word. In this posture, 1 fetched a compass to my right
hand of near a mile, as well to get over the creek as to gel
into the wood, so that I might come within shot of them
before 1 should be discovered, which 1 had seen by my
glass it was easy to do.
While I was making this march, my former thoughts re-
turning, I began to abate my resolution; I do not mean
that I entertained any fear of their number; for, as they
were naked, unarmed wretches, it is certain I was superior
to them; ay, though 1 had been alone. But it occurred
to my thoughts, what call, what occasion, much less what
necessity 1 was in, to go and dip my hands in blood, to
attack people who had neither done nor intended me any
wrong? Who, as to me, were innocent, and whose bar-
barous customs were their own disaster; being, in them, a
token indeed of God's having left them, with the other
nations of that part of the world, to such stupidity, and to
such inhuman courses; but did not call me to take upon
me to be a judge of their actions, much less an executioner
of His justice; that, whenever He thought fit, He would
take the cause into His own hands, and, by national venge-
ance, punish them, as a people, for national crimes; but
that, in the meantime, it was none of my business; that, it
was true, Friday might justify it, because he was a declared
enemy, and in a state of war with those very particular
people, and it was lawful for him to attack them; but I
could not say the same with respect to myself. These
things were so warmly pressed upon my thoughts all the
way as 1 went, that I resolved I would only go and place
myself near them, that I might observe their barbarous
feast, and that I would act then as God should direct; but
that, unless something offered that was more a call to me
than yet I knew of, I would not meddle with them.
With this resolution I entered the wood; and, with all
possible.wariness and silence, Friday following close at my
heels, I marched till I came to the skirt of the wood, on
the side which was next to them, only that one corner of
the wood lay between me and them. Here I called softly
to Friday, and showing him a great tree, which was just at
the corner of the wood, I bade him go to the tree, and
bring me word if he could see there plainly what they were
doing. He did so; and came immediately back to me, and
told me they might be plainly viewed there; that they we*e
all about their fire, eating the flesh of one of their pri*
oners, and that another lay bound upon the sand, a little
from them, which, he said, they would kill next, and which
flred all the very soul within me. He told me it was not
one of their nation, but one of the bearded men he had
told me of, that came to their country in the boat. I was
filled with horror at the very naming the white-bearded
man; and, going to the tree, I saw plainly, by my glass, a
when man, who lay upon the beach of the sea, with his
hands and his feet tied with flags, or things like rushes, and
that he was a European, and had clothes on.
There was another tree and a little thicket beyond it,
about fifty yards nearer to them than the place where I
was, which, by going a little way about, I saw I might
come at undiscovered, and that then I should be within
half a shot of them; so I withheld my passion, though I
was indeed enraged to the highest degree; and going back
about twenty paces, 1 got behind some bushes, which held
all the way till I came to the other tree; and then came to
a little rising ground, which gave me a full view of them,
at the distance of about eighty yards.
SECTION XXV.
Robinson Releases a Spaniard.—Friday Discovers his Father.—Ac-
commodation Provided for These New Guests.—Who are After-
ward sent to Liberate the other Spaniards.—Arrival of an English
Vessel.
1 had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the
dreadful wretches sat upon the ground, all close-huddled
together, and had just sent the other two to butcher the
poor Christian, and bring him, perhaps, limb by limb, to
their fire; and they were stooping down to untie the bands
at his feet. I turned to Friday—Now, Friday, said 1, do
as 1 bid thee. Friday said he would. Then, Friday, says
1, do exactly as you see me do, fail in nothing. So I set
down one of the muskets and the fowling-piece upon the
ground, and Friday did the like by his; and with the other
musket I took my aim at the savages, bidding him to do
the like: then asking him if he was ready, he said, Yes.
Then fire at them, said I; and the same moment I fired also.
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the
side that be shot, he killed two of them, and wounded three

4iore; and on my side I killed one, and wounded two.
They were, you may be sure, in a dreadful consternation;
and all of them who were not hurt jumped upon their feet,
but did not immediately know which way to run, or which
way to look, for they knew not from whence their destruc-
tion came. Friday kept his eyes close upon me that, as I had
bid him, he might observe what I did; so, as soon as the
first shot was made, I threw down the piece, and took up
the fowling-piece, and Friday did the like: he saw me cock
and present; he did the same again. Are you ready, Fri-
day? said I. Yes, says he. Let fly, then, says I, in the name
of God! And with that, 1 fired again among the amazed
wretches, and so did Friday; and- as our pieces were now
loaded with what I called swan-shot, or small pistol-bullets,
we found only two drop, but so many were wounded that
they ran about yelling and screaming like mad creatures,
all bloody, and most of them miserably wounded, whereof
three more fell quickly after, though not quite dead.
Now, Friday, says I, laying down the discharged pieces,
and taking up the musket which was yet loaded, follow me;
which he did,with a great deal of courage; upon which I
rushed aut of the wood, and showed myself, and Friday
close at my foot. As soon as 1 perceived they saw me, I
shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday do so too; and
running as fast as I could, which by the way, was not very
fast, being loaded with arms as I was, I made directly to-
ward the poor victim, who was, as I said, lying upon the
beach, or shore, between the place where they sat and the
sea. The two batchers, who were just going to work with
him, had left him at trie surprise of our first fire, and fled
in a terrible fright to the sea-side, and had jumped into s,
canoe, and three mora of the rest made the same way. I
turned to Friday, and bade him step forward, and fire at
them; he understood me immediately, and running about
forty yards, to be nearer them, he shot at them, and 1
thought he had killed them all, for 1 saw them all fall of a
heap into the boat, though 1 saw two of them up again
quickly: however, he killed two of them, and wounded the
third, so that he lay down in the bottom of the boat as if
he had been dead.
While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out my
knife, and cut the flags that bound the poor victim; and
loosing his hands and feet, 1 lifted him on, and asked hiia
in the Portuguese tongue, what he was. He answered in
Latin, Ghristianus; but was so weak and faint that he could
scarce stand or speak. I took iny bottle out of my pocket,
and gave it him, making signs that he should drink, which
he did; and I gave him a piece of bread, which he eat.
Then I asked him what countryman he was: and he said,
Espagnol; and being a little recovered, let me know, by
all the signs he could possibly make, how much he was(in
my debt for his deliverance. Signor, said I, with as much
Spanish as 1 could make up, we will talk afterward, but
we must fight now: if you have any strength left, take this
pistol and sword, and lay about you. He took them very
thankfully; and no sooner had he the arms in his hands,
but, as if they had put new vigor into him, he flew upon
his murderers like a fury, and had cut two of them in
pieces in an instant; for the truth is, as the whole, was a
surprise to him, so the poor creatures were so much fright-
ened with the noise of our pieces, that they fell down for
mere amazement and fear, and had no more power to at-
tempt their own escape than their flesh had to resist our
shot; and that was the case of those five that Friday shot
at in the boat; for as three of them fell with the hurts they
received, so the other two fell with the fright.
1 kept my piece in my hand still without firing, being
willing to keep my charge ready, because I had given the
Spaniard my pistol and sword: so 1 called to Friday, and
bade him run up to the tree from whence we first fired, and
fetch the arms which lay there that had been discharged,
which he did with great swiftness; and then giving him my
musket. I sat down myself to load all the rer:t again, and
bade them come to me when they wanted. While I was
loading these pieces, there happened a fierce engagement
between the Spaniard and one of the savages, who made at
him with one of their great wooden swords, the same-like
weapon that was to have killed him before, if I had not
prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as bold and brave
as could be imagined, though weak, had fought this Indian
a good while, and had cut him two great wounds on his
head; but the savage being a stout, lusty fellow, closing
in with him, had thrown him down, being faint, and was
wringing my sword out of his hand; v/hen the Spaniard,
though undermost- wisely quitting the sword, drew cne
pistol from his girdle, shot the savusre through the bod,.
and killed him on the spot, before 1, who was running to
help him, could come near him.
Friday, beiug now left to his liberty, pursued the flying
wretches, with no weapon in his hand but his hatchet; and
with that he dispatched those three, who, as I said before,
were wounded at first, and fallen, and all the rest he could
come up with: and the Spaniard coming to me for a gun,
I gave him one of the fowling-pieces, with which he pursued
two of the savages, and wounded them both; but, as he was
-not able to run, they both got from him into the wood,
where Friday pursued them, and killed one of them, but
the other was too nimble for him; and though he was
wounded, yet had plunged himself into the sea, and swam,
with all his might, off to those two who were left in the
canoe, which three in the canoe, with one wounded, that
we knew not whether he died or no, were all that escaped
our hands of one-andkrtwenty. The account of the whole
is as follows: three killed at our first shot from the tree;
two killed at the next shot; two killed by Friday in the
fcoat; two killed by Friday of those at first wounded; one
killed by Friday in the wood; three killed by the Spaniard;
four killed, being found dropped here and there of their
wounds, or killed -by Friday in his chase of them; four es-
caped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if not dead.—
Vwenty-one in all.
Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of
^an-shot, and though Friday made two or three shots at
tbem, I did not find that he hit any of them. Friday
would fain have had me take one of their canoes and pursue
them; and indeed, I was very anxious about their escape,
leit carrying the news home to their people, they should
cope back perhaps with two or three hundred of their
canoes, and devour us by mere multitude; so I consented
to pursue them by sea, and running to one of their canoes,
1 jqmped in, and bade Friday follow me; but when I was
in the canoe, I was surprised to find another poor creature lie
theie, bound hand and foot, as the Spaniard was, for the
slaughter, and almost dead with fear, not knowing what
was the matter; for he had not been able to look up over
the aide of the boat, he was tied so hard neck and neels,
and ^ad been tied so long, that he had really but little life
left i^ him.
I immediately cut the twisted flags or rashes, which they
had bound him with, and would have helped him up; but
he could not stand or speak, but groaned most piteously,
believing, it seems, still, that he was only unbound in
order to be killed. When Friday came to him, 1 bade him
to speak to him, and tell him of his deliverance; and,
pulling out my bottle, made him give the poor wretch a
dram; which, with the news of his being delivered, revived
him, and he sat up in the boat. But when Friday came to
hear him speak, and look in his face, it would have moved
any one to tears to have seen how Friday kissed him, em-
braced him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped
about, danced, sung; then cried again, wrung his hands,
beat his own face and head; and then sung and jumped
about again, like a distracted creature. It was a good
while before I could make him speak to me, or tell me
what was the matter; but when he came a little to him-
self, he told me that it was his fatlfer.
It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to see
what ecstasy and filial affection had worked in this poor
savage at the sight of his father, and of his being delivered
from death; nor, indeed, can 1 describe half the extrava-
gancies of his affection after this; for he went into the boat,
and out of the boat, a great many times: when he went in
to him, he would sit down by him, open his breast, and hold
his father's head close to his bosom for many minutes to-
gether, to nourish it; then he took his arms and ankles,
which were numbed and stiff with the binding, and chafed
and rubbed them with his hands; and I, perceiving what
the case was, gave him some rum out of my bottle to rub
them with, which did them a great deal of good.
This affair put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with
the other savages, who were got now almost out of sight;
and it was happy for us that we did not, for it blew so hard
within two hours after, and before they could be got a
quarter of their way, and continued blowing so hard all
night, and that from the north-west, which was against
them, that I could not suppose their boat could live, or
that they ever reached their own coast.
But, to return to Friday; he was so busy about his
father, that I could not find it in my heart to take him off
for some time: but after 1 thought he could leave him a
little, I called him to me, and he came jumping and laugh-
ing, and pleased to the highest extreme; then 1 asked him
if he had giveu his father any bread. He shook his head,
and said, None; ugly dog eat all up self. I then gave him
a cake of bread, out of a little pouch which I carried on
purpose; I also gave him a dram for himself, hut he.would
not taste it, but carried it to his father. I had in my
pocket two or three bunches of raisins, so I gave him a
handful of them for his father. He had no sooner given
his father these raisins, but I saw him come out of the
boat, and run away, as if he had been bewitched, he ran at
such a rate; for he was the swiftest fellow on his feet that
ever I saw: I say, he ran at such a rate, that he was out
of sight, as it were, in an instant; and though I called,
>nd hallooed out too, after him, it was all one, away he
vent; and in a quarter of an hour 1 saw him come back
again, though not so fast as he went; and as he came
nearer, 1 found his pace slacker, because he had some-
thing in his hand. When he came up to me, I found that
he had been quite home for an earthen jug or pot, to bring
his father some fresh water, and that he had two more
cakes or loaves of bread; the bread he gave me, but the
water he carried to his father; however, as I was very
thirsty too, I took a little sup of it. The water revived
hit father more than all the rum or spirits I had given him,
fot he was just fainting with thirst.
When his father had drunk, I called to him to know if
there was any water left: he said, Yes; and I bade him
give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as much want of
it as his father: and I sent one of the cakes that Friday
broBght to the Spaniard, too, who was indeed very weak,
and was reposing himself upon a green place uncer the
shade of a tree; and whose limbs were also very stiff, and
very much swelled with the rude bandage he. had been tied
with.! When I saw that, upon Friday's ooniing to him
with the water, he sat up and drank, and took the bread,
and bpgan to eat, I went to him and gave him a handful of
raising; he looked up in my face with all the tokens of
gratitude and thankfulness that could appear in any
countenance; but was so weak, notwithstanding he had so
exerted himself in the fight, that he could not stand upon
his teet\ he tried to do it two or three times, but was really
not ablel his ankles were so swelled and so painful to him;
so 1 bade him sit still, and caused Friday to rub his ankles,
and bathe them with rum, as he had done his father's.
1 observed the poor affectionate creature, every twa
minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was here, turn hia
head about to see if his father was in the same place and
posture as he left him sitting: and at last he found he was
not to be seen; at which he started up, and, without speak-
ing a word, flew with that swiftness to him, that one could
scarce perceive his feet to touch the ground as he went: but
when he came, he only found he had lain himself down to
ease his limbs, so Friday came back to me presently; and
then 1 spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help him up, if
he could, and lead him to the boat, and then he should
carry him to our dwelling, where I would take care of
him: but Friday, a lusty strong feliow, took the Spaniard
quite up upon his back, and carried him away to the boat,
and set him down softly upon the side or gunnel of the
canoe, with his feet in the inside of it; and then, lifting
him quite in, he set himself close to his father; and pres-
ently stepping out again, he launched the boat oft
and paddled it along the shore faster than I could walk,
though the wind blew pretty hard too: so he brought them
both safe into our creek, and leaving them in the boat,
ran away to fetch the other canoe. As he passed me, I
spoke to him, and asked him whither he went. He told
me, Go fetch more boat: so away he went like the wind,
for sure never man or horse ran like him; and he had the
other canoe in the creek almost as soon as I got to it by
land; so he wafted me over, and then went to help our
new guests out of the boat, which he did; but they were
neither of them able to walk, so that poor Friday knew not
what to do.
To remedy this, 1 went to work in my thought, and call-
ing to Friday to bid them sit down on the bank while he
came to me, I soon made a kind of a hand-barrow to lay
them on, and Friday and I carried them both up together
upon it between us. But when we got them to the out-
side of our wall, or fortification, we were at a worse loss
than before, for it was impossible to get them over, and ]
was resolved not to break it down: so I set to work again;
and Friday and I, in about two hours' time, made a very
handsome tent, covered with old sails, and above that with
boughs of trees, being in the space without our outward
fence, and between that and the grove of young wood which
I had planted; and here we made them two beds of suck
things as 1 had, viz. of good rice straw, with blankets laid
upon it, to lie on, and another to cover them, on each bed.
My island was now peopled, and I thought myself rich in
subjects: and it was a merry reflection, which I fre-
quently made, how like a king I looked. First of all, the
whole country was my own mere property, so that I had an
undoubted right of dominion. Secondly, my people were
perfectly subjected; I was absolutely lord and law-giver;
they all owed their lives to me, and were ready to lay
down their lives, if there had been occasion for it, for me.
It was remarkable, too, I had but three subjects, and they
were of three different religions: my man Friday was a
Protestant, his father was a Pagan and a cannibal, and
the Spaniard was a Papist: however, I allowed liberty of
conscience throughout my dominions. But this is by the
way.
As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued prisoners,
and given them shelter, and a place to rest them upon, I
began to think of making some provision for them; and
the first thing 1 did, I ordered Friday to take a yearling
goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, out of my particular flock,
to be killed; when 1 cut off thb hinder quarter, and chop-
ping it into small pieces, 1 set Friday to work to boiling
and stewing, and made them a very good dish, I assure
you, of flesh and broth, having put some barley and rice
also into the broth: and as 1 cooked it without doors, for
1 made no fire within my inner wall, so I carried it all into
the new tent, and having set a table there for them, 1 sat
down, and eat my dinner also with them, and, as well as I
could, cheered them, and encouraged them. Friday was
my interpreter, especially to his father, and, indeed, to
the Spaniard too; for the Spaniard spoke the language of
the savages pretty well.
After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday
to take one of the canoes, and go and fetch our muskets
and other fire-arms, which, for the want of time, we had
left upon the place of battle: and, the next day, I ordered
him to go and bury the dead bodies of the savages, which
lay open to the sun, and would presently be offensive. 1
also ordered him to bury the horrid remains of their bar«
barous feast, which 1 knew were pretty much, and which 1
could not think of doing myself; nay, I could not bear U
see them, if I went that way; all which he punctually pur-
formed, and effaced the very appearance of the savages
being there; so that when I went again, I could scarce
know where it was, otherwise than by the corner of the
wood pointing to the place.
I then began to enter into a little conversation with
my two new subjects: and, first, I set Friday to inquire of
his father what he thought of the escape of the savages in
that canoe, and whether we might expect a return of
them, with a power too great for us to resist. His first
opinion was, that the savages in the boat could never live
out the storm which blew that night they went off, but
must of necessity be drowned, or driven south to those
other shores, where they were as sure to be devoured
as they were to be drowned, if they were cast away;
but, as to what they would do, if they came safe
on shore, he said he knew not; but it was his opinion,
that they were so dreadfully frightened with the man-
ner of their being attacked, the noise, and the fire,
that he believed they would tell the people they were all
killed by thunder and lightning, not by the hand of man;
and that the two which appeared, viz. Friday and I, were
two heavenly spirits, or furies, come down to destroy them,
anJ not men with weapons. This, he said, he knew: be-
cause he heard them all cry out so, in their language to one
another; for it was impossible for them to conceive that a
man could dart fire, and speak thunder, and kill at a dis-
tance, without lifting up the hand, as was done now: and
this old savage was in the right; for, as I understood since
by other hands, the savages never attempted to go over to
the island afterward, they were so terrified with the ac-
counts given by those three men (for, it seems, they did es-
cape the sea), that they believed whoever went to that
enchanted island would be destroyed by fire from the gods.
This, however, 1 knew not; and therefore was under con-
tinual apprehensions for a good while, and kept always
upon my guard, with all my army: for, as there were now
four of us, I would have ventured upon a hundred of them,
fairly in the open field, at any time.
In a little time, however, no canoes appearing, the fear
of their coming wore off; and I began to take my former
thoughts of a voyage to the main into consideration; being
likewise assured, by Friday's father, that 1 might depend
upon good usage from their nation, on his account, if 1
would go. But my thoughts were a little suspended when
I had a serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when 1
understood that there were sixteen more of his countrymen
and Portuguese, who, having been cast away, and made
their escape to that side, lived there at peace, indeed, with
the savages, but were very sore put to it for necessaries,
and indeed for life. I asked him all the particulars of their
voyage, and found they were a Spanish ship, bound from
the Kio de la Plata, to the Havanna, being directed to
leave their loading there, which was chiefly hides and sil-
ver, and to bring back what European goods they could
meet with there; that they had five Portuguese seaman on
board, whom they took out of another wreck; that five of
their own men were drowned, when first the ship was lost,
and that these escaped through infinite dangers and haz-
ards, and arrived, almost starved, on the cannibal coast,
where they expected to have been devoured every moment.
He told me they had some arms with them, but they were
perfectly useless, for that they had neither powder nor ball,
the washing of the sea having spoiled all their powder, but a
little, which they used at their first lauding, to provide
themselves some food.
I asked him what he thought would become of them
there, and if they had formed no design of making any
escape. He said they had many consultations about it;
but that having neither vessel, nor tools to build one, nor
provisions of any kind, their councils always ended in
tears and despair. I asked him how he thought they
would receive a proposal from me, which might tend to-
ward an escape; and whether if they were all here, it
might not be done. I told him tvith freedom, I feared
mostly their treachery and ill usage of me, if 1 put my
life in their hands, for that gratitude was no inherent virt-
ue in the nature of man, nor did men always square their
dealings by the obligations they had received, so much as
they did by the advantages they expected. 1 told him it
would be very hard that I should be the instrument of
their deliverance, and that they should afterward make
me their prisoner in New Spain, where an Englishman
was certain to be made a sacrifice, what necessity or what
accident soever brought him thither; and that I had rather
be delivered up to the savages, to be devoured alive, thaa
to fall into the merciless claws of the priests, and be car*
818 EOBINSOST CRUSO*
ried into the Inquisition. I added, that otherwise I was
Eersnaded, if they were all here, we might, with so many
ands, build a bark large enough to carry us all away,
either to the Brazils, southward, or to the islands, or the
Spanish coast, northward; but that if, in requittal, xney
should, when I had put weapons into their hands, carry
me by force among their own people, I might be ill used
for my kindness to them, and make my case worse that it
was before.
He answered with a great deal of candor and ingenuous-
ness, that their condition was so miserable, and they were
so sensible of it, that he believed they would abhor the
thought of using any man unkindly that should contribute
to their deliverance; and that, if 1 pleased, he would go to
them with the old man, and discourse with them about it,
and return again, and bring me their answer; that he would
make conditions with them upon their solemn oath, that
they should be absolutely under my leading, as their com-
mander and captain; and that they should swear, upon the
holy sacraments and gospel, to be true to me, and go to
such Christian country as that 1 should agree to, and no
other, and to be directed wholly and absolutely by my orders,
till they were landed safely in such country as I intend-
ed; and that he would bring a contract from them, under
their hands, for that purpose. Then he told me that he
would first swear to me himself, that he would never stir
from me as long as he lived, till I gave him orders; and
that he would take my side to the last drop of his blood,
if there should happen the least breach of faith among his
countrymen. He told me they were all of them very civil,
honest men, and they were under the greatest distress im-
aginable, having neither weapons, nor clothes, nor any food,
but at the mercy and discretion of the savages; out of all
hopes of ever returning to their own country; and that he
was sure, if 1 would undertake their relief, they would live
and die by me.
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture, to relieve
them, if possible, and to send the old savage and this Span-
iard over to them to treat. But when we had got all things
in readiness to go, the Spaniard himself started an objec-
tion, which had so much prudence in it, on one hand, and
so much sincerity, on the other hand, that 1 could not but
be very well satisfied in it, and, by his advice, pat off the
KOBINSOJT CRUSOE. 219
deliverance of his comrades for at least half a year. The
case was thus: He had been with us now about a month,
during which time I had let him see in what manner I had
provided, with the assistance of Providence, for my support;
and he saw evidently what stock of corn and rice I had
laid up; which, though it was more than sufficient for my.
self, yet it was not sufficient, without good husbandry, fcV
my family, now it was increased to four; but much less
would it be sufficient if his countrymen, who were, as ha
said, sixteen, still alive, should come over; and least of all
would it be sufficient to victual our vessel, if we should
build one, for a voyage to any of the Christiam colonies of
America; so he told me he thought it would be more, ad-
visable to let him and the other two dig and cultivate som«
more land, as much as 1 could spare seed to sow, and that
we should wait another harvest, that we might have a sup-
ply of corn for his countrymen, when they should come;
for want might be a temptation to them to disagree, or
not to think themselves delivered, otherwise than out of
one difficulty into another. You know, says he, the chil-
dren of Israel, though they rejoiced at first for their being
delivered out of Egypt, yet rebelled even against God
himself, that delivered them, when they came to want
bread in the wilderness.
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good
that I could not but be very well pleased with his proposal,
as well as \ was satisfied with his fidelity; so we fell to dig-
ging all four of us, as well as the wooden tools we wera
furnished with permitted; and in about a month's time, by
the end of which it was seed-time, we had got as much Jancf
cuied and trimmed up as we sowed two-and-twenty bushels
of barley on, and sixteen jars of rice; which was, in short,
all the seed we had to spare; nor, indeed, did we leave our-
selves barley sufficient for our own food, for the sis months
that we had to expect our crop; that is to say, reckoning
from the time we set our seed aside for sowing; for it is
not to be supposed it is six months in the ground in that
country.
Having now society enough, and our number being suffi-
cient to put us out of fear of the savages, if they had come,
unless their number had been very great, we went freely
all over the island, whenever we found occasion; and as
bare we had our escape or deliverance upon oar thoughts,
it was impossible, at least for me, to bare tbe means of it
out of mine. For this purpose 1 marked out several tnsea
which I thought fit for our work, and 1 set Friday and his
father to cutting them down; and then I caused the Span-
iard, to whom I imparted my thought on that affair, to
oversee and direct their work. 1 showed them with what
indefatigable pains I had hewed a large tree into single
planks, and 1 caused them to do the like, till they had
made about a dozen large flanks of good oak, near two
feet broad, thirty-five feet long, and from two inches to
four inches thick; what prodigious labor it took up, any
one may imagine.
At the same time, I contrived to increase my little flook
of tame goats as much as 1 could; and, for this purpose, I
made Friday and the Spaniard go out one day, and myself
with Friday the next day (for we took our turns), and by
this means we got about twenty young kids to breed up
with the rest; for whenever we shot the dam, we saved the
kids, and added them to our flock. But, above all, the
season for curing the grapes coming on, 1 caused aach a
prodigious quantity to be hung up in the sun, that, I be-
lieve, had we been at Alicant, where the raisins of the sun
are cured, we could have filled sixty or eighty barrels; and
these, with our bread, was a great part of our food, and
was very good living, too, I assure you, for it is exceeding-
ly nourishing.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order; it was
not the most plentiful increase I had seen in the island,
but, however, it was enough to answer our end; for from
twenty-two bushels of barley we brought in and threshed
out above two hundred and twenty bushels, and the like
in proportion of the rice; which was store enough for our
food to the next harvest, though all the sixteen Spaniards
bad been on shore with me; or if we had been ready for a
-voyage, it would very plentifully have victualed our ship
o have carried us to any part of the world, that is to say,
any part of America. When we had thus housed and
secured our magazine of corn, we fell to work to make
more wickerware, viz., great baskets in which we kept it;
and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous at this
part, and often blamed me that I did not make some things
for defense of this kind of work; but I saw no need of it.
And now, having a full supply of food for all the guests
I expected, 1 gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the
main, to see what he could do with those he had left behind
him there. I gave him a strict charge not to bring any
man with him who would not first swear, in the presence
of himself and the old savage, that he would no way in-
jure, fight with, or attack the person he should find in the
island, who was so kind as to send for them to effect
their deliverance; but that they would stand by him, and
defend him against all such attempts, and wherever they
went, would be entirely under and subjected to his com-
mand; and that this should be put in writing, and signed
with their hands. How they were to have done this, when
I knew they had neither pen nor ink, was a question which
we never asked. Under these instructions, the Spaniard
and the old savage, the father of Friday, went away in one
of the canoes which they might be said to come in, or
rather were brought in, when they came as prisoners to be
devoured by the savages. I gave each of them a musket,
with a firelock on it, and about eight charges of powder
and ball, charging them to be very good husbands of both,
and not to use either of them but upon urgent occasions.
This was a cheerful work, being the first measures used
by me, in view of my deliverance, for now twenty-seven
years and some days. 1 gave them provisions of bread,
and of dried grapes, sufficient for themselves for many
days, and sufficient for all the Spaniards for about eight
days' time; and wishing them a good voyage, I saw them
go; agreeing with them about a signal they should hang
out at their return, by which I should know them again,
when they came back, at a distance, before they came on
shore. They went away with a fair gale, on the day that
the moon was at full, by my account in the month of Octo-
ber; but as for an exact reckoning of days, after I had
once lost it, I could never recover it again, nor had 1 kept
even the number of years so punctually as to be sure I was
right; though, as it proved, when I afterward examined
my account, I found I had kept a true reckoning of years.
It was no less than eight days I had waited for them,
when a strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of
which the like has not perhaps been heard of in history. I
was fast asleep in my hutch one morning, when my man
Friday came running in to me, and called aloud, Master,
master, the; are come, they are come! I jumped up,
and, regardlets of danger, I went ont ah soon «s I could
get my clothes on, through nay little grove, which, by the
way, was by this time grown to be a very thick wood; 1
eay, regardless of danger, 1 went without my arms, which
it was not my custom to do; but 1 was surprised when,
turning my eyes to the sea, I presently saw a boat about a
league and a half distant, standing in for the shore, with a
shoulder-of-mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind blow-
ing pretty fair to bring them in; also I observed presently
that they did not come from that side which the shore lay
on, but from the southernmost end of the island., Upon
this, I called Friday in, and bade him lie close, for these
were not the people we looked for, and that we might not
know yet whether they were friends or enemies. In the
next place, I went in to fetch my perspective glass, to see
what 1 could make of them; and having taken the ladder
out, I climbed up to the top of the hill, as I used to do
when 1 was apprehensive of anything, and to take my view
the plainer without being discovered. 1 had scarce set my
foot upon the hill, when my eye plainly discovered a ship
lying at anchor, at about two leagues and a half dis-
tant from me, S.S.E., but not above a league and a half
from the shore. By my observation, it appeared plainly to
be an English ship, and the boat appeared to be an En-
glish long-boat.
I can not express the confusion I was in; though the joy
of seeing a ship, and one that I had reason to believe was
manned by my own countrymen, and, consequently, friends,
was such as I can not describe; but yet 1 had some secret
doubts hang about me—I can not tell from whence they
came, bidding me keep upon my guard. In the first place,
it occurred to me to consider what business an English ship
could have in that part of the world, since it was not the
way to or from any part of the world where the English
had any traffic; and 1 knew there had been no storms to
drive them in there, as in distress; and that if they were
really English, it was most probable that they were here
upon no good design; and that I had better continue as I
was, than fall into the hands of thieves and murderers.
Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of dan-
ger which sometimes are given him when he may think
there is no possibility of its being real. That such hint*
and notices are given us, I belief V few that have made any
ROBINSON CRUSOE. ftt
observations of things can deny; that they are certain dis-
coveries of art invisible world, and a converse of spirits, we
can not doubt; and if the tendency of them seems to be to
warn us of danger, why should we not suppose they are
from some friendly agent (whether supreme, or inferior
and subordinate, is not the question), and that they are
given for our good?
The present question abundantly confirms me in the
justice of this reasoning; for had I not been made cautious
by this secret admonition, come it from whence it will, I
had been undone inevitably, and in a far worse condition
than before, as you will see presently. I had not kept my-
self long in thiB posture, but I saw the boat draw near the
shore, as if they looked for a creek to thrust in at, for the
convenience of landing; however, as they did not come
Suite far enough, they did not see the little inlet where I
ormerly landed my rafts, but run their boat on shore upon
the beach, at about half a mile from me, which was very
happy for me; for( otherwise they would have landed just
at my door, as I may say, and would soon have beaten me
out of my castle, and perhaps have plundered me of all I had.
When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied they were
Englishmen, at least most of them; one or two I thought
were Dutch, but it did not prove so; there were in all
eleven men, whereof three of them I found were unarmed,
and, as 1 thought, bound; and when the first four or five
of them were jumped on shore, they took those three out
of the boat, as prisoners; one of the three I could perceive
using the most passionate gestures of entreaty, affliction,
and despair, even to a kind of extravagance; the other
two, I could perceive, lifted up their hands sometimes, and
appeared concerned, indeed, but not to such a degree as
the first. 1 was perfectly confounded at the sight, and
knew not what the meaning of it should be. Friday called
out to me in English, as well as he could, Oh, master! you
see English mans eat prisoner as well as savage mans.
Why, Friday, says I, do you think they are going to eat
them then? Yes, says Friday, they will eat them. "No,
no, says I, Friday; I am afraid they will murder them, in-
deed, but you may be sure they will not eat them.
All this while I had no thought of what the matter really
was, but stood trembling with the horror of the sight, ex-
pecting every moment when the three prisoners should be
killed; nay, once I saw one of the villains lift up his arm
with a great cutlass, as the seamen call it, or sword, to
strike one of the poor men; and I expected to see him fall
every moment; at which all the blood in my body seemed
to run chill in my veins. 1 wished heartily now for my
Spaniard, and the savage that was gone with him, or that
I had any way to have come undiscovered within shot of
them, that I might have rescued the three men, for 1 saw
no fire-arms they had among them; but it fell out to my
mind another way. After I had observed the outrageous
usage of the three men by the insolent seamen, I observed
the fellows run scattering about the island, as if they
wanted to see the country. 1 observed that the three other
men had liberty to go also where they pleased; but they sat
down all three upon the ground, very pensive, and looked
like men in despair. This put me in mind of the first time
when I came on shore, and began to look about me: how
I gave myself over for lost; how wildly I looked around me;
what dreadful apprehensions I had, and how 1 lodged in the
tree all night, for fear of being devoured by wild beasts. As I
knew nothing that night of the supply I was to receive by
the providential driving of the ship nearer the land by the
storms and tide, by which 1 have since been so long nour-
ished and supported; bo these three poor, desolate men
knew nothing how uncertain of deliverance and supply
they were, how near it was to them, and how effectually
and really they were in a condition of safety, at the same
time that they thought themselves lost, and their case des-
perate. So little do we see before us in the world, and so
much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon the great
Maker of the world, that He does not leave His creatures
so absolutely destitute, but that, in the worst circum-
stances, they have always something to be thankful for,
and sometimes are nearer their deliverance than they im-
agine, nay, are even brought to their deliverance by the
means by which they seem to be brought to destruction.
SECTION XXVI.
Robinson Discovers Himself to the English Captain.—Assists him
in Reducing his Mutinous Crew.—Who Submit to Him.
It was just at the top of high water when these people
came on shore; and partly while they rambled about to see
what kind of a place they were in, they had carelessly
stayeu till the tide was spent, and the water was ebbed
considerably away, leaving their boat aground. They had
left two men in the boat, who, as I found afterward, hav-
ing drunk a little too much brandy, fell asleep; however,
one of them waking a little sooner than the other, and
finding the boat too fast aground for him to stir it, hal-
looed out for the rest, who were straggling about; upon
wkich they all soon came to the boat; but it was past alt
their strength to launch her, the boat being very heavy,
and the shore on that side being a soft, oozy sand, almost
like a quicksand. In this condition, like true seamen, who
are perhaps the least of all mankind given to forethought,
they gave it over, and away they strolled about the country
again; and I heard one of them say aloud to another, call-
ing them off from the boat, Why, let her alone, Jack,
can't you? she'll float next tide; by which I was fully con-
firmed in the main inquiry of what countrymen they were.
All this while I kept myself very close, not once daring to
stir out of my castle, any further than to my place of ob-
servation, near the top of the hill; and very glad I was to
think how well it was fortified. I knew it was bo less than
ten hours before the boat could float again, and by that
time it would be dark, and 1 might be at more liberty to
see their motions, and to hear their discourse, if they had
any. In the meantime, I fitted myself up for a battle, as
before, though with more caution, knowing I had to do
with another kind of enemy than I had at first . I ordered
Friday also, whom 1 had made an excellent marksman
with his gun, to load himself with arms. I took myself
two fowling-pieces, and 1 gave him three muskets. My
figure, indeed, was very fierce; 1 had my formidable goat<
3kin coat on, with the great cap I have mentioned, a naked
sword by my side, two pistols in my belt, and a gun upon
each shoulder.
It was my design, as I said above, not to have made any
attempt till it was dark; but about two o'clock, being the
heat A the day, 1 found that, in short, they were all gone
struggling into the woods, and, as 1 thought, laid down to
sleep. The three poor distressed men, too anxious for
their condition to get any sleep, were, however, sat down
under the shelter of a great tree, at about a quarter of a
mile from me, and, as 1 thought, out of sight of any of
%%H BOBINSOK CRUSOE.
the rest. Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them,
and learn something of their condition; immediately 1
marched in the figure as above, my man Friday at a good
distance behind me, as formidable for his arms as I, but
not making quite so staring a specter-like figure as I did.
1 came as near them undiscovered as 1 could, and then, be-
fore any of them saw me, I called aloud to them in Spanish,
What are ye, gentlemen? They started up at the noise;
but were ten times more confounded when they saw me,
and the uncouth figure that I made. They made no an-
swer at all, but I thought 1 perceived them just going to
fly from me, when 1 spoke to them in English. Gentle-
men, said 1, do not be surprised at me; perhaps you may
have a friend near, when you did not expect it. He must
be sent directly from Heaven, then, said one of them very
gravely to me, and pulling off his hat at the same time to
me, for our condition is past the help of man. All help is
from Heaven, sir, said I. But can you put a stranger in
the way how to help you? for you seem to be in some
great distress. I saw you when you landed, and when you
seemed to make supplication to the brutes that came with
you, I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill you.
The poor man, with tears running down his face, and
trembling, looking like one astonished, returned, Am I
talking to God or man? Is it a real man or an angel? Be
in no fear about that, sir, said I; if God had sent an angel
to relieve you, he would have come better clothed, and
armed after another manner than you see me; pray lay
aside your fears; 1 am a man, an Englishman, and dis-
posed to assist you; you see I have one servant only; we
have arms and ammunition; tell us freely, can we serve
you? What is your case? Our case, said he, sir, is too
long to tell you while our murderers are so near us; but,
in short, sir, I was commander of that ship, my men have
mutinied against me; tbey have been hardly prevailed on
not to murder me, and at last have set me on shore in this
desolate place, with these two men with me, one my mate,
the other a passenger, where we expected to perish, believ-
ing the place to be uninhabited, and know not yet what to
think of it. Where are these brutes, your enemies? said
X. Do you know where they are gone? There they lie,
sir, said he, pointing to a thicket of trees; my heart trem-
bles for fear they have seen us, and heard you speak; if
they have, they will certainly murder us alL Hvre they
any fire-arms? said I. He answered they had only two
pieces, one of which they left in the boat. Weil, then,
said 1, leave the rest to me; I see they are all asleep, it if
an easy thing to kill them all; but shall we rather take
them prisoners? He told me there were two desperate vil-
lains among them that it was scarce safe to show an;
mercy to; but if they were secured, he believed all the rest
would return to their duty. I asked him which they were.
He told me he could not at that distance distinguish them,
but he would obey my orders in anything I would direct.
Well, says I, let ia retreat out of their view or hearing,
lest they awake, and we will resolve further. So they
willingly went back with me, till the woods covered ua
from them.
Look you, sir, said I, if I venture upon yonr deliver-
ance, are you willing to make two conditions with me? He
anticipated my proposals, by telling me, that both he and
the ship, if recovered, should be wholly directed and com-
manded by me in everything- and, if the ship was not re-
covered, he would live and die with me in what part of the
world soever I would send him: and the two other men
said the same. Well, says 1, my conditions are but two;
first, that while you stay in this island with me you will
not pretend to any authority here; and if I put arms in .
your hands, you will, upon all occasions, give them up to
me, and do no prejudice to me or mine upon this island;
and, in the meantime, be governed by my orders; second-
ly, that if the ship is, or may be recovered, you will carry
me and my man to England passage free.
He gave me all the assurances that the invention or faith
of man could devise, that he would comply with these
most reasonable demands; and, besides, would owe his life
m me, and acknowledge it upon all occasions, as long as he
lived. - Well, then, said I, here are three muskets for you,
with powder and ball; tell me nott what you think is
Eroper to be done. He showed me all the testimonies of
is gratitude that he was able, but offered to be wholly
guided by me. 1 told him 1 thought it was hard venturing
anything; but the best method 1 coald think of was to fire
upon them at once, as they lay, and if any was not killed
at the first volley, and offered to submit, we might save
them, and so put it wholly upon God's Providence to djraet
the shot. He said very modestly that he was loath to kill
them, if he could help it; but that those two were incor-
rigible villains and had been the authors of all the mutiny
in the ship, and if they escaped, we should be undone still;
for they would go on board and bring the whole ship's
company, and destroy us all. Well, then, says I, necessity
legitimates my advice, for it is the only way to save our
lives. However, seeing him still cautious of shedding
blood, 1 told him they should go themselves and manage
as they found convenient.
In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them
awake, and soon after we saw two of them on their feet. I
asked him if either of them were the heads of the mutiny?
He said no. Well, then, said I, you may let them escape;
and Providence seems to have awakened them on purpose
to save themselves. Now, says I, if the rest escape you,
it is your fault. Animated with this, he took the musket
I had given him in his hand, a pistol in his belt, and his
two comrades with him, with each a piece in his hand; the
two men who were with him going first, made some noise,
at which one of the seamen who was awake turned about,
and seeing them coming, cried out to the rest; but it wag
too late then, for the moment he cried out they fired; I
mean the two men, the captain wisely reserving his own
piece. They had so well aimed their shot at the men they
knew, that one of them was killed on the spot, and the
other very much wounded; but not being dead, he started
up on his feet, and called eagerly for help to the others;
but the captain stepping to him, told him it was too late to
cry for help, he should call upon God to forgive his vil-
lainy; and with that word knocked him down with the
stock of his musket, so that he never spoke more; ther*
were three more in the company, and one of them was also
slightly wounded. By this time I was come; and when
they saw their danger, and that it was in vain to resist,
they begged for mercy. The captain told them he would
spare their lives, if they would give him any assurance of.
their abhorrence of the treachery they had been guilty of,
and would swear to be faithful to him in recovering the
ship, and afterward in carrying her back to Jamaica, from
whence they came. They gave him all the protestations
of their sincerity that could be desired, and he was willing
to believe them, and spare their lives, which 1 was not
against, only that 1 obliged him to keep them bound hand
and foot while they were on the island.
While this was doing, 1 sent Friday with the captain's
mate to the boat, with orders to secure her, and bring
away the oars and sails, which they did; and by and bj
three straggling men, that were, happily for them, parted
from the rest, came back upon hearing the guns fired, and
teeing the captain, who before was their prisoner, now ther
conqueror, they submitted to be bound also; and 80 on /
Tictory was complete.
It now remained that the captain and I should inquire
into each other's circumstances. I began first, and told him
aiy whole history, which he heard with an attention even
to amazement; and particularly at the wonderful manner
of my being furnished with provisions and ammunition;
and, indeed, as my story is a whole collection of wonders,
it affected him deeply. But when he reflected from thence
upon himself, and how I seemed to hr.ve been preserved
there on purpose to save his life, the tears ran down his
face, and he could not speak a word more. After this
communication was at an end I curried hira and his two
men into my apartment, leading them in just where I
came out, viz., at the top of the honse, where I refreshed
them with such provisions as 1 had, and showed them all
the contrivances I had made during my long, long in-
habiting that place.
All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly
amazing; but, above all, the captain admired my fortifica-
tion, and how perfectly I had concealed my retreat with a
grove of trees, which, having been now planted near twenty
years, and the trees growing much faster than in England,
was become a little wood, and so thick, that it was im«
passable in any part of it, but at that one side where I had
reserved my little winding passage into it. I told him this
was my castle and my residence, but that I had a seat in
the country, as most princes have, whither 1 could retreat
apon occasion, and I would show him that too another
time; but at present our business was to consider how to
recover the ship. He agreed with me as to that; bnt told
me he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take, for
that there were still six-and-twenty hands on board, who
having entered into a oursed conspiracy, by which they had
BOBIKSOS CRU801. tO?
230 HOBINSON CBUSOB.
now by desperation, and would carry it on, Knowing that
if they were subdued, they would be brought to the gal-
lows, as soon as they came to England, or to any of tha
English colonies; and that, therefore, there would be no
attacking them with so small a number as we were.
I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found
it was a very rational conclusion, and that, therefore, some-
thing was to be resolved on speedily, as well to draw the
men on board into some snare for their surprise, as to pre-
vent their landing upon us, and destroying us. Upon this
it presently occurred to me that in a little while the ship's
crew, wondering what was become of their comrades, and
of the boat, would certainly come on shore in their other
boat, to look for them; and that then, perhaps, they might
come armed, and be too strong for us; this he allowed to
be rational. Upon this I told him the first thing we had
to do was to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, so
that they might not carry her oif; and taking everything
out of her, leave her so far useless as not to be fit to swim;
accordingly we went on board, took the arms which were
left on board out of her, and whatever else we found there,
which was a bottle of brandy, and another of rum, a few
biscuit-cakes, a horn of powder, and a great lump of sugar
in a piece of canvas (the sugar was five or six pounds); all
which was very welcome to me, especially the brandy and
sugar, of which I had none left for many years.
When we had carried all these things on shore (the oars,
mast, sail and rudder of the boat were carried away be-
fore, as above), we knocked a great hole in her bottom,
that if they had come strong enough to master us, yet they
could not carry off the boat. Indeed, it was not much in
my thoughts that we cotdd be able to recover the ship; but
my view was, that if they went away without the boat, I
did not much question to make her fit again to carry us to
the Leeward Islands, and call upon our friends the Span-
iards in my way; for I had them still in my thoughts.
While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first,
by main strength, heaved the boat upon the beach so high
that the tide would not float her off at high-water mark,
and besides, had broke a hole in her bottom too big to be
quickly stopped, and were set down musing what we should
do, we heard the ship fire a gun, and saw her make a waft
with her ensign as a signal for the boat to come on board;
but no boat stirred; and they fired several times, making
other signals for the boat. At last, when all their signals
and firing proved fruitless, and they found the boat did
not stir, we saw them, by the help of my glass, hoist an-
other boat out, and row toward the shore; and we found,
as they approached, that there were no less than ten men
in her, and that they had fire-arms with them.
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we
had a full view of them as they came, and a plain sight
even of their faces; because the tide having set them a lit-
tle to the east of the other boat, they rowed up under shore,
to come to the same place where the other had landed, and
where the boat lay; by this means, I say, we had a full view
of them, and the captain knew the persons and characters
of all the men in the boat, of whom, he said, there were
three very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led into
this conspiracy by the rest, being overpowered and fright-
ened; but that as for the boatswain, who, it seems, was the
chief officer among them, and all the rest, they were as
outrageous as any of the ship's crew, and were no doubt
made desperate in their new enterprise; and terribly ap-
frehensive he was that they would be too powerful for us.
smiled at him, and told him that men in our circum-
stances were past the operation of fear; that seeing almost
every condition that could be was better than that which
we were supposed to be in, we ought to expect that the
consequence, whether death or life, would be sure to be a
deliveranoe. 1 asked him what he thought of the circum-
stances of my life, and whether a deliverance were not
worth venturing for? And where, sir, said 1, is your be-
lief of my being preserved here on purpose to save your life,
which elevated you a little while ago; for my part, said 1,
there seems to me but one thing amiss in all the prospect
of it. What is that? says he. Why, says 1, it is, that as
you say there are three or four honest fellows among them,
which should be spared, had they been all of the wicked
part of the crew, I should have thought God's providence
had singled, them out to deliver them into your hands; for,
depend upon it, every man that comes ashore is our own,
and shall die cr live as they behave to us. As I spoke this
with a raised voice and cheerful countenance, I found it
greatly encouraged him} so we set vigorously to our busv
new.
We had, upon the first appearance of the boat*a coming
from the ship, considered of separating our prisoners; and
we had, indeed, secured them effectually. Two of them,
of whom the captain was less assured than ordinary, 1 seat
with Friday, aud one of the three delivered men, to my
cave, where they were remote enough, and out of danger
of being heard or discovered, or of finding their way out of
the woods if they could have delivered themselves: hero
they left them bound, but gave them provisions; and prom-
ised them if they continued there quietly, to give them their
liberty in a day or two; but that if they attempted their
escape, they should be put to death without mercy. They
promised faithfully to bear their confinement with patience,
and were very thankful that they had such good usage as
to have provisions and light left them; for Friday gave them
candles (such as we made ourselves) for their comfort; and
they did not know but that he stood sentinel over them at
the entrance.
The other prisoners had better usage: two of them were
kept pinioned, indeed, because the captain was not free to
trust them; but the other two were taken into my service,
upon the captain's recommendation, and upon their
solemnly engaging to live and die with us; so with them
and the three honest men we were seven men well armed;
and I made no doubt we should be able to deal well enough
with the ten that were coming, considering that the cap-
tain had said that there were three or four honest men
among them also. As soon as they got to the place where
their other boat lay, they ran their boat into the beach, and
came on shore, hauling the boat up after them, which 1
was glad to see; for 1 was afraid they would rather have
left the boat at anchor, some distance from the shore,
with some hands in her to guard her, and so we should not
be able to seize the boat. Being on shore, the first thing
they did, they ran all to their other boat; and it was easy
to see they were under a great surprise to find her strip-
Eed, as above, of all that was in her, and a great hole in
er bottom. After they had mused awhile upon this, they
set up two or three great shouts, hallooing with all their
might, to try if they could make their companions hear;
but all was to no purpose: then they came all close in a
ring, and fired a volley of their small arms, which, indeed,
w heard, and the echoes made the woods ring; but it was
all one: those in the cave we were sure could not hear; and
those in our keeping, though they heard it well enough,
yet durst give no answer to them. They were so aston-
ished at the surprise of this, that, as they told us after-
ward, they resolved to go all on board again to their ship,
and let them know that the men were all murdered, and
the long-boat staved; accordingly, they immediately
launched their boat again, and got all of ther m board.
The captain was terribly amazed and eve confounded
at this, believing they would go on board the ship again,
and set sail, giving their comrades over for lost, and so he
should still lose the ship, which he was in hopes we should
have recovered; but he was quickly as much frightened the
other way.
They had not been long put off with the boat, but we
perceived them all coming on shore again; but with this
new measure in their conduct, which it seems they con-
sulted together upon, viz., to leave three men in the boat,
and the rest to go on shore, and go up into the country to
look for tiieir fellows. This was a great disappointment to
us, for now we wer" at a loss what to do; as our seizing
those seven men r,.i shore would be no advantage to us, u
we let the boat escape; because they would then row away
to the ship, and then the rest of them would be sure to
weigh and set sail, and so our recovering the ship would be
lost. However, we had no remedy but to wait and see
what the issue of things might present. The seven men
came on shore, and the three who remained in the boat put
her oft to a good distance from the shore, and came to an
anchor to wait for them; so that it was impossible for us
to come at them in the boat. Those that came on shore
kept close together, marching toward the top of the little
hill under which my habitation lay; and we could see them
Elainly, though they could not perceive us. We could have
een very glad they would have come nearer to us, so that
we might have fired at them, or that they would have gone
further off, that we might have come abroad. But when
they were come to the brow of the hill, whtre they could
see a great way into the valleys and woods, which lay toward
the north-east part, and where the island lay lowest, they
shouted and hallooed till they were weary; and not caring,
it *eems, to venture far from the shore, nor far from each
other, they sat down together under a tree, to consider of
it. Had they thought fit to have gone to sleep there, as
the other part of them had done, they had done the job for
us; but they were too full of apprehensions of danger to
venture to go to sleep, though they could not tell what the
danger was they had to fear neither.
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this
consultation of theirs, viz., that perhaps they would all
fire a volley T;ain, to endeavor to make their fellows hear,
and that we , ould all sally upon them, just at the juncture
when their pieces were all discharged, and they would cer-
tainly yield, and we should have them without bloodshed.
I liked this proposal, provided it was done while we were
near enough to come up to them before they could load
their pieces again. But this even did not happen; and we
lay still a long time, very irresolute what course to take.
At length 1 told them there would be nothing done, in my
opinion, till night; and then, if they did not return to the
boat, perhaps we might find a way to get between them and
the shore, and so might use some stratagem with them in
the boat to get them on shore. We waited a great while,
though very impatient for their removing; and were very
uneasy, when, after long consultations, we saw them all
start up, and march down toward the sea: it seems they
had such dreadful apprehensions upon them of the danger
of the place, that they resolved to go on board the ship
again, give their companions over for lost, and so go on
with their intended voyage with the ship.
As soon as I perceived them go toward the shore, I imag-
ined it to be, as it really was, that they had given over their
search, and were for going back again; and the captain, as
soon as I told him my thoughts, was ready to sink at the
apprehensions of it: but I presently thought of a stratagem
to fetch them back again, and which answered my end to
s tittle. I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to go
over the little creek westward, toward the place where the
savages came on shore when Friday was rescued, and as
soon as they came to a little rising ground, at about half a
mile distance, 1 bade them halloo out, as loud as they could,
and wait till they found the seamen heard them; that as
soon as ever they heard the seamen answer them, they
should return it again; and then keeping out of sight, take
a round, always answering when the others hallooed, to
draw them as far into the island, and among the woods, m
possible, and then wheel about again to me, by sueh ways
as I directed them.
They were just going into the boat when Friday and the
mate hallooed: and they presently heard them, and answer-
ing, ran along the shore westward, toward the voice they
heard, when they were presently stopped by the creek,
where the water being up, they could not get over, and
called for the boat to come up and set them over; as, in-
deed, I expected. When they had set themselves over, I
observed that the boat being gone a good way into the
creek, and, as it were, in a harbor within the land, they
took one of the three men out of her, to go along with
them, and left only two in the boat, having fastened her
to the stump of a little tree on the shore. This was what
I wished for; and immediately leaving Friday and the cap-
tain's mate to their business, 1 took the rest with me, and
crossing the creek out of their sight, we surprised the two
men before they were aware; one of them lying on the
shore, and the other being in the boat. The fellow on
shore was between sleeping and waking, and going to start
up; the captain, who was foremost, ran in upon him, and
knocked him down; and then called out to him in the boat
to yield, or he was a dead man. There needed very few
arguments to persuade a single man to yield, when he saw
five men upon him, and his comrade knocked down; be-
sides, this was, it seems, one of the three who were not so
hearty in the mutiny as the rest of the crew, and therefore
was easily persuaded not only to yield, but afterward to
join very sincerely with us. In the meantime, Friday and
the captain's mate so well managed their business with the
rest, that they drew them, by hallooing and answering, from
one hill to another, and from one wood to another, till they
not only heartily tired them, but left them where they were
very sure they could not reach back to the boat before it
was dark; and, indeed, they were heartily tired themselves
also, by the time they came back to us.
We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in the
dark, and to fall upon them, so as to make sure work with
them. It was several hours after Friday came back to me
before they came back to their boat; and we could hear the
foremost of them, long before they came quite up, calling
to those behind to come along; and could also hear them
answer, and complain how laaie and tired they were, and
not able to come any faster, which was very welcome newi
to us. At length they came up to the boat: but it is im-
possible to express their confusion when they found the boat
fast aground in the creek, the tide ebbed out, and their two
men gone. We could hear them call to one another in a
most lamentable manner, telling one another they were got
into an enchanted island: that either there were inhabitants
in it, and they should all be murdered, or else there were
devils and spirits in it, and they should be all carried away
and devoured. They hallooed again, and called their tw»
comrades by their names a great many times; but no an-
swer. After some time, we could see them, by the little
light there was, run about, wringing their hands like men
in despair; and that sometimes they would go and sit down
in the boat, to rest themselves; then come ashore again, and
walk about again, and do the same thing over again. My
men would fain have had me give them leave to fall upon
them at once in the dark; but I was willing to take them
at some advantage, so to spare them, and kill as few of
them as I could; and especially I was unwilling to hazard
the killing of any of our men, knowing the others were
very well armed. I resolved to wait, to see if they did not
separate; and, therefore, to make sure of them, I drew my
ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday and the captain to
creep upon their hands and feet, as close to the ground as
they could, that they might not be discovered, and get as
aear them as they could possibly, before they offered to
fire.
They had not been long in that posture, when the boat-
swain, who was the principal ringleader of the mutiny, and
had now shown himself the most dejected and dispirited of
all the rest, came walking toward them, with two more of
the crew: the captain *was so eager at having this principal
rogue so much in his power, that he could hardly have
patience to let him come so near as to be sure of him, for
they only heard his tongue before: but when they came
nearer, the captain and Friday, starting up on their feet,
let fly at them. The boatswain was killed upon the spot;
the next man was shot in the body, and fell just by him,
though he did not die till an hour or two after; and the
third ran for it. At the noise of the fire, I immediately
advanced with my whole army, which was now eight men,
viz., myself, generalissimo; Friday, my lieutenant-general;
ROBINSON CBUSOE. 837
the captain and bis two men, and the three prisoners ot
war, whom we had trusted with arms. We came upon
them, indeed, in the dark, so that they could not see our
number; and 1 made the man they had left in the boat,
who was now one of us, to call them by name, to try if I
could bring them to a parley, and so might perhaps reduce
them to terms; which fell out just as we desired: for, in-
deed, it was easy to think, as their condition then was, they
would be willing to capitulate. So he calls out, as loud as
he could, to one of them, Tom Smith! Tom Smith! Tom
Smith answered immediately, Is that Eobinson? For it
seems he knew the voice. The other answered, Ay, ay;
for God's sake, Tom Smith, throw down your arms and
yield, or you are all dead men this moment. Who must
we yield to? Where are they? says Smith again. Here
they are, says he; here's our captain and fifty men with
him, have been hunting you these two hours: the boat-
swain is killed, Will Fry is wounded, and I am a prisoner;
and if you do not yield, you are all lost. Will they give
us quarter then? says Tom SmKi, and we will yield. I
will go ask, if you promise to yield, says Eobinson: so he
asked the captain; and the captain himself then calls out,
You, Smith, you know my voice; if you lay down your
arms immediately, and submit, you shall hare your lives,
all but Will Atkins.
SECTION XXVIL
Atkins Entreats the Captain to Spare his Life.—The Latter Recovers
his Vessel from the Mutineers.—And Robinson Leaves the Island.
Upon this Will Atkins cried out, For God's sake, cap-
tain, give me quarter; what have I done? They have all
been as bad as I: which, by the way, was not true neither;
for, it seems, this Will Atkins was the first man that laid
hold of the captain when they first mutinied, and used him
barbariously, in tying his hands, and giving him injurious
language. However, the captain told him he must lay
down his arms at discretion, and trust to the governor's
mercy: by which he meant me, for they all called me gov-
ernor. In a word, they all laid down their arms, and
begged their lives; and I sent the man that had parleyed
with them, and two more, who bound them all; and then
wy great army of fifty men, whioh particularly with thow
three were in all but eight, came up and seized upon them,
and upon their boat; only that I kept myself and ont
more out of sight for reasons of state.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of seiz-
ing the ship: and as for the captain, now he had leisure to
parley with them, he expostulated with them upon the
villainy of their practices with him, and at length upon the
further wickedness of their design, and how certainly it
must bring them to misery and distress in the end, and
perhaps to the gallows. They all appeared very penitent,
and begged hard for their lives. As for that, he told them
they were none of his prisoners, but the commander's of
the island; that they thought they had set him on shore on
a barren, uninhabited island; but it had pleased God so to
direct them, that it was inhabited, and that the governor
was an Englishman; that he might hang them all there,
if he pleased; but as he had given them all quarter, he
supposed he would send them to England, to be dealt with
there as justice required, except Atkins, whom he was com-
manded by the governor to advise to prepare for death, for
that he would be hanged in the morning.
Though all this was but a fiction of his own, yet it had
its desired effect: Atkins fell upon his knees, to beg the
captain to intercede with the governor for his life; and all
the rest begged of him, for God's sake, that they might
not be sent to England. .
It now occurred to me, that the time of our deliverance
was come, and that it would be a most easy thing to bring
these fellows in to be hearty in getting possession of the
ship; so 1 retired in the dark from them, that they might
not see what kind of a governor they had, and called the
captain to me: when 1 called, as at a good distance, one of
the men was ordered to speak again, and say to the cap-
tain, Captain, the commander calls for you; and presently
the captain replied, Tell his excellency I am just a-coming.
This more perfectly amused them, and they all believed
that the commander was just by with his fifty men. Upon
the captain's coming to me, 1 told him my project for seiz-
ing the ship, which he liked wonderfully well, and resolved
to put it in execution the next morning. But, in order to
execute it with more heart, and to be secure of success, I
told him we most divide the prisoners, and that he should
go and take Atkins and two more of the worst of them, and
send them pinioned to the cave where the others lay. This
was committed to Friday and the two men who came on
shore with the captain. They conveyed them to the cave
as to a prison: and it was, indeed, a dismal place, especi-
ally to men in their condition. The others 1 ordered to
my bower, as I called it, of which I have given a full de-
scription: and as it was fenced in, and they pinioned, the
place was secure enough, considering they were upon their
behavior.
To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was to
enter into a parley with them; in a word, to try them, and
tell me whether he thought they might be trusted or no to
,go on board and surprise the ship. He talked to them of
the injury done him, of the condition they were brought to,
and that though the governor had given them quarter for
their lives as to the present action, yet that if they were
sent to England they would all be hanged in chains, to
be sure; but that if they would join in so just an attempt
%a to recover the ship, he would have the governor's engage-
ment for their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily snch a proposal would be
accepted by men in their condition; they fell down on their
knees to the captain, and promised, with the deepest impre-
cations, that they would be faithful to him to the last drop,
and that they should owe their lives to him, and would go
with him all over the world; that they would own him as
a father as long as they lived. Well, says the captain, I
must go and tell the governor what you say, and see what
I can do to bring him to consent to it. So he brought me
an account of the temper he found them in, and that ho
verily believed they would be faithful. However, that we
might be very secure, I told him he should go back again
and choose out those five, and tell them, that they might
see he did not want men, that he would take out those five
to be his assistants, and that the governor would keep the
other two, and the three that were sent prisoners to the
castle (my cave) as hostages for the fidelity of those five;
and that if they proved unfaithful in the execution, the five
hostages should be hanged in chains alive on the shore.
This looked severe, and convinced them that the governor
was in earnest: however, they had no way left them but to
accept it; and it was now the business of the prisoners, M
much as of the captain, to persuade the other fire to do
their duty.
Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition:
first, the captain, his mate, and passenger; second, the
two prisoners of the first gang, to whom, having their
character from the captain, 1 had given their liberty, and
trusted them with arms: third, the other two that I had
kept till now in my bower pinioned, but, od the captain's
motion, had now released: fourth, these five released at
last, so that they were twelve in all, besides five we kept
prisoners in the cave for hostages.
I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with
these hands on board the ship: but as for me and my man
Friday, 1 did not think it was proper for us to stir, having
seven men left behind; and it was employment enough for
us to keep them asunder, and supply them with victuals.
As to the five in the cave, 1 resolved to keep them fast, but
Friday went in twice a day to them, to supply them with
necessaries; and 1 made the other two carry provisions to a
certain distance, where Friday was to take it.
When 1 showed myself to the two hostages, it was with
the captain, who told them 1 was the person the governor
had ordered to look after them; and that it was the gov-
ernor's pleasure they should not stir anywhere but by my
direction; that if they did, they would be fetched into the
castle, and be laid in irons; so that as we never suffered
them to see me as a governor, I now appeared as another
person, and spoke of the governor, the garrison, the
castle, and the like, upon all occasions.
The captain now had no difficulty before him, but to
furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one, and man
them. He made his passenger captain of one, with four
of the men; and himself, his mate, and five more, went in
the other; and they contrived their business very well, for
they came up to the ship about midnight. As soon as they
came within call of the ship, he made Robinson hail them,
and tell them they had brought off the men and the boat,
but that it was a long time before they had found them, and
the like, holding them in a chat till they came to the ship's
side; when the captain and mate entering first, with their
arms, immediately knocked down the second mate and
carpenter with the butt end of their muskets, being very
faithfully seconded by their men; they secured all the rest
that were npon the main and quarter-decks, and began to
fasten the hatches, to keep them down that were below;
when the other boat and their men, entering at the fore-
chains, secured the forecastle of the ship, and the scuttle
which went down into the cook-room, making three men
they found there prisoners. When this was done, and all safe
upon deck, the captain ordered the mate, with throe men,
to break into the round-house, where the new rebel captain
lay, who having taken the alarm, had got up, and with two
men and a boy had got fire-arms in their hands; and when
the mate, with a crow, split open the door, the new captain
and his men fired boldly among them, and wounded the
mate with a musket ball, which broke his arm, and
wounded two more of the men, but killed nobody. The
mate, calling for help, rushed, however, into the round-
house, wounded as he was, and with his pistol shot the new
captain through the head, the bullet entering at his mouth,
and came out again behind one of his ears, so that he
never spoke a word more: upon which the rest yielded,
and the ship was taken effectually, without any more lives
lost
.
As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered
seven guns to be fired, which was the signal agreed upon
with me to give me notice of his success, which you may be
sure I was very glad to hear, having sat watching upon the
shore for it till near two o'clock in the morning. Having
thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me down, and it having
been a day of great fatigue to me, I slept very sound, till 1
was something surprised with the noise of a gun; and pres-
ently starting up, I heard a man call me by the name of
Governor, Governor, and presently I knew the captain's
voice; when climbing up to the top of the hill, there he
"tood, and pointing to the ship, he embraced me in his
arms. My dear friend and deliverer, says he, there's
your ship, for she is all yours, and so are we, and all that
belong to her. I cast my eyes to the ship, and there she
rode within a little more than half of a mile of the shore;
for they had weighed her anchor as soon as they were
masters of her, and the weather being fair, had brought
her to anchor just against the mouth of the little creek;
and the tide being up, the captain had brought the pinnace
*42 BOinsHON cbusos.
with the surprise; for 1 saw my deliverance, indeed, visibly,
put into my hands, all things easy, and a large ship jusi
ready to carry me away whither I pleased to go. At first,
for some time, I was not able to answer him one word; but
as he had taken me in his arms, 1 held fast by him, or I
should have fallen to the ground. He perceived the sur-
prise, and immediately pulled a bottle out of his pocket, and
gave me a dram of cordial, which he had brought on pur-
pose for me. After I had drunk it, I had sat down upon
the ground; and though it brought me to myself, yet it was
a good while before 1 could speak a word to him. All this
time the poor man was in as great an ecstasy as 1, only
not under any surprise, as I was; and he said a thousand
kind and tender things to me, to compose and bring me to
myself: but such was the flood of joy in my breast, that it
put all my spirits into confusion; at last it broke out into
tears; and in a little while after I recovered my speech. 1
then took my turn, and embraced him as my deliverer, and
we rejoiced together. I told him 1 looked upon him as a
man sent from Heaven to deliver me, and that the whole
transaction seemed to be a chain of wonders; that such
things as these were the testimonies we had of a secret hand
of Providence governing the world, and an evidence that
the eye of an infinite Power could search into the remotest
corner of the world, and send help to the miserable when-
ever He pleased. 1 forgot not to lift up my heart in thank-
fulness to Heaven; and what heart could forbear to bless
Him, who had not only in a miraculous manner provided
for me in such a wilderness, and in such a desolate condi-
tion, but from whom every deliverance mast always be
acknowledged to proceed?
When we had talked awhile, the captain told me he had
brought some little refreshment, such as the snip afforded,
and such as the wretches that had been so long his masters
had not plundered him of. Upon this he called aloud to
the boat, and bade his men bring the things ashore that
were for the governor; and, indeed, it was a present as if
it had been one that was not to be carried away with them,
but as if I had been to dwell upon the island still. First,
he had brought me a case of bottles full of excellent cor-
dial waters, six large bottles of Maderia wine (the bottles
held two quarts each), two pounds of excellent good to-
bacco, twelve good pieces of ship's beef, and six pieces of
pork, with a bag of pease, and about a hundred-weight of
biscuit: he also brought me a box of sugar, a box of flour,
a bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime juice, aud
abundance of other things. But, besides these, and what
was a thousand times more useful to me, he brought me
sfe new clean shirts, six very good neck-cloths, two pairs of
gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one pair of stockings,
with a very good suit of clothes of his own, which had been
worn but very little; in a word, he clothed me from head to
foot. It was a very kind and agreeable present, as any one
may imagine, to one in my circumstances; but never was
anything in the world of that kind so unpleasant, awkward,
and uneasy as it was to me to wear such clothes at first.
After these ceremoinies were past, and after all these
good things were brought into my little apartment, we
Began to consult what was to be done with the prisoners we
had; for it was worth considering whether we might
venture to take them away with us or no, especially two of
them, whom we knew to be incorrigible and refractory to
the last degree; and the captain said he knew they
were such rogues, that there was no obliging them; and if
ha did carry them away, it must be in irons, as malefac-
tors, to be delivered over to justice at the first English col-
ony he could come at; and 1 found that the captain himself
was very anxious about it. Upon this I told him, that if
he desired it, I would undertake to bring the two men he
spoke of to make it their own request that he should leave
them upon the island. I should be very glad of that, says
the captain, with all my heart. Well, says I, I will send
them up, and talk with them for you. So 1 caused Friday
and the two hostages, for they were now discharged, there
comrades having performed their promise; I say, I caused
them to go to the cave, and bring up the five men, pin-
ioned as they were, to the bower, and keep them there till
1 came. After some time, I came thither dressed in my new
habit; and now I was called governor again. Being all
met, and the captain with me, I caused the men to be
brought before me, and I told them I had got a full ac-
count of their villainous behavior to the captain, and how
they had run away with the ship, and were preparing to
commit further robberies, but that Prolidence bad in-
snared them in their own ways, and that they were fallen
into the pit which they had dug for others. I let them
244 BOBINSON CRU80B.
know that by my direction the ship had been seized; and
that she now lay in the road; and they might see, by and
by, that their new captain had received the reward of his
villainy, and that they would see him hanging at the yard-
arm: that as to them, I wanted to know what they had to
say why I should not execute them as pirates, taken in the
fact, as by my commission they could not doubt but I had
authority to so do.
One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they
had nothing to say but this, that when they were taken,
the captain promised them their lives, and they humbly im-
plored my mercy. But I told them 1 knew not what mercy
to show them; for as for myself, I had resolved to quit the
island with all my men, and had taken passage with the
captain to go for England; and as for the captain, he could
not carry them to England other than as prisoners, in irons,
to be tried for mutiny, and running away with the ship;
the consequence of which, they must needs know, would
be the gallows; so that 1 could not tell what was best for
them, unless they had a miDd to take their fate in the isl-
and: if they desired that, as I had liberty to leave the island,
1 had some inclination to give them their lives, if they
thought they could shift on shore. They seemed very
thankful for it, and said they would much rather venture
to stay there than be carried to England to be hanged: so I
left it on that issue.
However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty of
it, as if he durst not leave them there. Upon this I seemed
a little angry with the captain, and told him that they were
my prisoners, not his; and seeing that I had offered them so
much favor, 1 would be as good as my word; and that if
he did not think fit to consent to it, 1 would set them at
liberty, as I found them; and if he did not like it, he
might take them again if he could catch them. Upon this
they appeared very thankful, and I accordingly set them at
liberty and bade them retire into the woods to the place
whence they came, and I would leave them some fire-arms,
some ammunition, and some directions how they should
live very well, if they thought fit. Upon this 1 prepared
to go on board the ship; but told tho captain I would stay
that night to prepare my things, and desired him to go on
board, in the meantime, and keep all right in the ship,
and send the boat on shore next day for me; ordering
him, at all events, to cause the new captain, who was killed,
to be hanged at the jard-arm, that these men might see
him.
When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up to
me to my apartment, and entered seriously into discourse
with them on their circumstances. 1 told them 1 thought
they had made a right choice; that if the captain had car-
ried them away, they would certainly be hanged. 1 showed
them the new captain hanging at the yard-arm of the ship,
and told them they had nothing less to expect.
When they had all declared their willingness to stay, I
then told them 1 would let them into the story of my liv-
ing there, and put them into the way of making it easy to
them: accordingly, I gave them the whole history of the
place, and,of my coming to it; showed them my fortifica-
tions, the way 1 made my bread, planted my corn, cured
my grapes; and, in a word, all that was necessary to make
them easy. I told them the story also of the seventeen
Spaniards that were to be expected, for whom 1 left a let-
ter, and made them promise to treat them in common with
themselves. Here it may be noted, that the captain, who
had ink on board, was greatly surprised that I never hit
upon a way of making ink of charcoal and water, or of
something else, as 1 had done things much more difficult.
1 left them my fire-arms, viz., five muskets, three fowl-
ing-pieces, and three swords. I had above a barrel and a
half of powder left; for after the first year or two I used
but little, and wasted none. I gave them a description of
the way I managed the goats, and directions to milk and
fatten them, and to make both butter and cheese: in a
word, 1 gave them every part of my own story, and told
them I should prevail with the captain to leave them two
barrels of gunpowder more, and some garden seeds, which
I told them I would have been very glad of: also I gave
them the bag of pease which the captain had brought me to
eat, and bade them be sure to sow and increase them.
Having done all this, I left them the next day, and went
on board the ship. We prepared immediately to sail, but
did not weigh that night. The next morning early, two of
the five men came swimming to the ship's side, and mak-
ing a most lamentable complaint of the other three, begged
to%e taken into the ship, for God's sake, for they should
be murdered, and begged the captain to take them on
24A robinsoit crusob.
board, though he hanged them immediately. Upon this,
the captain pretended to have no power without me; but
after some difficulty, and after their solemn promises of
amendment, they were taken on board, and were some
time after soundly whipped and pickled: after which they
proved very honest and quiet fellows.
Some time after this the boat was ordered on shore, the
tide being up, with the things promised to the men; to
which the captain, at my intercession, caused their chests
and clothes to be added, which they took, and were very
thankful for. I also encouraged them by telling them
that if it lay in my power to send any vessel to take them
in, I would not forget them.
When I took leave of this island, I carried on board, for
relics, the great goat-skin cap 1 uad made, my umbrella,
and one of my parrots; also 1 forgot not to take the money'
I formerly mentioned, which had laid by me so long useless
that it was grown rusty or tarnished, and could hardly pass
for silver till it had been a little rubbed and handled; as
also the money 1 found in the wreck of the Spanish ship.
And thus I left the island, the 19th of December, as I
found by the ship's account, in the year 1686, after I had
been upon it eight-and-twenty years, two months, and
nineteen days; being delivered from this second captivity
the same day of the month that I first made my escape in
the long-boat from among the Moors of Sallee. In this
vessel, after a long voyage, 1 arrived in England the 3 lth
of June, in the year 1687, having been thirty-five years
absent.
When I came to England I was as perfect a stranger to
all the world as if 1 had never been known there. My
benefactor and faithful steward, whom 1 had left my
money in trust with, was alive, but had had great misfort-
unes in the world; was become a widow the second time,
and very low in the world. 1 made her very easy as to
what »he owed me, assuring her 1 would give her no
trouble; but, on the contrary, in gratitude for her former
care and faithfulness to me, I relieved her as my little stock
would afford; which at that time would, indeed, allow me
to do but little for her; but I assured her I would never
forget her former kindness to me; nor did 1 forget her
when 1 had sufficient to help her. as shall be observed in
its proper place. 1 went down afterward into Yorkshire;
but my father was dead, and my mother and all the family
extinct, except that I found two sisters, and two of the
children of one of my brothers; and as 1 had been long ago
given over for dead, there had been no provision made for
me; so that, in a word, I found nothing to relieve or assist
me; and that the little money I had would not do much
for me as to settling in the world.
1 met with one piece of gratitude indeed, which I did
not expect; and this was, that the master of the ship
whom I had so happily delivered, and by the same means
saved the ship and cargo, having given a very handsome
account to the owners of the manner how I had saved the
lives of the men and the ship, they invited me to meet
them and some other merchants concerned, and all together
made me a very handsome compliment upon the subject,
and a present of almost two hundred pounds sterling.
But after making several reflections upon the circum-
stances of my life, and how little way this would go toward
settling me in the world, 1 resolved to go to Lisbon, and
see if 1 might not come at some information of the state of
my plantation in the Brazils, and of what was become of
my partner, who, I had reason to suppose, had some years
past given me over for dead. With this view I took ship-
ping for Lisbon, where I arrived in April following, my
man Friday accompanying me very honestly in all these
ramblings, and proving a most faithful servant upon all
occasions. When I came to Lisbon, I found out, by in-
quiry, and to my particular satisfaction, my old friend the
captain of the ship who first took me up at sea off the
shore of Africa. He was now grown old, and had left off
going to sea, having put his son, who was far from a young
man, into his ship, and who still used the Brazil trade.
The old man did not know me; and indeed, I hardly knew
him; but 1 soon brought him to my remembrance, and
as soon brought myself to his remembrance when I told
him who I was.
After some passionate expressions of the old acquaint-
ance between us, 1 inquired, you may be sure, after my
plantation and my partner. The old man told me he had
not been in the Brazils for about nine years; but that he
could assure me that when he came away my partner was
living; but the trustees whom I had joined with him to
take cognizance of my part were both dead: that, however,
he believed I would have a very good account of the Im-
provement of the plantation; for that, upon the general
belief of my being cast away and drowned, my trustees had
given in the account of the produce of my part of the
plantation to the procurator-fiscal, who had appropriated
it, in case I never came to claim it, one third to the king,
and two thirds to the monastery of St. Augustine, to be
expended for the benefit of the poor, and for the conver-
sion of the Indians to the Catholic faith: but that, if I ap-
peared, or any one for me, to claim the inheritance, it
would be restored; only that the improvement, or annual
production, being distributed to charitable uses, could not
be restored: but he assured me that the steward of the king's
revenue from lands, and the providore, or steward of the
monastery, had taken great care all along that the incum-
bent, that is to say, my partner, gave every year a faithful
account of the produce, of which they had duly received
my moiety. 1 asked him if he knew to what height of
improvement he had brought the plantation, and whether
he thought it might be worth looking after; or whether,
on my going thither, I should meet with any obstruction
to my possessing my just right in the moiety. He told me
he could not tell exactly to what degree, the plantation was
improved; but this he knew, that my partner was grown
exceeding rich upon the enjoying his part of it; and that,
to the best of his remembrance, he had heard that the
king's third of my part, which was, it seems, granted away
to some other monastery or religious house, amounted to
above two hundred moidores a year: that as to my being
restored to a quiet possession of it, there was no question
to be made of that, my partner, being alive to witness my
title, and my name being also enrolled in the register of
the country; also he told me that the survivors of my two
trustees were very fair, honest people, and very wealthy;
and he believed I would not only have their assistance for
putting me in possession, but would find a very consider-
able sum of money in their haDds for my account, being
the produce of the farm while their fathers held the trust,
and before it was given up, as above; which, as he remem-
bered, was for about twelve years.
I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this ac-
count, and inquired of the old captain how it came to pass
that the trustees should thus dispose of my effects, when
he knew that I had made my will, and had made him, the
Portuguese captain, my universal heir, etc.
He told me that was true; but that as there was no proof
of my being dead, he could not act as executor until some
certain account should come of my death; and, besides, he
was not willing to intermeddle with a thing so remote: that
it was true he had registered my will and put in his claim;
and could he have given any account of my being dead o1
alive, he would have acted by procuration, and taken pos
session of the ingenio (so they call the sugar-house), ana
have given his son, who was now at the Brazils, orders to
do it. "But," says the old man, "I have one piece of
news to tell you, which perhaps may not be so acceptable
to you as the rest; and that is, believing you were lost, and
all the world believing so also, your partner and trustees
did offer to account with me, in your name, for the first
six or eight years' profits, which I received. There being
at that time great disbursements for increasing the works,
building an ingenio, and buying slaves, it did not amount
to near so much as afterward it produced; however," says
the old man, "I shall give you a true account of what I
have received in all, and how 1 have disposed of it."
After a few days' further conference with this ancient
friend, he brought me an account of the first six years' in-
come of my plantation, signed by my partner and the
merchant-trustees, being always delivered in goods—viz.,
tobacco in rolls and sugar in chests, besides rum, molasses,
etc., which is the consequence of a sugar-work; and 1
found by this account that every year the income consider-
ably increased; but, as above, the disbursements behag
large, the sum at first was small: however, the old man
let me see that he was debtor to me four hundred and
seventy moidores of gold, besides sixty chests of sugar, and
fifteen double rolls of tobacco, which were lost in his ship,
he having been shipwrecked coming home to Lisbon, about
eleven years after my leaving the place. The good man
then began to complain of his misfortunes, and how he
had been obliged to make use of my money to recover his
iosse3, and buy him a share in a new ship. "However,
my old friend," says he, "you shall not want a supply in
your necessity; and as soon a3 my son returns you shall be
fully satisfied." Upon this he pulls out an old ponch,
and gives me one hundred and sixty Portugal moidores in
gold; and giving the writings of his title to the ship which
his son was gone to the Brazils in, of which he was quarter
part owner, and his son another, he puts them both into
my hands for security of the rest.
1 was too much moved with the honesty and kindness of
the poor man to be able to bear this; and remembering
what he had done for me, how he had taken me up at sea,'
and how generously he had used me on all occasions, and
particularly how sincere a friend he was now to me, I could
hardly refrain weeping at what he had said to me; there-
fore I asked him if his circumstances admitted him to spare
so much money at that time, and if it would not straiten
him? He told me he could not say but it might straiten
him a little; but, however, it was my money, and 1 might
want it more than he.
Everything the good man said was full of affection, and
1 could hardly refrain from tears while he spoke; in short,
I took one hundred of the moidores, and called for a pen
and ink to give him a receipt for them; then I returned
him the rest, and told him if ever 1 had possession of the
plantation I would return the other to him also (as, in-
deed, I afterward did); and that as to the bill of sale of
his part in his son's ship, I would not,take it by any means;
but that if 1 wanted the money, I found he was honest
enough to pay me; and if I did not, but came to receive
what he gave me reason to expect, I would never have a
penny- more from him.
When this was past, the old man asked me if he should
put me into a method to make my claim to my plantation.
1 told him I thought to go over to it myself. He said I
might do so if 1 pleased, but that if 1 did not, there were
ways enough to secure my right, and immediately to ap-
propriate the profits to my use; and as there were ships in
the river of Lisbon just ready to go away to Brazil, he
made me enter my name in a public register, with his
affidavit affirming, upon oath, that I was alive, and that
I was the same person who took up the land for the plant-
ing the said plantation at first . This being regularly
attested by a notary, and a procuration affixed, he directed
me to send it, with a letter of his writing, to a merchant
of his acquaintance at the place, and then proposed my
staying with him till an account came of the return.
Never was anything more honorable than the proceedings
span 8m proeturatlon; for in less than seven months 1 re-
ceived a large packet from the survivors of my trustees,
the merchants for whose account 1 went to sea, in which
were the following particular letters and papers inclosed:
First, there was the account-current of the produce of
my farm or plantation, from the year when their fathers
had balanced with my old Portugal captain, being for six
years; the balance appeared to be one thousand one hun-
dred and seventy-four moidores in my favor.
Secondly, there was the account of four years more,
while they kept the effects in their hands, before the gov-
ernment claimed the administration, as being the effects of
a person not to be found, which they called civil death;
and the balance of this, the value of the plantation increas-
ing, amounted to nineteen thousand four hundred and
forty-six crusadoes, being about three thousand two hun-
dred and forty moidores.
Thirdly, there was the Prior of St. Augustine's account,
who had received the profits for above fourteen years; but
not being able to account for what was disposed of by the
hospital, very honestly declared he had eight hundred and
seventy-two moidores not distributed, which he acknowl-
edged to my account. As to the king's part, that refunded
nothing.
There was a letter of my partner's, congratulating me
very affectionately upon my being alive, giving me an ac-
count how the estate was improved, and what it produced
a year; with the particulars of the number of squares or
acres that it contained, how planted, how many slaves
there were upon it: and making two-and-twenty crosses
for blessings, told me he had said so many Ave Marias to
thank the Blessed Virgin that 1 was alive; inviting me very
passionately to come over and take possession of my own,
and in the meantime to give him orders to whom he should
deliver my effects if 1 did not come myself; concluding
with a hearty tender of his friendship and that of his
family; and sent me as a present seven fine leopards'
skins which he had, it seems, received from Africa by
some other ship that he had sent thither, and which, it
seems, had made a better voyage than I. He sent me also
five chests of excellent sweetmeats, and a hundred pieces
of gold uncoined, not quite so large as moidores. By the
same fleet my two merchant-trustees shipped me one thoa*
sand two hundred chests of sugar, eight hundred rolls of
tobacco, and the rest of the whole account in gold.
I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of Job
was better than the beginning. It is impossible to express
the flutterings of my very heart when I found all my
wealth about me; for as the Brazil ships come all in fleets,
the same ships which brought my letters brought my
goods, and the effects were safe in the river before the let-
ters came to my hand. In a word, 1 turned pale and
grew sick; and, had not the old man run and fetched me
a cordial, I believe the sudden surprise of joy had overset
nature, and 1 had died upon the sixit* nay, after that I
continued very ill, and was so some hours, till a physician
being sent for, and something of the real cause of my ill-
ness being known, he ordered me to be let blood; after
which 1 had relief and grew well: but I verily believe, if I
had not been eased by a vent given in that manner to the
spirits, 1 should have died.
I was now master, all on a sudden, of above five thou-
sand pounds sterling in money, and had an estate, as I
might well call it, in the Brazils, of above a thousand
pounds a year, as sure as an estate of lands in England;
and, in a word, 1 was in a condition which I scarce knew
how to understand, or how to compose myself for the en-
joyment of it. The first thing 1 did was to recompense
my original benefactor, my good old captain, who had been
first charitable to me in my distress, kind to me in my be-
ginning, and honest to me at the end. I showed him all
that was sent to me; I told him that, next to the provi-
dence of Heaven, which disposed all things, it was owing to
him; and that it now lay on me to reward him, which I
would do a hundred fold: so I first returned to him the
hundred moidores I had received of him; then I sent for a
notary, and caused him to draw up a general lelease or dis-
charge from the four hundred and seventy moidores which
he had acknowledged he owed me, in the fullest and firm-
est manner possible. After which I caused a procuration
to be drawn, empowering him to be the receiver of the an-
wual profits of my plantation: and appointing my partner
to account with him and make the returns, by the usual
fleets, to him in my name; and by a clause in the end
made a grant of one hundred moidores a year to him dur-
ing his life, out of the effects, and fifty moidores a year to
his son after him, for his life: and thus 1 requited my old
man.
I had now to consider which way to steer my course next,
and what to do with the estate that Providence had thus
put into my hands; and, indeed, 1 had more care upon my
head now than I had in my state of life in the island,
where 1 wanted nothing but what I had, and had nothing
but what I wanted; whereas I had now a great charge upon
me, and my business was how to secure it I had not a
cave now to hide my money in, or a place where it might
lie without lock or key till it grew moldy and tarnished
before anybody would meddle with it; on the contrary, I
knew not where to put it or whom to trust with it. My
old patron the captain, indeed, was honest, and that was
the only refuge 1 had. In the next place, my interest in
the Brazils seemed to summon me thither; but now I
could not tell how to think of going thither till I had
settled my affairs, and left my effects in some safe hands
behind me. At first I thought of my old friend the widow,
who I knew was honest, and would be just to me; but
then she was in years, and but poor, and, for aught I
knew, might be in debt; so that, in a word, 1 had no way
but to go back to England myself and take my effects with
me. It was some months, however, before 1 resolved upon
this; and, therefore, as I had rewarded the old captain
fully, and to his satisfaction, who had been my former
benefactor, so I began to think of the poor widow, whose
husband had been my first benefactor, and she, while it
was in her power, my faithful steward and instructor. So,
the first thing 1 did, I got a merchant in Lisbon to write
to his correspondent in London, not only to pay a bill, but
to go find her out. and carry her, in money, a hundred
pounds from me, and to talk with her and comfort her in
her poverty, by telling her she should, if 1 lived, have a
further supply, at the same time I sent my two sisters in
the country a hundred pounds each, they being, though
not in want, yet not in very good circumstances; one hav-
ing been married and left a widow, and the other having
a husband not so kind to her as he should be. But among
all my relations or acquaintances 1 could not yet pitch
upon one to whom I durst commit the gross of my stock,
that 1 might go away to the Brazils and leave things safe
behind me; and this greatly perplexed me.
I bad once a mind to have gone to the Brazils and have
settled myself there, for 1 was, as it were, naturalized to
the place; but 1 had some little scruple in my mind about
religion, which insensibly drew me back. However, it was
not religion that kept me from going there for the present;
and as I had made no scruple of being openly of the re-
ligion of the country all the while I was among them, so
neither did I yet; only that, now and then, having of late
thought more of it than formerly, when 1 began to think
of living and dying among them, I began to regret having
professed myself a Papist, and thought it might not be the
best religion to die with.
But, as 1 have said, this was not the main thing that
kept me from going to the Brazils, but that really I did
not know with whom to leave my effects behind me; so I
resolved at last to go to England, where, if I arrived, I
concluded that I should make some acquaintance or find
some relations that would be faithful to me; and, accord-
ingly, I prepared to go to England with all my wealth.
In order to prepare things for my going home, I first (the
Brazil fleet being just going away) resolved to give answers
suitable to the just and faithful account of things "1 had
from thence; and, first, to the Prior of St. Augustine I
wrote a letter full of thanks for his just dealings, and the
offer of the eight hundred and seventy-two moidores which
were undisposed of, which I desired might be given, five
hundred to the monastery, and three hundred and seventy-
two to the poor, as the prior should direct; desiring the
good padre's prayers for me, and the like. I wrote next a
letter of thanks to my two trustees, with all the acknowl-
edgment that so much justice and honesty called for—as
for sending them any present, they were far above having
any occasion of it. Lastly, I wrote to my partner,
acknowledging his industry in the improving the planta-
tion, and his integrity in increasing the stock of the works;
giving him instructions for his future government of my
part, according to the powers I had left with my old
patron, to whom I desired him to send whatever became
due to me, till he should hear from me more particularly;
assuring him that it was my intention not only to come to
him, but to settle myself there for the remainder of my
life. To this I added a very handsome present of some
Italian silks for his wife and two daughters, for such the
captain's son informed me he had; with two pieces of line
English broadcloth, the best I could get in Lisbon, five
pieces of black baize, and some Flanders lace of a good
value.
Having thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and
turned all my effects into good bills of exchange, my next
difficulty was which way to go to England. I had been ac-
eustomed enough to the sea, and yet I had a [strange aver-
sion to go to England by sea at that time; and though I
could give no reason for it, yet the difficulty increased
upon me so much that though I had onoe shipped my
baggage in order to go, yet I altered my mind, and that
not once, but two or three times.
It is true 1 had been very unfortunate by sea, and this
imight be one of the reasons; but let no man slight the
: strong impulses of his own thoughts in cases of such mo-
iment: two of the ships which I had singled out to go in—I
; mean more particularly singled out than any other, having
i put my things on board one of them, and in the other hav-
i ing agreed with the captain—I say two of these ships mis-
, carried: one was taken by the Algerines, and the other
was lost on the Start, near Torbay, and all the people
^drowned except three; so that in either of those vessels I
i had been made miserable.
Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot,
to whom I communicated everything, pressed me earnestly
not to go by sea, but either to go by land to the Groyne,
i and cross over the Bay of Biscay to Rochelle, from whence,
it was but an easy and safe journey by land to Paris, and
i so to Calais and Dover; or to go up to Madrid, and so all
the way by land through France. In a word, I was so pre-
possessed against mv going by sea at all, except from Calais
to Dover, that 1 resolved to travel all the way by land;
which, as I was not in haste, and did not value the charge,
was by much the pleasanter way: and to make it more so,
my old captain brought an English gentleman, the son of
a merchant in Lisbon, who was willing to travel with me;
after which we picked up two more English merchants
also, and two young Portuguese gentlemen, the last going
to Paris only; so that in all there were six of us and five
servants; the two merchants aud the two Portuguese con-
tenting themselves with one servant between two, to save
the charge; and as for me, I got an English sailor to travel
with me as a servant, besides my man Friday, who was to»
much a stranger to be capable of supplying the place of a
servant on the road.
In this manner I set out from Lisbon; and our company
being very well mounted and armed, we made a little
troop, whereof they did me the honor to call me captain,
as well because 1 was the oldest man, as because I had two
servants, and, indeed, was the origin of the whole journey.
As I have troubled you with none of my sea journals, so
I shall trouble you now with none of my land journals; but
some adventures that happened to us in this tedious and
difficult journey I must not omit.
When we came to Madrid, we, being all of us strangers
to Spain, were willing to stay some time to see the court ol
Spain and what was worth observing; but it being the
latter part of the summer, we hastened away, and set out
from Madrid about the middle of October; but when we
came to the edge of Navarre we were alarmed, at several
towns on the way, with an account that so much snow was
falling on the French side of the .mountains that several
travelers were obliged to come back to Pampeluna, after
having attempted at an extreme hazard to pass on.
When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so in-
deed; and to me, that had been always used to a hot
climate, and to countries where I could scarce bear any
clothes on, the cold was insufferable; nor, indeed, was it
more painful than surprising to come but ten days before
out of Old Castile, where the weather was not only warm
but very hot, and immediately to feel a wind from the
Pyrenean Mountains so very keen, so severely cold, as to
be intolerable, and to endanger benumbing and perishing
•f our fingers and toes.
Poor Friday was really frightened when he saw th«
mountains all covered with snow and felt cold weather,
which he had never seen or felt before in his life. To
mend the matter, when we came to Pampeluna it continued
snowing with so much violence and so long, that the people
said winter was come before its time; and the roads, which
were difficult before, were now quite impassable; for, in a
word, the snow lay in some places too thick for us to
travel, and being not hard frozen, as is the case in the
northern countries, there was no going without being in
danger of being buried alive every step. We stayed no
less than twenty days at Pampeluna; when (seeing the
winter coming on, and no likelihood of its being better, for
it was the severest winter all over Europe that had been
known in the memory of man) 1 proposed that we should
go away to Fontarabia, and there take shipping for Bor-
deaux, which was a very little voyage. But, while 1 was
considering this, there came in four French gentlemen,
who, having been stopped on the French side of the passes,
as we were on the Spanish, had found out a guide, who,
traversing the country near the head of Languedoc, had
brought them over the mountains by such ways that they
were not much incommoded with the snow; for where they
met with snow in any quantity, they said it was frozen hard
enough to bear them and their horses. We sent for this
guide, who told us he would undertake to carry us the
same way, with no hazard from the snow, provided we were
armed sufficiently to protect ourselves from wild beasts-;
for, he said, in these great snows it was frequent for some
wolves to show themselves at the foot of the mountains,
being made ravenous for want of food, the ground being
covered with snow. We told him we were well enough
prepared for such creatures as they were, if he would in-
sure us from a kind of two-legged wolves, which, we were
told, we were in most danger from, especially on the
French side of the mountains. He satisfied us that there
was no danger of that kind in the way that we were to go;
so we readily agreed to follow him, as did also twelve other
gentlemen with their servants, some French, some Spanish,
who, as 1 said, had attempted to go, and were obliged te
come back again.
Accordingly, we set out from Pampeluna with our guide
on the 15th of November; and, indeed, I was surprised,
when, instead of going forward, he came directly back with
us on the same road that we came from Madrid, about
twenty miles; when, having passed two rivers, and come
into the plain country, we found ourselves in a warm
climate again, where the country was pleasant, and no
snow to be seen; but, on a sudden, turning to his left, he
approached the mountains another way; and though it is
true the hills and precipices looked dreadful, yet he made
so many tours, such meanders, and led us by such winding
ways, that we insensibly passed the height of the mount-
ains without being much encumbered with the snow; and
all on a sadden he showed us the pleasant and fruitful
provinces of Languedoc and Gascony, all green and flour-
ishing, though at a great distance, and we had some rough
way to pass still.
We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it
snowed one whole day and night so fast that we could not
travel; but he bid us be easy; we should soon be past it
all: we found, indeed, that we began to descend every day»
and to come more north than before; and so, depending:
upon our guide, we went on.
It was about two hours before night when, our guide
being something before us, and not just in sight, out
rushed three monstrous wolves, and after them a bear,
from a hollow way adjoining to a thick wood: two of the
wolves made at the guide, and had he been far before us,
he would have been devoured before we could have helped
him; one of them fastened upon his horse, and the other
attacked the man with such violence that he had not time
or presence of mind enough to draw his pistol, but hallooed
and cried out to us most lustily. My man Friday being
next me, I bade him ride up and see what was the matter.
As soon as Friday came in sight of the man, he hallooed
out as loud as the other, "Oh, master! Oh, master!"
but like a bold fellow, rode directly up to the poor man,
and with his pistol shot the wolf in the head that attacked
him.
It was happy for the poor man that it was my man
Friday; for, having bten used to such creatures in his
country, he had no fear upon him, but went close up to
him and shot him; whereas, any other of us would have
fired at a further distance, and have perhaps either missed
the wolf or endangered shooting the man.
But it was enough to have terrified a bolder man than I;
and, indeed, it alarmed all our company, when, with the.
noise of Friday's pistol, we heard on both sides the most.
dismal howling of wolves; and the noise, redoubled by the:
echo of the mountains, appeared to us as if there had been i
a prodigious number of them; and perhaps there was not.
such a few as that we had no cause of apprehension: how-
ever, as Friday had killed this wolf, the other that had!
fastened upon the horse left him immediately, and fled,,
without doing him any damage, having happily fastened;
upon his head, where the bosses of the bridle had stuck it.
hia teeth. Bat the man was most hurt; for the raging
creature had bit him twice, once in the arm, and the othei
time a little above his knee; and though he had made some
defense, he was just tumbling down by the disorder of hia
horse, when Friday came up and shot the wolf.
It is easy to suppose that at the noise of Friday's pistol
ve all mended our pace, and rode up as fast as the way,
which was very difficult, would give us leave, to see what
was the matter. As soon as we came clear of the trees,
which blinded us before, we saw clearly what had been the
case, and how Friday had disengaged the poor guide, though
we did not presently discern what kind of creature it was
he had killed.
SECTION XXVIIL
Strange Battle Between Friday and a Bear.—Terrible Engagement
with a Whole Array of Wolves.—Arrive in England safely, and
Settle my Affairs there. —I Marry, and Have a Family.
But never was a fight managed so hardily and in such
a surprising manner as that which followed between Friday
and the bear, which gave us all, though at first we were
surprised and afraid for him, the greatest diversion imag-
inable. As the bear is a heavy, clumsy creature, and does
not gallop as the wolf does, who is swift and light, so he
has two particular qualities which generally are the rule of
his actions: first, as to men, who are not his proper prey
(he does not usually attempt them, except they first attack
him, unless he be excessively hungry, which it is probable
might now be the case, the ground being covered with
snow), if you do not meddle with him, he will not meddla
with you; but then you must take care to be very civil tc
him, and give him the road, for he is a very nice gentle-
man; he will not go a step out of his way for a prince;
nay, if you are really afraid, your best way is to look
another way and keep going on; for sometimes if you stop,
and stand still, and look steadfastly at him, he takes it for
an affront; but if you throw or toss anything at him,
though it were but a bit of stick as big as your finger, he
thinks himself abused, and sets all other business aside to
pursue his revenge, and will have satisfaction in point of
honor—that is his first quality; the next is, if he be once
w, run ted, he will never leave you, night or day, till he hat
his revenge, but follows at a good round' rate till he over-
takes you.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we
came tip to him he was helping him off his horse, for the
man was both hurt and frightened, when on a sudden we
espied the bear come out of the wood; and a monstrous
one it was, the biggest by far that ever I saw. We were
all a little surprised when we saw him; but when Friday
saw him, it was easy to see joy and courage in the fellow's
countenance. "Oh, oh, oh!" says Friday, three times,
pointing to him. "Oh, master! you give me te leave, me
shakee te hand with him; me makee you good laugh."
I was surprised to see the fellow so well pleased. "You
fool," say s 1, "he will eat you up." "Eatee me up!
eatee me up!" says Friday, twice over again; "me eatee
him up; me makee you good laugh; you all stay here; me
show you good laugh." So down he sits, and gets off his
boots in a moment, and puts on a pair of pumps (as we
call the flat shoes they wear, and which he had in his
pocket), gives my other servant his horse, and with his
gun away he flew, swift like the wind.
The bear was walking softly on, and offered to meddle
with nobody, till Friday, coming pretty near, calls to him,
as if the bear could understand him: " Hark ye, hark ye,"
says Friday; " me speakee with you." We followed at a
distance, for now being down on the Qascony side of the
mountains, we were entered a vast forest, where the coun-
try was plain and pretty open, though it had many trees in
it scattered here and there. Friday, who had, as we say,
the heels of the bear, came up with him quickly, and took
up a great stone, and threw it at him, and hit him just on
the head, but did him no more harm than if he had thrown
it against a wall; but it answered Friday's end, for the
rogue was so void of fear that he did it purely to make the
bear follow him, and show us some lauih, as he called it,
As soon as the bear felt the blow, and saw him, he turns
about and comes after him, taking very long strides, and
shuffling on at a strange rate, so as would have put a horse
to a middling gallop; away runs Friday, and takes his
oourse as if he ran toward us for help; so we all resolved to
fire at once upon the bear, and deliver my man; though I
was angry at him for bringing the bear back upon us, when
he was going about his own business another way; and
•specially I was angry that he had turned the bear upon
us, and then ran away; and I called out, "You dog! is
this your making us laugh? Come away, and take your
Vxorse, that we may shoot the creature." He heard me,
and cried out, "No shoot, no shoot; stand still, and you
get much laugh:" and as the nimble creature ran two feet
for the bear's one, he turned on a sudden on one side of
us, and seeing a great oak-tree fit for his purpose, he beck-
oned to us to follow; and doubling his pace, he got nimbly
up the tree, laying his gun down upon the ground, at
about five or six yards from the bottom of the tree. The
bear soon came to the tree, and we followed at a distance:
the first thing he did he stopped at the gun, smelled at it,
but let it lie, and up he scrambles into the tree, climbing
like a cat, though so monstrous heavy. I was amazed at
the folly, as I thought it, of my man, and could not for
my life see anything to laugh at, till seeing the bear get
up the tree, we all rode near to him.
When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out to
the small end of a large branch, and the bear got about
half-way to him. As soon as the bear got out to that
part where the limb of the tree was weaker— "Ha!"
says he to us, " now you see me teachee the bear dance:"
so he began jumping and shaking the bough, at which the
bear began to totter, but stood still, and began to look be-
hind him to see how he should get back; then, indeed, we
did laugh heartily. But Friday had not done with him by
a great deal; when, seeing him stand still, he called out to
him again, as if he had supposed the bear could speak
English, " What, you come no further? pray you come
further;" so he left jumping and shaking the tree; and
the bear, just as if he understood what he said, did come a
little further; then he began jumping again, and the bear
stopped again. We thought now was a good time to knock
him in the head, and called to Friday to stand still and we
should shoot the bear; but he cried out earnestly, "Oh4
pray! oh, pray! no shoot; me shoot by and then;" he
would have said by and by. However, to shorten the
story, Friday danced so much, and the bear stood so tick-
lish, that we had laughing enough, but still could not im-
agine what the fellow would do: for first we thought he
depended upon shaking the bear off; and we found the
Wr W48 too canning for that too; for he would not go out
far enough to be thrown down, but clung fast with his
great broad claws and feet, so that we could not imagine
what would be the end of it, and what the jest would be
at lasi. But Friday put us out of doubt quickly: for see-
ing the bear cling fast to the bough, and that he would not
be persuaded to come auy further, "Well, well," says
triday, "you no come further, me go; you no come to
me, me come to you;" and upon this he went out to the
smaller end of the bough, where it would bend with his
weight, and gently let himself down by it, sliding down the
Dough till he came near enough to jump down on his feet,
and away he ran to his gun, took it up, and stood still.
"Well," said I to him, " Friday, what will you do now?
Why don't you shoot him?" "No shoot," says Friday,
"no yet; me shoot now, me no kill; me stay, give you one
more laugh:" and, indeed, so he did; for when the bear
saw his enemy gone, he came back from the bough where
he stood, but did it very cautiously, looking behind him
every step, and coming backward till he got into the body
of the tree; then, with the same hinder end foremost, he
came down the tree, grasping it with his claws, and mov-
ing one foot at a time, very leisurely. At this juncture,
and just before he could set his hind foot on the ground,
Friday stepped up close to him, clapped the muzzle of his
piece in his ear, and shot him dead. Then the rogue
turnod about to see if we did not laugh; and when he saw
we were pleased by our looks, he began to laugh very loud.
"So we kill bear in my country," says Friday. "So you
kill them?" says I; "why, you have no guns." "No,"
says he, "no gun, but shoot great much long arrow."
This was a good diversion to us; but we were still in a wild
place, and our guide very much hurt, and what to do we
hardly knew; the howling of wolves ran much in my head;
and, indeed, except the noise I once heard on the shore of
Africa, of which 1 have said something already, 1 never
heard anything that filled me with so much horror.
These things, and the approach of night, called us off.
or else, as Friday would have had us, we should certainly
have taken the skin of this monstrous creature off, which
was worth saving; but we had near three leagues to go, and
our guide hastened us; so we left him, and went forward
ou our journey.
The ground was still covered with snow, though not so
deep and dangerous as on the mountains; and the raven-
ous creatures, as we heard afterward, were come down into
the forest and plain country, pressed by hunger, to seek
for food, and had done a great deal of mischief In the
villages, where they surprised the country people, killed a
great many of their sheep and horses, and some people,
-too. We had one dangerous place to pass, and our guide
told us if there were more wolves in the country we should
find them there; and this was a small plain, surrounded
with woods on every side, and a long, narrow defile, or
lane, which we were to pass to get through the wood, and
then we should come to the village where we were to lodge.
It was within half an hour of sunset when we entered the
wood, and a little after sunset when we came into the
plain: we met with nothing in the first wood, except that
in a little plain within the wood, which was not above two
furlongs over, we saw five great wolves cross the road, full
speed, one after another, as if they had been in chase of
some prey, and had it in view; they took no notice of us,
and were gone out of sight in a few moments. Upon this,
our guide, who, by the way, was but a faint-hearted fellow,
bid us keep in a ready posture, for he believed there were
more wolves a-coming. We kept our arms ready, and our
eyes about us; but we saw no more wolves till we came
through that wood, which was near half a league, and
entered the plain. As soon as we came into the plain, we
had occasion enough to look about us: the first object we
met with was a dead horse; that is to say, a poor horse
which the wolves had killed, and at least a dozen of thrm
at work, we could not say eating him, but picking his
bones rather, for they had eaten up all the flesh before.
We did not think fit to disturb them at their feast, neither
did they take much notice of us. Friday would have let
fly at them, but I would not suffer him by any means; for
I found we were like to have more business upon our hands
than we were aware of. We had not gone half over the
plain when we began to hear the wolves howl in the wood
on our left in a frightful, manner, and presently after we
saw about a hundred coming on directly toward us, all in a
body, and most of them in a line, as regularly as an army
drawn up by experienced officers. 1 scarce knew in what
manner to receive them, but found to draw ourselves in a
olow line was tht only way; so we formed in a moment;
but that we might not havVtoo much interval, I ordered
that only every other man should fire, and that the others,
who had not fired, should stand ready to give them a
second volley immediately, if they continued to advance
upon us; and then that those that had fired at first should
iiot pretend to load their fusees again, but stand ready,
every one with a pistol, for we were all armed with a fusee
and a pair of pistols each man; so we were, by this
method, able to fire six volleys, half of us at a time: how-
ever, at present we had no necessity; for upon firing the
first volley, the enemy made a full stop, being terrified as
well with the noise as with the fire. Four of them being
shot in the head, dropped; several others were wounded,
and went bleeding off, as we could see by the snow. I
found they stopped, but did not immediately retreat;
whereupon, remembering that I had been told that the
fiercest creatures were terrified at the voice of a man, I
caused all the company to halloo as loud as they could: and
I found the notion not altogether mistaken; for upon our
shout they began to retire and turn about. I then ordered
a second volley to be fired in their rear, which put them to
the gallop, and away they went to the woods. This gave
xs leisure to charge our pieces again; and that we might
lose no time, we kept going; but we had but little more
than loaded our fusees, and put ourselves in readiness,
when we heard a terrible noise in the same wood on our
left, only that it was further onward, the same way we
were to go.
The night was coming on, and the light began to be
dusky, whioh made it worse on our side; but the noise in-
creasing, we could easily perceive that it was the howling
and yelling of those hellish creatures; and, on a sudden,
we perceived'three troops of wolves, one on our left, one
behind us, and one in our front, so that we seemed to be
surrounded with them: however, as they did not fall upon
us, we kept our way forward, as fast as we could make our
horses go, which, the way being very rough, was only a
good hard trot. In this manner, we came in view of the
entrance of a wood, through which we were to pass, at the
further side of the plain; but we were greatly surprised,
when coming nearer the lane or pass, we saw a confused
number of wolves standing just at the entrance. On a
?udden, at another opening of the wood, we heard the noise
of a gun, and looking that way, oat rushed a horse, with a
saddle and a bridle on him, flying like the wind, and six-
teen or seventeen wolves after him, full speed: the horse
had the advantage of them; but as we supposed that he
could not hold it at that rate, we doubted not but they
would get up with him at last: no question but they did.
But here we had a most horrible sight; for riding up to
the entrance where the horse came out, we found the,car-
cases of another horse and of two men, devoured by the
ravenous creatures; and one of the men was no doubt the
same whom we heard fire the gun, for there lay a gun just
by him fired off; but as to the man, his head and the upper
part of his body was eaten up. This filled us with horror,
and we knew not what course to take; but the creatures
resolved us soon, for they gathered about us presently, in
hopes of prey; and I verily believe there were three hun-
dred of them. It happened, very much to our advantage,
that at the entrance into the wood, but a little way from
it, there lay some large timber-trees, which had been cut
down the summer before, and I suppose lay there for car-
riage. I drew my little troop in among those trees, and
placing ourselves in a line behind one long tree, I advised
them all to alight, and keeping that tree before us for a
breastwork, to stand in a triangle, or three fronts, inclos-
ing our horses in the center. We did so, and it was well
we did; for never- was a more furious charge than the
creatures made upon us in this place. They came on with
a growling kind of noise, and mounted the piece of timber,
which, as I said, was our breastwork, as if they were only
rushing upon their prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems,
was principally occasioned by their seeing our horses be-
hind us. I ordered our men to fire as before, every other
man; and they took their aim so sure that they killed
several of the wolves at the first volley; but there was a
necessity to keep a continual firing, for they came on like
devils, those behind pushing on those before.
When we had fired a second volley of our fusees, we
thought they stopped a little, and I hoped they would have
gone off, but it was but a moment, for others came forward
again; so we fired two volleys of our pistols; and I believe
in these four firings we had killed seventeen or eighteen of
them, and lamed twice as many, yet they came on again.
1 was loath to spend our shot too hastily; so 1 called my
servant, not my man Friday, for he was better employed,
for, with the greatest dexterity imaginable, he had charged
my fusee and his own while we were engaged—but, as I
said, 1 called my other man, and giving him a horn of
powder, 1 bade him lay a train aH^along the piece of tim-
ber, and let it be a large train. He did so, and had but
just time to get away, when the wolves came up to it, and
some got upon it, when I, snapping an uncharged pistol
close to the powder, set it on fire; those that were upon
the timber were scorched with it, and six or seven of them
fell; or rather jumped in among us with the force and
fright of the fire; we dispatched these in an instant, and
the rest were so frightened with the light, which the night
—for it was now very near dark—made more terrible, that
they drew back a little; upon which I ordered our last pis-
tols to be fired off in one volley, and after that we gave a
shout; upon this the wolves turned tail, and we sallied im-
mediately upon near twenty lame ones that we found
struggling on the ground, and fell to cutting them with
our swords, which answered our expectation, for the crying
and howling they made was better understood by their
fellows; so that they all fled and left us.
We had, first and last, killed about threescore of them,
and had it been daylight we had killed many more. The
field of battle being thus cleared, we made forward again,
for we had still near a league to go. We heard the raven-
ous creatures howl and yell in the woods as we went several
times, and sometimes we fancied we saw some of them;
but the snow dazzling our eyes, we were not certain. In
about an hour more we came to the town where we were to
lodge, which we found in a terrible fright and all in arms;
for, it seems, the night before the wolves and some bears
had broken into the village, and put them in such terror,
that they were obliged to keep guard night and day, but
especially in the night, to preserve their cattle, and indeed
their people.
The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs
swelled so much with the rankling of his two wounds, that
he could go no further; so we were obliged to take a new
guide here, and go to Toulouse, where we found a warm
climate, a fruitful, pleasant country, and no snow, no
wolves, nor anything like them; but when we told our
story at Toulouse, they told m it was nothing but what
was ordinary in the great forest at the foot o1 the mount-
ains, especially when the snow lay on the ground; but they
inquired much what kind of guide we had got who would
venture to bring us that way in such a severe season, and
told us it was surprising we were not all devoured. When
we told them how we placed ourselves and the horses in
the middle, they blamed us exceedingly, and told us it was
fifty to one but we had been all destroyed, for it was the
sight of the horses which made the wolves so furious, see-
ing their prey, and that at other times they are really
afraid of a gun—but being excessively hungry, and raging
on that account, the eagerness to come at the horses had
made them senseless of danger—and that if we had not by
the continual fire, and at last by the stratagem of the train
of powder, mastered them, it had been great odds but that
we had been torn to pieces; whereas, had we been content
to have sat still on horseback, and fired as horsemen, they
would not have taken the horses so much for their own,
when men were on their backs, as otherwise; and withal,
they told us that at last, if we had stood all together, and
left our horses, they would have been so eager to have de-
voured them, that we might have come off safe, especially
having our fire-arms in our hands, being so many in num-
ber. For my part, I was never so sensible of danger in my
life—for, seeing above three hundred devils come roaring
and open-mouthed to devour us, and having nothing to
shelter us or retreat to, I gave myself over for lost; and, as
it was, I believe I shall never care to cross those mountains
again; I think I would much rather go a thousand leagues
by sea, though I was sure to meet with a storm once a
week.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my pas-
sage through France—nothing but what other travelers have
fiven an account of with much more advantage than 1 can.
traveled from Toulouse to Paris, and without any con-
siderable stay came to Calais, and landed safe at Dover the
14th of January, after having had a severe cold season to
travel in.
I was now come to the center of my travels, and had in
«little time all my new-discovered estate safe about mr.
the bills of exchange which I brought with me having
keen currently paid. .
My principal guide and privy-coanselor was my good
ancient widow, who, in gratitude for the money I had sent
her, thought no pains too much nor care too great to em-
ploy for me; and I trusted her so entirely that 1 was per-
fectly easy as to the security of my effects; ands indeed, I
was very happy from the beginning, and now to the end,
in the unspolted integrity of this good gentlewoman.
And now, having resolved to dispose of my plantation in
the Brazils, I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon, who having
offered it to the two merchants, the survivors of my trust-
ees, who lived in the Brazils, they accepted the offer, and
remitted thirty-three thousand pieces of eight to a corre-
spondent of theirs at Lisbon to pay for it.
In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the form
which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my old man,
who sent me the bills of exchange for thirty-two thousand
eight hundred pieces of eight for tne estate, reserving the
payment of one hundred moidores a year to him (the old
man) during his life, and fifty moidores afterward to his
son for his life, which I had promised them, and which the
flantation was to make good as a rent charge. And thus
have given the first part ot a life of fortune and advent-
ure—a life of Providence's checker-work, and of a variety
which the world will seldom be able to show the like of;
beginning foolishly, but closing much more happily than
any part of it ever gave me leave so much as to hope for.
Any one would think that in this state of complicated
good fortune 1 was past running any more hazards—and
so, indeed, I had been, if other circumstances had con-
curred; but 1 was inured to a wandering life, had no
family, nor many relations; nor, however rich, had I con-
tracted fresh acquaintance; and though I had sold my
estate in the Brazils, yet I could not keep that country out
of my head, and had a great mind to be upon the wing
again; especially I could not resist the stong inclination!
had to see my island, and to know if the poor Spaniards
were in being there. My true friend, the widow, earnestly
dissuaded me from it, and so far prevailed with me, that
for almost seven years she prevented my running abroad,
during which time I took my two nephews, the children of
one of my brothers, into my care; the eldest, having some-
thing of his own, I bred up as a gentleman, and gave him
a settlement of some addition to his estate after my de-
cease. - The other I placed with the captain of a ship; and
after five years, finding him a sensible, bold, enterprising
young fellow, I put him into a good ship, and sent him to
sea,- and this young fellow afterward drew me in, as old as
I was, to further adventures myself.
In the meantime, 1 in part settled myself here; for, first
of all, I married, and that not either to my disadvantage
•r dissatisfaction, and had three children, two sons and one
daughter; but my wife dying, and my nephew coming
home with good success from a voyage to Spain, my in-
clination to go abroad, and his importunity, prevailed, and
engaged me to go in his ship as a private trader to the
East Indies; this was in the year 1694,
In this voyage I visited my new colony in the island—
saw my successors the Spaniards—had the old story of their
lives and of the villains I left there—how at first they in-
sulted the poor Spaniards—how they afterward agreed, dis-
agreed, united, separated, and how at last the Spaniards
were obliged to use violence with them—how they were
subjected to the Spaniards—how honestly the Spaniards
used them; a history, if it were entered into, as full of
variety and wonderful accidents as my own part—particu-
larly, also, as to their battles with the Caribbeans, who
landed several times upon the island, and as to the im-
provement they made upou the island itself—and how five
of them made an attempt upon the main-land, and brought
away eleven men and five women prisoners, by which, at
my coming, I found about twenty young children on the
island.
Here I stayed about twenty days—left them supplies of
all necessary things, and particularly of arms, powder,
shot, clothes, tools, and two workmen, which I had brought
from England with me—viz., a carpenter and a smith.
Besides this, I shared the lands into parts with them, re-
served to myself the property of the whole, but gave theni
such parts respectively as they agreed on; and having set-
tled all things with them, and engaged them not to leave
the place, I left them there.
From thence I touched at the Brazils, from whence 1 sent
a bark, which I bought there, with more people to the
island; and in it, besides other supplies, I sent seven
women, being such as I found proper for service, or for
wives to such as would take them. As to the Englishmen,
I promised to send them some women from England, with
a good cargo of necessaries, if they would apply themselves
to planting—which I afterward could not perform. The
fellows proved very honest and diligent after they were
mastered and had their properties set apart for them. 1
sent them also, from the Brazils, five cows, three of them
being big with calf, some sheep, and some hogs, which
when 1 came again were considerably increased.
But all these things, with an account how three hundred
Caribbees came and invaded them, and ruined their plan-
tations, and how they fought with that whole number twice,
and were at first defeated, and one of them killed; but,, at
last, a storm destroying their enemies' canoes, they fam-
ished or destroyed almost all the rest, and renewed and re-
covered the possession of their plantation, and still lived
upon the island.
All these things, with some very surprising incidents in
some new adventures of my own, for ten years more, I
shall give a further account of in the second part of my
story.
PART II.
SECTION XXIX.
Reflections.—Unsettled State of Mind, and Conversation with My
Wife Thereon.—Purchase a Farm in the County of Bedford.—
Lose My Wife.—I Determine to Revisit My Island, and for that
Purpose Settle all My Affairs in England.—Description of the
Cargo I Carried out with Me.—Save the Crew of a Vessel
Burned at Sea.
That homely proverb, used on so many occasions in
Bngland—viz., "That what is bred in the bone will not
go out of the flesh," was never more verified than in the
story of my life. Any one would think that after thirty-
five years' affliction, and a variety of unhappy circum-
stances, which few men, if any, ever went through before,
and after near seven years of peace and enjoyment in the
fullness of all things; grown old, and when, if ever, it
might be allowed me to have had experience of every state
of middle life, and to know which was most adapted it
make a man completely happy; 1 say, after all this, any
one would have thought that the native propensity to
rambling, which I gave an account of in my first setting
out in the world to have been so predominant in my
thoughts, should be worn out, and 1 might, at sixty-one
years of age, have been a little inclined to stay at home,
and have done venturing life and fortune any more.
Nay, further, the common motive of foreign adventures
was taken away in me, for 1 had no fortune to make; I
had nothing to seek: if I had gained ten thousand pounds
I had been no richer; for I had already sufficient for me,
and for those I had to leave it to; and what 1 had was
visibly increasing; for, having no great family, 1 could not
spend the income of what I had, unless I would set up for
an expensive way of living, such as a great family, serv-
ants, equipage, gayety, and the like, which were things I
had no notion of, or inclination to; so that I had nothing,
indeed, to do but to sit still, and fully enjoy what I had
got, and see it increase daily upon my hands. Yet all
these things had no effect Upon me, or at least not enough
to resist the strong inclination 1 had to go abroad again,
which hung about me like a chronic distemper. In par-
ticular, the desire of seeing my new plantation in the
island, and the colony I left there, ran in my head contin-
ually. I dreamed of it all night, and my imagination ran
upon it all day: it was uppermost in all my thoughts; and
my fancy worked so steadily and strongly upon it, that I
talked of it in my sleep; in short, nothing could remove it
out of my mind: it even broke so violently into all my dis-
courses that it made my conversation tiresome, for I could
talk of nothing else; all my discourse ran into it, even to
impertinence; and I saw it myself.
1 have often heard persons of good judgment say, that
all the stir that people make in the world about ghosts and
apparitions is owing to the strength of imagination, and
the powerful operation of fancy in their minds; that there
is no such thing as a spirit appearing, or a ghost walking;
that people's poring affectionately upon the past conversa-
tion of their deceased friends so realizes it to them, that
they are capable of fancying, upon some extraordinary cir-
cumstances, that they see them, talk to them, and are
answered by them, when, in truth, there is nothing but
shadow and vapor in the thing, and they really know noth-
ing of the matter.
For my part, I know not to this hour whether there are
any such things as real apparitions, specters, or walking of
people after they are dead; or whether there is anything in
the stories they tell us of that kind more than the product
of vapors, siek minds, and wandering fancies: but this I
know, that my imagination worked up to such a height,
and brought me into such excess of vapors, or what else I
may call it, that I actually supposed myself often upon the
spot, at my old castle, behind the trees; saw my old Span-
iard, Friday's father, and the reprobate sailors I left upon:
the island; nay, I fancied I talked with them, and looked
at them steadily, though I was broad awake, as at persons
just before me; aud this I did till 1 often frightened my-
self with the images my fancy represented to me. One
time, in my sleep, 1 had the villainy of the three pirate
sailors so lively related to me by the first Spaniard and
Friday's father, that it was surprising; they told me how
they barbarously attempted to murder all the Spaniards,
and that they set fire to the provisions they had laid up,
on purpose to distress and starve them; things that I had
never heard of, and that, indeed, were never al) of them
true in fact: but it was so warm in my imagination, and
so realized to me, that, to the hour 1 saw them- I could
not be persuaded but that it was or would be true; also
how I resented it, when the Spaniard complained to me;
and how I brought them to justice, tried them, aud ordered
them all three to be hanged. What there was really in this
shall be seen in its•place: for however 1 came to form such
things in my dream, and what secret converse of spirits in-
jected it, yet there was, 1 say, much of it true. I own that
this dream had nothing in it literally and specifically true;
but the general part was so true—the base, villainous be-
havior of these three hardened rogues was such.,-and had
been so much worse than all I can describe, that the dream
had too much similitude of the fact; and as I would after-
ward have punished them severely, so, if 1 had hanged
them all, I had been much in the right, and even should
have been justified both by the laws of God and man.
But to return to my story: -la this kind of temper I lived
some years; I had no enjoyment of my life, no pleasant
hours, no agreeable diversion, but what had something or
other of this in it; so that my wife, who saw my mind
wholly bent upon it, told me very seriously one night,
that she believed there was some secret, powerful impulse
of Providonce upon me, which had determined me to go
thither again; and that she found nothing hindered me
going but my being engaged to a wife and children. She
told me that it was true she could not think of parting
with me: but as she was assured that if she was dead it
would be the first thing I would do; so, as it seemed to her
that the thing was determined above, she would not be the
only obstruction; for, if I thought fit and resolved to go—
fHere she found me very intent upon her words, and that
looked very earnestly at her, so that it a little disordered
her, and she stopped. 1 asked her why she did not go on,
and say out what she was going to say. But 1 perceived
that her heart was too full, and some tears stood in her
eyes.] "Speak out, my dear," said I: "are you willing
I should go?" "No," says she, very affectionately, "I
am far from willing; but if you are resolved to go," says
she, "rather than I would be the only hinderance, I will go
with you: for though I think it a most preposterous thing
for one of your years, and in your condition, yet, if it must
be," said she, again weeping, " I would not leave you; for
if it be of Heaven you must do it, there is no resisting it;
and if Heaven make it your duty to go, He will also make
it minlTto go with you, or otherwise dispose of me, that I
may not obstruct it."
This affectionate behavior of my wife's brought me a
little out of the vapors, and I began to consider what 1 was
doing; I corrected my wandering fancy, and began to
argue with myself sedately what business I had after three-
score years, and after such a life of tedious sufferings and
disasters, and closed in so happy and easy a manner; I say,
what business had I to rush into new hazards, and put my-
self upon adventures fit only for youth and poverty to run
into?
With those thoughts I considered my new engagement;
that I had a wife, one child born, and my wife then great
with child of another; that I had all the would could give
me, and had no need to seek hazard for gain; that I was
declining in years, and ought to think rather of leaving
what I had gained than of seeking to increase it; that as to
what my wife had said of its being an impulse from
Heaven, and that it should be my duty to go, I had no
Motion of that; so, after many of these cogitstinn?, I
struggled with the power of my imagination, reason^! my
self out of it, as I believe people may always do in like
cases if they will. In a word, I conquered it; composed
myself with such arguments as occurred to my thoughts,
and which my present condition furnished me plentifully
with; and particularly, as the most effectual method, I re-
solved to divert myself with other things, and to engage in
some business that might effectually tie me up from any
more excursions of this kind; for I found that thing return
upon me chiefly when I was idle, and had nothing to do,
nor anything of moment immediately before me. To this
purpose, I bought a little farm in the county of Bedford,
and resolved to remove myself thither. I had a little con-
venient house upon it, and the land about it, I found, was
capable of great improvement, and was in many ways suited
to my inclination, which delighted in cultivating, manag-
ing, planting, and improving of land; and particularly,
being an inland country, 1 was removed from conversing
among sailors and things relating to the remote parts of
the world. I went down to my farm, settled my family,
bought plows, harrows, a cart, wagon-horses, cows, and
sheep, and, setting seriously to work, became in one half
year a mere country gentleman. My thoughts were en-
tirely taken up in managing my servants, cultivating the
ground, inclosing, planting, etc.; aud 1 lived, as I thought,
the most agreeable life that nature was capable of direct-
ing, or that a man always bred to misfortunes was capable
of retreating to.
I farmed upon my own land; I had no rent to pay, was
limited by no articles; I could pull up or cut down as 1
pleased; what 1 planted was for myself, and what 1 im-
proved was for my family; and having thus left -off the
thoughts of wandering, I had not the least discomfort in any
part of life as to this world. Now I thought, indeed, that
I enjoyed the middle state of life which my father so ear-
nestly recommended to me, and lived a kind of heavenly
life, something like what is described by the poet, upou the
subject of a country life:
"Free from vices, free from care,
Age has no pain, and youth no snare."
But in the middle of all this felicity, one blow from un-
seen Providence unhinged me at once; and not only made
a breach upon me inevitable and incurable, but drove me,
by its consequences, into a deep relapse of the wandering
disposition, which, as I may say, being born in my very
blood, soon recovered its hold of me; and, like the returns
of a violent distemper, came on with an irresistible force
upon me. This blow was the loss of my wife. It is not
my business here to write an elegy upon my wife, give a
character of her particular virtues, and make my court to
the sex by the flattery of a funeral sermon. She was, in a
few words, the stay of all my affairs; the center of all my
enterprises; the engine that, by her prudence, reduced me
to that happy compass I was in, from the most extravagant
and ruinous project that filled my head, and did more to
guide my rambling genius than a mother's tears, a father's
instructions, a friend's counsel, or all my own reasoning
powers could do. 1 was happy in listening to her, and in
being moved by her entreaties; and to the last degree deso-
late and dislocated in the world by the loss of her.
When she was gone, the world looked awkwardly round
me. I was as much a stranger in it, in my thoughts, as 1
was in the Brazils, when I first went on shore there; and
as much alone, except for the assistance of servants, as I
was in my island. I knew neither what to think nor what
to do. I saw the world busy around me: one part laboring
for bread, another part squandering in vile excesses or
empty pleasures, but equally miserable because the end they
proposed still fled from them; for the men of pleasure every
day surfeited of their vice, and heaped up work for sorrow
and repentance; and the men of labor spent their strength
in daily struggling for bread to maintain the vital strength
they labored with: so living in a daily circulation of sorrow,
living but to woik, and working but to live, as if daily
bread were the only end of wearisome life, and a wearisome
life the only occasion of daily bread.
This put me in mind of the life 1 lived in my kingdom,
the island; where I suffered no more corn to grow, because
I did not want it; and bred no more goats, because 1 had
no more use for them; where the money lay in the drawer
till it grew moldy, and bad scarce the favor to be looked
upon m twenty years. All these things, had I improved
them as 1 ought to have done, and as reason and religion
had dictated to me, would have taught me to search further
than human enjoyments for a full felicity; and that there
was something which certainly was the reason and end of
life superior to all these things, and which was either to be
possessed, or at least hoped for, on this side of the grave.
But my sage counselor was gone; 1 was like a ship with-
out a pilot, that could only run afore the wind. My
thoughts ran all away again into the old affair; my head
was quite turned with the whimsies of foreign adventures;
and all the pleasant, innocent amusements of my farm, my
garden, my cattle, and my family, which before entirely
possessed me, were nothing to me, had no relish, and were
like music to one that has no ear, or food to one that has
no taste. In a word, 1 resolved to leave off housekeeping,
let my farm, and return to London; and in a few months
after I did so.
When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as I was
before; 1 had no relish for the place, no employment in it,
nothing to do but to saunter about like an idle person, of
whom it may be said he is perfectly useless in God's crea-
tion, and it is not one farthing's matter to the rest of his
kind whether he be dead or alive. This also was the thing
which, of all circumstances of life, was the most my aver-
sion, who had been all my days used to an active life; and
I would often say to myself, " A state of idleness is the
very dregs of life;" and, indeed, I thought 1 was much
more suitably employed when I was ttventy-six days mak-
ing a deal board.
It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when my
nephew, whom, as 1 have observed before, 1 had brought
up to the sea, and had made him commander of a ship,
was come home from a short voyage to Bilboa, being the
first he had made. He came to me, and told me that some
merchants of his acquaintance had been proposing to him
to go a voyage for them to the East Indies, and to China,
as private traders. "And now, uncle," says he, "if you
will go to sea with me, I will engage to land you upon your
old habitation in the island; for we are to touch at the
Brazils."
Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a future
state, and of the existence of an invisible world, than the
concurrence of second causes with the idea of things which
we form in our minds, perfectly reserved, and not com-
municated to any in the world.
My nephew knew nothing how far my distemper of wan-
dering was returned upon me, and I knew nothing of what
he had in his thought to say, when that very morning, be-
fore he came to me, 1 had, in a great deal of confusion of
thought, and revolving every part of my circumstances in
my mind, come to this resolution, that 1 would go to
Lisbon, and consult with my old sea captain; and if it was
rational and practicable, 1 would go and see the island
again, and what was become of my people there. 1 had
pleased myself with the thoughts of peopling the place, and
carrying inhabitants from hence, getting a patent for the
possession, and 1 know not what; when, in the middle of
all this, in comes my nephew, as I have said, with his proj-
ect of carrying me thither in his way to the East Indies.
I paused awhile at his words, and looking steadily at
him, "What devil," said I, "sent you on this unlucky
errand?" My nephew stared as if he had been frightened
at first; but perceiving that 1 was not much displeased at
the proposal, he recovered himself. "1 hope it may not
beau unlucky proposal, sir," says he. "I dare say you
would be pleased to see your new colony there, where you
once reigned with more felicity than most of your brother
monarchs in the world." In a word, the scheme hit so
exactly with my temper, that is to say, the prepossession I
was under, and of which 1 have said so much, that 1 told
him, in a few words, if he agreed with the merchants, I
would go with him; but I told him 1 would not promise to
go any further than my own island. "Why, sir," says
he, "you don't want to be left there again, 1 hope?"
"But," said I, " can you not take me up again on your
return?" He told me it would not be possible to do so;
that the merchants would never allow him to come that
way with a laden ship of such value, it being a month's
sail out of his way, and might be three or four. "Besides,
sir, if I should miscarry," said he, " and not return at all,
then you would be just reduced to the condition you were
in before."
This was very rational; but we both found out a remedy
for it; which was, to carry a framed sloop on board the
ship, which being taken in pieces, might, by the help of
some carpenters, whom we agreed to carry with us, be set
up again in the island, and finished fit to go to sea in a
few days. I was not long resolving; for indeed, the im-
portunities of my nephew joined so effectually with my in-
clination, that nothing could oppose me; on the other
Land, my wife being dead, none concerned Sliemsel ism
much for me as to persuade me one way or the other, ex-
cept my ancient good fiiend the widow, who earnestly
struggled with me to consider my years, my easy circum-
stances, and the needless hazards of a long voyage; and
above all, my young children. But it was all to no pur-
pose; I had an irresistible desire for the voyage; and 1 told
her 1 thought there was something so uncommon in the
impressions I had upon my mind, that it would be a kind
of resisting Providence if 1 should attempt to stay at home;
after which she ceased her expostulations, and joined with
me, not only in making providon for my voyage, but also
in settling my family affairs for my absence, and providing
for the education of my children. In order to do this, 1
made my will, and settled the estate I had in such a man-
ner for my children, and placed in such hands, that I was
perfectly easy and satisfied they would have justice done
them, whatever might befall me; and for their education,
I left it wholly to the widow, with a sufficient maintenance
to herself for her care, all which she richly deserved; for
no mother could have taken more care in their education,
or understood it better; and as she lived till I came home,
I also lived to thank her for it.
My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning of
January 1694-5; and 1, with my man Friday, went on
board, in the Downs, the 8th; having, besides that sloop
which I mentioned above, a very considerable cargo of all
kinds of necessary things for my colony; which, if 1 did
not find in good condition, 1 resolved to leave so.
First, I carried with me some servants whom 1 purposed
to place there as inhabitants, or at least to set on work
there upon my account, while I stayed, and either to leave
them there or carry them forward, as they should appear
willing; particularly, I carried two carpenters, a smith,
and a very handy, ingenious fellow, who was a cooper by
trade, and was also a general mechanic; for he was dexter-
ous at making wheels and hand-mills to grind corn, was a
good turner and a good pot-maker; he also made anything
that was proper to make of earth or of wood: in a word,
we called him our Jack-of-all-trades. With these I carried
a tailor, who had offered himself to go a passenger to the
East Indies with my nephew, but afterward consented to
stay on our new plantation, and who proved a most neoea-
sary handy fellow as could be desired in many other busi-
nesses besides that of his trade; for, as I observed formerly,
necessity arms us for all employments.
My cargo, as near as 1 can recollect, for I have not kept
account of the particulars, consisted of a sufficient quantity
of linen, and some English thin stuffs, for clothing the
Spaniards that I expected to find there; and enough of
them, as by my calculation, might comfortably supply
them for seven years; if I remember right, the materials 1
carried for clothing them, with gloves, hats, shoes, stock-
ings, and all such things as they could want for wearing,
amounted to above two hundred pounds, including some
beds, bedding, and household stuff, particularly kitchen
ntensils, with pots, kettles, pewter, brass, etc.; and near
a hundred pounds more in iron work, nails, tools of every
kind, staples, hooks, hinges, and every necessary thing I
could think of.
I carried also a hundred spare arms, muskets, and
fusees; besides some pistols, a considerable quantity of shot
of all sizes, three or four tons of lead, and two pieces of
brass cannon; and, because I knew not what time and
what extremities I was providing for, I carried a hundred
barrels of powder, besides swords, cutlasses, and the iron
part of some pikes and halberts. In short, we had a large
magazine of all sorts of store; and I made my nephew
carry two small quarter-deck guns more than he wanted
for his ship, to leave behind if there was occasion; so that
when we came there we might build a fort and man it
against all sorts of enemies. Indeed, I at first thought
there would be need enough for all, and much more, if we
hoped to maintain our possession of the island; as shall be
seen in the course of this story.
I had not such bad luck in this voyage as 1 had been
used to meet with; and, therefore, shall have the less occa-
sion to interrupt the reader, who, perhaps, may be im-
patient to hear how matters went with my colony; yet
some odd accidents, cross winds, and bad weather happened
on this first setting out, which made the voyage longer
than 1 expected it at first; and I, who had never made but
one voyage, my first voyage to Guinea, in which I might
be said to come back again, as the voyage was at first de-
signed, began to think the same ill fate attended me, and
tkat I was born to be never contented with being on shore.
and yet to be always unfortunate at sea. Contrary winds
first put us to the northward, and we were obliged to pu*
in at Galwayj in Ireland, where we lay wind-bound two-
and-twenty days; but we had this satisfaction with the
disaster, that provisions were here exceeding cheap, and in
the utmost plenty; so that while we lay here we never
touched the ship's stores, but rather added to them.
Here, also, 1 took in several live hogs, and two cows with
their calves, which I resolved, if I had a good passage, to
put on shore in my island; but we found occasion to dis-
pose otherwise of them.
We set out on the 5th of February from Ireland, and
had a very fair gale of wind for some days. As I remem-
ber, it might be about the 20th of February, in the even-
ing late, when the mate, having the watch, came into the
round-house, and told us he saw a flash of fire, and heard
a gun fired; and while he was telling us of it, a boy came
in, and told us the boatswain heard another. This made
us all round out upon the quarter-deck, where for awhile
we heard nothing; but in a few minutes we saw a very
great light, and found that there was some very terrible
fire at a distance; immediately we had recourse to our
reckonings, in which we all agreed that there could be no
land that way in which the fire showed itself, no, not for
five hundred leagues, for it appeared at W.N.W. Upon
this, we concluded it must be some ship on fire at sea; and
as, by our hearing the noise of guns just before, we con-
cluded that it could not be far off, we stood directly toward
it, and were presently satisfied we should discover it, be-
cause the further we sailed, the greater the light appeared;
though the weather being hazy, we could not perceive any-
thing but the light for awhile. In about half an hour's
sailing, the wind being fair for us, though not much of it,
and the weather clearing up a little, we could plainly dis-
cern that it was a great ship on fire in the middle of the sea.
I was most sensibly touched with this disaster, though
not at all acquainted with the persons engaged in it; 1
presently recollected my former circumstances, and what
condition 1 was in when taken up by the Portuguese cap-
tain; and how much more deplorable the circumstances of
the poor creatures belonging to that, ship must be. if they
had no other ship iu company with them. Upon this 1
immediately ordered that five guns should be tired, one
goon after ("".other, that, if possible, we might give notice
to them that there was help for them at hand, and that
they might endeavor to save themselves in their boats; for
tht,agh we could see the flames of the ship, yet they, it
being night, could see nothing of us.
We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the
burning ship drove, waiting for daylight; when, on a sud-
den, to our great terror, though we had reason to expect
it, the ship blew up in the air; and in a few minutes all
the fire was out, that is to say, the rest of the ship sunk.
This was a terrible, and indeed an afflicting sight, for the
sake of the poor men, who, I concluded, must be either all
destroyed in the ship, or be in the utmost distress in their
boat, in the middle of the bcean; which, at present, as it
was dark, I could not see. However, to direct them as
well as I could, I caused lights to be hung out in all parts
of the ship where we could, and which we had lanterns for,
and kept firing guns all the night long; letting them know
by this that there was a ship not far off.
About eight o'clock in the morning we discovered the
ship's boats by the help of our perspective glasses, and
found there were two of them, both thronged with people,
and deep in the water. We perceived they rowed, the
wind being against thom; that they saw our ship, and did
their utmost to make us see them. We immediately spread
our ancient, to let thom know we saw them, and hung a
waft out, as a signal for them to come on board, and then
made more sail, standing directly to them. In little more
than half an hour we came up with them, and took them
all in, being no less than sixty-four, men, women, and chil-
dren; for there were a great many passengers.
Upon inquiry we found it was a French merchant ship
of three hundred tons, home-bound from Quebec. The
master gave us a long account of the distress of his ship;
how the fire began in the steerage by the negligence of the
steersman, which, on his crying out for help, was, as every-
body thought, entirely put out; but they soon found that
some sparks of the first fire had got into some part of the
ehip so difficult to come at that they could not effectually
quench it; and afterward getting in between the timbers,
and within the ceiling of the ship, it proceeded into the
hold, and mastered all the skill and all the application they
were able to exert.
They had no more to do then but to get into their boats,
which, to their great comfort, were pretty large; being
their long-boat and a great shallop, besides a small skiff,
which was of no great service to them, other than to get
some fresh water and provisions into her, after they had
secured their lives Irom the fire. They had, indeed, smal.l
hopes of their lives by getting into these boats *it that dis-
tance from any land; only, as they said, that they thug
escaped from the fire, and there was a possibility that some
ship might happen to be at sea, and might take them in. They
had sails, oars, and a compass; and had as much provisions
and water as, with sparing it so as to be next door to starv-
ing, might support them about twelve days, in which, if
they had no bad weather and no contrary winds, the cap-
tain said he hoped he might get to the Banks of Newfound-
land, and might perhaps take some fish, to sustain them
till they might go on shore. But there were so many
chances against them in all these cases, such as storms, to
overset and founder them; rains and cold, to benumb and
perish their limbs; contrary winds, to keep them out and
starve them, that it must have been next to miraculous if
they had escaped.
In the midst of their consternation, every one being
hopeless and ready to despair, the captain, with tears in
his eyes, told me they were on a sudden surprised with the
joy of hearing a gun fired, and after that four more: these
were the five guns which I caused to be fired at first seeing
the light. This revived their hearts, and gave them the
notice, which, as above, 1 desired it should, that there was
a ship at hand for their help. It was upon the hearing of
these guns that they took down their masts and sails: the
sound coming from the windward, they resolved to lie by
till morning. Some time after this, hearing no more guns,
they fired three muskets, one a considerable while after
another; but these, the wind being contrary, we never
heard. Some time after that again they were still more
agreeably surprised with seeing our lights, and hearing the
guns, which, as I h ve said, I caused to be fired all the
rest of the night. This set them to work with their oars,
to keep their boats ahead, at least that we might the
sooner come up with them; and at last, to their inexpress-
ible joy, they found we saw them.
It is impossible for me to express the several gestures.
the strange ecstasies, the variety of postures which these
poor delivered people ran into, to express the joy of their
souls at so unexpected a deliverance. Grief and fear are
easily described: sighs, tears, groans, and a very few
motions of the head and hands, make up the sum of its
variety; but an excess of joy, a surprise of joy, has a
thousand extravagances in it. There were some in tears;
some raging and tearing themselves, as if they had been in
the greatest agonies of sorrow; some stark raving and
downright lunatic; some ran about the ship stamping with
their feet, others wringing their hands; some were dancing,
some singing, some laughing, more crying, many quite
dumb, not able to speak a word; others sick and vomiting;
several swooning and ready to faint; and a few were cross-
ing themselves and giving God thanks.
1 would not wrong them either; there might be many
that were thankful afterward; but the passion was too
strong for them at first, and they were not able to master
it: they were thrown into ecstasies, and a kind of frenzy,
and it was but a very few that were composed and serious
in their joy. Perhaps, also, the case may have some ad-
dition to it from the particular circumstance of the nation
they belonged to: I mean the French, whose temper ia
allowed to be more volatile, more passionate, and more
sprightly, and their spirits more fluid than in other nations.
I am not philosopher enough to determine the cause; but
nothing I had ever seen before came up to it. The ecsta->
sies poor Friday, my trusty savage, was in when he found
his father in the boat came the nearest to it; and the sur-
prise of the master and his two companions, whom 1 deliv-
ered from the villains that set them on shore in the island,
came a little way toward it; but nothing was to compare
to this, either that I saw in Friday, or anywhere else in my
life.
It is further observable, that these extravagances did not
show themselves in that different manner I have mentioned,
in different persons only; but all the variety would appear,
in a short succession of moments, in one and the same
person. A man that we saw this! minute dumb, and, as it
were, stupid and confounded, would the next minute be
dancing and hallooing like an antic; and the next moment
be tearing his hair, or pulling his clothes to pieces, and
stamping them under his feet like a madman; in a few
moments after that we would have him all in tears, then
sick, swooning, and, had not immediate help been had, he
would in a few moments have been dead. Thus it was,
not with one or two, or ten or twenty, but with the great-
est part of them; and, if I remember right, our surgeon
was obliged to let blood of about thirty persons. .
There were two priests among them: one an old man,
and the other a young man; and that which was strangest
was, the oldest man was the worst. As soon as he set his
foot on board our ship, and saw himself safe, he dropped
down stone dead to all appearance. Not the least sign of
life could be perceived in him; our surgeon immediately
applied proper remedies to recover him, and was the only
man in the ship that believed he was not dead. At length
he opened a vein in his arm, having first chafed and rubbed
the part, so as to warm it as much as possible. Upon this
the blood, which only dropped at first, flowing freely, in
three minutes after the man opened his eyes; a quarter of
an hour after that ho spoke, grew better, and after the
blood was stopped, he walked about, told us he was per-
fectly well, and took a dram of cordial which the surgeon
gave him. About a quarter of an hour after this they
came running into the cabin to the surgeon, who was
bleeding a French woman that had fainted, and told him
the priest was gone stark mad. It seems he had begun to
revolve the change of his circumstances in his mind, and
again this put him into an ecstasy of joy. His spirits
whirled about faster than the vessels could convey them,
the blood grew hot and feverish, and the man was as fit for
Bedlam as any creature that ever was in it. The surgeon
would not bleed him again in that condition, but gave him
something to dose and put him to sleep; which, after some
time, operated upon him, and he awoke next morning per-
fectly composed and well. The younger priest behaved
with great command of his passions, and was really an ex-
ample of a serious, well-governed mind. At his first com-
ing on board the ship he threw himself flat on his faoe,
prostrating himself in thankfulness for his deliverance, ia
which I unhappily and unseasonably disturbed him, really
thinking he had been in a swoon; but he spoke calmly,
thanked me, told me he was giving God thanks for his de-
liverance, begged me to leave him a few moments, and
that, next to his Maker, he would give me thanks also. 1
was heartily sorry that I disturbed him, and not only left
him, but kept others from interrupting him also, lie con-
tinued in that posture about three minutes, or little more,
after I left him, then came to me, as he had said he would,
and, with a great deal of seriousness and affection, but
with tears in his eyes, thanked me, that had, under God,
given him and so many miserable creatures their lives. I
told him I had no need to tell him to' thank God for it,
rather than me, for 1 had seen that he had done that
already; but I added that it was nothing but what reason
and humanity dictated to all men, and that we had as
much reason as he to give thanks to God, who had blessed
us so far as to make us the instruments of His mercy to so
many of His creatures. After this the young priest applied
himself to his countrymen, and labored to compose them:
he persuaded, entreated, argued, reasoned with them, and
did his utmost to keep them within the exercise of their
reason; and with some he had success, though others were
for a time out of all government of themselves.
I can not help committing this to writing, as perhaps it
may be useful to those into whose hands it may fall, for
guiding themselves in the extravagances of their passions;
for if an excess of joy can carry men out to such a length
beyond the reach of their reason, what will not the extrava-
gances of anger, rage, and a provoked mind, carry us to?
And, indeed, here I saw reason for keeping an exceeding
watch over our passions of every kind, as well those of joy
and satisfaction as those of sorrow and anger.
We were somewhat disordered by these extravagances
among our new guests for the first day; but after they had
retired to lodgings provided for them as well as our ship
would allow, and had slept heartily—as most of them did,
Being fatigued and frightened—they were quite another
sort of people the next day. Nothing of good manners, or
civil acknowledgments for the kindness shown them, was
wanting; the French, it is known, are naturally apt enough
to exceed that way. The captain and one of the priests
came to me the next day, and desired to speak with me
and my nephew; the commander began to consult with us
what should be done with them; and first, they told us we
had saved their lives, so all they had was little enough for
a return to us for that kindness received. The captain
said they had saved some money and some things of value
in their boats, caught hastily out of the flames, and if, we
would accept it they were ordered to make an offer of it all
to us; they only desired to be set on shore somewhere in
our way, where, if possible, they might get a passage to
France. My nephew wished to accept their money at first
word, and to consider what to do with them afterward;
but I overruled him in that part, for I knew what it was;
to be set on shore in a strange country; and if the Portu-
guese captain that took me up at sea had served me so,
and taken all I had for my deliverance, 1 must have been
starved, or have been as much a slave at the Brazils as I
had been at Barbary, the mere being sold to a Mohamme-
dan excepted; and perhaps a Portuguese is not a much
better master than a Turk, if not in some cases much
worse.
I therefore told the French captain that we had taken
them up in their distress, it was true, but that it was our
duty to do so, as we were fellow-creatures; and we would
desire to be so delivered if we were in the like or any other
extremity; that we had done nothing for them but what
we believed they would have done for us if we had been in
their case and they in ours; but that we took them up to
save them, not to plunder them; and it would be a most
barbarous thing to take that little from them which they
had saved out of the fire, and then set them on shore and
leave them; that this would be first to save them from
death, and then kill them ourselves: save them from
drowning, and abandon them to starving; and therefore I
would not let the least thing be taken from them. As to
setting them on shore, I told them, indeed, that was an
exceeding difficulty to us, for that the ship was bound to
the East Indies; and though we were driven out of our
course to the west-ward a very great way, and perhaps were
directed by Heaven on purpose for their deliverance, yet it
was impossible for us willfully to change our voyage on
their particular account; nor could my nephew, the cap-
tain, answer it to the freighters, with whom he was under
charter to pursue his voyage by way of Brazil; and all I
knew we could do for them was to put ourselves in the way
of meeting with other ships homeward bound from the
West Indies, and get them a passage, if possible, to Eng-
land or France.
The first part of the proposal was so generous and kind
they could not but be very thankful for it; but they were
in very great consternation, especially the passengers, at
the notion of being carried away to the East Indies; they
then entreated me that as I was driven so far to the west-
ward before I met with them, 1 would at least keep on the
same course to the Banks of Newfoundland, where it was
probable I might meet with some ship or sloop that they
might hire to carry them back to Canada.
1 thought this was but a reasonable request on their
part, and therefore 1 inclined to agree to it; for indeed I
considered that to carry this whole company to the East
Indies would not only be an intolerable severity upon the
poor people, but would be ruining our whole voyage by de-
vouring all our provisions; so I thought it no breach or
charter-party, but what an unforeseen accident made abso-
lutely necessary to us, and in which no one could say we
were to blame; for the laws of God and nature would for-
bid that we should refuse to take up two boats full' of
people in such a distressed condition; and the nature of
the thing, as well respecting ourselves as the poor people,
obliged us to set them on shore somewhere or other for
their deliverance. So I consented that we would carry
them to Newfoundland, if wind and weather would permit:
and if not, 1 would carry them to Martinico, in the West
Indiea
The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather
pretty good; and as the winds had continued in the points
between N.E. and S.E. a long time, we missed several op-
portunities of sending them to France; for we met several
ships bound to Europe, whereof two were French, from St.
Christopher's, but they had been so long beating up against
the wind that they durst take in no passengers, for fear of
wanting provisions for the voyage, as well for themselves
as for those they should take it; so we were obliged to go
on. It was about a week after this that we made the
Banks of Newfoundland; where, to shorten my story, we
put all our French people on board a bark, which they
hired at sea there, to put them on shore, and afterward to
carry them to France, if they could get provisions to
victual themselves with. When I say all the French went
on shore, 1 should remember that the young priest I spoke
of, hearing we were bound to the East Indies, desired to
go the voyage with us, and to be set on shore on the coast
of Coromandel; which I readily agreed to, for I wonder-
fully liked the man, and had very good reason, as will ap-
pear afterward; also four of the seamen entered themselves
on our ship, and proved very useful fellows.
Prom hence we directed our course for the West Indies,
steering away S. and S. by E. for about twenty days to-
gether, sometimes little or no wind at all; when we met
238 BOBINSOW CBUSG3.
almost as deplorable as that before.
SECTION XXX.
Steer for the West Indies.—Distressing Account of a Bristol Ship,
the Crew of Which We Save, in a State of Starvation—Arrive at
My Island.—Friday's Joy on Discovering It.—Affecting Inter-
view Betwixt Him and his Father on Landing.—Narrative of the
Occurrences on the Island During My Absence.
It was in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes north, on
the 19th day of March 1694-5, when we spied a sail, our
course S.E. and by S. We soon perceived it was a large
vessel, and that she bore up to us, but could not at first
know what to make of her, till, after coming a little
nearer, we found she had lost her main-topmast, foremast,
and bowspuit;, and presently she fired a gun as a signal of
distress. The weather was pretty good, wind at N. N. W.
a fresh gale, and we soon came to speak with her. We
found her a ship of Bristol, bound home from Barbadoes,
but had been blown out of the road at Barbadoes a few
days before she was ready to sail, by a terrible hurricane,
while the captain and chief mate were both gone on shore;
so that, besides the terror of the storm, they were in an in-
different case for good mariners to bring the ship home.
They had been already nine weeks at sea, and had met with
another terrible storm, after the hurricane was over, which
had blown them quite out of their knowledge to thewest-
ward, and in which thoy lost their masts. They told us
they expected to have seen the Bahama Islands, but were
then driven away again to the south-east, by r strong gale
of wind at N.N. W., the same that blew dow: »nd having
no sails to work the ship with but a m&in course, and a
kind of square sail upon a jury foremast, which they had
set up, they could not lie near the wind, but were enae*» ,
oring to Btand away for the Canaries.
But that which was worst of all was, that they were
almost starved for want of provisions, besides the fatigues
they had undergone; their bread and flesh were quite gone
—they had not one ounce left in the ship, and had had none
for eleven days. The only relief they had was their water
was not all spent, and they had about half a barrel of iloiu
left; they had sugar enough; some succades, or sweet-
meats, they had at first, but these were all devoured; and
they had seven casks of rum. There was a youth, and his
mother, and a maid-servant on board, who were passen-
gers, and thinking the ship was ready to sail, unhappily
came on board the evening before the hurricane began; and
having no provisions of their own left, they were in a mdre
deplorable condition than the rest: for the seamen, being
reduced to such an extreme necessity themselves, had no
compassion, we may be sure, for the poor passengers; and
they were, indeed, in such a condition that their misery is
very hard to describe.
1 had perhaps not known this part, if my curiosity had
not led me (the weather being fair, and the wind abated)
to go on board the ship. The second mate, who upon this
occasion commanded the ship, had been on board our ship,
and he told me they had three passengers in the great cabin
that were in a deplorable condition.. "Nay," says he, "I
believe they are dead, for 1 have heard nothing of them for
above two days; and 1 was afraid to inquire after them,"
said he, "for 1 had nothing to relieve them with." We
immediately applied ourselves to give them what relief we
could spare; and, indeed, I had so far overruled things
with my nephew, that 1 would have victualed them,
though we had gone away to Virginia, or any other part of
the coast of America, to have supplied ourselves; but there
was no necessity for that.
But now they were in a new danger; for they were afraid
of eating too much, even of that little we gave them. The
mate, or commander, brought six men with him in hie
boat; but these poor wretches looked like skeletons, and
were so weak that they could hardly sit to their oars. The
mate himself was very ill, and half-starved; for he de-
clared he had reserved notning from the men, and went
share and share alike with them in every bit they eat. I
cautioned him to eat sparingly, and set meat before him
immediately, but he had not eaten three mouthf uls before
he began to be sick and out of order; so he stopped
awhile, and our surgeon mixed him up something with
some broth, which he said would be to him both food aud
physic; and after he had taken it he grew better. In the
meantime I forgot not the men. I ordered victuals to be
given them, and the poor creatures rather devoured than
eat it: they were so exceedingly hungry that they were in
a manner ravenous, and had no command of themselves;
and two of them eat with so much greediness that they
were in danger of their lives the next morning. The sight
of these people's distress was very moving to me, and
brought to mind what I had a terrible prospect of at my
first coming on shore in my island, where I had not the
least mouthful of food, or any prospect of procuring any;
besides the hourly apprehensions 1 had of being made the
food of other creatures. But all the while the mate was
thus relating to me the miserable condition of the ship's
company, I could not put out of my thought the story he
had told me of the three poor creatures in the great cabin
—viz., the mother, her son, and the maid-servant, whom
he had heard nothing of for two or three days, and whom,
he seemed to confess, they had wholly neglected, their own
extremities being so great; by which I understood that they
had really given them no food at all, and that therefore
they must be perished, and be all lying dead, perhaps, on
the floor or deck of the cabin.
As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called cap-
tain, on board with his men, to refresh them, so I also for-
got not the starving crew that were left on board, but
ordered my own boat to go on board the ship, aud, with
my mate aud twelve men, to carry them a sack of bread,
and four or five pieces of beef to boil. Our surgeon
charged the men to cause the meat to be boiled while they
stayed, and to keep guard in the cook-room, to prevent the
men taking it to eat raw, or taking it out of the pot before
it was well boiled, and then to give every man but a very
little at a time: and by this caution he preserved the men,
who would otherwise have killed themselves with that very
food that was given them on purpose to save their lives.
At the same time I ordered the mate 4o go into the great
cabin, and see what condition the poor passengers were in;
wort ;* tL«y were alive, to comfort them, and give them
*&»c refreshment was proper: and the surgeon gave him
ft large pitcher, with some of the prepared broth which he
had given the mate that was on board, and which he did
not question would restore them gradually. 1 was not
satisfied with this: but, as I said above, having a great
wind to see the scene of misery which 1 knew the ship itself
would present me with, in a more lively manner than I
»ould have it by report, I took the captain of the ship, as
we now called him, with me, and went myself, a little
»f ter, in their boat.
I found the poor men on board almost in a tumult to get
ihe victuals out of the boiler before it was ready; but my
mate observed his orders, and kept a good guard at the
cook-room door; and the man he placed there, after using
all possible persuasion to have patience, kept them off by
force; however, he caused some biscuit cakes to be dipped
in the pot, and softened with the liquor of the meat, which
they call brewis, and gave them every one some to stay
their stomachs, and told them it was for their own safety
that he was obliged to give them but little at a time. But
it was all in vain; and had I not come on board, and their
own commander and officers with me, and with good words,
and some threats also of giving them no more, I believe
they would have broken into the cook-room by force, and
torn the meat out of the furnace—for words are indeed of
very small force to a hungry belly; however, we pacified
them, and fed them gradually and cautiously at first, and
the next time gave them more, and at last filled their
bellies, and the men did well enough.
But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was
of another nature, and far beyond the rest; for as, first,
the ship's company had so little for themselves, it was but
too true that they had at first kept them very low, and at
last totally neglected them: so that for six or seven days
it might be said they had really no food at all, and for
several days before very little. The poor mother, who, as
the men reported, was a woman of sense and good breed-
ing, had spared all she could so affectionately for her son,
that at last she entirely sunk under it; and when the mate
of our ship went in, she sat upon the floor or deck, with
her back up against the sides, between two chairs, which
were lashed fast, and her head sunk between her shoulders
like a corpse, though not quite dead. My mate said all he
could to revive and encourage her, and with a spoon pat
gome broth into her mouth. She opened her lips, and
lifted up one hand, but could not speak: yet she under-
stood what he said, and made signs to him, intimating
that it was too late for her, but pointed to her chile, as if
shu would have said they should take care of him. How-
ever, the mate, who was exceedingly moved at the sight,
endeavored to get some of the broth into her mouth, and,
as he said, got two or three spoonfuls down—though I
question whether he could be sure of it or not: but it was
too late, and she died the same night.
The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most
affectionate mother's life, was not so far gone; yet he lay
in a cabin bed, as one stretched out, with hardly any life
left in him. He had a piece of an old glove in his mouth,
having eaten up the rest of it; however, being young, and
having more strength than his mother, the mate got some-
thing down his throat, aud he began sensibly to revive;
though by giving him, some time after, but two or three
spoonfuls extraordinary, he was very sick, and brought it
up again.
But the next care was the poor maid: she lay all along
upon the deck, hard by her mistress, and just like one thai
had fallen down in a fit of apoplexy, and struggled for
life. Her limbs were distorted; one of her hands was
clasped round the frame of the chair, and she gripped it so
hard that we could not easily make her let it go; her other
arm lay over her head, and her feet lay both together, set
fast against the frame of the cabin table: in short, she lay
just like one in the agonies of death, and yet she was alive,
too. The poor creature was not only starved with hunger,
and terrified with the thoughts of death, but, as the men
told us afterward, was broken-hearted for her mistress,
whom she saw dying for two or three days before, and
whom she loved most tenderly. We knew not what to do
with this poor girl; for when our surgeon, who was a man
of very great knowledge and experience, had, with great
application, recovered her as to life, he had her upon his
hands still; for she was little less than distracted for a con-
siderable time after.
Whoever shall read these memorandums must be desired
to consider that visits at sea are not like a journey into the
country, where sometimes people stay a week or a fort-
night at a place. Oar business was to relieve this dis-
tressed ship's crew, but not lie by for them; and though
they were willing to steer the same course with us for some
days, yet we could carry no sail to keep pace with a ship
that had no masts. However, as their captain begged of
us to help him to set up a main-topmast, and a kind of a
topmast to his jury-foremast, we did, as it were, lie by him
for three or four days; and then, having given him five
barrels of beef, a barrel of pork, two hogsheads of biscuit,
and a proportion of pease, flour, and what other things we
could spare; and taking three casks of sugar, some rum,
and some pieces of eight from them for satisfaction, we
left them„ taking on board with us, at their own earnest
request, the youth and the maid, and all their goods.
The young lad was about seventeen years of age, a
pretty, well-bred, modest, and sensible youth, greatly de-
jected with the loss of his mother, and also at having lost
his father but a few months before, at Barbadoes. He
begged of the surgeon to speak to me to take him out of
the ship; for he said the cruel fellows had murdered his
mother: and, indeed, so they had, that is to say, passively;
for they might hare spared a small sustenance to the poor
helpless widow, though it had been but just enough to keep
her alive; but hunger knows no friend, no relation, no
justice, no right, and therefore is remorseless, and capable
of no compassion.
The surgeon told him how far we were going, and that
it would carry him away from all his friends, and put him,
perhaps, in as bad circumstances almost as those we found
him in—that is to say, starving in the world. He said it
mattered not whither he went, if he was but delivered
from the terrible crew that he was among; that the cap-
tain (by which he meant me, for he could know nothing of
my nephew) had saved his life, and he was sure would not
hurt him; and as for the maid, he was sure, if she came tp
herself, she would be very thankful for it, and let us carry
them where we would. The surgeoi represented the case
so effectually to me that I yielded, and we took them
both on board, with all their goods, except eleven hogs-
heads of sugar, which could not be removed or come at;
and as the youth had a bill of lading for them, 1 made his
commander sign a writitig, obliging himself to go, as soon
as he came to Bristol, to one Mr. Rogers, a merchant
there, to whom the youth said he was related, and to de-
liver a letter which I wrote to him, and all the gooas he
had belonging to the deceased widow; which, I suppose,
was not done, for I could never learn that the ship came
to Bristol, but was, as is most probable, lost at sea, being
in so disabled a condition, and so far from any land, that I
am of opinion the first storm she met with afterward she
might founder, for she was leaky, and had damage in her
hold when we met with her.
1 was now in the latitude of 19 degrees, 32 minutes,
and had hitherto a tolerable voyage as to weather, though
at first the winds had been contrary. I shall trouble no-
body with the little incidents of wind, weather, currents,
etc., on the rest of our voyage; but to shorten my story,
shall observe that 1 came to my old habitation, the island,
on the 10th of April, 1695. It was with no small difficulty
that I found the place; for as 1 came to it and went to it
before on the south and east side of the island, coming
from the Brazils, so now, coming in between the main and
the island, and having no chart for the coast, nor any
landmark, I did not know it when I saw it, or know
whether 1 saw it or not. We beat about a great while,
and went on shore on several islands in the mouth of the
freat river Oronooque, but none for my purpose; only this
learned by my coasting the shore, that I was under one
great mistake before—viz., that the continent which I
thought I saw from the island I lived in was really no con-
tinent, but a long island, or rather a ridge of islands,
reaching from one to the other side of the extended mouth
of that great river; and that the savages who came to my
island were not properly those which we call Caribbees,
but islanders, and other barbarians of the same kind, who
inhabited nearer to our side than the rest.
i In short, 1 visited several of these islands to no purpose;
some I found were inhabited, and some were not; on one
of them 1 found some Spaniards, and thought they had
lived there; but speaking with them, found they had a
sloop lying in a small creek hard by, and came thither to
make salt, and to catch some pearl-mussels if they could;
but that they belonged to the Isle de Trinidad, which lay
further north, in the latitude of 10 and 11 degrees.
Thus coasting from one island to another, sometimes
kwith the ship, sometimes with the Frenchman's shallop,
which we had found a convenient boat, and therefore kept
ner with their very good-will, at length I came fair on the
south side of my island, and presently knew the very coun-
tenance of the place: so I brought the ship safe to an
anchor, broadside with the little creek where my old habi-
tation was. As soon as 1 saw the place I called for Friday,
and asked him if he knew where he was. He looked about
a little, and presently clapping his hands, cried, " Oh, yesl
oh, there! ob, yes! oh, there!" pointing to our old habita-
tion, and fell dancing and capering like a mad fellow; and
I had much ado to keep him from jumping into the sea,
to swim ashore to the place.
"Well, Friday," says I, "do you think we shall find
anybody here or no? and do you think we shall see your
father?" The fellow stood mute as a stock a good while;
but when I named his father, the poor, affectionate creat-
ure looked dejected, and I could see the tears run down his
face very plentifully. "What is the matter, Friday? Are
you troubled because you may see your father?" "No,
no," says he, shaking his head, "no see him more: no,
never more see him again." "Why so, Friday? How do
you know that?" "Oh, no! oh, no!" says Friday; " he
long ago die, long ago; he much old man." "Well, well,
Friday, you don "t know; but shall we see any one else,
then?" The fellow, it seems, had better eyes than I, and
he points to the hill just above my old house; and though
we lay half a league off, he cries out, " We see, we see; yes,
yes, we see much man there, and there, and there." f
looked, but I saw nobody—no, not with a perspective
glass, which was, 1 suppose, because 1 could not hit the
place: for the fellow was right, as 1 found upon inquiry
the next day; and there were five or six men all together,
who stood to look at the ship, not knowing what to think
of us.
As soon as Friday told me he saw people, I caused the
English ancient to be spread, and fired three guns, to give
them notice we were friends; and in about a quarter of an
hour after we perceived a smoke arise from the side of the
creek; so I immediately ordered the boat out, taking
Friday with me, and hanging out a white flag, I went
directly on shore, taking with me the young friar I men-
tioned, to whom-I had told the story of my living there,
and the manner of it, and every particular, both of myself
and those 1 left there, and who was on that account ex-
(
tremely desirous to go with me. We had, besides, about
sixteen men well armed, if we had found any new guests
there which we did not know of; but we had no need of
weapons.
As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high
water, we rowed directly into the creek; and the first man
I fixed my eye upon was the Spaniard whose life 1 had
saved, and whom I knew by his face perfectly well: as to
his habit, 1 shall describe it afterward. I orderod nobody
to go on shore at first but myself; but there was no keep-
ing Friday in the boat, for the affectionate creature had
spied his father at a distance, a good way off the Spaniards,
,where, indeed, 1 saw nothing of him; and if they had not
let him go ashore, he would have jumped into the sea. He
was no sooner on shore, but he flew away to his father like
an arrow out of a bow. It would have made any man shed
tears, in spite of the firmest resolution, to have seen the
first transports of this poor fellow's joy when he came to
his father: how he embraced him, kissed him, stroked his
face, took him up in his arms, set him down upon a tree,
and lay down by him; then stood and looked at him, as
any one would look at a strange picture, for a quarter of
an hour together; then lay down on the ground, and
stroked his legs, and kissed them, and then got up again
and stared at him; one would have thought the fellow be-
witched. But it would have made a dog laugh the next
day to see how his passion ran out another way: in the
morning he walked along the shore with his father several
hours, always leading him by the hand, as if he had been
a lady; and every now and then he would come to the boat
to fetch something or other for him, either a lump of
sugar, a dram, a biscuit, or something or other that was
good. In the afternoon his frolics ran another way; for
then he would set the old man down upon the ground, and
dance about him, and make a thousand antic gestures; and
all the while he did this he would be talking to him, and
telling him one story or another of his travels, and of what
had happened to him abroad, to divert him. In short, if
the same filial affection was to be found in Christians to
their parents in our part of the world, one would be
tempted to say there would hardly have been any need of
the fifth commandment.
But this is a digression: I return to my larding. It
would be needless to take notice of all the ceremonies and
civilities that the Spaniards received me with. The first
Spaniard, whom, as I said, 1 knew very well, was he whose
life I had saved. He came toward the boat, attended by
one more, carrying a flag of truce also; and he not only did
not know me at first, but he had no thoughts, no notion of
its being me that was come, till 1 spoke to him. "Senor,"
said I, in Portuguese, " do you not know me?" At which
he spoke not a word, but giving his musket to the man
that was with him, threw bis arms abroad, saying some-
thing in Spanish that 1 did not perfectly hear, came for-
ward and embraced me, telling me he was inexcusable not
to know that face again that he had once seen, as of an
angel from heaven sent to save his life; he said abundance
of very handsome things, as a well-bred Spaniard always
knows how, and then, beckoning to the person that at-
tended him, bade him go and call out his comrades. He
then asked me if I would walk to my old habitation, where
he would give me possession of my own house again, and
where I should see they had made but mean improvements.
I walked along with him, but, alas! I could no more find
the place than if 1 had never been there; for they had
planted so many trees, and placed them in such a position,
so thick and close to one another, and in ten years' time
they were grown so big, that the place was inaccessible,
except by such windings and blind ways as they themselves
only, who made them, could find.
I asked them what put them upon all these fortifications;
he told me 1 would say there was need enough of it when
they had given me an account how they had passed their
time since their arriving in the island, especially after they
had the misfortune to find that I was gone. He told me
he could not but have some pleasure in my good fortune,
when he heard that I was gone in a good ship, and to my
satisfaction; and that he had oftentimes a strong persuasion
that one time or other he should see me again, but nothing
that ever befell him in his life, he said, was so surprising
and afflicting to him at first as the disappointment he was
under when he came back to the island and found 1 was
not there. ,
As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that were
left behind, and of whom, he said, he had a long story to
ull me, the Spaniards all thought themselves much better
among the savages, only that their number was so small.
"And," says he, "had they been strong enough, we had
been all long ago in purgatory;" and with that he crossed
himself on the breast. . " But, sir," says he, "I hope you
will not be displeased when I shall tell you how, forced by
necessity, we were obliged, for our own preservation, to
disarm them, and make them our subjects, as they would
not be content with being moderately our masters, but
would be our murderers." 1 answered I was afraid «f it
when I left them there, and nothing troubled me at my
parting from the island but that they were not come back,
that I might have put them in possession of everything
first, and left the others in a state of subjection, as they
deterved; but if they had reduced them to it I was very
glad, and should be very far from finding any fault with
it; for I knew they were a parcel of refractory, ungoverned
villains, and were fit for any manner of mischief.
While I was thus saying this, the man came whom he
had sent back, and with him eleven more. In the dress
they were in it was impossible to guess what nation they
were of; but he made all clear, both to them and to me.
First, he turned to me, and pointing to them, said,
"These, sir, are some of the gentlemen who owe their lives
to you;" and then turning to them, and pointing to me, he
let them know who I was; upon which they all came up,
one by one, not as if they had been sailors, and ordinary
fellows, and the like, but really as if they had been em-
bassadors or noblemen, and I a monarch or great con-
queror: their behavior was, to the last degree, obliging and
courteous, and yet mixed with a manly, majestic gravity,
which very well became them; and, in short, they had so
much more manners than 1, that 1 scarce knew how to re-
ceive their eiviiities, much less how to return them in kind.
The history of their coming to, and conduct in, th«
island, after my going away, is so very remarkable, and
has so many incidents, which the former part of my rela-
tion will help to understand, and which will, in most of
the particulars, refer to the account 1 have already given,
that I can not but commit them, with great delight, to the
reading of those that come after me.
In order to do this as intelligbly as I can, I must go
back to the circumstances in which I left the island, and
the persons on it, of whom I am to speak. And first, it is
necessary to repeat that I had sent away Friday's father
and the Spaniard (the two whose lives 1 had rescued from
the savages) in a large canoe to the main, as I then thought
it, to fetch over the Spaniard's companions that he left he-
hind him, in order to save them from the like calamity
that he had been in, and in order to succor them for the
present; and that, if possible, we might together find some
way for our deliverance afterward. When 1 sent them
away I had no visible appearance of, or the least room to
hope for, my own deliverance, any more than I had twenty
years before—much less had I any foreknowledge of what
afterward happened, I mean, of an English ship coming on
shore there to fetch me off; and it could not be but a very
great surprise to them, when they came back, not only to
find that I was gone, but to find three strangers left on the
spot, possessed of all that I had left behind me, which
would otherwise have been their own.
The first thing, however, which I inquired into, that I
might begin where I left off, was of their own part; and 1
desired the Spaniard would give mo a particular account of
his voyage back to his countrymen with the boat, when I
sent him to fetch them over. He told me there was little
variety in that part, for nothing remarkable happened to
them on the way, having had very calm weather and a
smooth sea. As for his countrymen, it could not be
doubted, he said, but that they were overjoyed to see him
(it seems he was the principal man among them, the cap-
tain of the vessel they had been shipwrecked in having been
dead some time): they were, he said, the more surprised
to see him, because they knew that he was fallen into the
hands of the savages, who, they were satisfied, would de-
vour him as they did all the rest of their prisoners; that
when he told them the story of his deliverance, and in
what manner he was furnished for carrying them away, it
was like a dream to them, and their astonishment, he said,
was somewhat like that of Joseph's brethren when he told
them who he was, and the story of his exaltation in
Pharoah's court; but when he showed them the arms, the
powder, the ball, the provisions, that he brought them f ^r
their journey or voyage, they were restored to themselves,^
took a just-share of the joy of their deliverance, and in:-
mediately prepared to come away with him.
Their first business was to get canoes; and in this tiny
were obliged not to stick so much upon the honesty of it,
bat to trespass upon their friendly savages, and to borrow
two large canoes, or periaguas, on pretense of going out a-
fishing, or for pleasure. In these they came away the next
morning. It seems they wanted no time to get themselves
ready; for they had neither clothes, nor provisions, nor
anything in the world but what they had* on them, and a
few roots to eat, of which they used to make their bread.
They were in all three weeks absent; and in that time, un-
luckily for them, 1 had the occasion offered for my escape,
as 1 mentioned in the other part, and to get off from the
island, leaving three of the most impudent, hardened, un-
governed, disagreeable villains behind me that any man
could desire to meet with—to the poor Spaniards' great
grief and disappointment.
The only just thing the rogues did was, that when the
Spaniards came ashore, they gave my letter to them, and
gave them provisions, and other relief, as I had ordered
them to do; also they gave them the long paper of direc-
tions which I had left with them, containing the particulat
methods which 1 took for managing every part of my life
there; the way I baked my bread, bred up tame goats, and
planted my corn; how I cured my grapes, made my pots,
and, in a word, eyerything I did. All this being written
down, they gave to the Spaniards (two of them understood
English well enough): nor did they refuse to accommodate
the Spaniards with anything else, for they agreed very well
for some time. They gave them an equal admission into
the house or cave, and they began to live very sociably; and
the head Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of my
methods, together with Friday's father, managed all their
affairs; but as for the Englishmen, they did nothing but
ramble about the island, shoot parrots, and catch tortoises;
and when they came home at night, the Spaniards provided
their suppers for them.
The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this had
the others but let them alone, which, however, they could
not find in their hearts to do long: but, like the dog in the
manger, they would not eat themselves, neither would they
tet the others eat. The differences, nevertheless, were at
first but trivial, and such as are not worth relating, but at
last it broke out into open war: and it began with all the
rudeness and insolence that can be imagined—without
reason, without provocation, contrary to nature, and, in-
deed, to common sense; and though, it is true, the first
relation of it came from the Spaniards themselves, whom I
may call the accusers, yet when I came to examine the
fellows they could not deuy a word of it.
But before I come to the particulars of this part, I must
supply a defect in my former relation; and this was, 1 for-
got to set down among the rest, that just as we were
weighing the anchor to set sail, there happened a little
quarrel on board of our ship, which I was once afraid
would have turned to a second mutiny; nor wan it ap-
peased till the captain, rousing up his courage, and taking
us all to his assistance, parted them by force, and making
two of the most refractory fellows prisoners, he laid them
in irons: and as they had been active in the former dis-
orders, and let fall some ugly, dangerous words the second
time, he threatened to carry them in irons to England, and
have them hanged there for mutiny and running away with
the ship. This, it seems, though the captain did not in-
tend to do it, frightened some other men in the ship; and
some of them had put it into the head of the rest that the
captain only gave them good words for the present, till
they should come to some English port, and that then they
should be all put into jail, and tried for their lives. The
mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted us with it,
upon which it was desired that I, who still passed for a
great man among them, should go down with the mate
and satisfy the men, and tell them that they might be as-
sured, if they behaved well the reob of the voyage, all they
had done for the time past should be pardoned. So 1
went, and after passing my honor's word to them they ap-
peared easy, and the more so when I caused the two men
that were in irons to be released and forgiven.
But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that
night; the wind also falling calm next morning, we found
that our two men, who had been laid in irons, had stolen
each of them a musket and some other weapons (what
powder or shot they had we knew not), and had taken the
ship's pinnace, which was riot yet hauled up, and run away
with her to their companions in roguery on shore. As
soon as we found this, 1 ordered the long-boat on shore,
with twelve men and the mate, and away they went to seek
the rogues; but they could neither find them nor any of
the rest, for they all fled into the woods when they saw tha
boat coming on shore. The mate was once resolved, in
justice to their roguery, to have destroyed their planta-
tions, burned all their household stuff and furniture, and
left them to shift without it; but having no orders, he let
it all alone, left everything as he found it, and bringing
the pinnace away, came on board without them. These
two men made their number five; but the other three vil-
lains were so much more wicked than they, that after they
had been two or three days together they turned the two
new-comers out-of-doors to shift for themselves, and would
have nothing to do with them; nor could they for a good
while be persuaded to give them any food: as for the Span-
iards, they were not yet come.
When the Spaniards came first on shore, the business
began to go forward: the Spaniards would have persuaded
the three English brutes to have taken in their country-
men again, that, as they said, they might be all one fam-
ily; but they would not hear of it, so the two poor fellows
lived by themselves; and finding nothing but industry and
application would make them live comfortably, they
pitched their tents on the north shore of the island, but a
little more to the west, to be out of danger of the savages,
who al ways landed on the east parts of the island. Here
they built them two huts, one to lodge in and the other to
lay up their magazines and stores in; and the Spaniards
having given them some corn for seed, and some of the
pease which I had left them, they dug, planted, and in*
closed, after the pattern I had set for them all, and began
to live pretty well. Their first crop of corn was on the
ground; and though it was but a little bit of land which
they had dug up at first, having had but a little time, yet
it was enough to relieve them, and find them with bread
and other eatables; and one of the fellows being the cook's
mate of the ship, was very ready at making soup, pud-
dings, and such other preparations as the rice and the
milk, and such little flesh as they got, furnished him
to do.
They were going on in this little thriving position when
the three unnatural rogues, their own countrymen, too, in
mere humor, and to insult them, came and bullied them,
and told them the island was theirs: that the governor,
meaning me, had given them the possession of it, and no.
body else had any right to it; and that they should build
no houses upon their ground unless they would pay rent
for them. The two men, thinking they were jesting at
first, asked them to come in and sit tiown. and see what
fine houses they were that they had built, and to tell them
what rent.they demanded; and one of them merrily said if
they were the ground landlords, he hoped if they built
tenements upon their land, and made improvements, they
would, according to the custom of landlords, grant a long
lease: and desired they would get a scrivener to draw the
writings. One of the three, cursing and raging, told them
they should see they were not in jest; and going to a little
place at a distance, where the honest men had made a fire
to dress their victuals, he takes a firebrand, and claps it to
the outside of their hut, and set it on fire: indeed, it would
have been all burned down in a few minutes if one of the
two had not run to the fellow, thrust him away, and trod
the fire out with his feet, and that not without some diffi-
culty, too.
The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man's
thrusting him away, that he returned upon him, with a
pole he had in his hand, and had not the man avoided the
blow very nimbly, and run into the hut, he had ended his
days at once. His comrade, seeing the danger they were
both in, ran in after him, and immediately they came
both out with their muskets, and the man that was first
struck at with the pole knocked the fellow down that be-
gan the quarrel with the stock of his musket, and that be-
fore the other two could come to help him; and then,
seeing the rest come at them, they stood together, and pre-
senting the other ends of their pieces to them, bade them
stand off.
The others had fire-arms with them, too; but one of the
two honest men, bolder than his comrade, and made des-
perate by his danger, told them if they offered to move
hand or foot they were dead men, and boldly commanded
them to lay down their arms. They did not, indeed, lay
down their arms, but seeing him so resolute, it brought
them to a parley, and they consented to take their wounded
man with them and be gone: and, indeed, it seems the
fellow was wounded sufficiently with the blow. However,
they were much in the wrong, since they bad the advan-
tage, that they did not disarm them effectually, as they
might have done, and have gone immediately to the Span-
iards, and given them an account how the rogues had
treated them; for the three villains studied nothing bat re-
venge, and every day gave them some intimation that they
did so.
SECTION XXXI.
Narrative Continued.—Insolence of Three of the Englishmen to thi
Spaniards.—They are Disarmed and Brought to Order.—A Great
Body of Savages Land Upon the Island.—They Turn Out to be
Two Adverse Nations, Met There by Chance.—A Bloody Battle
Betwixt Them—Several of the Vanquished Party Secured by the
Spaniards.
But not to crowd this part with an account of the lesser
part of the rogueries with which they plagued them con-
tinually, night and day, it forced the two men to such a
desperation that they resolved to fight them all three, the
first time they had a fair opportunity. In order to do this
they resolved to go to the castle (as they called my old
dwelling), where the three rogues and the Spaniards all
lived together at that time, intending to have a fair battle,
and the Spaniards should stand by to see fair play; so they
got up in the morning before day, and came to the place,
and called the Englishmen by their names, telling a Span-
iard that answered that they wanted to speak with them.
Ic happened that the day before two of the Spaniards,
having been in the woods, had seen one of the two En-
glishmen, whom, for distinction, I called the honest men,
and he had made a sad complaint to the Spaniards of lhe.
barbarous usage they'had met with from their three coun-
trymen, and how they had ruined their plantation, and de-
stroyed their corn, that they had labored so hard to bring
forward, and killed the milch-goat and their three kids,
which was all they had provided for their sustenance, and
that if he and his friends, meaning the Spaniards, did not
assist them again, they should be starved. When the
Spaniards came home at night, and they were all at sup-
per, one of them took the freedom to reprove the three
Englishmen, though in very gentle and mannerly terms,
and asked them how they could, be so cruel, they being
harmless, inoffensive fellows; that they were putting them-
selves in a way to subsist by their labor, and that it had
cost them a great deal of pains to bring things to such
perfection as they were then in.
One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, " What
had they to do there? that they came on shore without
leave; and that they should not plant oi build upon the
island; it was none of their ground." "Why," says the
Spaniard, very calmly, "Senor Inglese, they must not
starve." The Englishman replied, like a rough tarpaulin,
"They might starve; they should not plant nor build in
that place. "But what must they do then, senor?" said
the Spaniard. Another of the brutes returned, "Do?
they should be servants, and work for them." "But
how can you expect that of them?" says the Spaniard;
"they are not boughi with your money; you have no right
to make them servants." The Englishman answered,
"The island was theirs; the governor had given it to
them, and no man had anything to do there but them-
selves;" and with that he swore that he would go and burn
all their new huts; they should build none upon their land.
"Why, senor," says the Spaniard, " by the same rule, we
must be your servants, too." "Ay," returned the bold
dog, "and so you shall, too, before we have done with
you;" mixing two or three oaths in the proper intervals
of his speech. The Spaniard only smiled at that, and
made him no answer. However, this little discourse had
heated them; and starting up, one says to the other (I
think it was he they called Will Atkins), " Come, Jack,
let's go and have t'other brush with them; we'll demolish
their castle, I'll warrant you; they shall plant no colony
in our dominions."
Upon this they were all trooping away, with every man
a gun, a pistol, and a sword, and muttered some insolent
things among themselves of what they would do to the
Spaniards, too, when opportunity offered; but the Span-
iards, it seems, did not so perfectly understand them as to
know all the particulars, only that in general they threat-
ened them hard for taking the two Englishmen's part.
Whither they went, or how they bestowed their time that
evening, the Spaniards said they did not know; but it
seems they wandered about the country part of the night,
and then lying down in the place which I used to call my
bower, they were weary and overslept themselves. The
case was this: they had resolved to stay till midnight, and
so take the two poor men when they were asleep, and as
they acknowledged afterward, intended to set fire to their
huts while they were in them, and either burn them there
or murder them as they came out. As malice seldom
sleeps very sound, it was very strange they should not have
been kept awake. However, as the two men had also a
design upon them, as I have said, though a much fairer
one than that of burning and murdering, it happened, and
very luckily for them all, that they were up and gone
abroad before the bloody-minded rogues came to their huts.
When they came there, and found the men gone, At-
kins, who, it seems, was the forwardest man, called out to
his comrade, "Ha, Jack, here's the nest, but the birds are
flown." They mused awhile, to think what should be the
occasion of their being gone abroad so soon, and suggested
presently that the Spaniards had given them notice of it;
and with that they shook hands, and swore to one another
that they would be revenged of the Spaniards. As soon
as they had made this bloody bargain they fell to work with
the poor men's habitation; they did not set fire, indeed, to
anything, but they pulled down both their nouses, not
leaving the least stick standing, or scarce any sign on toe
ground where they stood; they tore all their house!ifr/J
stuff in pieces, and threw everything about in such a man-
ner, that the poor men afterward found some of their
things a mile off. When they had done this, they polled
up all the young trees which the poor men had planted;
broke down an inclosure they made to secure their cattlo
and their corn; and, in a word, sacked and plundered
everything as completely as a horde of Tartars would have
done.
The two men were at this juncture gone to find them
out, and had resolved to fight them wherever they had
been, though they were but two to three; so that, had thej
met, there certainly would have been blood shed among
them, for they were all very stout, resolute fellows, to givs
them their due.
But Providence took more care to keep them asunder
than they themselves could do to meet; for, as if they had
dodged one another, when the three were gone thither, the
two were here; and afterward, when the two went back to
find them, the three were come to the old habitation again.
We shall see their different conduct presently. When tba
three came haok like furicns creatures, fiiisnod With the
rage which the work they had been about had put them
into, they came up to the Spaniards, and told them what
they had done, by way of scoff and bravado; and one of
them stepping up to one of the Spaniards, as if they had
been a couple of boys at play, takes hold of his hat as it
was upon his head, and giving it a twirl about, fleering in
his face, says to him: "And you, Senor Jack Spaniard,
shall have the same sauce if you do not mend your man-
ners." The Spaniard, who, though a quiet, civil man,
was as brave a man as could be, and, withal, a strong,
well-made man, looked at him for a good while, and then,
having no weapon in his hand, stepped gravely up to him,
and, with one blow of his fist, knocked him down, as an
ox is felled with a pole-ax; at which one of the rogues, as
insolent as the first, fired his pistol at the Spaniard im-
mediately; he missed his body, indeed, for the bullets went
through his hair, but one of them touched the tip of his
ear, and he bled pretty much. The blood made the Span-
iard believe he was more hurt than he really was, and that
put him into some heat, for before he acted all in a perfect
oalm; but now, resolving to go through with his work, he
stooped, and taking the fellow's musket whom he had
knocked down, was just going to shoot the man who had
fir:.'d at him, when the rest of the Spaniards, being in the
cave, came out, and calling to him not to shoot, they
stepped in, secured the other two, and took their arms
from the in.
When they were thus disarmed, and found they had
made all the Spaniards their enemies, as well as their own
countrymen, they began to cool, and giving the Spaniards
better words, would have their arms again; but the Span-
iards, considering the feud that was between them and the
other two Englishmen, and that it would be the best
method they could take to keep them from killing one an-
other, told them they would do them no harm; and if they
would live peaceably, they would be very willing to assist
and associate with them as they did before; but that thev
could not think of giving them their arms again, while
they appeared so resolved to do mischief with them to
their own countrymen, and had even threatened them all
to make them their servants.
The rogues were now quite deaf to all reason, and being
refused their arms, they raved away like madmen, threat
ening what they would do, though they had no fire-arms.
But the Spaniards, despising their threatening, told them
they should take care how they offered any injury to their
plantation or cattle; for if they did they would shoot them
as they would ravenous beasts, wherever they found them;
and if they fell into their hands alive, they should cer-
tainly be hanged. However, this was far from cooling
them, but away they went, raging and swearing like
furies. As soon as they were gone, the two men came
back, in passion and rage enough also, though of another
kind; for having been at their plantation, and finding it
all demolished and destroyed, as above mentioned, it will
easily be supposed they had provocation enough. They
could scarce have room to tell their tale, the Spaniards
were so eager to tell them theirs; and it was strange
enough to find that three men should thus bully nineteen,
and receive no punishment at all.
The Spaniards, indeed, despised them, and especially,
having thus disarmed them, made light of their threatejn-
ings; but the two Englishmen resolved to have their
remedy against them, what pains soever it cost to find
them out. But the Spaniards interposed here too, and
told them that as they had disarmed them, they could not
consent that they (the two) should pursue them with fire-
arms, and perhaps kill them. "But," said the grave
Spaniard who was their governor, " we will endeavor to
make them do you justice, if you will leave it to us; for
there is no doubt but they will come to us again, when
their passion is over, being not able to subsist without our
assistance. We promise you to make no peace with them
without having full satisfaction for you; and, upon this
condition, we hope you will promise to use no violence with
them, other than in your own defense." The two En-
glishmen yielded to this very awkwardly, and'with great
reluctance; but the Spaniards protested that they did it
only to keep them from bloodshed, and to make them all
easy at last. "For," said they, " we are not so many of
us; here is room enough for us all, and it is a great pity
that we should not be all good friends." At length they
did consent, and waited for the issue of the thing, living
for some days with the Spaniards; for their own habitation
was destroyed.
In about five days' time the vagrants, tired with wan-
dering, and almost starved with hunger, having chiefly
lived on turtles' eggs all that while, came back to the
grove; and finding my Spaniard, who, as 1 have said, was
the governor, and two more with him, walking by the side
of the creek, they came up in a very submissive, humble
manner, and begged to be received again into the society.
The Spaniards used them civilly, but told them they had
acted so unnaturally to their countrymen, and so very
grossly to themselves, that they could not come to any con-
clusion without consulting the two Englishmen and the
rest; but, however, they would go to them and discourse
about it, and they should know in half an hour. It may
be guessed that they were very hard put to it; for, as they
were to wait this half hour for an answer, they begged
they would send them out some bread in the meantime,
which they did, sending at the same time a large piece of
goat's flesh and a boiled parrot, which they eat vejy
eagerly.
After half an hour's consultation they were called in,
and a long debate ensued, their two countrymen charging
them with the ruin of all their labor, and a design to mur-,
der them; all which they owned before, and therefore could
not deny now. Upon the whole, the Spaniards acted the
moderators between them; and as they had obliged the
two Englishmen not to hurt the three while they were
naked and unarmed, so they now obliged the three to go
and rebuild their fellows' two huts, one to be of the same
and the other of larger dimensions than they were before;
to fence their ground again, plant trees in the room of
those pulled up, dig up the land again for planting corn,
and, in a word, to restore everything to the same state as
they found it, that is, as near as they could.
Well, they submitted to all this; and as they had plenty
of provisions given them all the while, they grew very
orderly, and the whole society began to live pleasantly and
agreeably together again; only that these three fellows
could never be persuaded to work—I mean for themselves
—except now and then a little, just as they pleased; how-
ever, the Spaniards told them plainly that if they would
but live sociably and friendly together, and study the good
of the whole plantation, they would be content to work for
them, and let them walk about and be as idle m they
pleased; and thus, having lived pretty well together for a
month or two, the Spaniards let them have arms again,
and gave them liberty to go abroad with them as before.
It was not above a week after they had these arms, and
went abroad, before the ungrateful matures begun to be
as insolent and troublesome as ever; however, au accident
happened presently upon this, which endangered the safety
of them all, and they were obliged, to lay by all private re-
sentments, and look to the preservation of their lives.
It happened one night that the governor, the Spaniard
whose life 1 had saved, who was now the governor of tke
rest, found himself very uneasy in the night, and could by
no means get any sleep: he was perfectly well in body,
only found his thoughts tumultuous; his mind rau upon
men fighting and killing one another; but he was broad
awake, and could not by any means get any sleep; in short,
he lay a great while, but growing more and more uneasy,
he resolved to rise. As they lay, being so many of them,
on goat-skins laid thick upon such couches and pads as
they made for themselves, so they had little to do, when
they were willing to rise, but to get upon their feet, and
perhaps put on a coat, such as it was, and their pumps,
and they wexe ready for going any way that their thoughts
guided them. Being thus got up, he looked out; but be-
ing dark, he could see little or nothing, and besides, the
trees which I had planted, and which were now grown tall,
intercepted his sight, so that he could only look up, and
see that it was a starlight, night, and hearing no noise, he
returned and lay down again; but to no purpose; he could
not compose himself to anything liko rest; but his thoughts
were to the last degree uneasy, and he knew not for what.
Having made some noise with rising and walking about,
going out and coming in, another of them waked, and
asked who it was that was up. The governor told him
how it had been with him. "Say you so?" says the other
Spaniard; "Buch things are not to be slighted, I assure
you; there is certainly some mischief working near us;"
and presently he asked him, "Where are the English-
men?" "They are all in their huts," says he, "safe
enough." It seems the Spaniards had kept possession of
the main apartment, and had made a place for the three
Englishmen, who, since their last mutiny, were always
quartered by themselves, and could not come at the rest.
"Well," says the Spaniard, " there is something in it, I
am persuaded, from my own experience. I am satisfied
that our spirits embodied have a converse with and receive
intelligence from the spirits unembodied and inhabiting
the invisible world; and this friendly notice is given for
our advantage, if we knew how to make use of it. Come,
let us go and look abroad; and if we find nothing at all in
it to justify the trouble, I'll tell you a story to the pur-
pose, that shall convince you of the justice of my propos-
ing it."
They went out presently to go up to the top of the hill,
where I used to go; but they being strong, and a good
company, nor alone, as I was, used none of my cautions to
go up by the ladder, and pulling it up after them, to go
up a second stage to the top, but were going round through
the grove unwarily, when they were surprised with seeing
a light as of fire, a very little way from them, and hearing
the voices of men, not of one or two, but of a great num-
ber.
Among the precautions I used to take on the savages
landing on the island, it was my constant care to prevent
them making the least discovery of there being any in-
habitant upon the place; and when by any occasion they
came to know it, they felt it so effectually that they that
got away were scarce abie to give any account of it; for we
disappeared as soon as possible; nor did ever any that had
seen me escape to tell any one else, except it was the three
savages in our last encounter who jumped into the boat;
•f whom, I mentioned, I was afraid they should go home
and bring more help. Whether it was the consequence of
the escape of those men that so great a number came now
together, or whether they came ignorantiy, and by acci-
dent, on their usual bloody errand, the Spaniards could
not understand; but whatever it was, it was their business
either to have concealed themselves or not to have seen
them at all, much less to have let the savages have seen
there were any inhabitants in the place; or to have fallen
upon them so effectually as not a man of them should have
escaped, which could only have been by getting in between
them and their boats; but this presence of mind was want-
ing to them, which was the ruin of their tranquillity for a
great while.
We need not doubt that the governor and the man with
him, surprised with this sight, ran back immediately and
raised their fellows, giving them an account of the immi-
nent danger they were all in, and they again as readily
took the alarm; but it was impossible to persuade them to
stay close within where they were, but they must all run
out to see how things stood. While it was dark, indeed,
they were safe, and they had opportunity enough, for some
hours, to view the savages by the light of three fires they
had made at a distance from one another; what they were
doing they knew not, neither did they know what to do
themselves. For, first, the enemy were too many; and,
secondly, they did not keep together, but were divided into
several parties, and were on shore in several places.
The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this
sight; and, as they found that the fellows went straggling
all over the shore, they made no doubt but, first or last,
some of them would chop in. upon their habitation, or
upon some other place where they would see the token of
inhabitants; and they were in great perplexity also for fear
of their flock of goats, which, if they should be destroyed,
would have been little less than starving them. So the
first thing they resolved upon was to dispatch three men
away before it was light, two Spaniards and one English-
man, tp drive away all the goats to the great valley where
the cave was, and, if need were, to drive them into the
very cave itself. Could they have seen the savages all to-
gether in one body, and at a distance from their canoes,
they were resolved, if there had been a hundred of them,
to attack them; but that could not be done, for they were
some of them two miles off from the other; and, as it ap-
peared afterward, were of two different nations.
After having mused a great while oh the course they
should take, they resolved at last, while it was still dark,
to send the old savage, Friday's father, out as a spy, to
learn, if possible, something concerning them—as what
they came for, what they intended to dc, and the like.
The old man readily undertook it; and stripping himself
quite naked, as most of the savages were, away he went.
After he had been gone an hour or two, he brings word
that he had been among them undiscovered—that he found
they were two parties, and of two several nations, who
had war with one another, and had a great battle in their
own country; and that both sides having had several pro*
oners taken in the fight, they were, by mere chance, landed
all on the same island, for the devouring their prisoners
and making'merry; but their coming so by chance to the
same place had spoiled all their mirth—that they were in
a great rage at one another, and were so near that he be-
lieved they would fight again as soon as daylight began to
appear; but he did not perceive that they had any notion
or anybody being on the island but themselves. He had
hardly made an end of telling his story, when they could
perceive, by the unusual noise they made, that the two lit-
tle armies were engaged in a bloody fight. Friday's
father used all the arguments he could to persuade our
people to lie close, and not be seen; he told them their
safety consisted in it, and that they had nothing to do but
lie still, and the savages would kill one another to their
hands, and then the rest would go away; and it was so to
a tittle. But it was impossible to prevail, especially upon
the Englishmen; their curiosity was so importunate that
they must run out and see the battle; however, they used
some caution, too; they did not go openly, just by their
own dwelling, but went further into the woods, and placed
themselves to advantage, where they might securely see
them manage the fight, and, as they thought, not be seen
by them; but the savages did see them, as we shall find
hereafter.
The battle was very fierce; and, if 1 might believe the
Englishmen, one of them said he could perceive that some
of them were men of great bravery, of invincible spirits,
and of great policy in guiding the fight. The battle, they
said, held two hours before they could guess which party
would be beaten; but then that party which was nearest our
people's habitation began to appear weakest, and after some
time more, some of them began to fly; and this put our
men again into a great consternation, lest any one of those
that fled should run into the grove before their dwelling
for shelter, and thereby involuntarily discover the place;
and that, by consequence, the pursuers would also do the
like in search of them. Upon this, they resolved that they
would stand armed within the wall, and whoever came into
the grove, they resolved to sally out over the wall and kill
them, so that, if possible, not one should return to give an
account of it; they ordered also that*it should be done
with their swords, or by knocking them down with the
stocks of their muskets, but not by shooting them, foi
fear of raising an alarm by the noise.
As they expected it fell out; three of the routed army
fled for life, aud crossing the creek, ran directly into the
place, not in the least knowing whither they went, but
running as into a thick wood for shelter. The scout they
kept to look abroad gave notice of this within, with this
comforting addition, that the conquerors had not pursued
them, or seen which way they were gone: upon this, the
Spanish governor, a man of humanity, would not suffer
them to kill the three fugitives, but sending three met
out by the top of the hill, ordered them to go round, come
in behind them, and surprise and take them prisoners;
which was done. The resid ue of the conquered people fled
to their canoes, and got off to sea; the victors retired,
made no pursuit, or very little, but drawing themselves
into a body together, gave two great screaming shouts,
most likely by way of triumph—and so the fight ended:
the same day, about three o clock in the afternoon, they
also marched to their canoes. And thus the Spaniards had
the island again free to themselves, their fright was over,
and they saw no savages for several years after.
After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of
their den, and viewing the field of battle, they found about
two-and-thirty men dead on the spot; some were killed
with long arrows, which were found sticking in their
bodies; but most of them were killed with great wooden
swords, sixteen or seventeen of which they found in the
field of battle, and as many bows, with a great many
arrows. These swords were strange, unwieldly things,
and they must be very strong men that used them; most
of those that were killed with them had their heads mashed
to pieces, as we may say, or, as we call it in English, their
brains knocked out, and several their arms and legs
broken; so that it is evident they fight with inexpressible
rage and fury. We found not one man that was not stone
dead; for either they stay by their enemy till they have
killed him, or they carry all the wounded men that are
not quite dead away with them.
This deliverance tamed our ill-disposed Englishmen for
a great while; the sight had filled them with horror, and
the consequences appeared terrible to the last degree, espe-
cially upon supposing that some time or other they should
fall into the hands of those creatures, who would not only
kill them as enemies, but for food, as we kill our cattle;
and they professed to me that the thought of being eatea
up like beef and mutton, though it was supposed it was
nob to be till they were dead, had something in it so horri-
ble that it nauseated their very stomachs, made them sick
when they thought of it, and filled their minds with such
unusual terror, that they were not themselves for some
weeks after. This, as I said, tamed even the three En-
glish brutes I have been speaking of; and for a great while
after they were tractable, and went about the common
business of the whole society well enough—planted, sowed,
reaped, and began to be all naturalized to the country.
But some time after this they fell into such simple meas-
ures again as brought them into a great deal of trouble.
They had taken three prisoners, as I observed; aud these
three being stout young fellows, they made them servants,
aud taught them to work for them, and as slaves they did
well enough; but they did not take their measures as I did
by my man Friday—viz., to begin with them upon the
principle of having saved their lives, aud then instruct
them in the rational principles of life; much less did they
think of teaching them religion, or attempt civilizing and
reducing them by kind usage and affectionate arguments.
As they gave them their food every day, so they gave them
their work too, and kept them fully employed in drudgery
enough; but they failed in this by it, that they never had
them to assist them and fight for them as I had my man
Friday, who was as true to me as the very flesh upon my
bones.
But to come to the family part. Being all now good
friends—for common danger, as 1 said above, had effectu-
ally reconciled them—they began to consider their general
circumstances; and the first thing that came under con-
sideration was whether, seeing the savages particularly
haunted that side of the island, and that there were more
remote and retired parts of it equally adapted to their way
of living, and manifestly to their advantage, they should
not rather move their habitation, and plant in some more
proper place for their safety, and especially for the security
of their cattle and cOfn.
Upon this, after long debate, it was concluded that they
would not remove their habitation; because that, some
time or other, they thought they might hear from their
governor again, meaning me; and if I should send any one
to seek them, I should be sure to direct them to that side,
where, if they should find the place demolished, they would
conclude the savages had killed us all, and we were gone,
and so our supply would go too. But, as to their corn
and cattle, they agreed to remove them into the valley
where my cave was, where the land was as proper for both,
and where, indeed, there was land enough. However,
upon second thoughts, they altered one part of their reso-
lution too, and resolved only to remove part of their cattle
thither, and plant part of their corn there; so that if one
part was destroyed, the other might be saved. And one
part of prudence they luckily used; they never trusted
those three savages which they had taken prisoners with
knowing anything of the plantation they had made in that
valley, or of any cattle they had there, much less of the cave
at that place, which they kept, in case of necessity, as a safe
retreat; and thither they carried also the two barrels of pow-
der which I had sent them at my coming away. They re-
solved, however, not to change their habitation; yet, as I
had carefully covered it first with a wall or fortification,
and then with a grove of trees, and as they were now fully
convinced their safety consisted entirely in their being con-
cealed, they set to work to cover and conceal the place yet
more effectually than before. For this purpose, as 1
planted trees, or rather thrust in stakes, which in time all
grew up to be trees, for some good distance before the en-
trance into my apartments, they went on in the same man-
ner, and filled up the rest of that whole space of ground
from the trees I had set quite down to the side of the creek,
where I landed my floats, and even into the very ooze
where the tide flowed, not so much as leaving any place to
land, or any sign that there had been any landing there-
abouts—these stakes also being of a wood very forward to
grow, they took care to have them generally much larger
and taller than those which I had planted. As they grew
apace, they planted them so very thick and close together,
that when they had been three or four years grown there
was no piercing with the eye any considerable way into the
plantation. As for that part which I had planted, the
trees were grown as thick as a man's thigh, and among
them they had placed so many other short ones, and so
thick, thaf it stood like a palisado a quarter of a mile
thick, and it was next to impossible to penetrate it, for a
little dog could hardly get between the trees, they stood
so close.
But this was not all; for they did the same by all the
ground to the right hand and to the left, and round even
to the side of the hill, leaving no way, not so much as for
themsdveSi to come out but by the ladder placed up to the
side of the hill, and then lifted up, and placed again from
the first stage up to the top7; so that when the ladder was
taken down, nothing but what had wings or witchcraft to
assist it could come at them. This was excellently well
oontrived; nor was it less than what they afterward found
occasion for, which served to convince me, that as human
prudence has the authority of Providence to justify it. so
it has doubtless the direction of Providence to set it to
work; and if we listened carefully to the voice of it, I nm
persuaded we might prevent many of the disasters wb'ch
our lives are now, by our own negligence, subjected to.
They lived twoyeavs after this in perfect retirement, and
had no more visits from the savages. They had, indeed,
an alarm given them one morning, which put them into a
great consternation; for some of the Spaniards being out
early one morning on the west side or end of the island
(which was that eud where I never went, for fear of being
discovered), they were surprised with seeing about twenty
canoes of Indians just coming on shore. They made the
best of their way home in hurry enough: and giving the
alarm to their comrades, they kept close all that day and
the next, going out only at night to make their observa-
tion; but they had the good luck to be undiscovered, for
wherever the savages went, they did not land that time on
the island, but pursued some other design.
SECTION XXXII.
Fresh Broils Betwixt the Turbulent Englishmen and;the Spaniards.—
The English Make a Voyage to the Main-land, and Return in
Twenty-two Days—Particulars of Their Voyage.—Description of
the Men and Women They Brought With Them.—The Colony
Discovered by an Unlucky Accident to the Savages, Who In-
vade the Island, but are Defeated.
And now they had another broil with the three English
men; one of whom, a most turbulent fellow, being in a
•
rage at one of the three captive slaves, because the fellow
had not done something right which he bade him do, and
seemed a little untractable in his showing him, drew a
hatchet out of a frog-belt which he wore by his side, and
fell upon the poor savage, not to correct him, but to kill
him. One of the Spaniards, who was by, seeing him give
the fellow a barbarous cut with the hatchet, which he
aimed at his head, but stuck into his shoulder, so that he
thought ho had cut the poor creature's arm off, ran to
him, and, entreating him not to murder the poor man,
placed himself between him and the savage, to prevent the
mischief. The fellow, being enraged the more at this,
struck at the Spaniard with his hatchet, and swore he
would serve him as he intended to serve the savage; which
the Spaniard perceiving, avoided the blow, and with a
shovel, which he had in his hand (for they were all work-
ing in the field about their corn land), knocked the brute
down. [Another of the Englishmen, running up at the
same time to help his comrade, knocked the Spaniard
down; and then two Spaniards more came in to help their
man, and a third Englishman fell in upon them. They
had none of them any fire-arms or any other weapons but
hatchets and other tools, except this third Englishman;
he had one of my rusty cutlasses, with which he made at
the two last Spaniards, and wounded them both. This
fray set the whole family in an uproar, and more help
coming in, they took the three Englishmen prisoners..
Tl^e next question was, what should be done with them?
They had been so often mutinous, and were so very furi-
ous, so desperate, and so idle withal, they knew not whak
course to take with them, for they were mischievous to the
highest degree, and cared not what hurt they did to any
man; so that, in short, it was not safe to live with them.
The Spaniard who was governor told them, in so many
words, that if they had been of his own country he would
have hanged them; for all laws and all governors were to
preserve society, and those who were dangerous to the
society ought to be expelled out of it; but as they were
Englishmen, and that it was to the generous kindness of
an Englishman that they all owed their preservation and
deliverance, he would use them with all possible lenity,
and would leave them to the judgment of the other two
Englishmen, who were their countrymen. One of the tw?
honest Englishmen stood up, and said they desired it might
not be left to them. "For," says he, "I am sure we
ought to sentence them to the gailows;" and with that he
gives an account how Will Atkins, one of the three, had
proposed-to have all the five Englishmen join together,
and murder all the Spaniards when they were in their
sleep.
When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls to Will
Atkins, "How, Senor Atkins, would you murder ns all?
What have you to say to that?" The hardened villain was
so far from denying it, that he said it was true, and swore
they would do it still before they had done with them.
"Well, but, Senor Atkins,"- says the Spaniard, "what
have we done to you that you will kill us? What would
you get by killing us? And what must we do to prevent
you killing us? Must we kill you, or you kill us? Why
will you put us to the necessity of this, Senor Atkins?"
says the Spaniard, very calmly, and smiling. Senor Atkins
was in such a rage at the Spaniards making a jest of it,
that, had he not been held by three men, and withal had
no weapon near him, it was thought he would have at-
tempted to kill the Spaniard in the middle of all the com-
pany. This hair-brain carriage obliged them to consider
seriously what was to be done. The two Englishmen, and
the Spaniard who saved the poor savage, were of the opin-
ion that they should iang one of the three for an example
to the rest, and that particularly it should be he that had
twice attempted to commit murder with his hatchet; in-
deed, there was some reason to believe he had done it, for
the poor savage was in such a miserable condition with the
wound he had received that it was thought he could not
live. But the governor Spaniard still said no; it was an
Englishman that had saved all their lives, and he would
never consent to put an Englishman to death, though he
had murdered half of them; nay, he said if he had been
killed himself by an Englishman, and had time left to
speak, it should be that they should pardon him.
This was so positively insisted on by the governor Span-
iard, that there was no gainsaying it; and as merciful
counsels are most apt to prevail where they are so earnestly
pressed, so they all came into it; but then it was to be
considered what should be done to keep them from doing
the mischief they designed; for all agreed, governor and
all, that means were to be used for preserving the society
from danger. After a long debate, it was agreed that they
should be disarmed, and not permitted to have either gun,
powder, shot, sword, or any weapon; that they should be
turned out of the society, and left to live where they would,
and how they would, by themselves; but that none of the
rest, either Spaniards or English, should hold any kind of
converse with them, or have anything to do with them;
that they should be forbid to come within a certain dis-
tance of the place where the rest dwelled; and if they
offered to commit any disorder, so as to spoil, burn, kill,
or destroy any of the corn, plantings, buildings, fences, or
cattle belonging to the society, they should die without
mercy, and would shoot them wherever they could find
them.
The humane governor, musing upon the sentence, con-
sidered a little upon it; and turning to the two honest En-
glishmen, said, "Hold; you must reflect that it will be
long ere they can raise corn and cattle of their own, and
they must not starve; we must therefore allow them pro-
visions." So he caused to be added, that they should have
a proportion of corn given them to last them eight months,
and for seed to sow, by which time they might be supposed
to raise some of their own; that they should have six
milch-goats, four he-goats, and six kids given them, as
well for present subsistence as for a store; and that they
should have tools given them for their work in the fields,
but they should have none of these tools or provisions un-
less they would swear solemnly that they would not hurt
or injure any of the Spaniards with them, or of their
fellow-Englishmen. %
Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned them
out to shift for themselves. They went away sullen and
refractory, as neither content to go away nor to stay: but,
as there was no remedy, they went, pretending to go and
ehoose a place where they would settle themselves; and
some provisions were given them, but no weapons. About
four or five days after, they came again for some victuals,
and gave the governor an account where they had pitched
their tents, and marked themselves out a .habitation and
plantation; and it was a very convenient place indeed, on
the remotest part of the island, N.E., much about the
place where 1 providentially landed in my first voyage,
when I was driven out to sea in my foolish attempt to sail
round the island.
Here they built themselves two handsome huts, and con-
trived them in a manner like my first habitation, being
close under the side of a hill, having some trees already
growing on three sides of it, so that by planting others it
would be very easily covered from the sight, unless narrow-
ly searched for. They desired some dried goat-skins for
beds and covering, which were given them; and upon giv=
ing their words that they would not disturb tire rest, or in-
jure any of their plantations, they gave them hatchets, and
what other tools they could spare; some pease, barley, and
rice, for sowing; and, in a word, anything they wanted,
except arms and ammunition.
They lived in this separate condition about six months,
and had got in their first harvest, though the quantity was
but small, the parcel of land they had planted being but
little. Indeed, having all their plantation to form, they
had a great deal of work upon their hands; and when they
came to make boards and pots, and such things, they were
quite out of their element, and could make nothing of it;
therefore when the rainy season came on, for want of a
cave in the earth, they could not keep their grain dry, and
it was in great danger of spoiling. This humbled them
much: so they came and begged the Spaniards to help
them, which they very readily did; and in four days worked
a great hole in the side of the hill for them, big enough to
secure their corn and other things from the rain: but it
was a poor place at best compared to mine, and especially
as mine was then, for the Spaniards had greatly enlarged
it, and made several new apartments in it.
About three quarters of a year after this separation, a
new frolic took these rogues, which, together with the
former villainy they had committed, brought mischief
enough upon them, and had very near been the ruin of the
whole colony. The three new associates began, it seems,
to be weary of the laborious life they led, and that without
hope of bettering their circumstances: and a whim took
them that they would make a voyage to the continent,
from whence the savages came, and would try if they could
seize upon some prisoners among the natives there, and
bring them home, so as to make them do the laborious
part of the work for them,
a
The project was not so preposterous, if they had gon«
no further. But they did nothing, aud proposed nothing,
but had either mischief in the design, or mischief in the
•rent. And if I may give my opinion, they seemed to be
under a blast from Heaven: for if we will not allow a ris-
ible curse to pursue visible crimes, how shall we reconcile
the events of things with the divine justice? It was cer-
tainly an apparent vengeance on their crime of mutiny mid
piracy that brought them to the state they were in; and
they showed not the least remorse for the crime, but added
new villainies to it, such as the piece of monstrous cruelty
of wounding a poor slave because he did not, or perhaps
could not, understand to do what he was directed, and to
wound him in such a manner as made him a cripple all his
life, and in a place where no surgeon or medicine could be
hafl for his cure; and, what was still worse, the intentional
murder, for such to be sure it was, as was afterward the
formed design they all laid to murder the Spaniards in
oold blood, and in their sleep.
The three fellows came down to the Spaniards one morn-
ing, and in very humble terms desired to be admitted to
speak with them. The Spaniards very readily heard what
they had to say, which was this: that they were tired of
living in the manner they did, and that they were not
handy enough to make the necessaries they wanted, and
that having no help, they found they should be starved;
but if the Spaniards would give them leave to take one of
the canoes which they came over in, and give them arms
and ammunition proportioned to their defense, they would
go over to the main, and seek their fortungs^and so deliver
them from the trouble of supplying them with any other
provisions.
The Spaniards were glad enough to get rid of them, bufe
very honestly represented to them the certain destruction
they were running into; told them they had suffered such
hardships upon that very spot, that they could, without
any spirit of prophecy, tell them they would be starved or
murdered, and bade them consider of it. The men replied
audaciously, they should be starved if they stayed here, for
they could not work, and would not work, and they could
but be starved abroad; and if they were murdered, there was
an end of them; they had no wives or children to cry after
them; and, in short, insisted importunely upon their d»-
mand, declaring they would go, whether they gave them
any arms or not.
The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that if
they were resolved to go they should not go like naked
men, and be in no condition to defend themselves; and
that though they could ill spare fire-arms, not having
enough for themselves, yet they would let them have two
muskets, a pistol, and a cutlass, and each man a hatchet,
which they thought was sufficient for them. In a word,
they accepted the offer; and having baked bread enough to
serve them a month given them, and as much goats' flesh
as they could eat while it was sweet, with a great basket of
dried grapes, a pot of fresh water, and a young kid alive,
they boldly set out iu the canoe for a voyage over the sea,
where it was at least forty miles broad. The boat, indeed,
was a large one, and would very well have carried fifteen
or twenty men, and therefore was rather too big for them
to manage; but as they had a fair breeze and flood-tide
with them, they did well enough. They had made a mast
of a long pole, and a sail of four large goat-skins dried,
which they had sewed or laced together; and away they
went merrily together. The Spaniards called after them
v" Bon voyajo!" and no man ever thought of seeing them
sny more.
The Spaniards were often saying to one another, and to
the two honest Englishmen who remained behind, how
quietly and comfortably they lived, now these three turbu-
lent fellows were gone. As for their coming again, that
was the remotest thing from their thoughts that could be
imagined; when, behold, after two-and-twenty days' ab-
sence, one of the Englishmen being abroad upon his plant-
ing work, sees three strange men coming toward bim at a
distance, with guns upon their shoulders.
Away runs the Englishman, frightened and amazed, as
if he was bewitched, to the governor Spaniard, and tells
him they were all undone, for there were strangers upon
the island, but he could not tell who they were. The
Spaniard, pausing awhile, says to him, "How do you
mean'—you can not tell who? They are the savages, to be
sure." "No, no," says the Englishman, " they are men
in clothes, with arms." "Nay, then," says the Spaniard,
"why are you so concerned? If they are not savages they
must be friends; for there is no Christian nation npoa
earth but will do us good rather than harm." While they
were debating thus, came up the three Englishmen, and
standing without the wood, which was new planted,
hallooed to them. They presently knew their voices, and
so all the wonder ceased. But now the admiration was
turned upon another question: What could be the matter,
and what made them come back again?
It was not long before they brought the men in, and in-
quiring where they had been, and what they had been
doing, they gave them a full account of their voyage in a
few words: That they reached the land in less than two
days, but finding the people alarmed at their coming, and
preparing with bows and arrows to fight them, they durst
not go on shore, but sailed on to the northward six or seven
hours, till they came to a great opening, by which they
perceived that the land they saw from our island was not
the main, but an island: that upon entering that opening
of the sea they saw another island on the right hand north,
and several more west; and being resolved to laud some-
where, they put over to one of the islands which lay west,
and went boldly on shore; that they found the people very
courteous and friendly to them; and they gave them several
roots and some dried fish, and appeared very sociable; and
that the women, as well as the men, were very forward to
supply them with anything they could get for them to eat,
and brought it to them a great way, on their heads. They
continued here four days, and inquired, a3 well as they
could of them by signs, what nations were this way, and
that way, and were told of several fierceand terrible people
that lived almost every way, who, as they made known by
signs to them, used to eat men; but, as for themselves,
they said they never eat men or women, except only such
as they took in the wars; and then they owned they made
a great feast, and eat their prisoners.
The Englishmen inquired when they had had a feast of
that kind; and they told them about two moons ago, point-
ing to the moon and to two fingers; and that their great
king had two hundred prisoners now, which he had taken
in his war, and they were feeding them to make them fat
for the next feast. The Englishmen seemed mighty de-
sirous of seeing those prisoners; bufr the others mistaking
them, thought they were desirous to have some of them to
carry away for their own eating. So they beckoned to them.
pointing to the setting of the sun, and then to the rising;
which was to signify that the next morning at sunrising
they would bring some for them; and, accordingly, the
next morning they brought down five women and eleven
men, and gave them to the Englishmen to carry with them
on their voyage, just as we would bring so many cows and
oxen down to a sea-port town to victual a ship.
As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home,
their stomachs turned at this sight, and they did not know
what to do. To refuse the prisoners would have been the
highest affront to the savage gentry that could be offered
them, and what to do with them they knew not. Howr
ever, after some debate, they resolved to accept of them:
and, in return, the.y gave the savages that brought them
one of their hatchets, an old key, a knife, arid six or seven
of their bullets; which, though they did not understand
their use, they seemed particularly pleased with; and then
tying the poor creatures' hands behind them, they dragged
the prisoners into the boat for our men.
The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as
they had them, or else they that gave them this noble
present would certainly have expected that they should
have gone to work with them, have killed two or three of
them the next morning, and, perhaps, have invited the
donors to dinner. But having taken their leave, with all
the respect and thanks that could well pass between
people, where, on either side, they understood not one
word they could say, they put off with their boat, and
came back toward the first island; where, when they
arrived, they set eight of their prisoners at liberty, there
being too many of them for their occasion. In their voy-
age they endeavored to have some communication with
their prisoners; but it was impossible to make them under-
stand anything. Nothing they could say to I hem, or give
them, or do for them, but was looked upon as going to
murder them. They first of all unbound them; but the
poor creatures screamed at that, especially the women, as
if they had just felt the knife at their throats; for they im-
mediately concluded they were unbound on purpose to be
killed, if they gave them anything to eat, it was the same
thing; they then concluded it was for fear they should sink
in flesh, and so not be fat enough to kill. If they looked
at one of them more particularly, the party presently cob-
eluded it was to see whether he or she was fattest, arm fit-
test to kill first; nay, after they had brought them quite
over, and began to use them kindly, and treat them well,
still they expected every day to make a dinner or supper
for their now masters.
When the three wanderers had given this unaccountable
history or journal of their voyage, the Spaniard asked them
where their new family was; and being told that they had
brought them on shore, and put them into one of their
huts, and were come up to beg some victuals for them,
they (the Spaniards) and the other two Englishmen, that
is to say, the whole colony, resolved to go all down to the
place and see them; and did so, and Friday's father with
them. When they came into the hut, there they sat, all
bound; for when they had brought them on shore they
bound their hands that they might not take the boat and
make their escape; there, I say, they sat, all of them stark
naked. First, there were three comely fellows, well
shaped, with straight limbs, about thirty to thirty-five
years of age; and five women, whereof two might be from
thirty to forty, two more about four- or five-and-twenty;
and the fifth, a tail, comely maiden, about seventeen. The
women were well-favored, agreeable persons, both in shape
and features, only tawny; and two of them, had they been
perfect white, would have passed for very handsome
women, even in London, having pleasant countenances,
and of a very modest behavior; especially when they came
afterward to be clothed and dressed, though that dress was
very indifferent, it must be confessed.
The sight, you may be sure, was something uncouth to
our Spaniards, who were, to give thorn a just character,
men of the most calm, sedate tempers, and perfect good
humor, that ever I met with: and, in particular, of the ut-
most modesty: 1 say, the sight was very uncouth, to see
three naked men and five naked women, all together
bound, and in the most miserable circumstances that
human nature could be supposed to be'—viz., to be expect-
ing every moment to be dragged put and have their brains
knocked out, and then to be eaten up like a calf that is
killed for a dainty.
The first thing they did was to cause the old Indian,
Friday's father, to go in, and see first if he knew any of
them, and then if he understood any of their speech. As
soon as the old man came in, he looked seriously at them,
but knew none of them; neither could any of them under-
stand a word he said, or a sign he could make, except one
of the women. However, this was enough to answer the
end, which was to satisfy them that the men into whose
hands they W3r» fallen were Chrsitians; that they abhorred
eating men or "romen; and that they might be sure they
would not be killed. As soon as they were assured of
this, they discovered such a joy, and by such awkward
gestures, several wSjw, as is hard to describe; for it seems
they were of several nations. The woman who was their
interpreter was bid, in the next place, to ask them if they
were willing to be servants, and to work for the men who
had brought them away, to save their lives; at which they
all fell a-dancing; and presently one fell to taking up this,
and another that, anything that lay next, to carry on their
shoulders, to intimate they were willing to work.
The goverpor, who found that the having women among
them would presently be attended wilh some inconvenience,
and might occasion some strife, and perhaps blood, asked
the three men what they intended to do with these women,
and how they intended to use them, whether as servants or
as wives? One of the Englishmen answered, very boldly
and readily, that they would use them as both; to which
the governor said: "1 am not going to restrain you from
it—you are your own masters as to that; but this 1 think
is but just, for avoiding disorders and quarrels among you,
and I desire it of you for that reason only—viz., that you
will all engage, that if any of you take any of these women
as a wife, he shall take but one; and that having taken
one, none else shall touch her; for though we can not
marry any one of you, yet it is but reasonable that, while
you stay here, the woman any of you takes shall be main-
tained by the man that takes her, and should be his wife—
1 mean," says he, " while he continues here, and that
none else shall have anything to do with her." All this
appeared so just, that every one agreed to it without any
difficulty.
Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if they de-
signed to take any of them? But every one of them
answered " No." Some of them said they had wives in
Spain, and the others di 1 not like women that were not
Christians; and all together declared that they would not
touch one of them, which was an instance of such virtue
as I have not met with in all my travels. On the other
hand, the five Englishmen took them every one a wife—
that is to say, a temporary wife; and so they set up a new
form of living; for the Spaniards and Friday's father lived
in my old habitation, which they had enlarged exceedingly
within. The three servants which were taken in the last
battle of the savages lived with them; and these carried on
the main part of the colony, supplied all the rest with
food, and assisted them in anything as they could, or as
they found necessity required.
But the wonder of the story was, how five such refrac-
tory, ill-matched fellows should agree about these women,
and that some two of ttiem should not choose the same
, woman, especially seeing two or three of them were, with-
out comparison, more agreeable than the others; but they
took a good way enough to prevent quarreling among
themselves, for they set the five women by themselves in
one of their huts, and they went ..all into the other hut,
and drew lots among them who should choose first.
Him that drew to choose first went away by himself to
the hut where the poor naked creatures were, and fetched
out her he chose; and it was worth observing, that he that
chose first took her that was reckoned the homeliest and
oldest of the five, which made mirth enough among the
rest; and even the Spaniards laughed at it; but the fellow
considered better than any of them, that it was application
and business they were to expect assistance in, as much as
in anything else; and she proved the best wife of all the
parcel.
When the poor women saw themselves set in a row thus,
and fetched out one by one, the terrors of their condition
returned upon them again, and they firmly believed they
were now going to be devoured. Accordingly, when the
English sailor came in and fetched out one of them, the
rest set up a most lamentable cry, and hung about her,
and took their leave of her with such agonies and affection
as would have grieved the hardest heart in the world: not
was it possible for the Englishmen to satisfy them thai
they were not to be immediately murdered, till they fetched
the old man, Friday's father, who immediately let them
know that the five men, who were to fetch them out oni
by one, had chosen them for their wives. When they hu
done, and the fright the women were in was a little over,
the men went to work, and the Spaniards came and helped,
them: and in a few hours they had built them every one a
new hut or tent for their lodging apart; for those they had
already were crowded'with their tools, household stuff, aud
provisions. The three wicked ones had pitched furthest
off, and the two honest ones nearer, but both on the north
shore of the island, so that they continued separated as
before; and thus my island was peopled in three places,
and, as I might say, three towns were begun to be built.
And here it is very well worth observing that, as it often
happens in the world (what the wise ends of God's provi-
dence are, in such a disposition of things, I can not say),
the two honest fellows had the two worst wives; and the
three reprobates, that were scarce worth hanging, that
were fit for nothing, and neither seemed born to do them-
selves good nor any one else, had three clever, diligent,
careful, and ingenious wives; not that the first two were
bad wives as to their temper or humor, for all the five were
most willing, quiet, passive, and subjected creatures, rather
like slaves than wives; but my meaning is, they were not
alike capable, ingenious, or industrious, or alike cleanly
and neat. Another observation I must make, to the honor
of a diligent application on one hand, aud to the disgrace
of ,a slothful, negligent, idle temper on the other, that when
1 came to the place, and viewed the several improvements,
plantings, and management of the several little colonies,
the two men had so far outgone the three, that there was
no comparison. They had, indeed, both of them as much
ground laid out for corn as they wanted, and the reason
was, because, according to my rule, nature dictated that it
was to no purpose to sow more corn than they wanted; but
the difference of the cultivation, of the planting, of the
fences, and, indeed, of everything else, was easy to be seen
at first view.
The two men had innumerable young trees planted
about their huts, so that, when you came to the place,
nothing was to be seen but a wood; and though they had
twice had their plantation demolished, once by their own
countrymen, and once by the enemy, as shall be shown in
its place, yet they had restored all again, and everything
was thriving and flourishing about them; they had grapes
planted in order, and managed like a vineyard, though
they had themselves never seen anything of that kind;
and, by their good ordering their vines, their grapes were
as good again as any of the others. They had also found
themselves out a retreat in the thickest part of the woods,
where, though there was not a natural cave, as I had
f»und, yet they made one with incessant labor of their
bands,.and where, when the mischief which followed hap-
pened, they secured their wives and children so as they
eould never he found; they having, by sticking innumer-
able stakes and poles of the wood which, as I said, grew so
readily, made the grove impassable, except in some places,
when they climbed up to get over the outside part, and
then went on by ways of their own leaving.
As to the three reprobates, as 1 uistly call them, though
they were much civilized by their settlement compared to
what they were before, and were not so quarrelsome, hav-
ing not the same opportunity; yet one of the certain com-
panions of a profligate mind never left them, and that was
their idleness. It is true, they planted corn and made
fences; but Solomon's words were never better verified
than in them: "I went by the vineyard of the slothful,
and it was all overgrown with thorns:" for when the
Spaniards came to view their crop they could not see it in
some places for weeds, the hedge had several gaps in it,
where the wild goats had got in and eaten up the corn;
perhaps here and there a dead bush was crammed in, to
stop them out for the present, but it was only shutting the
stable-door after the steed was stolen. Whereas, when
they looked on the colony of the other two, there was the
very face of industry and success upon all they did; there
was not a weed to be seen in all their corn, or a gap in any
of their hedges; and they, on the other hand, verified Solo-
mon's words in another place: "That the diligent hand
maketh rich;" for everything grew and thrived, and they
had plenty within and without; they had more tame cattle
than the others, more utensils and necessaries within doors,
and yet more pleasure and diversion too.
It is true, the wives of the three were very handy and
cleanly within doors; and having learned the English ways
of dressing and cooking from one of the other Englishmen,
who, as I said, was a cook's mate on board the ship, they
dressed their husbands' victuals very nicely and well;
whereas the others could not be brought to understand it;
but then the husband, who, as I say, had been cook's
mate, did it himself. But as for the husbands of the three
wives, they loitered about, fetched turtles' eggs, and
caught fish and birds: in a word, anything but labor; and
they fared accordingly. The diligent lived well and com-
fortably, and the slothful hard and beggarly; and so, 1 be-
lieve, generally speaking, it is all over the world.
But I now come to a scene different from all that had
happened before, either to them or to me; and the origin
of the story was this: Early oae morning there came on
shore five or six canoes of Indians or savages, call them
which you please, and there is no room to doubt they came
upon the old errand of feeding upon their slaves; but thai
part was now so familiar to the Spaniards, and to our men
too, that they did not concern themselves about it, as I
did: but having been made sensible, by their experience,
that their only business was to lie concealed, and that if
they were not seen by any of the savages they would go off
again quietly, when their business was done, having, as
yet, not tha least notion of there being any inhabitants in
the island; I say, having been made sensible of this, they
had nothing to do but to give notice to all the three planta-
tions to keep within doors, and not show themselves, only
placing a scout in a proper place, to give notice when the
boats went to sea again.
This was, without doubt, very right; but a disaster
spoiled all these measures, and made it known among the
savages that there were inhabitants there; which was, in
the end, the desolation of almost the whole colony. After
the canoes with the savages were gone off, the Spaniards
peeped abroad again; and some of them had the curiosity
to go to the place where they had been, to see what they
had been doing. Here, to their great surprise, they found
three savages left behind, and lying fast asleep upon the
ground. It was supposed they had either been so gorged
with their inhuman feast, that, like beasts, they wore fallen
asleep, and would not stir when the others went, or they
had wandered into the woods, and did not come back in
time to be taken in.
The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and
perfectly at a loss what to do. The Spaniard governor, as
it happened, was with them, and his advice was asked, but
he professed he knew not what to do. As for slaves, they
\
had enough already; and as to killing them, there were
none of thein inclined to do that: the Spaniard governor
told me they could not think of shedding innocent blood;
for as to them, the poor creatures bad done them no wrong,
invaded none of their property, and they thought they had
no just quarrel against them to take away their lives.
And here f must, in justice to these Spaniards, observe, that
let the accounts of Spanish cruelty in Mexico and Peru be
what they will, I never met with seventeen men of any
nation whatsoever, in any foreign country, who were so
universally modest, temperate, virtuous, so very good-
humored, and so courteous, as these Spaniards: and as to
cruelty, they had nothing of it in their very nature: no in-
humanity, no barbarity, no outrageous passions; and yet
all of them men of great courage and spirit. Their tem-
per and calmness had appeared in their bearing the in-
sufferable usage of the three Englishmen; and their justice
and humanity appeared now in the case of the savages as
above. After some consultation they resolved upon this:
that they would lie still a while longer, till, if possible,
these three men might be gone. But then the governor
recollected that the three savages had no boat; and if they
were left to rove about the island, they would certainly
discover that there were inhabitants in it; and so they
should be undone that way. Upon this, they went back
again, and there lay the fellows fast asleep still, and so
they resolved to awaken them, and take them prisoners;
and they did so. The poor fellows were strangely fright-
ened when they were seized upon and bound; and afraid,
like the women, that they should be murdered and eaten:
for it seems those people think all the world does as they
do, in eating men's flesh; but they were soon made easy ae
to that, and away they carried them.
It was very happy for them that they did not carry them
home to the castle, I mean to my palace under the hill;
but they carried them first to the bower, where was the
chief of their country work, such as the keeping the goats,
the planting the corn, etc.; and afterward they carried
them to the habitation of the two Englishmen. Here they
were set to work, though it was not much they had for
them to do; and whether it was by negligenoe in guarding
them, or that they thought the fellows could not mend
themselves, 1 know not, but one of them ran away, and,
taking to the woods, they could never hear of him any
more. They had good reason to believe he got home again
soon after in some other boats or canoes of savages who
came on shore three or four weeks afterward, and who,
carrying on their revels as usual, went off in two days'
time. This thought terrified them exceedingly; for they
concluded, and that not without good cause indeed, that if
this fellow came home safe among his comrades, he would
certainly give them an account that there were people in
the island, and also how few and weak they were; for this
savage, as observed before, had never been told, and it was
very happy he had not, how many there were, or where
they lived; nor had he ever seen or heard the fire of any of
their guns, much less had they shown him any of their
other retired places: such as the cave in the valley, or the
new retreat which the two Englishmen had made, and the
like.
The first testimony they had that this fellow had given
intelligence of them was, that about two months after this,
six canoes of savages, with about seven, eight, or ten men
in a canoe, came rowing along the north side of the island,
where they never used to come before, and landed, about
an hour after sunrise, at a convenient place, about a mile
from the habitation of the two Englishmen, where this
escaped man had been kept. As the chief Spaniard said,
had they been all there, the damage would not have been
so much, for not a man of them would have escaped; but
the case differed now very much, for two men to fifty was
too much odds. The two men had the happiness to dis-
cover them about a league off, so that it was above an hour
before they landed; and as they landed a mile from their
huts, it was some time before they could come at them.
Now, having great reason to believe that they were be-
trayed, the first thing they did was to bind the two slaves
which wero left, and cause two of the three men whom
they brought with the women (who, it seems, proved very
faithful to them), to lead them, with their two wives, and
whatever they could carry away with them, to their retired
places in the woods, which I have spoken of above, and
there to bind the two fellows hand and foot, till they heard
further. In the next place, seeing the savages were all
come on shore, and that they had bent their course directly
that way, they opened the fences where the mflch cows
were kept, and drove them all out; leaving their goats to
straggle in the woods, whither they pleased, that the sav-
ages might think they were all bred wild; but the rogue
who came with them was too cunning for that, and gave
them an account of it all, for they went directly to the
place.
When the two poor frightened men had secured their
wives and goods, they sent the other slave they had of the
ihree who came with the women, and who was at their
place by accident, away to the Spaniards with all speed, to
give them the alarm, and desire speedy help, and, in the
meantime, they took their arms and what ammunition they
had, and retreated toward the place in the wood where
their wives were sent; keeping at a distance, yet so that
they might see, if possible, which way the savages took.
They had not gone far, but that from a rising ground they
could see the little army of their enemies come on directly
to their habitation, and, in a moment more, could see all
their huts and household stuff flaming up together, to their
great grief and mortification; for this was a great loss to
them, irretrievable, indeed, for some time. They kept
their station for awhile, till they found the savages, like
wild beasts, spread themselves all over the place, rummag-
ing every way, and every place they could think of, in
search of prey; and in particular for the people, of whom
now it plainly appeared they had intelligence.
The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves
not secure where they stood, because it was likely some of
the wild people might come that way, and they might come
too many together, thought it proper to make another re-
treat about half a mile further; believing, as it afterward
happened, that the further they strolled, the fewer would
be together. Their next halt was at the entrance into a
very thick-grown part of the woods, and where an old
trunk of a tree stood, which was hollow and very large;
and in this tree they both took their standing, resolving to
see there what might offer. They had not stood there i mg
before two of the savages appeared running directly that
way, as if they already had noticed where they stood, and
were coming up to attack them; and a little way further
they espied three more coming after them, and five more
beyond them, all coming the same way; besides which,
they saw seven or eight more 'it a distance, running
another way; for, in a word, they ran every way, like
sportsmen beating for their game.
The poor men were now in great perplexity whether
they should stand and keep their posture or fly; but after
a very short debate with themselves, they considered that
if the savages ranged the country thus before help came,
they might perhaps find their retreat in tne woods, and
then all would be lost; so they resolved to stand them
there, and if they were too many to deal with, then they
would get up to the top of the tree, from whence they
doubted not to defend themselves, fire excepted, as long as
their ammunition lasted, though all the savages that were
landed, which was near fifty, were to attack them.
Having resolved upon this, they next considered whether
they should fire at the first two, or wait for the three, and
so take the middle party, by which the two and the five
that followed would be separated; at length they resolved
to let the first two pass by, unless they should spy them in
the tree, and come to attack them. The first two savages
confirmed them also in this resolution, by turning a little
from them toward another part of the wood; but the three,
and the five after them, came forward directly to the tree,
as if they had known the Englishmen were there. Seeing
them come so straight toward them, they resolved to take
them in a line as they came: and as they resolved to fire
but one at a time, perhaps the first shot might hit them
all three; for which purpose the man who was to fire put
three or four small bullets into his piece; and having a fair
Joop-hole, as it were, from a broken hole in the tree, he
took a sure aim, without being seen, waiting till they were
within about thirty yards of the tree, so that he could not
miss.
While they were thus waiting, and the savages came on,
they plainly saw that one of the three was the runaway
savage that had escaped from them; and they both knew
him distinctly, and resolved that, if possible, he should not
escape, though they should both fire; so the other stood
ready with his piece, that if he did not drop at the first
shot, he should be sure to have a second. But the first
was too good a marksman to miss his aim; for as the sav-
ages kept near one another, a little behind in a line, he
fired, and hit two of them directly; the foremost was killed
©utright, being shot in the head; the second, which was
the runaway Indian, was shot through the body, and fell,
but was not quite dead; and the third had a little scratch
in the shoulder, perhaps by the same ball that went through
the body of the second; and being dreadfully frightened,
though not so much hurt, sat down upon the ground,
screaming and yelling in a hideous manner.
The five that were behind, more frightened with the
noise than sensible of the danger, stood still at first; for
the woods made the sound a thousand times bigger than it
really was, the echoes rattling from one side to another,
and the fowls rising from all parts, screaming, and every
sort making a different noise, according to their kind; just
as it was when I fired the first gun that perhaps was ever
shot off in the island.
However, all being silent again, and they not knowing
what the matter was, came on unconcerned, till they came
to the place where their companions lay in a condition mis-
erable enough. Here the poor ignorant creatures, not
sensible that they were within reach of the same mischief,
stood all together over the wounded man, talking, and, as
may be supposed, inquiring of him how he came to be
hurt; and who, it is very rational to believe, told them
that a flash of fire first, and immediately after that thunder
from their gods, had killed those two and wounded him.
This, I say, is rational; for nothing is more certain than
that, as they saw no man near them, so they had never
heard a gun in all their lives, nor so much as heard of a
gun; neither knew they anything of killing and wounding
at a distance with fire and bullets: if they had, one might
reasonably believe they would not have stood so uncon-
cerned to view the fate of their fellows, without some ap-
prehensions of their own.
Our two men, as they confessed to me, were grieved to
be obliged to kill so many poor creatures, who had no
notion of their danger; yet, having them all thus in their
power, and the first having loaded his piece again, resolved
to let fly both together among them; and singling out, by
agreement, which to aim at, they shot together, and killed,
or very much wounded, four of them; the fifth, frightened
even to death, though not hurt, fell' with the rest; so that
our men, seeing them all fall together, thought they had
killed them all.
The belief that the savages were all killed made our two
f
men come boldly out from the tree before they had charged
their guns, which was a wrong step; and they were under
some surprise when they came to the place, and found no
less than four of them alive, and of them two very little
hurt, and one not at all. This obliged them to fall upon
them with the stocks of their muskets; and first they made
sure of the runaway savage, that had been the cause of all
the mischief, and of another that was hurt in the knee,
and put them out of their pain; then the man that was not
hurt at all came and knelt down to them, with his two
hands held up, and made piteous moans to them, by gestures
and signs, for his life, but could not say one word to them
that they could understand. However, they made signs
to him to sit down at the foot of a tree hard by; and
one of the Englishmen, with a piece of rope-yarn, which
he had by great chance in his pocket, tied his two hands
behind him, and there they left him; and with what speed
they could made after the other two, which were gone be-
fore, fearing they, or any more of them, should find the
way to their covered place in the woods, where their wives,
and the few goods they had left, lay. They came once in
sight of the two men, but it was at a great distance; how-
ever, they had the satisfaction to see them cross over a
valley toward the sea, quite the contrary way from that
which led to their retreat, which they were afraid of; and
being satisfied with that, they went back to the tree where*
they left their prisoner, who, as they supposed, was de
livered by his comrades, for he was gone, and the twt
pieces of rope-yarn with which they had bound him lay
just at the foot of the tree.
They were now in as great concern as before, not know^
ing what course to take, or how near the enemy might b&,
or in what number; so they resolved to go away to the>
place where their wives were, to see if all was well theres
and to make them easy. These were in fright enough, to
be sure; for though the savages were their own country>
men, yet they were most terribly afraid of them, and per-
haps the more for the knowledge they had of them. When
they came there, they found the savages had been in the
wood, and very near that place, but had not found it; for
it was indeed inaccessible, from the trees standing so thick,
unless the persons seeking it had been directed by those"
that knew it, which these did not; they found, therefore,
everything very safe, only the women' in a terrible fright
While they We're here they had the comfort to have seven
of the Spaniards come to their assistance; the other ten,
with their servants, and Friday's father, were gone in a
body to defend their bower, and the corn and cattle that
were kept there, in case the savages should have roved
over to that side of the country; but they did not spread
so far. With the seven Spaniards came one of the three
savages, who, as I said, were their prisouers formerly; and
with them also came the savage whom the Englishman
had left bound hand and foot at the tree; for it seems they
came that way, saw the slaughter of the seven men, and
unbound the eighth, and brought him along with them;
where, however, they were obliged to bind him again, as
they had the two others who were left when the third ran
away.
The prisoners now began to be a burden to them; and
they were so afraid of their escaping that they were once
resolving to kill them all, believing they were under an
absolute necessity to do so for their own preservation.
However, the chief of the Spaniards would not consent to
it, but ordered, for the present, that they should be sent
out of the way to my old cave in the valley, and be kept
there, with two Spaniards to guard thom, and have food
for their subsistence, which was done; and they were bound
there hand and foot for that night.
When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen were so'
encouraged, that they could not satisfy themselves to stay
any longer there; but taking five of the Spaniards, and
themselves, with four muskets and a pistol among them,
and two stout quarter-staves, away they went in quest of
the savages. And first they came to the tree where th«
men lay that had been killed; but it was easy to see that
some more of the savages had been there, for they had at-
tempted to carry their dead men away, and had dragged
two of them a good way, but had given it over. From
thence they advanced to the first rising ground, where they
had stood and seen their camp destroyed, and where they
had the mortification still to see some of the smoke; but
neither oould they here see any of the savages. They then
resolved, though with all possible caution, to go forward
toward their ruined plantation; but, a little before they
came thither, coming in sight of the sea-shore, they saw
plainly the savages all embarked again in their canoes, in
order to be gone. They seemed sorry at first that there
was no way to come at them, to give them a parting blow;
but, upon the whole, they were very well satisfied to be rid
of them.
The poor Englishmen being now twice rained, and all
their improvements destroyed, the rest all agreed to come
and help them to rebuild, and assist them with, needful
supplies. Their three countrymen, who were not yet
noted for having the least inclination to do any good, yet
as soon as they heard of it (for they, living remote east-
ward, knew nothing of the matter till all was over), came
and offered their help and assistance, and did, very friend-
ly, work for several days to restore their habitation and
make necessaries for them. And thus in a little time they
were set upon their legs again.
About two days after this they had the further satisfac-
tion of seeing three of the savages' canoes come driving on
shore, and, at some distance from them, two drotvued men,
by which they had reason to believe that they had met with
a storm at sea, which had overset some of them; for it had
blown very hard the night after they went off. However,
as some might miscarry, so, on the other hand, enough of
them escaped to inform the rest, as well of what they had
done as of what had happened to them; and to whet them
on to another enterprise of the same nature, which they, it
seems, resolved to attempt, with sufficient force to carry
all before them; for except what the first man had told
them of inhabitants, they could say little of it of their own
knowledge, for they never saw one man; and the fellow
being killed that had affirmed it, they had no other witnesu
to confirm it to them.
SECTION XXXIII.
The Island is Invaded bv a Formidable Fleet of Savages.—A Terrible
Engagement, in Which the Cannibals are Utterly Routed.—
Thirty-seven Wretches, the Survivors, are Saved, and Employed
by My People as Servants.—Description of Will Atkins's In-
genious Contrivances for His Accommodation.
It was five or six months after this before they heard
any more of the savages, in which time our men were in
hopes they had either foigotten their former bad luck, or
£iven over hopes of better; when, on a sudden, they were
juvaded with a most formidable fleet of no less than eight-
and-twenty canoes, full of savages, armed with bows and
arrows, great clubs, wooden swords, and such like engines
of war; and they brought such numbers with them, that,
in short, it put all our people into the utmost consterna-
tion.
As they came on shore in the evening, aud at the eastern-
most side of the island, our men had that night to consult
and consider what to do. In the first place, knowing that
their being entirely concealed was their only safety before,
and would be much more so now, while the number of
their enemies would be so great, they resolved, first of all,
to take down the huts which were built for the two En-
glishmen, and drive away their goats to the old cave; be-
cause they supposed the savages would go directly thither,
as soon as it was day, to play the old game over again,
though they did not now land within two leagues of it. In
the next place they drove away all the flock of goats they
had at the old bower, as I called it, which belonged to the
Spaniards; and, in short, left as little appearance of inhab-
itants anywhere as was possible; and the next morning
early they posted themselves, with all their force, at the
plantation of the two men, to wait for their coming. As
they guessed, so it happened: these new invaders, leaving
their canoes at the east end of the island, came ranging
along the shore, directly toward the place, to the number
of two hundred and fifty, as near as our men could judge.
Our army was but small indeed; but, that which was
worse, they had not arms for all their number. The
whole account, it seems, stood thus: first, as to men,
seventeen Spaniards, five Englishmen, old Friday, the
three slaves taken with the women, who proved very faith-
ful, and three other slaves, who lived with the Spaniards.
To arm these, they had eleven muskets, five pistols, three
fowling-pieces, five muskets or fowling-pieces which were
taken by me from the mutinous seamen whom I reduced,
two swords, and three old halberts.
To their slaves they did not give either musket or fusee;
but they had each a halbert, or a long staff, like a quarter-
staff, with a great spike of iron fastened into each end of
it, and by his side a hatchet; also every one of our men
JiSd a hatchet. Two of the women could not be prevailed
npc\i bob they would come into the fight, and they had
bowd and arrows, which the Spaniards had taken from the
savages when the first action happened, which 1 have
spoken of, where the Indians fought with one another;
and the women had hatchets too.
The chiei Spaniard, whom I described so often, com-
manded the whole; and Will Atkins, who, though a dread-
ful fellow for wickedness, was a most daring, bold fellow,
commanded tinder him. The savages came forward like
lions; and our men, which was the worst of their fate, had
no advantage in their situation; only that Will Atkins,
who now proved a most useful fellow, with six men, was
planted just behind a small thicket of bushes as an ad-
vanced guard, with orders to let the first of them pass by
and then fire into the middle of them, and as soon as he
had fired, to inata nis retreat as nimbly as he could round
a part of the wood, and so come in behind the Spaniards,,
where they stood, having a thicket of trees before them.
When the savages, came on, they ran straggling about
every way in heaps, out of all manner of order, and Will
Atkins let about fifty ol them pass by him; then seeing the
rest come in a very thick throng, he orders three of his
men to fire, having loaued their muskets with six or seven
bullets apiece, about as big as large pistol bullets. How
many they killed or wounded they knew not, but the con-
sternation and surprise was inexpressible among the sav-
ages; they were frightened to the last degree to hear such
a dreadful noise, and see their men killed, and others
hurt, but see nobody that did it; when, in the middle of
their fright, Will Atkins and his other three let fly again
among the thickest of them; and in less than a minute,
the first three being loaded again> gave them a third vol»
ley.
Hid Will Atkins and his men retired immediately, as
soon as they had fired, as they were ordered to do, or had
the rest of the body been at hand, to have poured in their
shot continually, the savages had been effectually routed;
for the terror that was among them came principally from
this, that they were killed by the gods with thunder and
lightning, and could see nobody that hurt them. But Will
Atkins, staying to load again, discovered the cheat: some'
of the savages who were at a distance spying them, came
upon them behind; and though Atkins and his men fired
at them also, two or three times, and killed above twenty,
retiring as fast as they could, yet they wounded Atkins
himself, and killed one of his fellow-Englishmen with their
arrows, as they did afterward one Spaniard, and one of the
Indian slaves who came with the women. This slave was
a most gallant fellow, and fought most desperately, killing
five of them with his own hand, having no weapon but one
of the armed staves and a hatchet.
Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded, and
two other men killed, retreated to a rising ground in the
wood; and the Spaniards, after firing three volleys upon
them, retreated also; for their number was so great, and
they were so desperate, that though above fifty of them
were killed, and more than as many wounded, yet they
came on in the teeth of our men, fearless of danger, and
shot their arrows like a cloud; and it was observed that
their wounded men, who were not quite disabled, were
made outrageous by their wounds, and fought like madmen.
When our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and
the Englishman that wore killed behind them: and the
savages, when they came up to them, killed them over
again in a wretched mauner, breaking their arms, legs, and
heads with their clubs and wooden swords, like true sav-
ages; but finding our men were gone, they did not seem
inclined to pursue them, but drew themselves up in a ring,
which is, it seems, their custom, and shouted twice, in
token of their victory; after which, they had the mortifica-
tion to see several of their wounded men fall, dying with
the mere loss of blood.
The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body up
together upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he was
wounded, would have had them march and charge again
all together at once: but the Spaniard replied—" Senor
Atkins, you see how their wounded men light; let them
alone till morning; all the wounded men will be stiff and
sore with their wounds, and faint with the loss of blood;
and so we shall have the fewer to engage." This advice
was good: but Will Atkins replied merrily, "That is true,
senor, and so shall I too; and that is the reason 1 would
go on while I am warm." "Well, Senor Atkins," says
the Spaniard, "you have behaved gallantly, and done your
part; we will fight for you if you can not come on; but I
think it best to stay till morning:" so they waited.
But as it was a clear, moonlit night, and they found the
savages in great, disorder about their dead and wounded
men, and a great noise and hurry among them where they
lay, they afterward resolved to fall upon them in the night,
especially if they could come to give them but one volley
before they were discovered, which they had a fair oppor-
tunity to do; for one of the Englishmen in whose quarter
it was where the fight began, led them round between the
woods and the sea-side westward, and then turning short
south, they came so near where- the thickest of them lay;
that before they were seen or heard eight of them iired in
among them, and did dreadful execution upon them; in
half a minute more eight others fired after them, pouring
in their small shot in such a quantity that abundance were
killed and wounded; and all this while they were not able
to see who hurt them, or which way to fly.
The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition,
and then divided themselves into three bodies, and resolved
to fall in among them all together; They had in each
body eight persons, that is to say, twenty-two men and the
two women, who, by the way, fought desperately. They
divided the fire-arms equally in each party, as well as the
halberts and staves. They would have had the women
kept back, but they said they were resolved to die with
their husbands. Having thus formed their little army,
they marched out from among the trees, and came up to
the teeth of the enemy, shouting and hallooing as loud as
they could; the savages stood all together, but were in the
utmost confusion, hearing the noise of our men shouting
from three quarters together. They would have fought if
they had seen us; for as soon as we came near enough to
be seen, some arrows were shot, and poor old Friday was
woundod, though not dangerously. But our men gave
them no time, but running up to them, fired among them
three ways, and then fell in with the butt ends of their
muskets, their swords, armed staves, and hatchets, and
laid about them so well that, in a word, they set up a dis-
mal screaming and howling, flying to save their lives which
way soever they could.
Our men were tired with the execution, and killed or
mortally wounded in the two fights about one hundred and
eighty of them; the rest, being frightened out of their wits,
scoured through the woods and over the hills, with all the
speed that fear and nimble feet could help them to; and
as we did not trouble ourselves much to pursue them, they
got all together to the sea-side, where they landed, and
where their canoes lay. But their disaster was not at an
end yet; for it blew a terrible storm of wind that evening
from the sea, so that it was impossible for them to go off;
nay, the storm continuing all night, when the tide came
up their canoes were most of them driven by the surge of
the sea so high upon the shore that it required infinite toil
to get them off; and some of them were even dashed to
pieces against the beach. Our men, though glad of their
victory, yet got little rest that night; but having refreshed
themselves as well as they could, they resolved to march
to that part of the island where the savages were fled, and
see what posture they were in. This necessarily led them
fever the place where the fight had been, and where they
found several of the poor creatures not quite dead, and yet
past recovering life; a sight disagreeable enough to gener-
ous minds, for a truly great man, though obliged by the
law of battle to destroy his enemy, takes no delight in his
misery. However, there was no need to give any orders in
this case; for their own savages, who were their servants,
dispatched these poor creatures with their hatchets.
At length they came in view of the place where the more
miserable remains of the savages' army lay, where there
appeared about a hundred still; their posture was generally
sitting upon the ground, with their knees up toward their
mouth, and the head put between the two hands, leaning
down upon the knees. "When our men came within two
musket-shots of them, the Spaniard governor ordered two
muskets to be fired without ball, to alarm them; this he
did, that by their countenance he might know what to ex-
pect, whether they were still in heart to fight, or were so
heartily beaten as to be discouraged, and so he might man-
age accordingly. This stratagem took: for as soon as the
savages heard the first gun, and saw the flash of the second,
they started up upon their feet in the greatest consterna-
tion imaginable; and as our men advanced swiftly toward
them, they all ran screaming and yelling away, with a kind
of howling noise, which our men did not understand, and
had never heard before; and thus they ran up the hills into
the country.
At first our men had much rather the weather had been
calm, and they had all gone away to sea: but they did not
then consider that this might probably have been the occa-
sion of their coming again in such multitudes as not to be
resisted, or, at least, to come so many and so often as
would quite desolate the island, and starve them. Will
Atkins, therefore, who, notwithstanding his wound, kept
always with them, proved the best counselor in this case:
his advice wal., to take the advantage that offered, and step
in between them and their boats, and so deprive them of
the capacity of ever returning any more to plague tha
island. They consulted long about this; and some were
against it for fear of making the wretches fly to the woods
and live there desperate, and so they should have them to
hunt like wild beasts, be afraid to stir out about their busi-
ness, and have their plantations continually rifled, all their
tame gnats destroyed, and, in short, be reduced to a life of
continual distress.
Will Atkins told them they had better have to do with a
hundred men than with a hundred nations; that, as they
must destroy their boats, so they must destroy the men, or
be all of them destroyed themselves. In a word, he showed
them the necessity of it so plainly that they all came into
it; so they went to work immediately with the boats, and
getting some dry wood together from a dead tree, they tried
to set some of them on fire, but they were so wet that they
would not burn; however, the fire so burned the upper
part that it soon made them unfit for use at sea.
When the Indians saw what they were about, some of
them came running out of the woods, and coming as near
as they could to our men, knelt down and cried, "Oa,
Oa, Waramokoa!" and some other words of their language,
which none of the others understood anything of; but as
they made pitiful gestures and strange noises, it was easy
to understand they begged to have their boats spared, and
that they wo,uld be gone, and never come there again. But
our men were now satisfied that they had no way to pre-
serve themselves, or to save their colony, but effectually to
prevent any of these people from ever going home again;
depending upon this, that if even so much as one of them
got back into their country to tell the story, the colony was
undone; so that, letting them know that they should not
have any mercy, they Ft'J1 to work with their canoes, and
destroyed every one that the storm had not destroyed be,
fore; at the sight of which, the savages raised a hideous
cry in the woods, which our people heard plain enough,
after which they ran about the island like distracted men,
so that, in a word, our men did not really know what at
first to do with them. Nor did the Spaniards, with all
their prudence, consider that while they made those people
thus desperate, they ought to have kept a good guard at
the same time upon their plantations; for though it is true
they had driven away their cattle, and the Indians did not
find out their main retreat, I mean my old castle at the
hill, nor the cave in the valley, yet they found out my
plantation at the bower, and pulled it all to pieces, aud all
the fences and planting about it; trod all the corn under
foot, tore up the vines and grapes, being just then almost
ripe, and did our men inestimable damage, though to
themselves not one farthing's worth of service.
Though our men were able to fight them upon all occa-
sions, yet they were in no condition to pursue them, or
hunt them up and down; for as they were too nimble of
foot for our people when they found them single, so our
men durst not go abroad single, for fear of being surround-
ed with their numbers. The best was they had no weap-
ons; for though they had bows, they had no arrows left,
nor any materials to make any; nor had they any edge-tools
among them. The extremity and distress they were re-
duced to was great, and indeed deplorable; but, at the
same time, our men were also brought to very bad circum-
stances by them, for though their retreats were preserved,
yet their provision was destroyed, and their harvest spoiled,
and what to do, or which way to turn themselves, they
knew not. The only refuge they had now was the stock
of cattle they had in the valley by the cave, and some little
corn which grew there, and the plantation of the three
Englishmen. Will Atkins and his comrades were now re-
duced to two; one of them being killed by an arrow, which
struck him on the side of his head, just under the temple,
so that he never spoke more; and it was very remarkable
that this was the same barbarous fellow that cut the poor
savage slave with his hatchet, and who afterward intended
to have murdered the Spaniards.
1 looked upon their case to,have been worse at this time
than mine was at any time, after I first discovered the
grains of barley and rice, and got into the manner of
planting and raising my corn and my tame cattle; for
now they had, as I may say, a hundred wolves upon the
island, which would devour everything they could come at,
yet could be hardly come at themselves.
When they saw what their circumstances were, the first
thing they concluded was, that they would, if possible,
drive the savages up to the further part of the island,
south-west, that if any more came on shore they might not
find one another; then, that they would daily hunt and
harass them, and kill as many of them as they could come
at, till they had reduced their number; and if they could
at last tame them, and bring them to anything, they would
give them corn, and teach them how to plant, and live
upon their daily labor. In order to do this, they so fol-
lowed them, and so terrified them with their guns, that in
a few days, if any of them fired a gun at an Indian, if he
did not hit him, yet he would fall down for fear. So
dreadfully frightened were they that they kept out of sight
further and further; till, at last, our men followed them,
and almost every day killing or wounding some of them,
they kept up in the woods or hollow places so much, that
it reduced them to the utmost misery for want of food; and
many were afterward found dead in the woods, without
any hurt, absolutely starved to death.
When our men found this, it made their hearts relent,
and pity moved them, especially the generous-minded
Spaniard governor; and he proposed, if possible, to take
one of them alive, and bring him to understand what they
meant, so far as to be able to act as interpreter, and go
among them and see if they might be brought to some con-
ditions that might be depended upon, to save their lives
and do us no harm.
It was some while before any of them could be taken;
but being weak and half-starved, one of them was at last
surprised and made a prisoner. He was sullen at first, and
would neither eat nor drink; but finding himself kindly
used, and victuals given to him, and no violence offered
him, he at last grew tractable, and came to himself. They
often brought old Friday to talk to him, who always told
him how kind the others would be to them all; that they
would not only save their lives, but give them part of the
island to live in, provided they would give satisfaction that
they would keep in their own bounds, and not come beyond
it to injure or prejudice others; and that they should have
coru given them to plant and make it grow for their bread,
aud some bread given them for their present subsistence;
and old Friday bade the fellow go aud talk with the rest
of his countrymen, and see what they said to it; assuring
them that, if they did not agree immediately, they should
be all destroyed.
The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and reduced in
number to about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal at
the first oiler, and begged to have some food given them;
upon which twelve Spaniards aud two Englishmen, well
armed, with three Indian slaves and old Friday, marched
to the place where they were. The three Indian slaves
carried them a large quantity of bread, some rice boiled up
to cakes and dried in the sun, and three live goats; and
they were ordered to go to the side of a hill, where they sat
down, eat their provisions very thankfully, and were the
most faithful fellows to their words that could be thought
of; for, except when they came to beg victuals and direc-
tions, they never came out of their bounds; and there they
lived when I catne to the island, and I went to see them.
They had taught them both to plant corn, make bread,
breed tame goats, and milk them: they wanted nothing
but wives in order- for them soon to become a nation.
They were confined to a neck of land, surrounded with
high rocks behind them, and lying plain toward the sea
before them, on the south-east corner of the island. They
had land enough, and it was very good and fruitful; about
a mile and a half broad, and three or four miles in length.
Our men taught them to make wooden spades, such as I
made for myself, and gave among them twelve hatchets
and three or four knives; and there they lived, the mo3t
subjected, innocent creatures that ever were heard of.
After this the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquillity with
respect to the savages, till I came to revisit them, which
was about two years after; not but that, now and then,
some canoes of savages came on shore for their triumphal,
unnatural feasts; but as they were of several nations, and
perhaps had never heard of those that came before, or the
reason of it, they did not make any search or inquiry after
their countrymen; and if they had, it would have been very
hard to have found them out.
Thus, I think, I have given a full account of all that
happened to them till my return, at least that was worth
notice. The Indians were wonderfully civilized by them,
and they frequently went among them; but they forbid,
on pain of death, any one of the Indians coming to them,
because they would not have their settlement betrayed
again. One thing was very remarkable—viz., that they
taught the savages to make wicker-work, or basket*, but
they soon outdid their masters: for they made abundance
of ingenious things in wicker-work, particularly baskets,
sieves, bird-cages, cupboards, etc.; as also chairs, stools,
beds, couches, being very ingenious at such work when
they were once put in the way of it.
My coming was a particular relief to these people, be-
cause we furnished them with knives, scissors, spades,
shovels, pick-axes, and all things of that kind which they
could want. With the help of those tools they were so
very handy that they came at last to build up their huts or
houses very handsomely, raddling or working it up like
basket-work all the way round. This piece of ingenuity,
although it looked very odd, was an exceeding good fence,
as well against heat as against all sorts of vermin; and
our men were so taken with it that they got the Indians to
come and do the like for them; so that when 1 came to see
the two Englishmen's colonies, they looked at a distance
as if they all lived like bees in a hive.
As for Will Atkins, who was now become a very indus-
trious, useful, and sober fellow, he had made himself such
a tent of basket-work as I believe was never seen; it was
one hundred and twenty paces round on the outside, as I
measured by my steps; the walls were as close worked as a
basket, in panels or squares of thirty-two in number, and
very strong, standing about seven feet high; in the middle
was another not above twenty-two paces round, but built
stronger, being octagon in its form, and in the eight cor-
ners stood eight very strong posts; round the top of which
he laid stong pieces, knit together with wooden pins, from
which he raised a pyramid for a handsome roof of eight
rafters, joined together very well, though he had no nails,
and only a few iron spikes, which he made himself, too,
out of the old iron that I had left there. Iudoed, this
fellow showed abundance of ingenuity in several things
which he had no knowledge of: he made him a forge, with
3 pair of wooden bellows to blow the fire; he made himself
charcoal for his work; and he formed out of the iron crows
a middling good anvil to hammer upon: in this manner he
made many things, but especially hooks, staples, and
spikes, bolts and hinges. But to return to the house: after
he had pitched the roof of his innermost tent, he worked it
up between the rafters with basket-work, so firm, and
thatched that over again so ingeniously with rice-straw,
and over that a large leaf of a tree, which covered the top.
that his house was as dry as if it had been tiled or slated.
He owned, indeed, that the savages had made the basket-
work for him. The outer circuit was covered as a lean-to
all round this inner apartment, and long rafters lay from
the thirty-two angles to the top posts of the inner house,
being about twenty feet distant, so that there was a space
like a walk within the outer wicker-wall, and without the
inner, near twenty feet wide.
The inner place he partitioned off with the same wicker-
work, but much fairer, and divided into six apartments,
so that he had six rooms on a floor, and out of every one of
these there was a door: first into the entry, or coining into
the main tent, another door into the main tent, and
another door into the space or walk that was round it; so
that walk was also divided into six equal parts, which
served not only for a retreat, but to store up any neces-
saries which the family had occasion for. These six spaces
not taking up the whole circumference, what other apart-
ments the outer circle had were thus ordered: As soon as
you were in at the door of the outer circle you had a short
passage straight before you to the door of the inner house;
but on either side was a wicker partition and a door in it,
by which you went first into a large room or store-house,
twenty feet wide and about thirty feet long, and through
that into another not quite so long; so that in the outer
circle were ten handsome rooms, six of which were only to
be come at through the apartments of the inner tent, and
served as closets or retiring rooms to the respective cham-
bers of the inner circle; and four large warehouses, or
barns, or what you please to call them, which went through
one another, two on either hand of the passage, that led
through the outer door to the inner tent. Such a piece of
basket-work, I believe, was never seen in the world, nor a
house or tent so neatly contrived, much less so built. In
this great bee-hire lived the three families, that is to say,
Will Atkins and his companion; the third was killed, but
his wife remained with three children, and the other two
were not at all backward to give the widow her full share
of everything, I mean as to their corn, milk, grapes, etc.,
and when they killed a kid, or found a turtle on the shore;
so lhat they all lived well enough; though it was true they
were not so industrious as the other two, as has been ob-
served already.
One thing, however, can not be omitted—viz., that as for
religion, 1 do not know that there was anything of that
kind among them; they often, indeed, put one another in
mind that there was a God, by the very common method
of seamen, swearing by His name: nor were their poor
ignorant savage wives much better for having been mar-
ried to Christians, as we must call them; for as they knew
very little of God themselves, so they were utterly incapa-
ble of entering into any discourse with their wives about
a God, or to talk anything to them concerning religion.
The utmost of all the improvement which I can say the
wives had made from them was, that they had taught them
to speak English pretty well; and most of their children,
who were near twenty in all, were taught to speak English
too, from their first learning to speak, though they at first
spoke it in a very broken manner, like their mothers.
None of these children were above six years old when 1
came thither, for it was not much above seven years since
they had fetched these five savage ladies over; they had all
children, more or less: the mothers were all a good sort of
well-governed, quiet, laborious women, modest and decent,
helpful to one another, mighty observaut, and subject to
their masters (1 can not call them husbands), and lacked
nothing but to be well instructed in the Christian religion,
and to be legally married; both of which were happily
brought about afterward by my means, or at ?east in con-
sequence of my coming among them.
SECTION XXXIV.
I Hold Conversations with the Spaniards, and Learn the History
of Their Situation Among the Savages From Which I Relieved
Them.—I Inform the Colony for What Purpose I am Come,
and What I Mean to do for Them—Distribution of the Stores
I Brought with Me.—The Priest I Saved at Sea Solemnizes
the Marriages of the Sailors and Female Indians Who had
Hitherto Lived Together as Man aud Wife.
Haying thus given an account of the colony in general,
and pretty much of my runagate Englishmen, I must say
something of the Spaniards, who were the main body of
the family, and in whose story there are some incidents also,
remarkable enough.
I had a great many discourses with them about their
circumstances when they were among the savages. They
tdld me readily that they had no instances to give of their
application or ingenuity in that country; that they were a
poor, miserable, dejected handful of people;, that even if
means had been put into their hands, yet they had so
abandoned themselves to despair, and were so sunk under
the weight of their misfortune, that they thought of noth-
ing but starving. One of them, a grave and sensible man,
told me he was convinced they were in the wrong; that it
was not the part of wise men to give themselves up to their
misery, but always to take hold of the helps which reason
offered, as well for present support as for future deliver-
ance: he told me that grief was the most senseless, insig-
nificant passion in the world, for that it regarded only
things past, which were generally impossible to be recalled
or to be remedied, but had do views of things to come, and
had no share in anything that looked like deliverance, but
rather added to the affliction than proposed a remedy; and
upon this he repeated a Spanish proverb, which, though I
can not repeat in the same words that he spoke it in, yet I
remember I made it into an English proverb of my own,
thus:
"In trouble to be troubled,
Is to have your trouble doubled."
He then ran on in remarks upon all the little improve-
ments I had made in my solitude: my unwearied applica-
tion, as he called it; and how 1 had made a condition,
which in its circumstances was at first much worse than
theirs, a thousand times more happy than theirs was, even
now when they were all together. He told me it was re-
markable that Englishmen had a greater presence of mind
in their distress than any people that ever he met with;
that their unhappy nation and the Portuguese were the
worst men in the world to struggle with misfortunes; for
that their first step in dangers, after the common efforts
were over, was to despair, lie down under it, and die, with-
out rousing their thoughts up to proper remedies for
escape.
I told him their case and mine differed exceedingly; that
they were cast upon the shore without necessaries, without
supply of food, or present sustenance till they could pro-
vide for it; that, it was true, I had this further disadvan-
tage and discomfort, that I was alone; but then the sup-
plies I had providentially thrown into my hands, by the
unexpected driving of the ship on shore, was suoh a help
as would have encouraged any creature in the world to
have applied himself as I had done. "Senor," says the
Spaniard, " had we poor Spaniards been in your case, wo
should never have got half those things out of the ship, as
you did: nay," says he, " we should never have found
means to have got a raft to carry them, or to ha^e got the
raft on shore without boat or sail; and how much less
should we have done if any of us had been alone!" Well,
I desired him to abate his compliments, and go on with the
history of their coming on shore, where they landed. He
told me they unhappily landed at a place where there were
people without provisions; whereas, had they had the com-
mon sense to put off to sea again, and gone to another
island a little further, they had found provisions, though
without pe&ple: there being an island that way, as they
had been told, where there were provisions, though no
people—that is to say, that the Spaniards of Trinidad had
frequently been there, and had filled the island with goats
and hogs at several times, where they had bred in such
multitudes, and where turtle and sea-fowls were in such
plenty, that they could have been in no want of flesh,
though they had found no bread; whereas, here they were
only sustained with a few roots and herbs, which they
understood not, and which had no substance in them, and
18
which the inhabitant gave them sparingly enough; and
ihej could treat them no better, unless they would turn
cannibals and eat men's flesh.
They gave me an account how many ways they strove
to civilize the savages they were with, and to teach them
rational customs in the ordinary way of living, but in vain;
and how they retorted upon'them as unjust that they who
came there for assistance and support should attempt to
set up for instructors to those that gave them food; inti-
mating, it seems, that none should set up for the instruct-
ors of others but those who couid live without them.
They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they were
driven to; how sometimes they were many days without
any food at all, the island they were upon being inhabited
by a sort of savages that lived more indolent, and for that
reason were less supplied with the necessaries of life, than
they had reason to believe others were in the same part of
the world: and yet they found that these savages were less
ravenous and voracious than those who had better supplies
of food. Also, they added, they could not but see with
what demonstrations of wisdonyand goodness the govern-
ing providence of God directs the events of things in this
world, which, they said, appeared in their circumstances:
for if, pressed by the hardships they were under, and the
barreling of the country where they were, they had
searched after a better to live in, they had then been out
of the way of the relief that happened to them by my
means.
They then gave me an account how the savages whom
they lived amongst expected them to go out with them into
their wars; and, it was true, that as they had fire-arms
with them, had they not had the disaster to lose their
ammunition, they could have been serviceable not only to
their friends, but have made themselves terrible botJHPo
friends and enemies; but being without powder and shot,
and yet in a condition that they could not in reason de-
cline to go out with their landlords to their wars; so when
they came ioto the field of battle they were in a worse con-
dition than the savages themselves, for they had .neither
bows nor arrows, nor could they use those the savages gave
them So they could do nothing but stand still and be
wounded with arrows, till they came up to the teeth of
their enemy; and then, indeed, the three halberts they had
were of use to them; and they would otten drive a whole
little army before them with those halberts, and sharpened
sticks put into the muzzles of their muskets. But, for all
this, they were sometimes surrounded with multitudes, and
in great danger from their arrows, till at last they found
the way to make themselves large targets of wood, which
they covered with skins of wiid beasts, whose names they
knew not, and these covered them from the arrows of the
savages: that, notwithstanding these, they were sometimes
in great danger; and five of them were once knocked down
together with the clubs of the savages, which was the time
when one of them was taken prisoner—that is to sav, the
Spaniard whom 1 relieved. At first they thought he had
been killed; but when they afterward heard he was taken
prisoner, they were under the greatest grief imaginable and
would willingly have all ventured their lives to hava
rescued him.
They told me that when they were so knocked down, the
rest of their company rescued them, and stood over them
righting till they were come to themselves, all but hin
whom they thought had been dead; and then they made
their way with their halberts and pieces, standing close
together in a line, through a body of above a thousand
savages, beating down all that came in their way, got the
victory over their enemies, but to their great sorrow, be-
cause it was with the loss of their friend, whom the other
party finding alive, carried off with some others, as I gave
an account before. They described, most affectionately,
how they were surprised with joy at the return of their
friend and companion in misery, who they thought had
been devoured by wild beasts of the worst kind—wild men;
and yet, how more and more they were surprised with the
account he gave them of his errand, and that there was a
Christian in any place near, much more one that was able,
and had humanity enough, to contribute to their deliver-
ance.
They described how they were astonished at the sight of
the relief 1 sent them, and at the appearance of loaves of
bread—things they had not seen since their coming to that
miserable place; how often they crossed it and blessed it
as bread sent from heaven; and what a reviving cordial it
was to their spirits to taste it, js also the other things [
had sent for their supply; and, after all, they would have
told me something of the joy they were in at the sight of a
boat and pilots, to carry them away to the person and
place from whence all these new comforts came. But it
was impossible to express it by words, for their excessive
joy naturally driving them to unbecoming extravagances,
they had no way to describe them but by telling me they
bordered upon lunacy, having no way to give vent to their
passions suitable to the sense that was upon them; that in
some it worked one way and in some another; and that
some of them, through a surprise of joy, would burst into
tears, others be stark mad, and others immediately faint.
This discourse extremely affected me, and called to my
mind Friday's ecstasy when he met his father, and the
poor people's ecstasy when I took them up at sea after
their ship was on fire; the joy of the mate of the ship when
he found himself delivered in the place where he expected
to perish; and my own joy, when, after twenty-eight years'
captivity, I found a good ship ready to carry me to my own
country. All these things made me more sensible of the
relation of these poor men, and more affected with it.
Having thus given a view of the state of things as I
found them, I must relate the heads of what 1 did for these
people, and the condition in which I left them. It was
their opinion, and mine too, that they would be troubled
no more with the savages, or if they were, they would be
able to cut them off, if they were twice as many as before;
so they had no concern about that. Then I entered into
a serious discourse with the Spaniard, whom 1 call govern-
or, about their stay in the island: for as I was not come
to carry any of th«m off, so it would not be just to carry
off some and leave others, who, perhaps, would be unwill-
ing to stay if their strength was diminished. On the other
hand, 1 told them 1 came to establish them there, not to
remove them; and then I let them know that I had
brought with me relief of sundry kinds for them; that 1
had been at a great charge to supply them with all things
necessary, as well for their convenience as their defense;
and that I had such and such particular persons with me,
as well to increase and recruit their number, as by the par-
ticular necessary employments which they were bred to,
being artificers, to assist them in those things in which at
present they were in want.
They were all together when 1 talked thus to them; and
before I delivered to them the stores I had brought, I
asked them, one by one, if they had entirely forgotten and
buried the first animosities that had been among them, and
would shake hands with one another, and engage in a strict
friendship and union of interest, that, so there might be no
more misunderstandings and jealousies.
Will Atkins, with abundance of frankness and good
humor, said they had met with affliction enough to make
them all sober, and enemies enough to make them all
friends; that, for his part, he would live and die with
them, and was so far from designing anything against the
Spaniards, that he owned they had done nothing to him
but what his own mad humor made necessary, and what
he would have done, and perhaps worse, in their case; and
that he would ask their pardon, if 1 desired it, for the
foolish and brutish things he had done to them, and was
very willing and desirous of living in terms of entire
friendship and union with them, and would do anything
that lay in his power to convince them of it; and as for
going to England, he cared not if he did not go thither
these twenty years.
The Spaniards said they had, indeed, at first disarmed
and excluded Will Atkins and his two countrymen for'
their ill conduct, as they had let me know, and they ap-
pealed to me for the necessity they were under to do so;
but that Will Atkins had behaved himself so bravely in
the great fight they had with the savages, and on several
occasions since, and had showed himself so faithful to, and
concerned for, the general interest of them all, that they
had forgotten all that was passed, and thought he merited
as much to be trusted with arms and supplied with neces-
saries as any of them; that they had testified their satisfac-
tion in him by committing the command to him next to
the governor himself; and as they had entire confidence in
him and all his countrymen, so they acknowledged they
had merited that confidence by all the methods that honest
men could merit to be valued and trusted; and they most
heartily embraced the occasion of giving me this assurance,
that they would never have any interest separate from one
another.
Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship,
we appointed the next day to dine all together; and, in-
deed, we made a splendid feast. 1 caused the ship's cook
and his mate to come on shore and dress onr dinner, and
the old cook's mate we had on shore assisted. We brought
on shore six pieces of good beef and four pieces of pork,
out of the ship's provisions, with our punch-bowl, and
materials to fill it; and, in particular, I gave them ten
bottles of French claret, and ten bottles of English beer;
things that neither the Spaniards nor the English had
tasted for many years, and which it may be supposed they
were very glad of. The Spaniards added to our feast five
whole kids, which the cooks roasted; and three of them
were sent, covered up close, on board the ship to the sea-
men, that they might feast on fresh meat from on shore,
as we did with their salt meat from on board.
After this feast, at which we were very innocently merry,
I brought my cargo of goods; wherein, that there might
be no dispute about dividing, I showed them that there
was a sufficiency for them all, desiring that they might all
take an equal quantity, when made up, of the goods that
were for wearing. As, first, I distributed linen sufficient
to make every ouo of them four shirts, and, at the Span-
iard's request, afterward made them up six; these were
exceedingly comfortable to them, having been what they
had long since forgot the use of, or what it was to wear
them. I allotted the thin English stuffs, which 1 men-
tioned before, to make every one a light coat, like a frock,
which I judged fittest for the heat of the season, cool and
ioose; and ordered that whenever they decayed, they should
make more, as they thought fit; the like for pumps, shoes,
stockings, hats, etc. I can not express what pleasure sat
upon the.countenances of all these poor men when they
saw the care 1 had taken of them, and how well I had fur-
nished them. They told me I was a father to them; and
that having such a correspondent as I was in so remote a
part of the world, it would make them forget that they
were left in a desolate place; and they all voluntarily en-
gaged to me not to leave the place without my consent.
Then I presented to them the people 1 had brought with
me, particularly the tailor, the smith, and the two carpen-
ters, all of them most necessary people; but, above all, my
general artificer, than whom they could not name anything
that was more useful to them; and the tailor, to show his
concern for them, went to work immediately, -,nd, with
my leave, made them every one a shirt, the first thing he
did; and, what was still more, he taught the women not
only how to setv and stitch, and use the needle, but made
them assist to make the shirts for their husbands, and foi
all the rest. As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention
how useful they were; lor they took to pieces all my
clumsy, unhandy things, and made clever, convenient
tables, stools, bedsteads, cupboards, lockers, shelves, and
everything they wanted of that kind. But to let them see
how nature made artificers at first, I carried the carpenters
to see Will Atkins's basket-house, as I called it; and they
both owned they never saw an instance of such natural in-
fenuity before, nor anything so regular and so handily
uilt, at least of its kind; and one of them, when he saw
it, after musing a good while, turning about to me, " 1 am
eure," says he, " that man has no need of us; you need do
nothing but give him tools."
Then 1 brought them out all my store of tools, and gave
every man a digging-spade, a shovel, and a rake, for we
had no harrows or plows; and to every separate place a
pick-ax, a crow, a broad-ax, and a saw; always appointing,
that as often as any were broken or worn out, they should
be supplied without grudging out of the general stores that
I left behind. Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chisels,
knives, scissors, and all sorts of iron-work, they had with-
out reserve, as they required; for no man would take more
than he wanted, and he must be a fool that would waste or
spoil them on any account whatever; and for the use of the
smith I left two tons of unwrought iron for a supply.
My magazine of powder and arms which 1 brought them
was such, even to profusion, tha> they could not but rejoiee
at them* for now they could march as I used to do, with a
musket upon each shoulder, if there was occasion; and
were able to fight a thousand savages, if they had but some
little advantages of situation, which also they could not
miss, if they had occasion.
I carried on shore with me the young man whose mother
was starved to death, and the maid also; she was a sober,
well-educated, religious young woman, and behaved so in-
offensively that every one gave her a good word; she had,
indeed, an unhappy life with us, there being no woman in
the ship but herself, but she bore it with patience. After
awhile, seeing things so well ordered, and in so fine a way
of thriving upon my island, and considering that they had
neither busin a nor acquaintance in the East Indies, or
reason for taking so long a voyage, both of them came to
me and desired I would give them leave to remain on the
island, and be entered among my family, as they called it.
I agreed to this readily; and they had a little plot of ground
allotted to them, where they had three tents or houses set up,
surrounded with a basket-work, palisadoed like Atkins's,
adjoining to his plantation. Their tents were contrived so
that'they had each of them a room apart to lodge in, and
a middle tent like a great store-house to lay their goods in,
and to eat and to drink in. And now the other two
Englishmen removed their habitation to the same place;
and so the island was divided into three colonies, and no
more—viz., the Spaniards, with old Friday and the first
servants, at my habitation under the hill, which was, in a
word, the capital city, and where they had so enlarged and
extended their works, as well under as on the outside of the
hill, that they lived, though perfectly concealed, yet full
at large. Never was there such a little city in a wood, and
so hid, in any part of the world; for I verily believe that a
thousand men might have ranged the island a month, and,
if they had not known there was such a thing, and looked
on purpose for it, they would not have found it, In-
deed, the trees stood so thick and so close, and grew
so fast woven one into another, that nothing but cutting
them down first could discover the place, except the only
two narrow entrances where they went in and out could be
found, which was not very easy; one of them was close
down at the water's edge, on the. side of the creek, and it
was afterward above two hundred yards to the place; and
the other was up a ladder at twice, as I have already de-
scribed it; and they had also a large wood, thickly planted,
on the top of the hill, containing above an acre, which grew
apace, and concealed the place from all discovery there,
with only one narrow place between two trees, not easily
to be discovered, to enter on that side.
The other colony was that of Will Atkins, where there
were four families of Englishmen, I mean those l~had left
there, with their wives and children; three savages that
were slaves, the widow and the children of the Englishman
that was killed, the young man and the maid, and, by the
way, we made a wife of her before we went away. There
were besides the two carpenters and the tailor, whom I
brought with me for them: also the smith, who was a very
necessary man to them, especially as a gunsmith, to take
care of their arms; and my other man, whom I called
Jack-of-all-trades, who was in himself as good almost as
twenty men; for he was not only a very ingenious fellow,
but a very merry fellow, and before I went away we mar-
ried him to the honest maid that came with the youth in
the ship I mentioned before.
And now I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally to
say something of the French ecclesiastic that I had brought
with me out of the ship's crew whom 1 took up at sea. It
is true this man was a Roman, and perhaps it may give
offei.se to some hereafter if 1 leave anything extraordinary
upon record of a man whom, before I begin, I must (to set
him out in just colors) represent in terms very much to his
disadvantage, in the account of Protestants; as, first, that
he was a Papist; secondly, a Popish priest; and, thirdly, a
French Popish priest. But justice demands of me to give
him a due character; and 1 must say, he was a grave,
sober, pious, and most religious person; exact in his life,
extensive in his charity, and exemplary in almost every-
thing he did. What then can any one say against being
very sensible of the value of such a man, notwithstanding
his profession? though it may be my opinion perhaps, as
well as the opinion of others who shall read this, that he
was mistaken.
The first hour that 1 began to converse with him after
he had agreed to go with mo to the East Indies, 1 found
reason to delight exceedingly in his conversation; and he
first began with me about religion in the most obliging
manner imaginable. "Sir," says he, "you have not only
under God (and at that he crossed his breast) saved my
life, but you have admitted me to go this voyage in your
ship, and by your obliging civility have taken me into your
family, giving me an opportunity of free conversation.
Now, sir, you see by my habit what my profession is, and
I guess by your nation what yours is; I may think it is my
duty, and doubtless it is so, to use my utmost endeavors,
on all occasions, to bring all the souls I can to the knowl-
edge of the truth, and to embrace the Catholic doctrine;
but as I am here under your permission, and in your
family, I am bound, in justice to your kindness as well as
in decency and good manners, to be under your govern-
ment; and therefore 1 shall not, without your leave, enter
into any debate on the points of religion in which we may
not agree, further than you shall give me leave."
I told him his carriage was so modest that I could not
but acknowledge it; that it was true we were such people
as they call heretics, but that he was not the first Catholio
1 had conversed with without' falling into inconveniences,
or carrying the questions to any height in debate; that he
should not find himself the worse used for being of a
different opinion from us, and if we did not converse with-
out any dislike on either side, it should be his fault, not
oms.
He replied that he thought all our conversation might
be easily separated from disputes; that it was not his busi-
ness to cap principles with every man he conversed with;
and that he rather desired me to converse with him as a
gentleman than as a religionist; and that, if I would give
him leave at any time to discourse upon religious subjects,
he would readily comply with it, and that he did not doubt
but I would allow him also to defend his own opinions as
well as he could; but that withouc my leave he would not
break in upon me with any such thing. He told me fur-
ther, that he would not cease to do all that became him,
in his office as a priest, as well as a private Christian, to
procure the good of the ship, and the safety of all that was
in her; and though, perhaps, we would not join with him,
and be could not pray with us, he hoped he might pray for
us, which he would do upon all occasions. In this manner
we conversed; and as he was of the most obliging, gentle-
man-like behavior, so he was, if I may be allowed to say
so, a man of good sense, and, as I believe, of great learn-
ing.
He gave me a most diverting account of his life, and of
the many extraordinary events of it; of many adventures
which had befallen him in the few years that he had been
abroad in the world; and particularly, it was very remark-
able, that in the voyage he was now engaged in he had the
misfortune to be five times shipped and unshipped, and
never to go to the place whither any of the ships he was in
were at first designed. That his first intent was to have
gone, to Martinico, and that he weut on board a ship bound
thither at St. Malo; but being forced into Lisbon by bad
weather, the ship received some damage by running
aground Jn the mouth of the river Tagus, and was obliged
to unload her cargo there; but finding a Portuguese ship
there bound for the Madeiras, and ready to sail, and sup-
posing he should meet with a ship there bound to Martin-
ico, he went on board, in order to sail to the Madeiras: but
the master of the Portuguese ship being but an indifferent
mariner, had been out of his reckoning, and they drove to
Fayal; where, however, he happend to find a very good
market for his cargo, which was corn, and therefore re-
Bolved not to go to the Madeiras, but to load salt at the
Isle of May, and to go away to Newfoundland. He had
no remedy in this exigence but to go with the ship, and
had a pretty good voyage as far as the Banks (so they call
the place where they catch the fish), where, meeting with
a French ship bound from France to Quebec, and from
thence to Martinico, to carry provisions, he thought he
should have an opportunity to complete his first design;
but when he came to Quebec, the master of the ship died,
and the vessel proceeded no further; so the next voyage he
shipped himself for France, in the ship that was burned
when we took them up at sea, and then shipped with us
for the East Indies, as I have already said. Thus he had
been disappointed in five voyages: all, as I may call it, in
one voyage, besides what 1 shall have occasion io mention
further of him.
But I shall not make digression into other men's stories
which have no relation to my own; so 1 return to what
concerns our affairs in the island. He came to me one
morning (for he lodged among us all the while we were
upon the island), and it happened to be just when 1 was
going to visit the Englishmen's colony, at the furthest
part of the island; 1 say, he came to me, and told me,
with a very grave countenance, that he had for two or
three days desired an opportunity of some discourse with
me, which he hoped would not be displeasing to me, be-
cause he thought it might in some measure correspond
with my general design, which was the prosperity of my
new colony, and perhaps might put it, at least more than
he yet thought it was, in the way of God's blessing.
I looked a little surprised at the last part of hisdiF-
oourse, and turning a little short, "How, sir," said I,
"can it be said that we are not in the way of God'p Mm--
ing, after such visible assistances and deliverances trs wo
have seen here, and of which I have given you a large ac-
count?" "If you had pleased, sir," said he, with a world
of modesty, and yet great readiness, " to have heard me,
you would have found no room to have been displeased,
much less to think so hard of me, that 1 should suggest
that you have not had wonderful assistances and deliver-
ances; and 1 hope, on your behalf, that you are in the way
,of God's blessing, and your design is exceeding good, and
will prosper. But, sir, though it were more so thau is
even possible to you, yet there may be some among you
that are not equally right in their actions: and you know
that in the story of the children of Israel, one Achan in
the camp removed God's blessing from them, and turned.
His hand so against them, that six-and-thirty of them,
though not concerned in the crime, were the objects of
divine vengeance, and bore the weight of that punish-
ment."
1 was sensibly touched with this discourse, and told him
his inference was so just, and the whole design seemed so
sincere, and was really so religious in its own nature, that
1 was very sorry I had interrupted him, and begged him to
go on; and, in the meantime, because it seemed that what
we had both to say might take up some time, 1 told him I
was going to the Englishmen's plantations, and asked him
to go with me, and we might discourse of it by the way.
He told me he would the more willingly wait on me
thither, because there partly the thing was acted which he
desired to speak to me about; so we walked on, and I
pressed him to be free and plain with me in what he had
to say.
"Why, then, sir," said he, " be pleased to give me leave
to lay down a few propositions, as the foundation of what
I have to say, that we may not differ in the general princi-
ples, though we may be of some differing opinions in the
practice of particulars. First, sir, though we differ in
some of the doctrinal articles of religion (and it is very un-
happy it is so, especially in the case before us, as I shall
show afterward), yet there are some general principles in
which we both agree—that there is a God; and that this
God having given us some stated general rules for our
service and obedience, we ought not willingly and know-
ingly to offend Him, either by neglecting to do what He
has commanded, or by doing what He has expressly for-
bidden. And let our different religions be what they will,
this general principle is readily owned by us all, that the
blessing of God does not ordinarily follow presumptuous
sinning against His command; and every good Christian
will be affectionately concerned to prevent any that are
under his care living in a total neglect of God and His
commands. It is not your men being Protestants, what-
ever my opinion may be of such, that discharges me from
being concerned for their souls, and from endeavoring, if
it lies before me, that they should live in as little distance
from enmity with their Maker as possible, especially if you
give me leave to meddle so far in your circuit."
1 could not yet imagine what he aimed at, and told him
I granted all he had said, and thanked him that he would
so far concern himself for us: and begged he would explain
the particulars of what he had observed, that like Joshua,
to take his own parable, I might put away the accursed
thing from us.
"Why, then, sir," says he, "I will take the liberty you
give me; and there are three things, which, if I am right,
must stand in the way of God's blessing upon your en-
deavors here, and which I should rejoice, for your sake and
their own, to see removed. And, sir, I promise myself
that you will fully agree with me in them all, as soon as I
name them; especially because 1 shall convince you that
every one of them may, with great ease, and very much to
your satisfaction, be remedied. First, sir," says he, "you
have here four Englishmen, who have fetched women from
among the savages, and have taken them as their wives,
and have had many children by them all, and yet are not
married to them after any stated legal manner, as the laws
of God and man require. To this, sir, I know, you will
object that there was no clergyman or priest of any kind to
perform the ceremony; nor any pen and ink, or paper, to
write down a" contract of marriage, and have it signed be-
tween them. And I know also, sir, what the Spaniard
governor has told you, I mean of the agreement that he
obliged them to make when they took those women—viz.,
that they should choose them out by consent, and keep
separately to them; which, by the way, is nothing of a
marriage, no agreement with the women as wives, but only
an agreement among themselves, to keep them from quar-
reling. But, sir, the essence of the sacrament of matri-
mony (ao he called it, being a Roman) consists not only In
the mutual consent of the parties to take one another as
man and wife, but in the formal and legal obligation that
there is in the contract to compel the man and woman, at
all times, to own and acknowledge each other; obliging
the man to abstain from all other women, to engage in no
other contract while these subsist; and, on all occasions, as
ability allows, to provide honestly for them and their chil-
dren; and to oblige the women to the same or like con-
ditions, on their side. Now, sir," says he, "these men
may, when they please, or when occasion presents, aban-
don these women, disown their children, leave them to
perish, and take other women, and marry them while these
are living;" and here he added, with some warmth,
"How, sir, is God honored in this unlawful liberty? And
how shall a blessing succeed your endeavors in this place,
however good in themselves, and however sincere in your
design, while these men, who at present are your subjects,
under your absolute government and dominion, are allowed
by you to live in open adultery?"
I confess I was struck with the thing itself, but much
more with the convincing arguments he supported it with;
but I thought to have got off my young priest by telling
him that all that part was done when I was not there: and
that they had lived so many years with them now, that if
it was adultery, it was past remedy; nothing could be done
in it now.
"Sir," says he, "asking your pardon for such freedom,
you are right in this, that, it being done in your absence,
Jou could not be charged with that part of the crime; but,
beseech you, flatter not yourself that you are not, there-
fore, under an obligation to do your utmost now to put an
end to it. You should legally and effectually marry them;
and as, sir, my way of marrying may not be easy to recon-
cile them to, though it will be effectual, even by your own
laws, so your way may be as well before God, and as valid
imong men. I mean by written contract, signed by both
man and woman, and by all the witnesses present, which
all the laws of Europe would decree to be valid."
I was amazed to see so much true piety, and so much
sincerity of zeal, besides the unusual impartiality in his dis-
course as to his own party or church, and such true warmth
for preserving people that he had no knowledge of or rela-
tion to from transgressing the laws of God. Bat recollect-
ing what he had said of marrying them by a written con-
tract, which I Irnew he would stand to, I returned it back
upon him, and told him I granted all that he had said to
be just, and on his part very kind; that I would discourse
with the men upon the point now, when I came to them;
and I knew no reason why they should scruple to let him
marry them all, which I knew well enough would be
granted to be as authentic and valid in England as if they
were married by one of our own clergymen.
1 then pressed him to tell me what was the second com-
plaint which he bad to make, acknowledging that I was
very much his debtor for the first, and thanked him
heartily for it/ He told me he would use the same free-
dom and plainness in the second, and hoped 1 would take
it as well; and this was, that, notwithstanding these En-
glish subjects of mine, as he called them, had lived with
these women almost seven years, had taught them to speak
English, and even to read it, and that they were, as he
perceived, women of tolerable understanding, and capable
of instruction, yet they had not, to this hour, taught them
anything of the Christian religion—no, not so much as to
know there was a God, or a worship, or in what manner
God was to be served, or that their own idolatry, and wor-
shiping they knew not whom, was false and absurd. This,
he said, was an unaccountable neglect, and what God would
certainly call them to account for, and perhaps at last take
the v?ork out of their hands. He spoke this very affection-
ately and warmly.
"lam persuaded," says he, "had those men lived in
the savage country whence their wives came, the savages
would have taken more pains to have brought them to be
idolaters, and to worship the devil, than any of these men,
so far as 1 can see, have taken with them to teach the
knowledge of the true God. Now, sir," said he, " though
I do not acknowledge your religion, or you mine, yet we
would be glad to see the devil's servants and the subjects
of his kingdom taught to know the general principles of
the Christian religion; that they might, at least, hear of
God and a Redeemer, and of the resurrection, and of a
future state—things which we all believe; that they might,
at least, be so much nearer coming into the bosom of the
true church than they are now in the public profession of
idolatry and devil-worship."
1 could hold no longer: I took him in my arms, and
embraced him eagerly. "How far," said 1 to him, " have
1 been from understanding the most essential part of a
Christian—viz., to love the interest of the Christian
church, and the good of other men's souls! I scarce have
known what belongs to the being a Christian." "Oh,
air! do not say so, replied he; "this thing is not your
fault." "No," said I; "but why did I never lay it to
heart as well as you?" "It is not too late yet," said he;
"be not too forward to condemn yourself." "But what
can be done now?" said I; "you see I am going away."
"Will vou give me leave to talk with these poor men
about it?" "Yes, with all my heart," said I: "and will
oblige them to give heed to what you say too." "As to
that," said he, "we must leave them to the mercy of
Christ; but it is your business to assist them, encourage
them, and instruct them; and if you give me leave, and
God His blessing, I do not doubt but the poor ignorant
souls shall be brought home to the great circle of Christi-
anity, if not into the particular faith we all embrace, and
that even while you stay here." Upon this I said, "I
shall not only give you leave, but give you a thousand
thanks for it."
I now pressed him for the third article in which we were
to blame. "Why, really," says he, "it is of the same
nature. It is about your poor savages, who arej" as 1 may
say, your conquered subjects. It is a maxim, sir, that is,
or ought to be received among all Christians, of what
church or pretended church soever, that the Christian
knowledge ought to be propagated by all possible means
and on all possible occasions. It is on this principle that
our church sends missionaries into Persia, India, and
China; and that our clergy, even of the superior sort, will-
ingly engage in the most hazardous voyages, and the most
dangerous residence among murderers and barbarians, to
teach them the knowledge of the true God, and to bring
them over to embrace the Christian faith. Now, sir, you
have such an opportunity here to have six- or seven-and-
thirty poor savages brought over from a state of idolatry to
the knowledge of God, their Maker and Redeemer, that
I wonder how you can pass such an occasion of doing
good, which is really worth the expense of a man's whole
rife."
I was now struck dumb indeed, and had not one word
to say. I had here the spirit of true Christian zeal for
God and religion before me. As for me, I had not so
much as entertained a thought of this in my heart before^
and 1 believe I should not have thought of it; for I looked
upon these savages as slaves, and people whom, had we
mot had any work for them to do, we would have used as
such, or would have been glad to have transported them to
any part of the world; for our business was to get rid of
them, and we would all have been satisfied if they had
been sent to any country, so they had never seen their
own. I was confounded at his discourse, and knew not
what answer to make him.
He looked earnestly at me, seeing my confusion. "Sir,"
says he, "I shall be very sorry if what I have said gives
you any offense." "No, no," said 1; "1 am offended
with nobody but myself; but I am perfectly confounded,
not only to think that I should never take any notice of
this before, but with reflecting what notice I am able to
take of it now. You know, sir," said I, " what circum-
stances 1 am in; I am bound to the East Indies in a ship
freighted by merchants, and to whom it would be an in-
sufferable piece of injustice to detain their ship here, the
men lying all this while at victuals and wages on the
owners' account. It is true, I agreed to be allowed twelve
days here, and if I stay more, I must pay three pounds
sterling per diem demurrage; nor can 1 stay upon demur-
rage above eight days more, and I have been here thirteen
already; so that I am perfectly unable to engage in this
work, unless 1 would suffer myself to be left behind here
again; in which case, if this single ship could miscarry in
any part of her voyage, I should be just in the same con-
dition that I was left in here at first, and from which I
have been so wonderfully delivered." He.owned the case
was very hard upon me as to my voyage; but laid it home
upon my conscience whether the blessing of saving thirty-
seven souls was not worth venturing all 1 had in the world
for. I was not so sensible of that as he was. 1 replied to
him thus: "Why, sir, it is a valuable thing, indeed, to be
an instrument in God's hand to convert thirty-seven
heathens to the knowledge of Christ; but as you are an
ecclesiastic, and are given over to the work, so it seems so
naturally to fall in the way of your profession, how is it,
then, that you do not rather offer yourself to undertake it
than to press me to do it?"
Upon this he faced about just before me, as he walked
along, and putting me to a full stop, made me a very low
bow. "I most heartily thank God and you, sir," said he,
*' for giving me so evident a call to so blessed a work; and
if you think yourself discharged from it, and desire me to
undertake it, 1 will most readily do it, and think it a happy
reward for all the hazards and difficulties of such a broken,
disappointed voyage as 1 have met with, that I am dropped
at last into so glorious a work."
I discovered a kind of rapture in his,face while he spoke
this to me; his eyes sparkled like fire f his face glowed, and
his color came and went; in a word, he was fired with the
joy of being embarked in such a work. 1 paused a con-
siderable while before I could tell what to say to him; for
I was really surprised to find a man of such sincerity, and
who seemed possessed of a z i, bevond the ordinary rate of
men. But after 1 had consii A it awhile, 1 asked him
seriously if he was in earnes' aiiJ that he would venture,
on the single consideration of an attempt to convert those
poor people, to be locked up in an unplanted island for
perhaps his life, and at last not know whether he should
be able to do them good r iiotp He turned short upon
me, and asked me what 1 oaf. 3 venture. "Pray, sir,"
said he, " what do you thir c i ;onsented to go in your
ship to the East Indies for? "Nay," said 1, " that I
know not, unless it was to preach to the Indians."
"Doubtless it was," said he; and do you think, if I
can convert these thirty-seven men to the faith of Jesus
Christ, it is not worth my time, though 1 should never be
fetched off the island again?—nay, is it not infinitely of
more worth to save so many souls than my life is, or the
life of twenty more of the same profession? Yes, sir,"
•ays he, " I would give God thanks all my days if I could
be made the happy instrument of saving the souls of those
poor men, though I were never to get my foot off this
island or see nay native country any more. But since you
will honor me with putting me into this work, for which I
will pray for you all the days of mylife, 1 have one hum-
ble petition to you besides." "What is that?" said L
'Why," says he, " it is, that you will leave your man
Friday with me, to be my interpreter to them, and to assist
me; for without some help I can not speak to them, or
they to me."
1 was sensibly touched at his requesting Friday, because
I could not think of parting with him, and that for many
reasons; he had been the companion of my travels; he was
not only faithful to me, but sincerely affectionate to the
last degree; and 1 had resolved to do something considera-
ble for him if he outlived me, as it was probable he would.
Then I knew that, as I had bred Friday up to be a Pro-
testant, it would quite confound him to bring him to em-
brace another religion; and he would never, while his eyes
were open, believe that his old master was a heretic, and
would be damned; and this might in the end ruin the poor
fellow's principles, and so turn -him back again to his first
idolatrj*. However, a sudden thought relieved me in this
strait, and it was this: I told him I could not say that 1
was willing to part with Friday on any account whatever,
though a work that to him was of more value than his life
ought to be of much more value than the keeping or pat t-
ing with a servant. On the other hand, 1 was persuaded
that Friday would by no means agree to part with me; and
I could not force him to it without his consent, without
manifest injustice; because I had promised I would never
send him away, and he had promised and engaged that he
would never leave me, unless I sent him away.
He seemed very much concerned at it, for he had no
rational access to these poor people, seeing he did not un-
derstand one word of their language, nor they one of his. •
To remove this difficulty, 1 told him Friday's father had
learned Spanish, which I found he also understood, and
he should serve him as an interpreter. So he was much
better satisfied, and nothing could persuade him but he'
would stay and endeavor to convert them; but Providence
gave another very happy turn to all this.
1 come back now to the—first part of his objections.
When we came to the Englishmen, I sent for them all
together, and after some account given them of what I had
done for them—viz., what necessary things 1 had provided
for them, and how they were distributed, which they wire
very sensible of, and very thankful for, I began to talk to
them of the scandalous life they led, and gave them a full
account of the notice the clergyman had taken of it; and
arguing how unchristian and irreligious a life it was, I first
asked them if they were married men or bachelors? They
soon explained their condition to me, and showed that two
of them were widowers, and the other three were single
men, cr bachelors. I asked them with what conscience
they could take these women, and call them their wives,
and have so many children by them, and not be lawfully
married to them. They all gave me the answer I expected
—viz., that there was nobody to marry them; that they
agreed before the governor to keep them as their wives,
and to maintain them and own them as their wives; and
they thought, as things stood with them, they were as
legally married as if they had been married by a parson
and with all the formalities in the world.
1 told them that no doubt they were married in the sight
of God, and were bound in conscience to keep them as
their wives; but that the laws of men being otherwise, they
might desert the poor women and children hereafter, and
that their wives, being poor desolate women, friendless and
moneyless, would have no way to help themselves. I
therefore told them that unless I was assured of their hon-
est intent, I could do nothing for them, but would take
care that what I did should be for the women and children
without them; and that, unless they would give me some
assurances that they would marry the women, I could not
think it was convenient they should continue together as
man and wife; for that it was both scandalous to men and
offensive to God, who they could not think would bless
them if they went on thus.
All this went on as I expected; and they told me, espe-
cially Will Atkins, who now seemed to speak for the rest,
that they loved their wives as well as if they had been born
in their own native country, and Would not leave them on
any account whatever; and they did verily believe that
their wives were as virtuous and as modest, and did, to the
utmost of their skill, as much for them and for their chil-
dren, as any women could possibly do; and they would not
part with them on any account. Will Atkins, for his own
particular, added, that if any man would take him away,
and offer to carry hitn home to England, and make him
captain of the best man-of-war in the navy, he would not
go with him if he might not carry his wife and children
with him; and if there was a clergyman in the ship, he
would be married to her now with all his heart.
This was just as I would have it. The priest was not
with me at that moment, but was not far off; so to try
him further, 1 told him I had a clergyman with me, and,
if he was sincere, I would have him married next morn-
ing, and bade him consider of it, aud talk with the rest.
He said, as for himself, he need ncrt consider of it at alls
for he was very ready to do it, and was glad I had a min-
ister with me, and he believed they would be all willing
also. I then told him that my friend, the minister, was a
Frenchman, and could not speak English, but I would act
the clerk between them. He never so much as asked me
whether he was a Papist or Protestant, which was, indeed,
what I was afraid of. We then parted, and I went back
to my clergyman, aud Will Atkius went in to talk with
his companions. 1 desired the French gentleman not to
say anything to them till the business was thoroughly ripe;
and I told him what answer the men had given me.
Before 1 went from their quarter they all came to me
and told me they had been considering what I had said;
that they were glad to hear I had a clergyman in my com-
pany, and they were very willing to give me the satisfac-
tion 1 desired, and to be formally married as soon as I
pleased; for they were far from desiring to part with their
wives, and that they meant nothing but what was very
honest when they chose them. So I appointed them to
meet me the next morning; and, in the meantime, they
should let their wives know the meaning of the marriage
law; and that it was not only to prevent any scandal, but
also to oblige them that they should not forsake them,
whatever might happen.
The women were easily made sensible of the meaning of
the thing, and were very well satisfied with it, as, indeed,
they had reason to bo; so they failed not to attend all to-
gether at my apartment next morning, where I brought
out my clergyman; and though he had not on a minister's
gown, after the manner of England, or the habit of a
priest, after the manner of France, yet having a black
vest, something like a cassock, with a sash round it, he did
not look very unlike a minister; and as for his language, 1
was his interpreter. But the seriousness of his behavior to
them, and the scruples he made of marrying the women,
because they were not baptized and professed Christians,
gave them an exceeding reverence for his person; and there
was no need, after that, to inquire whether he was a clergy-
man or not . Indeed, I was afraid his scruples would have
been carried so far as that he would not have married them
at all; nay, notwithstanding all I was able to say to him,
he resisted me, though modestly, yet very steadily, and at
last refused absolutely to marry them, unless he had first
talked with the men and the women too; and though at
first 1 was a little backward to it, yet at last I agreed to it
with a good will, perceiving the sincerity of his design.
When he came to them he let them know that I had ac-
quainted him with their circumstances, and with the pres-
ent design; that he was very willing to perform that part
of his function, and marrv theiij, as I had desired; bat
that before he could do it, he must take the liberty to talk
with them. He told them that in the sight of all indiffer-
ent men, and in the sense of the laws of society, they had
lived all this while in a state of sin; and that it was true
that nothing but the consenting to marry, or effectually
separating them from one another, could now put an end
io it; but there was a difficulty in it, too, with respect to
the laws of Christian matrimony, which he was not fully
satisfied about, that of marrying one that is a professed
Christian to a savage, an idolater, and a heathen—one that
is not baptized; and yet that he did not see that there was
time left to endeavor to persuade the women to be bap-
tized, or to profess the name of Christ, whom they had, he
doubted, heard nothing of, and without which they could
not be baptized. He told them he doubted they were but
indifferent Christians themselves; that they had but little
knowledge of God or of His ways, and, therefore, he
could not expect that they had said much to their wives
on that head yet; but that unless they would promise him
to use their endeavors with their wives to persuade them
to become Christians, and would, as well as they could, in-
struct them in the knowledge and belief of God that made
them, and to worship Jesus Christ that redeemed them, he
could not marry them; for he would have no hand in join-
ing Christians with savages, nor was it consistent with the
principles of the Christian religion, and was, indeed, ex-
pressly forbidden in God's law.
They heard all this very attentively, and I delievered it
very faithfully to them from his mouth, as near his own
words as 1 could; only sometimes adding something of my
own, to convince them how just it was, and that I was of
his mind; and I'always very faithfully distinguished be-
tween what I said from myself and what were the clergy-
man's words. They told me it was very true what the
gentleman said, that they were very indifferent Christians
themselves, and that they had never talked to their wives
about religion. "Lord, sir," says Will Atkins, "how
should we teach them religion? Why, we know nothing
ourselves; and, besides, sir," said he, " should we talk to
them of God and Jesus Christ, and heaven and hell, it
would make them laugh at us, and ask ns what we believe
ourselves. And if we should tell tnem that we believe all
the things we speak of to them, such as of good people go-
ing to heaven, and wicked people to the devil, they would
ask us where we intend to go ourselves, that believe all
this, and are such wicked fellows as we indeed are? Why,,
sir, 'tis enough to give them a surfeit of religion at first
hearing; folks must have some religion themselves before
they begin to teach other people." "Will Atkins," said
1 to him, " though I am afraid that what you say has too^
much truth in it, yet can you not tell your wife she is in
the wrong; that there is a God, and a religion better than
her own; that her gods are idols; that they can neither
hear nor speak; that there is a great Being that made alL
things, and that can destroy all that He has made; that.
He rewards the good and punishes the bad; and that we
are to be judged by Him at last for all we do here? You
are not so ignorant, but even nature itself will teach you
that all this is true; and I am satisfied you know it all to
be true, and believe it yourself." "That is true, mr,"
said Atkins; "but with what face can I say anything to
my wife of all thi», when she will tell me immediately it
can not be true?" "Not true!" said I. "What do you
mean by that?" "Why, sir," said he, "she will tell me
it can not be true that this God I shall tell her of can be
just, or can punish or reward, since I am not punished and
sent to the devil, that have been such a wicked creature as
she knows 1 have been, even to her, and to everybody else;
and that I should be suffered to live, that have been
always acting so contrary to what I must tell her is good,
and to what I ought to have done." "Why, truly, At-
kins," said I, "I am afraid thou speakest too much
truth;" and with that I informed the clergyman of what
Atkins had said, for he was impatient to know. "Oh,"
said the priest, " tell him there is one thing will make
him the best minister,.iu the world to his wife, and that is
repentance; for none teach repentance like true penitents.
He wants nothing but to repent, and then he will be so
much the better qualified to instruct his wife; he will then
be able to tell her that there is not only a God, and that
He is the just rewarder of good and evil, but that He is a
merciful Being, and with infinite goodness and long suffer-
ing forbears to punish those that offend; waiting to be
gracious, and willing not the death of a sinner, but rather
that he should return and live; and even reserves damna-
tion to the general day of retribution; that it is a clear evi-
dence of God and of a future state that righteous men re-
ceive not their reward, or wicked men their punishment,
till they come into another world; and this will lead him
to teach his wife the doctrine of the resurrection and of
the last judgment. Let him but repent himself; he will
be an excellent preacher of repentance to his wife."
I repeated all this to Atkins, who looked very serious all
the while, and, as we could easily perceive, was more than
ordinarily affected with it; when being eager, and hardly
suffering me to make an end, " 1 know all this, master,
says he, " and a great deal more; but 1 have not the im-
pudence to talk thus to my wife, when God and my con-
science know, and my wife will be an undeniable evidence
against me, that I have lived as if I had never heard of a
God or future state, or anything about it; and to talk of
my repenting, alas! (and with that he fetched a deep sigh,
and 1 could see that the tears stood in his eyes) 'tis past
all that with me." "Past it, Atkins!" said I; "what
dost thou mean by that?" "1 know well enough what I
mean," says he; "I mean 'tis too late, and that is too
true."
1 told the clergyman, word for word, what he said, and
this affectionate man could not refrain from tears; but,
recovering himself, said to me, "Ask him but one ques-
tion: Is he easy chat it is too late; or is he troubled, and
wishes it were not so?" I put the question fairly to At-
kins; and he answered, with a great deal of passion, " How
eonld any man be easy in a condition that must certainly
Mid in eternal destruction? that he was far from being
easy; but that, on the contrary, he believed it would one
time or other ruin him." "What do you mean by that?"
said 1. "Why," he said, " he believed he should one time
or other cut his throat, to put an end to the terror of it."
The clergyman shook his head, with great concern in his
face, when I told him all this; but turning quick to me
upon it, says, "If that be his case, we may assure him it
is not too late; Christ will give him repentance. But
pray," says he, "explain this to him; that as no man is
saved but by Christ, ancj the merit of His passion procur-
ing divine mercy for him, how can it be too late for any
man to receive mercy? Does he think he is able to sin be-
yond the power or reach of divine mercy? Pray tell him
there may be a time when provoked mercy will no longer
strive, and when God may refuse to hear, but that it is
never too late for men to ask mercy; and we, that are
Christ's servants, are commanded to preach mercy at all
times, in the name of Jesus Christ, to all those that sin-
cerely repent; so that it is never too late to repent." 'i
I told Atkins all thjs^and he heard me with great ear-
nestness; but it seeinecTas if he turned off the discourse to
the rest, for he said to me he would go and have some talk
with his wife; so he went out awhile, and we talked to the
rest. I perceived they were all stupidly ignorant as to
matters of religion, as much as 1 was when 1 went ram-
bling away from my father; yet there were none of them
backward to hear what had been said; and all of them
seriously promised that they would talk with their wives
about it, and do their endeavors to persuade them to turn
Christians.
The clergyman smiled upon me when 1 reported what
answer thoy gave, but said nothing a good while; but at
last, shaking his head, " We that are Christ's servants,"
says he, "can go no further than to exhort and instruct;
and when men comply, submit to the reproof, and prom-
ise what we ask, 'tis all we can do; we are bound to ac-
cept their good words; but believe me, sir," said he,
"" whatever yon may have known of the life of that man
you call Will Atkins, I believe he is the only sincere con-
vert among them; 1 will not, despair of the rest; but that
man is apparently struck with the sense of his past life,
and I doubt not, when he comes to talk of religion to his,
wife, he will talk himself effectually into it; for attempt-
ing to teach others is sometimes the best way of teaching
ourselves. If that poor Atkins begins but once to talk
seriously of Jesus Christ to his wife, he will assuredly talk
himself into a thorough convert, make himself a penitent,
and who knows what may follow?"
Upon this discourse, however, and their promising, as
above, to endeavor to persuade their wives to embrace
Christianity, he married the two other couple; but Will
Atkins and his wife were not yet come in. After this, my
clergyman, waiting awhile, was curious to know where
Atkins was gone, and turning to me, said: "I entreat
you, sir, let us walk out of your labyrinth here and look;
I dare say we shall find this poor man somewhere or other
talking seriously to his wife, and teaching her already
something of religion." I began to be of the same mind;
so we went out together, and I carried him a way which
none knew but myself, and where the trees were so very
thick that it was not easy to see through the thicket of
leaves, and far harder to see in than to see out; when,
coming to the edge of the wood, 1 saw Atkins and his
tawny wife sitting under the shade of a bush, very eager
in discourse; I stopped short till my clergyman came up
to me, and then having showed him where they were, we
stood and looked very steadily at them a good while. We
observed him very earnest with her, pointing up to the sun,
and to every quarter of .the heavens, and then down to the
earth, then out to the sea, then to himself, then to her,
to the woods, to the trees. "Now," says the clergyman,
"you see my words are made good; the man preaches to
her; mark him now, he is telling her that our God has
made him, her, and the heavens, the earth, the sea, the
woods, the trees, etc." "I believe he is," said I. Im-
mediately we perceived Will Atkins start upon his feet, fall
down on his knees, and lift up both his hands. We sup-
posed he said something, but we could not hear him; it was
too far for that. He did not continue kneeling half a
minute, but comes and sits down again by his wife, and
talks to her again; we perceived then the woman very at-
tentive, but whether she said anything to him we could
not tell. While the poor fellow was upon his knees I
oould see the tears run plentifully down my clergyman's
cheeks, and I oould hardly forbear myself; but it was a
great affliction to us both that we were not near enough to
hear anything that passed between them. Well, however,
we could come no nearer for fear of disturbing them; so
we resolved to see an end of this piece of still conversa-
tion, and it spoke loud enough to us without the help of
voice. He sat down again, as I have said, close by her,
and talked again earnestly to her, and two or three times
we could see him embrace her most passionately; another
time we saw him take out his handkerchief and wipe her
eyes, and then kiss her again with a kind of transport very
unusual; and after several of these things, we saw him on
a sudden jump up again, and lend her his hand to help
her up, when immediately leading her by the hand a step
or two, they both kneeled down together, and continued
so about two minutes.
My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out aloud,
"St. Paul! St. Paul! behold he prayeth." I was afraid
Atkins would tear him, therefore 1 entreated him to with-
hold himself awhile, that we might see an end of the scene,
which to me, I must confess, was the most affecting that
ever 1 saw in my life. Well, lie strove with himself for
awhile, but was in such raptures to think that the poor
heathen woman was become a Christian, that he was not
able to contain himself; he wept several times, then
throwing up hi3 hands and crossing his breast, said over
several things ejaculatory, and by the way of giving God
thanks for so miraculous a testimony of the success of our
endeavors. Some he spoke softly, and I could not well
hear others; some things he said in Latin, some in French;
then two or three times tke tears would interrupt him,
that he could not speak at all; but I begged that he
would contain himself, and let us more narrowly and
fully observe what was before us, which he did for a
time, the scene not being near ended yet; for after the
poor man and his wife were risen again from their knees,
we observed he stood talking still eagerly to her, and we
observed her motion, that she was greatly affected with
what he said, by her frequently lifting up her hands, lay-
ing her hand to her breast, and such other postures as ex-
press the greatest seriousness and attention; this continued
about half a quarter of an hour, and then they walked
away, so we could see no more of them in that situation.
I took this interval to say to the clergyman, first, that I
was glad to see the particulars we had both been witnesses
to; that, though I was hard enough of belief in such cases,
yet that I began to think it was all very sincere here, both
in the man and his wife, however ignorant they might
both be, and 1 hoped such a beginning would yet have a
more happy end. "But, my friend," added 1, " will you
give me leave to start one difficulty here? 1 can not tell
how to object the least thing against that affectionate con-
cern which you show for the turning of the poor people
from their paganism to the Chrstian religion; but how
does this comfort you, while these people are, in your ac-
count, out of the pale of the Catholic Church, without
which you believe there is no salvation? so that you esteem
these but heretics, as effectually lost as the pagans them-
selves."
To this he answered, with abundance of candor, thus:
"Sir, I am a Catholic of the Roman Church, and a priest
of the order of St. Benedict, and I embrace all the prin-
ciples of the Boman faith; but yet, if you will believe me,
and that 1 do not speak in compliment to you, or in re-
spect to my circumstances and your civilities; I say, never-
theless, I do not look upon you, who call yourselves re-
formed, without some charity. I dare not say (though I
know it is our opinion in general) that you can not be
saved; I will by no means limit the mercy of Christ so far
as think that He can not receive you into the bosom of
His Church, in a manner to us unperceivable; and 1 hope
you have the same charity for us; I pray daily for you be-
ing all restored to Christ's Church, by whatsoever method
He, who is all-wise, is pleased to direct. In the mean-
time, surely you will allow it consists with me as a Bomau
to distinguish far between a Protestant and a pagan; be-
tween one that calls on Jesus Christ, though in a way
which I do not think is according to the true faith, and a
savage or a barbarian, that knows no God, no Christ, no
Redeemer; and if you are not within the pale of the Cath-
olic Church, we hope you are nearer being restored to it
than those who know nothing of God or of His Church;
and I rejoice, therefore, when I see this poor man, who
you say has been a profligate, and almost a murderer,
kneel down and pray to Jesus Christ, as we suppose he
did, though not fully enlightened; believing that God,
from whom every such work proceeds, will sensibly touch
his heart, and bring him to the further knowledge of that
truth in His own time; and if God shall influence this poor
man to convert and instruct the ignorant savage, his wife,
I can never believe that he shall be cast away himself.
And have 1 not reason, then, to rejoice, the nearer any are
brought to the knowledge of Christ, though they may not
be brought quite home into the bosom of the Catholic
Church, just at the time when I desire it, leaving it to the
goodness of Christ to perfect His work in His own time,
and in His own way? Certainly, I would rejoice if all the
savages in America were brought, like this poor woman,
to pray to God, though they were all to be Protestants at
first, rather than they should continue pagans or heathens;
firmly believing that He that had bestowed the first light
on them would further illuminate them with a beam of
His heavenly grace, and bring them into the pale of His
Church when He should see good."
SECTION XXXV.
Sincere and Worthy Character of the Priest.—Dialogue with Will
Atkins and Myself.—Conversation Betwixt Atkins and His
Indian Wife on the Subject of Religion.—Her Baptism.—Settle-
ment of the Commonwealth.
I was astonished at the sincerity and temper of this
pious Papist, as much as I was oppressed by the power of
his reasoning; and it presently occurred to my thoughts,
that if such a temper was universal, we might be all Cath-
olic Christians, whatever church or particular profession
we joined in; that a spirit of charity would soon work us
all up into right principles; and as he thought that the
like charity would make us all Catholics, so 1 told him I
believed, had all the members of his church the like
moderation, they would soon all be Protestauts. And
there we left that part; for we never disputed at all.
However, 1 talked to him another way, and taking him by
the hand, " My friend," says I, " I wish ajl the clergy of
the Romish Church were blessed with such moderation,
and had an equal share of your charity. 1 am entirely of
your opinion; but I must tell you that if you should
preach such doctrine in Spain or Italy, they would put
you into the Inquisition." "It may be so," said he; "I
know not what they would do in Spain or Italy, but I will
not say they would be the better Christians for that sever-
ity; for I am sure there is no heresy in abounding with
oharity."
Well, as Will Atkins and his wife were gone, our busi-
ness there was over, so we went back our own way; and
when we came back, we found them waiting to be called
in; observing this, I asked my clergyman if we should dis-
cover to him that we had seen him under the bush or not;
and it was his opinion we should not, but that we should
talk to him first, and hear what he would say to us; so we
called him in alono, nobody being in the place but our-
selves, and I began by asking him some particulars about
his parentage and education. He told me frankly enough
that his father was a clergyman who would have taught
him well, but that he, Will Atkins, despised all instruction
and correction; and by his brutish conduct cut the thread
of all hia father's comforts and shortened his days, for
that he broke his heart by the most ungrateful, unnatural
return for the most affectionate treatment a father ever
gave.
In what he said there seemed so much sincerity of re-
pentance, that it painfully affected me. 1 could not but
reflect that I, too, had shortened the life of a good, tender
father by my bad conduct and obstinate self-will. I was,
indeed, so surprised with what be had told me, that I
thought, instead of my going to teach and instruct him,
the man was made a teacher and instructor to me in a most
unexpected manner.
1 laid all this before the young clergyman, who was
greatly affected with it, and said to me, 'Did I not say,
sir, that when this man was converted he would preach to
us all? I tell you, sir, if this one man be made a true
penitent, there will be no need of me; he will make
Christians of all in the island." But having a little com-
posed myself, I renewed my discourse with Will Atkins.
"But, Will," said I, " how comes the sense of this mat-
ter to touch you just now?"
W. A.—Sir, you have set me about a work that has
struck a dart through my very soui; I have been talking
about God and religion to my wife, in order, as you directed
me, to make a Christian of her, and she has preached such
a sermon to me as I shall never forget while I live.
It C.—No, no, It is not your wife has preached to you;
but when you were moving religious arguments to her,
conscience has flung them back upon you.
W. A.—Ay, sir, with such forue as is not to be resisted.
R. C.—Pray, Will, let us know what passed between
you and your wife', for 1 know something of it already.
W. A.—Sir, it is impossible to give you a full account
of it; I am too full to hold it, and yet have no tongue to
express it; but let her have said what she will, though I
can not give you an account of it, this I can tell you, that
I have resolved to amend and reform my life.
R. C.—But tell us some of it: how did you begin, Will?
For this has been an extraordinary case, that'is certain.
She has preached a sermon, indeed, if she has wrought
this upon you.
W. A.—Why, I first told her the nature of our laws
about marriage, and what the reasons were that men and
women were obliged to enter into sucjufiompacts as it was
neither in the power of one nor other W*reak; that other-
wise, order and justice could not bo maintained, and men
would run from their wives, and abandon their children,
mix confusedly with one another, and neither families bo
kept entire, nor inheritances be settled by legal descent.
R. 0.—You talk like a civilian, Will. Could you make
her understand what you meant by inheritance and fami-
lies? They know no such things among the savages, but
marry anyhow, without regard to relation, consanguinity,
or family; brother and sister, nay, as 1 have been told,
even the father and the daughter, and the son and the
mother.
W. A.—I believe, sir, yon are misinformed, and my
wife assures me of the contrary, and that they abhor it;
perhaps, for any further relations, they may not be so ex-
act as we are; but she tells me never in the near relation-
ship you speak.
R. C.—Well, what did she say to what you told her?
W. A.—She said she liked it very well, as it was much
better than in her country.
R. C.—But did you tell her what marriage was?
W. A.—Ay, ay, there began our dialogue. I asked her
if she would be married to me our way. She asked me
what way that was; I told her marriage was appointed by
God; and here we had a strange talk together, indeed,
m ever man and wife had, I believe.
N. B. —This dialogue between Will Atkins and his wlfv,
which I took down in writing just after he told it me, was
as follows:
Wife.—Appointed by your God! Why, have you a God
in your country?
W. A.—Yes, my dear, God is in every country.
Wife. —No your God in my country; my country have
the great old Benamuckee God.
W. A.—Child, I am very unfit to show you who God is;
God is in heaven, and made the heaven and the earth, the
sea, and all that in them is.
Wife.—No makee de earth; no you God makee all earth;
no makee my country.
Will Atkins laughed a little at her expression of God not
making her country.
Wife.—No laugh; why laugh me? This no ting to
laugh.
[He was justly improved by his wife, for she was more
serious than he at first. ]
W. A.—That's true, indeed: 1 will not laugh any more,
my dear.
Wife.—Why you say you God makee all?
W. A.—Yes, child, our God made the whole world, and
you, and me, and all things; for He is the only true God,
and there is no God but Him; He lives forever in heaven.
Wife.—Why you no tell me long ago?
W. A.—That's true, indeed; but 1 have been a wicked
wretch, and have not only forgotten to acquaint thee with
anything before, but have lived without God in the world
myself.
Wife.—What, have you a great God in your country,
yon no know him? No say oh to Him? No do good ting
for Him? That no possible.
W. A.—It is true; though, for all that, we live as if
there was no God in heaven, or that He had no powsr on
earth.
Wife.—But why God let you do so? Why He no makee
you good live?
W. A.—It is all our own fault.
Wife.—But you say me He is great, much great, have
much great power; can makee kill when He will: why He
no makee kill when you no serve Him? no say oh to Him?
no be good mans?
W. A.—That is true, He might strike me dead; and I
ought to expect it, for I have been a wicked wretch, that
is true; but God is merciful, and does not deal with us as
we deserve.
Wife.—But then do you not tell God thankee for that
too?
W. A.—No, indeed, 1 have not thanked God for His
mercy, any more than I have feared God from His power.
Wife.—Then you God no God; me no tink, believe He
be such one, great much power, strong: no makee kill
you, though you make Him much angry.
W. A.—What, will my wicked life hinder you from be-
lieving in God? What a dreadful creature am I! and
what a sad truth is it, that the horrid lives of Christians
hinder the conversion of heathens!
Wife.—How me tink you have great much God up
there [she points up to heaven], and yet no do well, no
do good ting? Can He tell? Sure He no tell what you
do?
W. A.—Yes, yes, He knows and sees all things; He
hears us speak, sees what we do, knows what we think,
though we do not speak.
Wife.—What! He no hear you curse, swear, speak de
great damu?
VV. A.—Yes, yes, He hears it all.
Wife.—Where be then the much great power strong?
W. A.—He is merciful, that is all we can say for it; and
this proves Him to be the true God; He is God, and not
man, and therefore we are not consumed.
[Here Will Atkins told us he was struck with horror to
think how he could tell his wife so clearly that God sees;'
and hears, and knows the secret thoughts of the heart,
and all that we do, and yet that he had dared to do all the
Yile things he had done.]
Wife.—Merciful! What you call dat?
W. A.—He is our Father and Maker, and He pities and
spares us.
Wife.—So then He never makee kill, never angry when
you do wicked; then He no good Himself, or no great able.
W. A.—Yes, yes, ^ny dear, He is infinitely good and in-
finitely great, and able to punish too; and sometimes, to
show His justice and vengeance, He lets fly His anger to
destroy sinners and make examples; many are cat off in
their sins.
Wife.—But no makee kill yon yet; then He tell you,
maybe, that He no makee you kill: so you makee de bar-
gain with Him, you do bad ting, He no be angry at you
when He be angry at other mans.
W. A.—No, indeed, my sins are all presumptions upon
His goodness; and He would be infinitely just if He de-
stroyed me, as He has done other men.
Wife.—Well, and yet no kill, no makee you dead: what
you say to Him for that? You no tell Him thankee for
all that too?
W. A.—1 am an unthankful, ungrateful dog, that is
true.
Wife.—Why He no makee you much good better? you
say He makee you.
W. A.—He made me as He made all the world: it is I
have deformed myself and abused His goodness, and made
myself an abominable wretch.
Wife.—I wish you makee God know me. I no makee
Him angry—I no do bad wicked ting.
[Here Will Atkins said his heart sunk within him to
hear a poor untaught creature desire to be taught to know
God, and he such a wicked wretch, that he could not say
one word to her about God, but what the reproach of his
own carriage would make most irrational to her to believe;
nay, that already she had told him that she could not be-
lieve in God, because he, that was so wicked, was not de-
stroyed.]
W. A—My dear, you mean, you wish I could teach you
to know God, not God to know you; for He knows you
already, and every thought in your heart.
Wife.—Why, then, He know what I say to you now:
He know me wish to know Him. How shall me know
who makee me?
W. A.—Poor creature, He must teach thee: I cannot
teach thee. I will pray to Him to teach thee to know
Him, and forgive me, that am unworthy to teach thee.
[The poor fellow was in such an agony at her desiring
him to make her know God, and her wishing to know Him,
that he said he fell down on his knees before her, and
prayed to God to enlighten her mind with the saving
knowledge of Jesus Christ and to pardon his sins, and m-
cept of his being the unworthy instrument of instructing
her in the principles of religion: after which he sat down
by her again, and their dialogue went on. This was the
time when we saw him kneel down and hold up his hands.]
-Wife.—What you put down the knee for? What you
hold up the hand for? What you say? Who you speak
to? What is all that?
W. A.—My dear, I bow my knees in token of my sub-
mission to Him that made me: 1 said oh to Him, as you
call it, and as your old men do to their idol Benamuckee;
that, is, 1 prayed to Him.
Wife.—What say you oh to Him for?
W. A.—1 prayed to Him to open your eyes and your
understanding, that you may know Him, and be accepted
by Him.
Wife.—Can He do that too?
W. A.—Yes, He can: He can do all things.
Wife.—But now He hear what you aay?
W. A. —Yes, He has bid us pray to Him, and promised
to hear us.
Wife.—Bid you pray? When He bid you? How He
bid you? Whiit you bear Him speak?
W. A.—.No, we do not hear Him speak; but He has re-
vealed Himself in many ways to us.
[Here he was at a great loss to make her understand
that God has revealed Himself to us by His word, and
what His word was; but at last he told it to her thus:]
W. A.—God has spoken to some good men in.former
days, even from heaven, by plain words; and God has in-
spired good men by His Spirit; and they have written all
His laws down in a book.
Wife.—Me no understand that; where is book?
W. A.—Alas! my poor creature, I have not this book;
but I hope I shall one time or other get it for you, and
help you to read it.
[Here he embraced her with great affection, but with
inexpressible grief that he had not a Bible. J
Wife.—But how you makee me know that God teachee
them to write that book?
W. A.—By the same rule that we know Him to be God.
Wife.—What rule? What way you know Him?
W. A. — Because He teaches and commands nothing but
* hat is good, righteous, and holy, and tends to make ui
Sirfectly good, as well as perfectly happy; and becaus*
e forbids and commands us to avoid all that is wicked,
that is evil in itself, or evil in its consequence.
Wife.—That me would understand, that me fain see; if
He teachee all good thing, He makee all good thing, Ho
give all thing, He hear me when I say oh to Him, as you
do just now; He makee me good if I wish to be good; He
spare me, no makee kill me, when I no be good: all this
you say He do, yet He be great God; me take, think, be-
lieve Him to be great God; me say oh to Him with you,
my dear.
Here the poor man could forbear no longer, but raised
her up, made her kneel by him, and he prayed to God
aloud to instruct her in the knowledge of Himself, by Hi&
Spirit; and that by some good providence, if possible, she
might, some time or other, come to have a Bible, that she
might read the word of God, and be taught by it to know
Him. This was the time that we saw him lift her up by
the hand, and saw him kneel down by her, as above.
They had several other discourses, it seems, after this;
and particularly she made him promise that, since he con-
fessed his own life had been a wicked, abominable course
of provocations against God, that he would reform it, and
not make God angry any more, lest He should make him
dead, as she called it, and then she would be left alone,
and never be taught to know this God better; and lest he
should be miserable, as he had told her wicked men would
be after death.
This was a strange account, and very affecting to Ho
both, but particularly to the young clergyman; he was,
indeed, wonderfully surprised with it, but. under the great
est afflictions imaginable that he couIJ not talk to her,
that he could not speak English to make her understand
him; and as she spoke buc very broken English, be could
not understand her; however, he turned himself to me,
and told me that he believed that there must be more to
do with this woman than to marry her. I did not under-
stand him at first; but at length he explained himself—
viz., that she ought to be baptized. I agreed with him in
that part readily, and wished it to be done present!;;.
"No, no; hold, sir," says he; "though 1 would have her
be baptised, by all meana, for I must observe that Will
Atkins, her husband, has indeed brought her, in a wonder*
fal manner, to be willing to embrace a religious life, and
has given her just ideas of the being of a God; of His
power, justice, aud mercy: yet I desire to know of him if
he has said anything to her of Jesus Christ, and of the
salvation of sinners; of the nature of faith in Him, and
redemption by Him; of the Holy Spirit, the resurrection,
the last judgment, and the future state."
I called Will Atkins again, aud asked him; but the poor
fellow fell immediately into tears, and told us he had said
something to her of all those things, but that he was him-
self so wicked a creature, aud his own conscience so re-
proached him with his horrid, ungodly life, that he trembled
at the apprehensions that the knowledge of him should
lessen the attention she should give to those things, and
make her rather contemn religion than receive it; but he
was assured, ho said, that her mind was so disposed to re-
ceive due impressions of all those things, and that if I
would but discourse with her, she would make it appear to
my satisfaction that my labor would not be lost upon her.
Accordingly I called her in, and placing myself as inter-
preter between my religious priest and the woman, 1 en-
treated him to begin with her; but sure such a sermon was
never preached by a Popish priest in these latter ages of
the world; and as I told him, I thought he had all the
seal, all the knowledge, all the sincerity of a Christian,
without the error of a Roman Catholic; and that 1 took
him to be such a clergyman as the Roman bishops were
before the Church of Rome assumed spiritual sovereignty
over the consciences of men. In a word, he brought the
poor woman to embrace the knowledge of Christ, and of
redemption by Him, not with wonder and astonishment
only, as she did the first notions of a God, but with joy
and faith; with an affection, and a surprising degree of
understanding, scarce to be imagined, much less to be ex-
pressed; and, at her own request, she was baptized.
When ho was preparing to baptize her, I entreated him
that he would perform that office with some caution, that
the man might not perceive he was of the Roman Church,
if possible, because of other ill consequences which might
attend a difference among us in that very religion wLich
we were instructing the other in. He told me that as he
had no consecrated chapel, nor proper things for the
pffioe, I should see he would do it in a manner that I
should not know by it that he was a Roman Catholic my-
self, if I had not known it before; and so he did; for say-
ing only some words over to himself in Latin, which 1
could not understand, he poured a whole dishful of water
upon the woman's head, pronouncing in French, very
loud, " Mary " (which was the name her husband desired
me to give her, for I was her godfather), "1 baptize thee
in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the
Holy Ghost;" so that none could know anything by it
what religion he was of. He gave the benediction after-
ward in Latin, but either Will Atkins did not know but it
ivas Freuch, or else did not take notice of it at that time.
As soon as this was over we married them; and after the
marriage was over, he turned to Will Atkins, and in a very
affectionate manner exhorted him, not only to persevere in
that good disposition he was in, but to support the convic-
tions that were upon him by a resolution to reform his life:
told him it was in vain to say he repented if he did not
forsake his crimes; represented to him how God had hon-
ored him with being the instrument of bringing his wife to
the knowledge of the Christian religion, and that he should
be careful he did not dishonor the grace of God; and that
it he did, he would see the heathen a better Christian than
himself; the savage converted, and the instrument cast
away. He said a great many good things to them both;
and then, recommending them to God's goodness, gave
them the benediction again, 1 repeating everything to them
in English; and thus ended the ceremony. I think it was
the most pleasant and agreeable day to me that ever 1
passed in my whole life. But my clergyman had not done
yet: his thoughts hung continually upon the conversion of
the thirty-seven savages, and fain he would have stayed upon
the island to have undertaken it; but I convinced him,
first, that his undertaking was impracticable in itself; and,
secondly, that perhaps I would put it into a way of being
done in his absence to his satisfaction.
Having thus brought the affairs of the island to a narrow
compass, 1 was preparing to go on board the ship, when
the young man 1 had taken out of the famished ship's
company came to me, and told me he understood I had r
clergyman with me, and that I had caused the Englishmen
to be married to the savages: that he had a match too,
which he desired might be finished before I went, between
two Christians, which he hoped would not be disagreeable
to me.
I knew this must be the young woman who was his
mother's servant, for there was no other Christian woman
on the island: so 1 began to persuade him not to do anything
of that kind rashly, or because he found himself in this
solitary circumstance. I represented to him that he had
some considerable substance in the world, and good
friends, as I understood by himself, and the maid also;
that the maid was not only poor, and a servant, but was un-
equal to him, she being six- or seven-and-twenty years old,
and he not above seventeen or eighteen; that he might
very probably, with my assistance, make a remove from
this wilderness, and come into his own country again; and
that then it would be a thousand to one but he would re-
pent his choice, and the dislike of that circumstance might
be disadvantageous to both. I was going-to say more, But
he interrupted me, smiling, and told me, with a great deal
of modesty, that I mistook in my guesses—that he had
nothing of that kind in his thoughts; and he was very glad
to hear that 1 had an intent of putting them in a way to
see their own country again; and nothing fehould have
made him think of staying there, but that thevoyage I
was going was so exceeding long and hazardous, and would
carry him quite out of the reach of all his friends; that he
had nothing to desire of me but that I would settle him in
some little property in the island where he was, give him
a servant or twri, and some few necessaries, and he would
live here like a planter, waiting the good time when, if
ever I returned to England, I would redeem him. Ho
hoped I would not be unmindful of him when I came t»
England: that he would give me some letters to bis friends
in London, to let them know how good 1 had been to him,
and in what part of the world, and what circumstances 1
had left him in: and he promised me that whenever I re-
deemed him, the plantation, and all the improvements he
had made upon it, let the value be what it would, should
be wholly mine.
His discourse was very prettily delivered, considering his
youth, and was the more agreeable to me, because he told
me positively the match was not for himself. I gave him
all possible assurances that if I lived to come safe to Eng-
land, 1 would deliver his letters, and do his business effect-
ually; and that he might depend 1 shonld never forget th«
circumstances I had left him in; but still 1 was impatient
to know who was the person to be married; npon which he
told me it was my Jack-of-all-trades and his maid Susan.
I was most agreeably surprised when he named the match;
for, indeed, I thought it very suitable. The character of
that man I have given already; and as for the maid, she
was a very honest, modest, sober, and religious young
woman: had a very good share of sense, was agreeable
enough in her person, spoke very handsomely and to the
purpose, always with decency and good manners, and was
neither too backward to speak when requisite, nor imperti-
nently forward when it was not her business; very handy
and housewifely, and an excellent manager; fit, indeed, to
have been governess to the whole island; and she knew
very well how to behave in every respect.
The match being proposed in this manner, we married
them the same day; and as I was father at the altar, and
gave her away, so I gave her a portion; for 1 appointed
her and her husband a handsome large space of ground
for their plantation; and, indeed, this match, and the pro-
posal the young gentleman made to give him a small
property in the island, put me upon parceling it out among
them, that they might not quarrel afterward about their
situation.
This sharing out the land to them 1 left to Will Atkins,
who was now grown a sober, grave, managing fellow, per-
fectly reformed, exceedingly pious and religious; and, ae
far as I may be allowed to speak positively in such a case,
I verily believe he was a true penitent . He divided things
so justly, and so much to every one's satisfaction, that
they only desired one general writing under my hand for
the whole, which I caused to be drawn-tip, and signed and
sealed, setting out the bounds and situation of every man's
plantation, and testifying that 1 gave them thereby sever-
ally a right to the whole possession and inheritance of the
respective plantations or farms, with their improvements,
to them and their heirs, reserving all the rest of the island
as my own property, and a certain rent for every particu-
lar plantation after eleven years, if 1, or any one from me,.
or in my name, came to demand it, producing an attested
copy of the same writing., As to the government and laws
among them, I told them 1 was not capable of giving them
\
bettet rules than tLey were able to give themselves; only I
made them promise me to live in love and good neighbor-
hood with one another; and so 1 prepared to leave them.
One thing I must not omit, and that is, that being now
settled in a kind of common wealth among themselves, and
having much business in hand, it was odd to have seven-
and-thirty Indians live in a nook of the island, independ-
ent, and, indeed, unemployed; for except the providing
themselves food, which they had difficulty enough to do,
sometimes they had no manner of business or property to
manage. 1 proposed, therefore, to the governor Spaniard,
that he should go to them, with Friday s father, aud pro-
pose to them to remove, and either plant for themselves,
or be taken into their several families as servants, to be
maintained for their labor, but without being absolute
slaves; for I would not permit them to make them slaves
by force, by any means; because they, had their liberty
given them by capitulation, as it were, articles of surren-
der, which they ought not to break.
They most willingly embraced the proposal, and came
all very cheerfully along with him: so we allotted them
land and plantations, which three or four accepted of, but
all the rest chose to be employed as servants in the several
families'we had settled. Thus my colony was in a manner
settled as follows: The 'Spaniard spossessed my original
habitation, which was the capital city, and extended their
plantations all along the side of the brook, which made the
creek that 1 have so often described, as far as my bower;
and as they increased their culture, it went always east-
ward. The English lived in the north-east part, where
Will Atkins and his comrades began, and came on south-
ward and south-west, toward the back part of the Span-
iards; and every plantation had a great addition of land to
take in, if they found occasion, so that they need not jostle
one another for want of room. - All the east end of the
island was left uninhabited, that if any of the savages
should come on shore there only for their usual customary
barbarities, they might come and go; if they disturbed no-
body, nobody would disturb them: and no doubt but they
were often ashore, and went away again; for 1 never heard
* that the planters were ever attacked or disturbed any
more.
SECTION XXXVL
I Entertain the Prospect of Converting the Indians.—Amiabie
Character of the Young Woman We Saved, in a Famished
State at Sea.—Her Own Relation of Her Sufferings From
Hunger.—Sail From the Island for the Brazils.—Encounter and
Rout a Whole Fleet of Savages.—Death of Friday.—Arrival at
Brazil.
It now came into my thoughts that I had hinted to my
friend the clergyman that the work of converting the sav-
ages might perhaps be set on. foot in his absence to his
satisfaction, and I told him that now I thought that it was
put in a fair way; for tht savages, being thus divided
among the Christians, if they would but every one of them
do their part with those which came under their hands, 1
hoped it might have a very good effect.
He agreed presently in that, if they did their part.
"But how," says he, "shall we obtain that of them? I
told him we would call them all together, and leave it in
charge with them, or go to them one by one, which he
thought best; so we divided it—he to speak to the Span-
iards, who were all Papists, and 1 to speak to the English,
who were all Protestants; and we recommended it earnest-
ly to them, and made them promise that they would never
make any distinction of Papist or Protestant in their ex-
horting the savages to turn Christians, but teach them the.
general knowledge of the true God, and of their Saviour
Jesus Christ; and they likewise promised us that they
would never have any differences or disputes one with an-
other about religion.
When I came to Will Atkins's house, 1 found there the
young woman I have mentioned above, and Will Atkins's
wife, were become intimates; and this prudent, religious
young woman had perfected the work Will Atkins had be-
gun; and though it was not above four days after what I
have related, yet the new-baptized savage woman was made
such a Christian as I have seldom heard of in all my ob-
servation or conversation in the world. It came next into
my mind in the morning before 1 went to them, that
among all the needful things 1 had to leave with them I
had not left them a Bible, in which I showed myself less
considering for them than my good friend the widow was
for me when she sent me the cargo'of a hundred pounds
from Lisbon, where she packed up three Bibles and a
Prayer-book. However, the good woman's charity had a
greater extent than ever she imagined, for they were re-
served for the comfort and instruction of those that made
mu*h better use of them than I had done.
I took one of the Bibles in my pocket, and when I came
to Will Atkins's.tent, or house, and f oiwd the young wom-
an and Atkins's baptized wife had been discoursing of re-
ligion together—for Will Atkins told it me with a great
ileal of joy—1 asked if they were together now, and he
said, "Yes;" so I went into the house, and he with me,
and we found them together very earnest in discourse.
"Oh, sir," says Will Atkins, " when God has sinners to
reconcile to Himself, and aliens to bring home, He never
wants a messenger; my wife has got a new instructor; 1
knew I was unworthy as I was incapable of that work;
that young woman has been sent hither from heaven—she
is enough to convert a whole island of savages." The
young woman blushed, and rose up to go away, but 1 de-
sired her to sit still; I told her she had a good work upon
her hands, and I hoped God would bless her in it.
We talked a little, and I did not perceive that they had
any hook among them, though I did not ask; but 1 put
my hand into my pocket, and pulled out my Bible.
"Here," said 1 to Atkins, " 1 have brought you an assist-
ant that perhaps you had not before." The man was so
confounded that he was not able to speak for some time;
but, recovering himself, he takes it with both his hands,
and turning to his wife, "Here, my dear," says he, "did
not I tell you our God, though He lives above, could hear
what we have said? Here's the book I prayed for when
you and I kneeled dowu under the bushfnow God has
heard us and sent it." When he had said so, the man fell
into such passionate transports that, between the joy of
having it, and giving God thanks for it, the tears ran
down his face like a child that was crying.
The woman was surprised, and was like to have run into
a mistake that none of us were aware of; for she firmly
believed God had sent the book upon her husband's peti-
tion. It is true that providentially it was so, and might
be taken so in a consequent sense; but I believe it would,
have been no difficult matter at that time to have per-
suaded the poor woman to have believed that an express
messenger came from heaven on purpose to bring that in-
dividual book. But it was too serious a matter to suffer
any delusion to take place, so I turned to the young wom-
an, and told her we did not desire to impose upon the new
convert in her first and more ignorant understanding of
things, and begged her to explain to her that God may be
very properly said, to answer our petitions, when, in the
course of His providence, such things are in a particular
manner brought to pass as we petitioned for; but we did
not expect returns from heaven in a miraculous and par-
ticular manner, and it is a mercy that it is not so.
This the young woman did afterward effectually, so that
there was no priestcraft used here; and I should have
thought it one of the most unjustifiable frauds in the world
to have had it so. But the effect upon Will Atkins is
really not to be expressed, and there we may be sure was
no delusion. Sure no man was ever more thankful in the
world for anything of its kind than he was for the Bible—
nor, I believe, never any man was glad of a Bible from a
better principle; and though he had been a most profligate
creature, headstrong, furious, and desperately wicked, yet
this man is a standing rule to us all for the well instruct-
ing children—viz., that parents should never give over to
teach and instruct, nor ever despair of the success of their
endeavors., let the children be ever so refractory, or to ap-
pearance insensible to instruction; for, if ever God, in His
providence, touches the conscience of such, the force of
their education returns upon them, and the early instruc-
tion of parents is not lost, though it may have been many
years laid asleep, but some time or other they may find the
benefit of it. Thus it was with this poor man; however
ignorant he was of religion and Christian knowledge, he
found he had some to do with now more ignorant than
himself, and that the least part of the instruction of his
good father that now came to his mind was of use to him.
Among the rest, it occurred to him, he said, how his
father used to insist so much on the inexpressible value of
the Bible, and the privilege and blessing of it to nations,
families, and persons; but he never entertained the least
notion of the worth of it till now, when being to talk to
heathens, savages, and barbarians, he Wanted the help of
the written oracle for his assistance. The young woman
was glad of it also for the present occasion, though she had
one, and so had the youth, on board our ship among their
goods, which were not yet brought on shore. And now,
having said so many things of this young woman, I can
not om;t telling one story more of her and myself, which
has something in it very instructive and remarkable.
I have related to what extremity the poor young woman
was redaced; how her mistress was starved to death, and
died on board that unhappy ship we met at sea, and how
the whole ship's company was reduced to the last ex-
tremity. The gentlewoman, and her son, and this maid
were first hardly used as to provisions, and at last totally
neglected and starved—that is to say, brought to the last
extremity of hunger. One day, being discoursing with her
on the extremities they suffered, I asked her if she could
describe, by what she had felt, what it was to starve, and
how it appeared? She said she believed she could, and
told her tale very distinctly, thus:
"First, we had for some days fared exceedingly hard,
and suffered very great hunger; but at last we were wholly
without food of any kind except sugar, and a little wine
and water. The first day after 1 had received no food at
all, 1 found myself, toward evening, empty and sick at
the stomach, and nearer night much inclined to yawning
aud sleep. 1 lay down on the couch in the great cabin to
sleep, and slept about three hours, and awaked a little re-
freshed, having taken a glass of wine when I lay down;
after being about three hours awake, it being about five
o'clock in the morning, I found myself empty, and ray
stomach sickish, and lay down again, but could not slecr
at all, being very faint and ill; and thus 1 continued a.l
the second day with a strange variety—first hungry, the:i
sick again, with retchings to vomit. The second nigh%
being obliged to go to bed again without any food more
than a draught of fresh water, and being asleep, I dreamed
I was at Barbadoes, aud that the market was mightily
stocked with provisions; that I bought some for my mis-
tress, and went and dined heartily. I thought my stomach
was full after this, as it would have been after a good din-
ner; but wheti I awaked I was exceedingly sunk in my
spirits to find myself in the extremity of famine. The last
glass of wine we had I drunk, and put sugar in it, because
of its having some spirit to supply nourishment; but there
being no substance in the stomach for the digesting office
to work upon, 1 found the only effect of the wine was to
raise disagreeable fumes from the stomach into the head;
and 1 lay, as they told me, stupid and senseless, as one
drunk, for some time. The third day, in the morning,
after a night of strange, confused, and inconsistent dreams,
and rather dozing than sleeping, 1 awaked ravenous and
furious with hunger; and I question, had not my under-
standing returned and conquered it, whether if I had been
a mother, and had had a little child with me, its life would
have been safe or not. This lasted about three hours,
during which time I was twice raging mad as any creature
in Bedlam, as my young master told me, and as he can
now inform you.'
"In one of these fits of lunacy or distraction I fell
down and struck my face against the corner of a pallet-
bed, in which my mistress lay, and with the blow the blood
gushed out of my nose; and the cabin-boy bringing me a
little basin, 1 sat down and bled into it a great deal; and
as the blood came from me I came to myself, and the vio-
lence of the flame or fever 1 was in abated, and so did the
ravenous part of the hunger. Then 1 grew sick, and
retched to vomit, but could not, for I had nothing in my
stomach to bring up. After I had bled some time I
swooned, and they all believed I was dead; but I catne to
myself soon after, and then had a most dreadful pain in
my stomach not to be described—not like the colic, but a
gnawing, eager pain for food; and toward night it went
off with a kind of earnest wishing or longing for food. I
took another draught of water with sugar in it; but my
stomach loathed the sugar and brought it all up again:
then 1 took a draught of water without sugar, and that
stayed with me; and I lay me down upon the bed, pray-
ing most heartily that it would please God to take me
away; and composing my mind in hopes of it, I slumbered
awhile, and then waking, thought myself dying, being
light with vapors from an empty stomach. T recommend-
ed my soul then to God, and then earnestly wished that
somebody would throw me into the sea.
"All this while my mistress lay by me, just, as I
thought, expiring, but ohe bore it with much more pa-
tience than I, and gave the last bit of bread she had left to
her child, my young master, who would not have taken it,
but she obliged him to eat it; and 1 believe it saved his
life. Toward the morning 1 slept again, and when I
awoke I fell into a violent passion of crying, and after that
had a second fit of violent hunger. I got up ravenous,
and in a most dreadful condition; and once or twice 1 was
going to bite my own arm. At last I saw the basin in
which was the blood I had bled at my nose the day before;
I ran to it, and swallowed it with such haste, and such a
greedy appetite, as if I wondered nobody had taken it be-
fore, and afraid it should be taken from me now. After
it was down, though the thoughts of it filled me with hor-
ror, yet it checked the fit of hunger, and I took another
draught of water, and was composed and refreshed for
some hours after. This was the fourth day; and thus I
kept up till toward night, when, within the compass of
three hours, 1 had all the several circumstances over again,
one after another—viz., sick, sleepy, eagerly hungry, pain
in the stomach, then ravenous again, then sick, then luna-
tic, then crying, then ravenous again, and so every quarter
of an hour, and my strength wasted exceedingly; at night
I lay me down, having no comfort but in the hope that I
should die before morning.
"All this night I had no sleep; but the hunger was now
turned into a disease; and I had a terrible colic and grip-
ing, by wind instead of food having found its way into the
bowels; and in this condition I lay till morning, when I
was surprised by the cries and lamentations of my young
master, who called out to me that his mother was dead. I
lifted myself up a little, for I had not strength to rise, but
found she was not dead, though she was able to give very
little signs of life. I had then such convulsions in my
stomach, for want of some sustenance, as I can not de-
scribe; with such frequent throes and pangs of appetite as
nothing but the tortures of death can imitate; and in this
condition 1 was when 1 heard the seamen above cry out,
'A sail! a sail!' and halloo and jump about as if they
were distracted. I was not able to get off from the bed,
and my mistress much less; and my young master was so
sick that 1 thought he had been expiring; so we could not
open the cabin door, or get any account what it was that
occasioned such confusion; nor had we had any conversa-
tion with the ship's company for twelve days, they having
told us that they had net a mouthful of anything to eat in
the ship; and this they told us afterward—they thought
we had been dead. It was this dreadful condition we were
in when you were sent to save our lives; and how you
found us, sir, you know as well as I, and better too."
This was her own relation, and is such a distinct account
of starving to death, as, I confess, I never met with, and
was exceeding instructive to me. I am the rather apt to
believe it to be a true account, because the youth gave me
an account of a good part of it; though 1 must own, not
so distinct and so feeling as the maid; and the rather, be-
cause it seems his mother fed him at the price of her own
life; but the poor maid, whose constitution was stronger
than that of her mistress, who was in years, and a weakly
woman too, might struggle harder with it; nevertheless,
she might be supposed to feel the extremity something
sooner than her mistress, who might be allowed to keep
the last bit something longer than she parted with any tfl,
relieve her maid. No question, as the case is here related,
if our ship or some other had not so providentially met
them, but a few days more would have ended all then
lives. 1 now return to my disposition of things among the
people. And, first, it is to be observed here, that for many
reasons I did not think fit to let them know anything ot
the sloop I had framed, and which I thought of setting up
among them; for I found, at least at my first coming,
such seeds of division among them that I saw plainly, had i
set up the sloop, and left it among them, they would, upon
every light disgust, have separated, and gone away from one
another; or perhaps have turned pirates, and so made the
island a den of thieves, instead of a plantation of sober
and religious people, as I intended it; nor did I leave the
two pieces of brass cannon that 1 had on board, or the ex-
tra two quarter-deck guns that my nephew had provided,
for the same reason. I thought it was enough to qualify
them for a defensive war against any that should invade
them, but not to set them up for an offensive war, or to
go abroad to attack others; which, in theend, would only
bring ruin and destruction upon them. I reserved the
sloop, therefore, and the guns, for their service another
way, as I shall observe in its place.
Having now done with the island, I left them all in
good circumstances and in a flourishing condition, and
went on board my ship again on the 6th of May, having
been about twenty-five days among them; and as they were
all resolved to stay upon the island till 1 came to remove
them, I promised to send them further relief from the
Brazils, it 1 could possibly find an opportunity. I particu-
larly promised to send them some cattle, such as sheep,
hogs, and cows; as to the two cows and calves which I
brought from England, we had been obliged, by the length
of our voyage, to kill them at sea, for want of hay to feedj
them. S
The next day, giving them a salute of five guns at part-]
ing, we set sail, and arrived at the bay of All Saints in the)
Brazils in about twenty-two days, meeting nothing remark-
able in our passage but this: that about three days after
we had sailed, being becalmed, and the current setting
strong to the E.N.E., running, as it were, into a bay or
gulf on the land side, we were driven something out of our
course, and once or twice our men cried out, "Land to
the eastward!" but whether it was the continent or islands
we could not tell by any means. But the third day,
toward evening, the sea smooth, and the weather calm, we
saw the sea, as it were, covered toward the land with some-
thing very black; not being able to discover what it was,
till after some time, our chief mate, going up the main-
shrouds a little way, and looking at them with a perspect-
ive, cried out it was an army. I could not imagine what
ho meant by an army, and thwarted him a little hastily.
." Nay, sir," says he, "don't be angry, for 'tis an army,
and a fleet too: for I believe there are a thousand canoes,
and you may see them paddle along, for they are coming
toward us apace."
I was a little surprised then, indeed, and so was my
nephew the captain; for he had heard such terrible stones
of them in the island, and having never been in those seas
before, that he could not tell what to think of it, but said,
two or three times, we should all be devoured. 1 must
confess, considering we were becalmed, and the current set
strong toward the shore, 1 liked it the worst; however, I
bade them not be afraid, but bring the ship to an anchor
as soon as we came so near as to know that wo must en-
gage them. The weather continued calm, and they came
on apace toward us, so I gave orders to come to an anchor,
and furl all our sails; as for the savages, I told Muni they
had nothing to fear but fire, and therefore they should get
their boats out, and fasten them, one close by the head
and the other by the stern, and man them both well, and
wait the issue in that posture: this I did, that the men in
the boats might be ready with sheets and buckets to put
out any fire these savages might endeavor to fix to the out-
side of the ship.
, In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little while
they came np with us; but never was such a horrid sight
seen by Christians; though my mate was much mistaken
in his calculation of their number, yet when they came up
we reckoned about a hundred and twenty-six canoes; some
of them had sixteen or seventeen men in them, and some
more, and the least six or seven. When they came nearer
to us, they seemed to be struck with wonder and astonish-
ment, as at a sight which doubtless they had never seen
before; nor could they at first, as we afterward understood,
know what to make of us; they came boldly up, however,
very near to us, and seemed to go about to row round us;
but we called to our men in the boats not to let them come
too near them. This very order brought us to an engage-
ment with them, without our designing it; for bve or six
of the large canoes came so near our long-boat, that our
men beckoned with their hands to keep them back, which
they understood very well, and went back: but at their re-
treat about fifty arrows came on board us from those
boats, and one of our men in the long-boat was very much
wounded. However, 1 called to them not to fire by any
means; but we handed down some deal boards into the
boat, and the carpenter presently set up a kind of fence,
like waste boards, to cover them from the arrows of the
savages, if they should shoot again.
About half an hour afterward they all came up in a body
astern of us, and so near that we could easily discern what
they were, though we could not tell their design; and I
easily found they were some of my old friends, the same
sort of savages that I had been used to engage with. In a
short time more they rowed a little further out to sea, till
they camo directly broadside with us, and then rowed down
straight upon us, till they came so near that they could
hear us speak; upon this, I ordered all my men to keep
close, lest they should shoot any more arrows, and made
all oar guns ready; but being so near as to be within hear-
ing, I made Friday go out upon the deck, and call out
aloud to them in his language, to know what they meant.
Whether they understood him or not; that 1 knew not; but
as soon as he had called to them, six of them, who were in
the foremost or nighest boat to us, turned their canoes
from us, and stooping down, showed us their naked backs;
whether this was a defiance or challenge we knew not, or
whether it was done in mere contempt, or as a signal to
the rest; but immediately Friday cried out they were going
to shoot, and, unhappily for him, poor fellow, they let-fly
about three hundred of their arrows, and, to my inexpress-
ible grief, killed poor Friday, no other man being in their
sight. The poor fellow was shot with no less than three
arrows, and about three more fell very near him; such un-
lucky marksmen they were!
1 was so annoyed at the loss of my old trusty servant
and companion, that I immediately ordered five guns to
be loaded with small shot, and four with great, and gave
them such a broadside as they had never heard in their
lives before. They were not above half a cable's length
off when we fired; and our gunners took their aim so well,
that three or four of their canoes were overset, as we had
reason to believe, by one shot only. The ill manners of
turning up their bare backs to us gave us no great offense;
neither did 1 know for certain whether that which would
pass for the greatest contempt among us might be under-
stood so by them or not; therefore, in return, I had only
resolved to have fired four or five guns at them with
powder only, which I knew would frighten them suffi-
ciently: but when they shot at us directly with all the fury
they were capable of, and especially as they had killed my
poor Friday, whom I so entirely loved and valued, and
who, indeed, so well deserved it, I thought myself not only
justifiable before God and man, but would have been very
glad if I could have overset every canoe there, and drowned
every one of them.
I can neither tell how many we killed nor how many we
wounded at this broadside, but sure such a fright and hurry
never were seen among such a multitude; there were
thirteen or fourteen of their canoes split and overset in all,
and the men all set a-swimming: the rest, frightened out
of their wits, scoured away as fast as they could, taking
but little care to save those whose boats were split or spoiled
with our shot; so 1 suppose that many of them were lost;
and our men took up one poor fellow swimming for his
life, above an hour after they were all gone. The small
shot from our cannon must needs kill and wound a great
many; but, in short, we never knew how it went with
them, for they fled so fast, that in three hours or there-
abouts we could not see above three or four straggling
canoes, nor did we ever see the rest any more; for a
breeze of wind springing up the same evening, we weighed,
and set sail for the Brazils.
We had a prisoner, indeed, but the creature was so sullen
that he would neither eat nor speak, and we all fancied he
would starve himself to death. But 1 took a way to cure
him: fori had made them take him and turn him into the
long-boat, and make him believe they would toss him into
the sea again, and so leave him where they found him, if
he would not speak; nor would that do, but they really
did throw him into the sea, and came away from him.
Then he followed them, for he swam like a cork, and called
to them in his tongue, though they knew not one word of
what he said; however, at last they took him in again, and
then he began to be more tractable: nor did I ever design
they should drown him.
We were now under sail again, but 1 was the most dis-
consolate creature alive for want of my man Friday, and
would have been very glad to have gone back to the island,
to have taken one of the rest from thence for my occasion,
but it could not be: so we went on. We had one prisoner,
as I have said, and it was a long time before we could
make him understand anything, but, in time, our men
taught him some English, and he began to be a little tract-
able. Afterward, we inquired what country he came
from; but could make nothing of what he said; for his
speech was so odd, all gutturals, and he spoke in the throat
in such a hollow, odd manner that we could never form
a word after him; and we were all of opinion that they
might speak that language as well if they were gagged as
otherwise; nor could we perceive that they had any occa-
sion either for teeth, tongue, lips, or palate, but formed
their words just as a hunting-horn forms a tune, with an
open throat. He told us, however, some time after, when
we had taught him to speak a little Jhglish, that they
were going with their kings to fight a great battle. When
he said kings, we asked bim how many kings? He said
they were five nation (we could not make him understand
the plural 's), and that they all joined to go against two
nation. We asked him what made them come "up to us.
He said, "To makee te great wonder look." Here it is
to be observed that all those natives, as also those of
Africa, when they learn English, always add two e's at the
end of the words where we use one; and they place the
accent upon them, as makee, takee, and the like; nay, I
could hardly make Friday leave it off, though at last he did.
And now I name the poor fellow once more, 1 must take
my last leave of him. Poor honest Friday.' We buried
him with all the decency and solemnity possible, by putting
him into a coffin, and throwing him into the sea; and I
caused them to fire eleven guns for him. So ended the life
of the most grateful, faithful, honest, and most affection-
ate servant that ever man had.
We went now away with a fair wind for Brazil; and in
about twelve days' time we made land, in the latitude of
five degrees south of the line, being the north-easternmost
land of all that part of America. We kept on S. by E.,
in sight ofj the shore four days, when we made Cape St.
Augustine, and in three days came to an anchor off the
bay of All Saints, the old place of my deliverance, from
whence came both my good and evil fate. Never ship came
to this port that had less business than 1 had, and yet it
was with great difficulty that we were admitted to hold the
least correspondence on shore: not my partner himself,
who was alive, and made a great figure among them, not
my two merchant trustees, not the fame of my wonderful
preservation in the island, could'obtain me that favor. My
partner, however, remembering that 1 had given five hun-
dred moidores to the prior of the monastery of the Augus-
tines, and two hundred and seventy-two to the poor, went
to the monastery, and obliged the prior that then was to
go to the governor, and get leave for me personally, with
the captain and one more, besides eight seamen, to come
on shore, and no more; and this upon condition, absolutely
capitulated for, that we should not offer to land any goods
out of the ship, or to carry any person away without
license. They were so strict with us as to landing any
goods, that it was with extreme difficulty that 1 got on
shore three bales of English goods, such as fine broad-
cloths, stuffs, and some linen, which 1 had brought for a
present to my partner.
He was a very generous, open-hearted man, although he
began, like me, with little at first. Though he knew not
that I had the least design of giving him anything, he sent
me on board a present of fresh provisions, wine, and sweet-
meats, worth about thirty moidores, including some
tobacco, and three or four fine medals of gold: but I was
even with him in my present, which, as 1 have said, con-
sisted of fine broadcloth, English stuls, lace, and fine
holland; also, I delivered him about the value of one hun-
dred pounds sterling in the same goods, for other uses;
and I obliged him to set up the sloop, which I had brought
with me from England, as 1 have said, for the use of my
colony, in order to send the refreshments I intended to my
plantation.
Accordingly, he got hands, and finished the sloop in a
very few days, for she was already framed; and I gave the
master of her such instructions that he could not miss the
place; nor did he, as I had an account from my partner
afterward. I got him soon loaded with the small cargo I
sent them; and one of our seamen, that had been on shore
'with me there, offered to go with the sloop and settle there,
upon my letter to the governor Spaniard to allot him a
sufficient quantity of land for a plantation, and on my giv-
ing him some clothes and tools for his planting work,
which he said he understood, having been an old planter
at Maryland, and a buccaneer into the bargain. I encourv
aged the fellow by granting all he desired; and, as an
addition, 1 gave him the savage whom we had taken pris-
oner of war to be his slave, and ordered the governor Span-
iard to give him his share of everything he wanted with
the rest.
When we came to fit this man out, my old partner told
me there was a certain very honest fellow, a Brazil plauter-
of this acquaintance, who had fallen into the displeasure
of the church. "I know not what the matter is with
him," says he, "but, on my conscience, I think he is a
heretic in his heart, and he has been obliged to conceal
himself for fear of the Inquisition." He then told me
that he would be very glad of such an opportunity to make
his escape, with his wife and two daughters; and if I would
let them go to my island, aud allot them a plantation, he
would give them a small stock to begin with—for the
officers of the Inquisition had seized all his effects and
estate^ and he had nothing left but a little household stuff
and two slaves; "and," adds he, "though I hate his
principles, yet 1 would not have him fall into their hands,
for he will be assuredly burned alive if he does." 1
granted this presently, and joined my Englishman with
them: and we concealed the man, and his wife and daugh-
ters, on board our ship, till the sloop put out to go to sea;
and then having put all their goods on board some time
before, we put them on board the sloop after she was got
out of the bay. Our seaman was mightly pleased with this
new partner; and their stocks, indeed, were much alike,
rich in tools, in preparations, and a farm—but nothing to
begin with, except as above: however, they carried over
with them what was worth all the rest, some materials for
planting sugar-canes, with soma plants of canes, which he,
I mean the Brazil'planter, understood very well.
Among the rest of the supplies sent to my tenants in the
island, I sent them by the sloop three milch cows and five
calves, about twenty-two hogs, among them three sows,
two mares, and a stone-horse. For my Spaniards, ac-
cording to my promise, I engaged three Brazil women to
go, and recommended it to tbem to marry them, and use
them kindly. 1 could have procured more women, but I
remembered that the poor persecuted man had two daugh-
ters, and that there were but five of the Spaniards that
wanted partners—the rest had wives of their own, though
in another country. All this cargo arrived safely, and,
as you may easily suppose, was very welcome to my old in-
habitants, who were now, with this addition, between sixty
and seventy people, besides little children, of which there
were a great many. I found letters at London from them
all, by way of Lisbon, when I came back to England.
1 have now done with the island, and all manner of dis-
course about it: and whoever reads the rest of my memo-
randums would do well to turn his thoughts entirely from
it, and expect to read of the follies of an old man, not
warned by his own harms, much less by those of other
men, to beware; not cooled by almost forty years' miseries
and disappointments—not satisfied with prosperity beyond
expectation, nor made cautious by afflictions and distress
beyond example. •"
SECTION xxxvir.
i Bispateh a Number of Additional Recruits, and a Quantity of
Extra Stores, to the Island, and Take My Leave of it Forever.—I
Determine to go with the Ship to the East Indies.—Arrive at
Madagascar.—Dreadful Occurrences There.
I had no more business to go to the East Indies than a
man at full liberty has to go to the turnkey at Newgate,
and desire him to lock him up among the prisoners there,
and starve him. Had I taken a small vessel from England
and gone directly to the island; had 1 loaded her, as I did
the other vessel, with all the necessaries for the plantation,
and for my people; taken a patent from the government
here to have secured my •property,, in subjection only to
that of England; had I carried over cannon and am-
munition, servants and people to plant, and taken pos-
session of the place, fortified and strengthened it in the
name of England, and increased it with people, as I might
easily have done; had 1 then settled myself there, and sent
the ship back laden with good rice, as I might also have
done in six months' time, and ordered my friends to have
fitted her out again for our supply—had 1 done this, and
stayed there myself, I had at least acted like a man of
common sense.' But I was possessed of a wandering spirit,
and scorned all advantages: I pleased myself with being
the patron of the people I placed there, and doing for them
in a kind of haughty, majestic way, like an old patriarchal
monarch, providing for them as if 1 had been father of the
whole family, as well as of the plantation. But 1 never so
much as pretended to plant in the name of any govern-
ment or nation, or to acknowledge any prince, or to call
my people subjects to any one nation more than another:
nay, I never so much as gave the place a name, but left it
as I found it, belonging to nobody, and the people under
no discipline or government but my own, who, though I
had influence over them as a father and benefactor, had no
authority or power to act or command one way or other,
further than voluntary consent moved them to comply.
Yet even this, had I stayed there, would have done well
enough; but as I rambled from them, and came there no
more, the last letters 1 had from any of them were by my
partner's means, who afterward sent another sloop to the
plaoe, and who sent me word, though I had not the letter
till I got to London, several years after it was written, that
they went on but poorly, were discontented with their long
stay there: that Will Atkins was dead, that five of the
Spaniards were come away; and though they had not been
much molested by the savages, yet they had had some
skirmishes with them; and that they begged of him to
write to me to think of the promise I had made to fetch
them away, that they might see their country again before
they died.
But I was gone a wild-goose chase, indeed! and they
that will have any more of me must be content to follow
me into a new variety of follies, hardships, and wild ad-
ventures, wherein the justice of Providence may be duly
observed; and we may see how easily Heaven can gorge us
with our own desires, make the strongest of our wishes
be onr affliction, and punish us most severely with those
'very things which we think it would be our utmost happi-
ness to be allowed to possess. Whether I had business or
no business, away I went: it is no time now to enlarge
upon the reason or absurdity of my own conduct, but to
come to the history—I was embarked for the voyage, and
the voyage 1 went.
I shall only add a word or two concerning my honest
Popish clergyman—for let their opinion of us, and all
other heretics in general, as they call us, be as uncharitable
as it may, 1 verily believe this man was very sincere, and
wished the good of ail men: yet I believe he used reserve
in many of his expressions, to prevent giving me offense;
for I scarce heard him once call on the Blessed Virgin, or
mention St. Jago, or his guardian angel, though so com-
mon with the rest of them. However, 1 say 1 had not the
least doubt of his sincerity and pious intentions: and I am
firmly of opinion, if the rest of the Popish missionaries
were like him, they would strive to visit even the*poor
Tartars and Laplanders, where they have nothing to give
them, as well as covet to flock to India, Persia, China,
etc., the most wealthy of the heathen countries; for if they
expected to bring no gains to their church by it, it may
well be admired how they came to admit the Chinese Con'
f ucins into the calendar of the Christian saints.
A ship being ready to sail for Lisbon, my pious priest
asked me leave to go. thither; being still, as he observed,
bound never to finish any voyage he began. How happy
it had been for me if 1 had gone with him. But it was
too late now; all things Heaven appoints for the best: had
I gone with him I had never had so many things to be
thankful for, and the reader had never heard of the SBeond
part of the travels and adventures of Robinson Crusoe: so
I must here leave exclaiming at myself, and go on with my
voyage. From the Brazils we made directly over the
Atlantic Sea to the Cape of Good Hope, and had a toler-
ably good voyage, our course generally south-east, now and
then a storm, and some contrary winds; but my disasters
at sea were at an end—my future rubs and cross events
were to befall me on shore, that it might appear the land
was as well prepared to be our scourge as the sea.
-Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had a supercargo
on board, who was to direct all her motions after she
arrived at the Cape, only being limited to a certain number
of days for stay, by charter-party, at the several ports
she was to go to. This was none of my business, neither
did I meddle with it; my nephew, the captain, and the
supercargo adjusting all those things between them as they
thought fit. We stayed at the Cape no longer than was
needful to take in fresh water, but made the best of our
way for the coast of Coromaudel. We were indeed in-
formed that a French man-of-war, of fifty guns, and two
large merchant ships, were gone for the Indies; and as 1
knew we were at war with France, I had some apprehen-
sions of them; but they went their own way, and we heard
no more them.
I shall not pester, the reader with a tedious description of
places, journals of our voyage, variations of the compass,
latitudes, trade-winds, etc.; it is enough to name the ports
and places which we touched at, and what occurred to ns
upon our passage from one to another. We touched first at
the island of Madagascar, where, though the people are
fierce and treacherous, and very well armed with lances
and bows,"which they use with inconceivable dexterity, yet
we fared very well with them awhile. They treated us
very civilly; and for some trifles which we gave them, such
as knives, scissors, etc., they brought us eleven good fat
bullocks, of a middling size, which we took in, partly for
fresh provisions for our present spending, and the rest to
salt for the ship's use.
We were obliged to stay here .some time after we had fur-
nished ourselves with provisions; and I, who was always
too curious to look into every nook of the world wherever I
came, went on shore as often as 1 could. It was on the
east side of the island that we went on shore one evening:
and the people, who, by the way. are very numerous, came
thronging about us, and stood gazing at us at a distance.
As we had traded freely with them, and had been kindly
used, we thought ourselves in no danger; but when we saw
the people, we cut three boughs out of a tree, and stuck
them up at a distance from us; which, it seems, is a mark
in that country not only of a truce and friendship, but when
it is accepted the other side set up three poles or boughs,
which is a signal that they accept the truce too; but then
this is a known condition of the truce, that you are not to
pass beyond their three poles toward them, nor they to
come past your three poles or boughs toward you; so that
you are perfectly secure within the three poles, and all the
space between your poles and theirs is allowed like a mar-
ket for free converse, traffic, and commerce. When you
go there you must not carry your weapons with you; and
if they come into that space they stick up their javelins
and lances all at the first poles, and conie on unarmed;
but if any violence is offered them, and the truce thereby
broken, away they run to the poles, and lay held of their
weapons, and the truce is at an end.
It happened one evening, when we went on shore, that
a greater number of their people came down than usual,
but all very friendly and civil; and they brought several
kinds of provisions, for which we satisfied them with such
toys as we had; the women also brought us milk and roots,
and several things very acceptable to us, and all was quiet;
and we made us a little tent or hut of some boughs or
trees, and lay on shore all. night. I know not what was
the occasion, but 1 was not so well satisfied to lie on shore
as the rest; and the boat riding at an anchor at about
a stone's cast from the land, with two men in her to take
care of her, 1 made one of them come on shore; and get-
ting some boughs of trees to cover us also in the boat, I
spread the sail on the bottom of the boat, and lay under
the cover of the branches of the trees all night in the boat.
About two o'clock in„ihe morning we neard one of our
men making a terrible noise on the shore, calling out, for
God's sake, to bring the boat in, and come and help them,
for they were all like to be murdered; at the same time I
heard the fire of five muskets, which was the number of
gun* they had, and that three times over; for it seems the
natives here were not so easily frightened with guns as the
savages were in America, where I had to do with them.
. All this while 1 knew not what was the matter, but rous-
ing immediately from sleep with the noise, I caused the
boat to be thrust in, and resolved, with three fusees we had
on board, to land and assist our men. We got the boat
soon to the shore, but our men were in too much haste;
for being come to the shore, they plunged, into the water,
to get to the boat with all the expedition they could, being
pursued by between three and four kundred men. Our
men were but nine in all, and only five of them had fusees
with them; the rest had pistols and swords, indeed, but
they were of small use to them.
We took up seven of our men, and with difficulty
enough too, three of them being very ill wounded; and
that which was still worse was, that while we stood in the
boat to take our men in, we were in as much danger as
they were in on shore; for they poured their arrows in
upon us so thick that we were glad to barricade the side of
the boat up with the branches, and two or three loose
boards, which, to our great satisfaction, we had by mere
accident in the boat. And yet, had it been daylight, they
are, it seems, such exact marksmen, that if they could
have seen but the least part of any of us, they would have
been sure of us. We had, by the light of the moon, a
little sight of them, as they stood pelting us from the shore
with darts and arrows; and having got ready our fire-arms,,
we gave them a volley, that we could heari by the cries of
some of them, had wounded several; however, they stood
thus in battle array on the shore till break ef day, which
we supposed was that they might see the better to taket
their aim at us.
In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to weigh
our anchor, or set up our sail, because we must needs stand
up in the boat, and they were as sure to hit us as we were.
to hit a bird in a tree with small shot. We made signals
of distress to the ship, and though she rode a league off,
yet my nephew, the captain, hearing our firing, and by
glasses perceiving the posture we lay in, and that we fired
toward the shore, pretty well understood us; and weighing
anchor with all speed, he stood as near the shore as he
durst with the ship, and then sent another boat, with ten
hands inJ»3r, to assist us. We called to them hot to come
too near, telling them what condition wo were in; however,
they stood in near to us, and one of the men taking the
end of a tow-line in his hand, and keeping one boat be-
tween him and the enemy, so that they could not perfectly
see him, swam on board us, and made fast the line to the
boat: upon which we slipped out a little cable, and leaving
our anchor behind, they towed us out of reach of the
arrows; we all the while lying close behind the barricado
we had made. As soon as we were got from between the
ship and the shore, that we could lay her side to the shore,
she ran along just by them, and poured in a broadside
among them, loaded with pieces of iron and lead, small
bullets, and such stuff, besides the great shot, which made
a terrible havoc among them.
When we were got on board, and out of danger, we had
time to examine into the occasion of this fray; and, indeed,
our supercargo, who had been often in those parts, put me
upon it; for he said he was sure the inhabitants would not
have touched us after we had made a truce, if we had not
done something to provoke them to it. At length it came
out that an old woman, who had come to sell us some
milk, had brought it within our poles, and a young woman
with her, who also brought some roots or herbs; and while
the old womau (whether she was mother to the young
woman or no they could not tell) was selling us the milk,
one of our men offered some rudeness to the girl that was
with her, at which the old woman made a great noise:
however, the seaman would not quit his prize, but carried
her out of the old woman's sight among the trees, it being
almost dark; the old woman went away without her, and,
as we may suppose, made an outcry among the people she
came from; who, upon notice, raised that great army upon
us in three or four hours, and it was great odds but we
had all been destroyed.
One of our men was killed with a lance thrown at him
just at the beginning of the attack, as he sallied out of the
tent they had made; the rest came off free, all but the
fellow who was the occasion of all the mischief, who paid
dear enough for his brutality, for we could not hear what
became of him for a great while. We lay upon the shore
two days after, though the wind presented, and made sig-
nals for him, and made our boat sail up shore and down
shore several leagues, but in vain; so we were obliged to
give him over; and if he alone had suffered for it, the loss
had been less. I could not satisfy myself, however, with-
out venturing on shore once more, to try if 1 could learn
anything of him or them; it was the third night after the
action that I had a great mind to learn, if 1 could by any
means, what mischief we had done, and how the game
stood on the Indians' side. I was careful to do it in the
dark, lest we should be attacked again: but 1 ought, in-
deed, to have been sure that the men 1 went with had been
under my command, before 1 engaged in a thing so
hazardous and mischievous as I was brought into by it,
without design.
We took twenty as stout fellows with us as any in the
ship, besides the supercargo and myself, and we landed two
hours before midnight, at the same place where the Indians
stood drawn up in the evening before. I landed here, be-
cause my design, as I have said, was chiefly to see if they
had quitted the field, and if they had left any marks behind
them of the mischief we had done them, and I thought if
we could surprise one or two of them, perhaps we might
get our man again, by way of exchange.
We landed without any noise, and divided our men into
two bodies, whereof the boatswain commanded one and I
the other. We neither saw nor heard anybody stir when
we landed: and we marched up, one body at a distance
from another, to the place. At first we could see nothing,
it being very dark; till by and by our boatswain, who led
the first party, stumbled and fell over a dead body. This
made them halt awhile; for knowing by the circumstances
that they were at the place where the Indians had stood,
they waited for u*y coming up there. We concluded to
halt till the moon began to rise, which we knew would be in
less than an hour, when we could easily discern the havoc
we had made among them. We told thirty-two bodies
upon the ground, whereof two were not quite dead; some
had an arm, and some a leg shot off, and one his head; those
that were wounded, we supposed, they had carried away.
When we had made, as I thought, a full discovery of all
we could come to the knowledge of, I resolved on going
on board; but the boatswain and his party sent me word
that they were resolved to make a visit to the Indian town,
where these dogs, as they called them, dwelled, and asked
me to go along with them; and if they could find them, as
they still fancied they should, they did not doubt of getting
a good booty; and it might be they might find Tom Jeffry
there: that was the man's name we had lost
.
Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well enough
what answer to have given them; for I should have com-
manded them instantly on board, knowing it was not a
hazard fit for us to run, who had a ship and ship-loading
in our charge, and a voyage to make which depended very
much upon, the lives of the men; but as they sent me word
they were resolved to go, and only asked me and my com-
pany to go along with them, I positively refused it, and
rose up, for I was sitting on the ground, in order to go to
the boat. One or two of the men began to importune me
to go; and when I refused, began to grumble, and say they
were not under my command, and they would go.
"Come, Jack," says one of the men, " will you go with
me? I'll go for one." Jack said he would—and then
another—and, in a word, they all left me but one, whom 1
persuaded to stay, and a boy left in the boat. So the
"supercargo and I, with the third man, went back to the
boat, where we told them we would stay for them, and
take care to take in as many of them as should be left; for
1 told them it was a mad thing they were going about,
and supposed most of them would have the fate of Tom
Jeffry.
They told me, like seamen, they would warrant it they
would come off again, and they would take care, etc.; so
away they went. I entreated them to consider the ship
and the voyage, that their lives were not their own, and
that they were intrusted with the voyage, in some meas-
ure; that if they miscarried, the ship might be lost for
want of their help, and that they could not answer for it
to God or man. But I might as well have talked to the
mainmast of the ship: they were mad upon their journey;
only they gave me good words, and begged I would not be
angry; that they did not doubt but they would be back
again in about an hour at furthest; for the Indian town,
they said, was not above half a mile off, though they found
it above two miles before they got to it.
Well, they all went away, and though the attempt was
desperate, and such as none but madmen would have gone
about, yet, to give them their due, tliey went about it as
warily as boldly; they were gallantly armed, for they had
every man a fusee or musket, a bayonet, and a pistol; some
of them had broad cutlasses, some of them had hangers,
and the boatswain and two more had pole-axes; besides all
which they had among them thirteen hand greuadoes.
Bolder fellows, and better provided, never went about any
wicked work in the world. When they went out their
chief design was plunder, and they were in mighty hopes
of finding gold there; but a circumstance which none of
them were aware of set them on fire with revenge, and
made devils of them all.
When they came to the few Indian houses which they
thought had been the town, which was not above half a
mile off, they were under great disappointment, for there
were not above twelve or thirteen houses, and where the
town was, or how big, they knew not. They consulted,
therefore, what to do, and were some time before they
could resolve; for if they fell upon these, they must cut
all their throats; and it was ten to one but some of them
might escape, it being in the night, though the moon was
np; and if one escaped, be would run and raise all the
town, so they should have a whole army upon them; on
the other hand, if they went away and left those un-
touched, for the people were all asleep, they could not tell
which way to look for the town: however, the last was the
best advice, so they resolved to leave them, and look for
the town as well as they could. They went on a little
way, and found a cow tied to a tree; this, they presently
concluded, would be a good guide to them; for, they said,
the cow certainly belonged to the town before them, or the
town behind them, and if they untied her, they should see
which way she went: if she went back, they had nothing
to say to her; but if she went forward, they would follow
her. So they cut the cord, which was made of twisted
flags, and the cow went on before them, directly to the
town; which, as they reported, consisted of above two
hundred houses or huts, and in some of these they found
several families living together.
Here they found all in silence, as profoundly secure as
sleep could make them: and, first, they called another
council, to consider what they had to do; and presently re-
solved to divide themselves into three bodies, and so set
three houses on fire in three parts of the town; and as the
men came out, to seize them and bind them (if any re-
sisted, they need not be asked what to do then), and so to
search the rest of the houses for plunder: but they resolved
to march silently first through the town, and see what
dimensions it was of, and if they might venture upon it or
no:
They did so, and desperately resolved that they would
venture upon them: but while they were animating one
another to the work, three of them, who were a little be-
fore the rest, called out aloud to them, and told them that
they had found Tom Jeffry: they all ran up to the place,
where they found the poor fellow hanging up naked by
one arm, and his throat cut. There was an Indian house
just by the tree, where they found sixteen or seventeen of
the principal Indians, who had been concerned in the fray
with us before, and two or three of them wounded with our
shot; and our men found they were awake, and talking
one to another in that house, but knew not their number.
The sight of their poor mangled comrade so enraged
them, as before, that they swore to one another that they
would be revenged, and that not an Indian that came into
their hands should have any quarter; and to work tLiy
went immediately, and yet not so madly as might be ex-
pected from th» rage and fury they were in. Their first
care was to get something that would soon take fire, but,
after a little search, they found that would be to no pur-
pose; for most of the houses tvere low, and thatched with
flags and rushes, of which the country is full; so ihey
presently made some wildfire, as we call it, by wetting a
little powder in the palm of their hands, and in a quarter
of an hour they set the town on fire in four or five places,
and particularly that house where the Indians were not
gone to bed.
As soon as the fire began to blaze, the poor frightened
creatures began to rush out to save their lives, but met
with their fate in the attempt; and especially at the door,
where they drove them back, the boatswain himself killing
oie or two with his pole-ax. The house being large, and
14
many in it, he did Dot care to go in, but called for a hand
grenado, and threw it among them, which at first fright-
ened them, but, when it burst, made such havoc among
them that they cried out in a hideous manner. In short,
most of the Indians who were in the open part of the house
were killed or hurt with the grenado, except two or three
more who pressed to the door, which the boatswain and.
two more kept, with their bayonets on the muzzles of their
pieces, and dispatched all that came in their way; but there
was another apartment in the house, where the prince or
king, or whatever be was, and several others, were; and
these were kept in till the house, which was by this time
all in a light flame, fell in upon them, and they were
smothered together.
All this while they fired not a gun, because they would
not waken the people faster than they could master them;
but the fire began to waken them fast enough, and our
fellows were glad to keep a little together in bodies; foi
the fire grew so raging, all the houses being madp of light
combustible stuff, that they could hardly bear the street
between them. Their business was to follow the fire, for
the sure execution: as fast as the fire either forced the
people out of those houses which were burning, or fright-
ened them out of others, our people were ready at their
doors to knock them on the head, still calling and halloo-
ing oue to another to remember Tom JeB'ry.
While this was doing, I must confess 1 was very aneasy,
and especially when I saw the flames of the town, which,
it being night, seemed to be close by me. My nephew, the
captain, who was roused by his men seeing such a fire, was
very uneasy, not knowing what the matter was, or what
danger I was in, especially hearing the guns too, for by this
time they began to use their fire-arms; a thousand
thoughts oppressed his mind concerning me and the
supercargo, what would become of us; and at last, though,
he could ill spare any more men, yet not knowing what
exigence we might be in, he took another boat, and with
thirteen men and himself came ashore to me.
He was surprised to see me and the supercargo in the
boat with no more than two men; and though he was glad
that we were well, yet.he was in the same impatience with
us to know what was doing; for the noise continued, and
the flame increased; in short, it was next to an impossi-
bility for any men in the world to restrain their curiosity
to know what had happened, or their concern for the safety
of the men: in a word, the captain told me he would go
and help his men, let what would come. I argued with
him, as I did before with the men, the safety of the ship,
the danger of the voyage, the interest of the owners and
merchants, etc., and told him I and the two men
would go, and only see if we could at a distance learn what
was likely to be the event, and come back and tell him. It
was in vain to talk to my nephew, as it was to talk to the
rest before; he would go it, he said; and he only wished he
had only left but ten men in the ship, for he could not
think of having his men lost for want of help; he had
rather lose the ship, the voyage, and his life, and all;
and away he went.
1 was no more able to stay behind now than I was to
persuade them not to go; so the captain ordered two men
to row back the pinnace, and fetch twelve men more, leav-
ing the long-boat at an alienor; and that, when they came
back, six men should keep the two boats, and six more
come after us; so that he left only sixteen men in the ship;
for the whole ship's company consisted of sixty-five men,
whereof two were lost in the late quarrel which brought
this mischief on.
Being now on the march, we felt little of the ground we
trod on; and being guided by the lire, we kept no path,
but went directly to the place of the flame. If the noise
of the guns was surprising to us before, the cries of the
poor people were now quite of another nature, and filled
us with horror. I must confess 1 was never at the sacking
a city, or at the taking a town by storm. 1 had heard of
Oliver Cromwell taking Drogheda, in Ireland, and killing
man, woman, and child; and 1 had read of Count Tilly
sacking the city of Magdeburg and cutting the throats of
twenty-two thousand of all sexes; but 1 never had an idea
of the thing itself before, nor is it possible to describe it,
er the horror that was upon our minds at hearing it. How-
ever, we went on, and at length came to the town, though
there was no entering the streets of it for the fire. The
first object we met with was the ruins of a hut or house,
or rather the ashes of it, for the house was consumed: and
just before it, plainly now to be seen by the light of the
fire, lay four men and three women, killed, and as w»
thought, one or two more lay in the heap among the fire)
in short, there were such instances of rage, altogether bar-
barous, and of a fury something beyond what was human>
that we thought it impossible our men could be guilty of
it; or, if they were the authors of it, we thought they
•ught to be every one of them put to the worst of deaths.
But this was not all: we saw the fire increase forward, and
the cry went on just as the fire went on; so that we were in
the utmost confusion. We advanced a little way further,
and behold, to our astonishment, three naked women, and
crying in a most dreadful manner, came flying as if they had
wings, and after them sixteen or seventeen men, natives,
in the same terror and consternation, with three of our
English butchers in the rear, who, when they could not
overtake them, fired in among them, and one that was
killed by their shot fell down in our sight. When the rest
saw us, believing us to be their enemies, and that we would
murder them as well as those that pursued them, they set
up a most dreadful shriek, especially the women; and two
of them fell down, as if already dead, with the fright.
My very soul shrunk within me, and my blood ran chill
in my veins, when I saw this; and, I believe, had the three
English sailors that pursued them come on, I had made
our men kill them all; however, we took some means to
let the poor flying creatures know that we would not hurt
them; and immediately they came up to us, and kneeling
down, with their hands lifted up, made piteous lamentation
to us to save them, which we let them know we would;
whereupon they crept all together in a huddle close behind
us for protection. 1 left my men drawn up together, and,
charging them to hurt nobody, but, if possible, to get at
some of our people, and see what devil it was possessed
them, and what they intended to do, and to command
them off; assuring them that if they stayed till daylight
they would have a hundred thousand men about their ears:
1 say I left them, and went among those flying people,
taking only two of our men with me; and there was, in-
deed, a piteous spectacle among them. Some of them had
their feet terrible burned with trampling and running
through the fire; others their hands burned; one of the
women had fallen down in the fire, and was very much
burned before she could get out again; and two or three oi
the men had cuts in their backs and thighs, from our men
pursuing; and another was shot through the body, and
died while I was there.
I would fain have learned what the occasion of all this
was; but I could not understand one word they said;
though, by signs, I perceived some of them knew not what
was the occasion themselves. 1 was so terrified in my
thoughts at this outrageous attempt that 1 could not stay
there, but went back to my own men, and resolved to go
into the middle of the town, through the fire, or whatever
might be in the way, and put an end to it, cost what it
would; accordingly, as 1 came back to my men, I told
them my resolution, and commanded them to follow me,
when, at the very moment, came four of our men, with
the boatswain at their head, roving over heaps of bodies
they had killed, all covered with blood and dust, as if they
wanted more people to massacre, when our men hallooed
to them as loud as they could halloo; and with much ado
one of them made them hear, so that they knew who we
were, and came up to us.
As soon as the boatswain saw us, he set up a halloo like
a shout of trinmph, for having, as he thought, more help
come; and, without waiting to hear me, " Captain," says
he, " noble captain! 1 am glad you are come; we have not
half done yet. Villainous, hell-hound dogs! I'll kill as
many of them as poor Tom has hairs upon his head: we
have swcrn to spare none of them; we'll root out the very
nation at them from the earth;" and thus he ran on, out
of breath, too, with action, and would not give us leave to
speak a word. At last, raising my voice, that I might
silence'him a little, "Barbarous dog!" said I, " what are
you doing? I won't have one creature touched mora,
upon pain of death; 1 charge you, upon your life, to stop
your Bands, and stand still here, or you are a dead man
this minute." "Why, sir," says he, "do you know what
you do, or what they have done? If you want a reason for
what we have done, come hither;" and with that he showed
me the poor fellow hanging with his throat cut.
I confess I was urged then myself, and at another time
would have been forward enough; but I thought they had
carried theirrago too far, and remembered Jacob's words
to his sons Simeon and Levi: "Cursed be their anger, for
it was fierce; and their wrath, for it was cruel." But I
had now a new task upon my hands; for when the men I
carried with me saw the sight, as I had done, 1 had ft*
much to do to restrain them as 1 should have had with the
others; nay, my nephew himself fell in with them, and
told me, in their hearing, that he was only concerned for
fear of the men being overpowered; and as to the people,
he thought not one of them ought to live; for they had all
glutted themselves with the murder of the poor man, and
that they ought to be used like murderers. Upon theie
words, away ran eight of my men, with the boatswain and
his crew, to complete their bloody work; and I, seeing it
quite out of my power to restrain them, came away pensive
and sad; for I could not bear the sight, much less the hor-
rible noise and cries of the poor wretches that fell into
their hands.
I got nobody to come back with me but the supercargo
and two men, and with these walked back to the boat. It
was a very great piece of folly in me, I confess, to venture
oack, as it were, alone; for as it began now to be almoei
day, and the alarm had run over the country, there stood
about forty men armed with lances and bows at the little
place where the twelve or thirteen houses stood mentioned
before: but by accident I missed the place, and came directly
to the sea-side, and by the time I got to the sea-side it was
broad day: immediately 1 took the pinnace and went on
board, and sent her back to assist the men in what might
happen. I observed, about the time that 1 came to the
boat-side, that the fire was pretty well out, and the noise
abated; but in about half an hour after 1 got on board, I
heard a volley of our men's fire-arms, and saw a great
smoke. This, as I understood afterward, was our men
falling upon the men who, as I said, stood at the few
houses on the way, of whom they killed sixteen or seven-
teen, and set all the houses on fire, but did not meddle
with the women or children.
By the time the men got to the shore again with the
pinnace our men began to appear; they came dropping in,
not in two bodies as they went, but straggling here and
there in such a manner that a small force of resolute men
might have cut them all off. But the dread of them was
upon the whoie country; and the men were surprised, and
so frightened, that I believe a hundred of them would have
fled at the sight of but five of our men. Nor in all this
terrible action was there a man that made any considerable
defense: they were so surprised between the terror of the
fire and the sudden attack of our men in the dark, thai,
they knew not which way to turn themselves; for if they
fled one way they were met by one party, if back again by
another, so that they were everywhere knocked ddwn; nor
did any of our men receive the least hurt, except one that
sprained his foot, and another that had one of his hands
burned.
SECTION XXXVIII.
Difference with My Nephew on Account of the Cruelties Prac-
ticed at Madagascar.—Five Men Lost on the Arabian Shore, off
the Gulf of Persia.—The Seamen Refuse to Sail if I Continue
on Board, in Consequence of Which I am Left on Shore.—
Make a very Advantageous Trading Voyage, in Company with
an English Merchant, and Purchase a Vessel Which, it (urns
out, the Crew had Mutinied and ran away with.
I was very angry with my nephew, the captain, and,
indeed, with all the men, but with him in particular, as
well for his acting so out of his duty, as commander of the
ship, and having the charge of the voyage upon him, as in
his prompting, rather than cooling, the rage of his blind
men in so bloody and cruel an enterprise. My nephew
answered me very respectfully, but told me that when he
saw the body of the poor seaman whom they had murdered
in so cruel and barbarous a manner he was not master of
himself, neither could he govern his passion; he owned he
should not have done so, as he was commander of the ship;
but as he was a man, and nature moved him, he could not
bear it. As for the rest of the men, they were not subject
to me at all, and they knew it well enough; so they took
no notice of my dislike. The next clay we set sail, so we
never heard any more of it. Our men differed in the ac-
count of the number they had killed; but according to the
best of their accounts, put all together, they killed or de-
stroyed about one hundred and fifty people—men, women,
and children, and left not a house standing in the town.
As for the poor fellow Tom Jelfry, as he was quite dead
(for his throat was so cut that his head was half off), it
would do him no service to bring him away; so they only
took him down from the tree, where he was hanging by
one hand.
However just our men thought this action, I was against
them in it, and I always, after that time, told them God
would blast the voyage; for I looked upon all the blood
they shed that night to be murder in them. For though
it is true that they had killed Tom Jeffry, yet Jeffry was
the aggressor, had broken the truce, and had ill-used a
young woman of theirs, who came down to them inno-
seutly, and on the faith of the public capitulation.
The boatswain defended this quarrel when we were after-
ward on board. He said it was true that we seemed to
Vroak the truce, but really had not; and that the war was
begun the night before by the natives themselves, who had
shot at us, and killed one of our men without any just
provocation; so that as we were in a capacity to fight them
now, we might also be in a capacity to do ourselves justice
upon them in an extraordinary manner; that though the
poor man had taken a little liberty with the girl, he ought
not to have been murdered, and that in such a.villainous
manner; and that they did nothing but what was just and
what the laws of God allowed to be done to murderers.
One would think this should have been enough to have
warned us against going on shore among heathens and
barbarians; but it is impossible to make mankind wise but
at their own expense, and their experience seems to be
always of most use to them when it is dearest bought.
We were now bound to the Gulf of Persia, and from
thence to the coast of Coromandel, only to touch at Surat;
but the chief of the supercargo's design lay at the Bay of
Bengal; where, if he missed his business outward bound,
he was to go out to Chint), and return to the coast as he
came home. The first disaster that befell us was in the
Gulf of Persia, where five of our men, venturing on shora
on the Arabian side of the gulf, were surrounded by the
Arabians, aud either all killed or carried away into slavery;
the rest of the boat's crew were not able to rescue them,
and had but just time to get off their boat. I began to
upbraid them with the just retribution of Heaven in this
ease; but the boatswain very warmly told me, he thought
I went further in my censures than I could show any war-
rant for in Scripture; and referred to Luke xiii. 4, where
our Saviour intimates that those men on whom the Tower
of Siloam fell were not sinners above all the Galileans; but
that which put me to silence in the case was, that not one
of these five men who were now lost were of those who
went on shore to the massacre of Madagascar, so I always
called it, though our men could not bear to hear the word
massacre with any patience.
But my frequent preaching to them on this subject had
worse consequences than 1 expected; and the boatswain,
who had been the head of the attempt, came up boldly to
me one time, and told me he found that I brought that
affair continually upon the stage; that I made unjust re-
flections upon it, and had used the men very ill on that
account, and himself in particular; that as 1 was but a
passenger, and had no command in the ship, or concern
in the voyage, they were not obliged to bear it; that they
did not know but I might have some ill design in my head,
and perhaps to call them to an account for it when they
came to England; and that, therefore, unless I would re-
solve to have done with it, and also not to concern myself
any further with him, or any of his affairs, he would leave
the ship; for he did not think it safe to sail with me among
them.
I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and then
told him that I confessed I had all along opposed the mas-
sacre of Madagascar, and that I had, on all occasions,
spoken my mind freely about it, though not more upon
him than any of the rest; that as to having no command
in the ship, that was true; nor did I exercise any authority,
only took the liberty of speaking my mind in things which
publicly concerned us all; and what concern 1 had in the
voyage was none of his business; that I was a considerable
owner in the ship. In that claim I conceived I had a right
to speak even further than I had done, and would not be
accountable to him or any one else, and began to be a little
warm with him. He made but little reply to me at that
time, and I thought the affair had been over. We were at
this time in the road at Bengal; and being willing to see
the place, I went on shore with the supercargo in the ship's
boat to divert myself; and toward evening was preparing
to go on board, when one of the men came to me, and
told me he would not have me trouble myself to come
down to the boat, for they had orders not to carry me on
board any more. Any one may guess what a surprise I
was in at so insolent a message; and 1 asked the man who
nude him deliver that message to me. He told me the
-.,vukswain.
I immediately found out the supercargo, and told him
the story, adding that 1 foresaw thero would be a mutiny
in the ship; and entreated him to go immediately on board
and acquaint the captain of it. But I might have spared
this intelligence, for before I had spoken to him on shore
the matter was effected on board. The boatswain, the
gunner, the carpenter, and all the inferior officers, as soon
as I was gone off in the boat, came up, and desired to speak
with the captain; and then the boatswain, making a long
harangue, and repeating all he had said to me, told the
captain that as I was now gone peaceably on shore, they
were loath to use any violence with me, which, if I had not
gone on shore, they would otherwise have done, to oblige
me to have gone. They, therefore, thought St to tell him
that as they shipped themselves to serve in the ship under
his command, they would perform it well abd faithfully;
but if I would not quit the ship, or the captain oblige me
to quit it, they would all leave the ship, and sail no fur-
ther with him; and at that word all he turned his face
toward the mainmast, which was, it seems, a signal agreed
on, when the seamen, being got together there, cried out,
"One and all! one and all!"
My nephew, the captain, was a man of spirit, and of
great presence of mind; and though he was surprised, yet
he told them calmly that he would consider of the matter;
but that he could do nothing in it till he had spoken to me
about it. He used some arguments with them, to show
them the unreasonableness and injustice of the thing—but
it was all in vain; they swore, and shook hands round be-
fore his face, that they would all go on shore unless he
would engage to them not to suffer me to come any more
on board the ship.
This was a hard article upon him, who knew his obliga-
tion to me, and did not know how I might take it. So he
began to talk smartly to them; told them that I was a very
considerable owner of tne ship, and that if ever they came
to England again it would cost them very dear; that i,jc
ship was mine, and that he could not put me out of it; and
that he would rather lose the ship, and the voyage too,
than disoblige me so much: so they might do as they
pleased. However, he would go on shore and talk with
me, and invited the boatswain to go with him, and per-
haps they might accommodate the matter with me. But
they all rejected the proposal, and said they would have
nothing to do with me any more; and if I came on board
they would all go on shore. "Well," said the captain,
"if you are all of this mind, let me go on shore and talk
with him." So away he came to me with this account, a
little after the message had been brought to me from the
cockswain.
I was very glad to see my nephew, I must confess; for
I was not without apprehensions that they would confin*
him by violence, set sail, and run away with the ship; and
then I had been stripped naked in a remote country, hav-
ing nothing to help myself; in short, I had been in a worse
case than when I was alone in the island. But they had
not come to that length, it seems, to my satisfaction; and
when my nephew told me what "they had said to him, and
how they had sworn and shook hands that they would, one
and all, leave the ship if I was suffered to come on board,
1 told him he should not be concerned at it at all, for I
would stay on shore. 1 only desired he would take care
and send me all my necessary things on shore, and leave
me a sufficient sum of money, and I would find my way to
England as well as 1 could. This was a heavy piece of
news to my nephew, but there was no way to help it but
to comply; so, in short, he went on board the ship again,
and satisfied the men that his uncle had yielded to their
importunity, and had sent for his goods from on board the
ship; so that the matter was over in a few hours, the men
returned to their duty, and I began to consider what course
I should steer.
I was now alone in a most remote part of the world, for
I was nearly three thousand leagues by sea further off from
England than I was at my island; only, it is true, I might
travel here by land over the Great Mogul's country to
Surat, might go from thence to'Bassora by sea, up the
Gulf of Persia, and take the way of the caravans, over the
desert of Arabia, to Aleppo and Scanderoon; from thence
by sea again to Italy, and so overland into France. I had
another, way before me, which was to wait for some English
ships, which were coming to Bengal from Achin, on the
island of Sumatra, and get passage on board them for
England. But as I came hither without any concern with
the East Indian Company, so it would be difficult to go
from hence without their "license, unless with great favor
of the captains of the ships, or the Company's factors; and
to both I was an utter stranger.
Here I had the mortification to see the ship set sail
without me; however, my nephew left me two servants, or
rather one companion and one servant; the first was clerk
to the purser, whom he engaged to go with me, and fthe
other was his own servant. I then took a good lodging in
the house of an English woman, where several merchants
lodged, some French, two Italians, or rather Jews, and
one Englishman. Here I stayed above nine months, con-
sidering what course to take. I had some English gooda
with me of value, and a considerable sum of money; my
nephew furnishing me with a thousand pieces of eight, and
a letter of credit for more, if I had occasion, that I might
not be straitened, whatever might happen. I quickly dis-
posed of my goods to advantage; and, as 1 originally in-
tended, I bought here some very good diamonds, which, of
all other things, were the most proper for me in my pres-
ent circumstances, because 1 could always carry my whole
estate about me.
During my stay here many proposals were made for my
return to England, but none falling out to my mind, the
English merchant who lodged with me, and whom I had
contracted an intimate acquaintance with, came to me one
morning, saying: "Countryman, I have a project to com-
municate, which, as it suits with my thoughts, may, for
aught I know, suit with yours also, when you shall have
thoroughly considered it. Here we are posted, you by ac-
cident and I by my own choice, in a part of the world very
remote from our own country; but it is in a country where,
by us who understand trade and business, a great deal of
money is to be got. If you will put one thousand pounds
to one thousand pounds, we will hire a ship here, the first
we can get to our minds. You shall be captain, I'll be
merchant, and we'll go a trading voyage to China; for
what should we stand still for? The whole world is in
motion; why should we be idle?"
1 liked this proposal very well; and the more so because
it seemed to be expressed with so much good will. In my
loose, unhinged circumstances, I was the fitter to embrace
a proposal for trade, or indeed anything else. 1 might
perhaps say with some truth, that if trade was not my ele-
ment, rambling was; and no proposal for seeing any part
of the world which I had never seen before could possibly
come amiss to me. It was, however, some time before we
could get a ship to our minds, and when we had got a
lessel, it was not easy to get English sailors—that is to
say, so many as were necessary to govern tht voyage and
manage the sailors which we should pick up there. After
some time we got a mate, a boatswain, and a gunner, En-
glish; a Dutch carpenter, and three foremast men. With
these we found we could do well enough, having Indian
seamen, such as they were, to make up.
When all was ready we set sail for Achin, in the.island
of Sumatra, and from thence to Siam, where we exchanged
some of our wares for opinm and some arrack; the first a
commodity which bears a great price among the Chinese,
and which at that time was much wanted there. Then we
went up to Suskan, were eight months out, and on our
return to Bengal I was very well satisfied with my advent-
ure. Our people in England often admire how officers,
which the Company send into India, and the merchants
which generally stay there, get such very great estates as
they do, and sometime comes home worth sixty or seventy
thousand pounds at'a time; but it is little matter for won-
der, when we consider the innumerable ports and places
where they have a free commerce; indeed, at the ports
where the "English ships come there is such great and con-
stant demands for the growth of all other countries, that
there is a certain vent for the returns, as well as a market
abroad for the goods carried out.
I got so .much money by my first adventure, and such
an insight into the method of getting more, that had 1 been
twenty years younger, I should have been tempted to have
stayed here, and sought no further for making any fortune:
but what was all this to a man upward of threescore, that
was rich enough, and came abroad more in obedience to a
restless desire of seeing the world than a covetous desire of
gaining by it? A restless desire it really was, for when I
was at home 1 was restless to go abroad; and when I was
abroad I was restless to be at home. 1 say, what was this
gain to me? I was rich enough already, nor had I any un-
easy desires about getting more money; therefore the'profit
of the voyage to me was of no great force for the prompt-
ing me forward to further undertakings. Hence, I thought
that by this voyage I had made no progress at all, because
I was come back, as I might call it, to the place from
whence I came, as to a home: whereas, my eye, like that
which Solomon speaks of, was never satisfied with seeing.
I was come into a part of the world which I was never in
before, and that part, in particular, which I heard much
of, and wa»-resolved to see as much of it as I could: and
then I thought I might say 1 had seen all the world that
was worth seeing.
But my fellow-traveler and I had different notions; I
acknowledge his were the more suited to the end of a mer-
chant's life; who, when he ie abroad upon adventures, is
wise to stick to that, as the best thing for him, which he is
likely to get the most money by. On the other hand,
mine was the notion of a mad, rambling boy, that never
cares to see a thing twice over. But this was not all; I
had a kind of impatience upon me to be nearer home, and
yet an unsettled resolution which way to go. In the in-
terval of these consultations, my friend, who was always
upon the search for business, pioposed another voyage
among the Spice Islands, to bring home a loading of cloves
from the Manillas, or thereabouts.
We were not long in preparing for this voyage; the chief
difficulty was in bringing me to come into it. However,
at last, nothing else offering, and as sitting still, to me
especially, was the unhappiest part of life, I resolved on
this voyage too, which we made very successfully, touch-
ing at Borneo and several other islands, and came home in
about five months, when we sold our spices, with very
great profit, to the Persian merchants, who carried them
away to the gulf. My friend, when we made up this ac-
count, smiled at me: "Well, now," said he, with a sort of
friendly rebuke on my indolent temper, " is not this bet-
ter than walking about here, like a man with nothing to
do, and spending our time in staring at the nonsense and
ignorance of the pagans?" "Why, truly," said I, "my
friend, I think it is, and 1 begin to be a convert to the
principles of merchandising; but I must tell you, by the
way, you do not know what I am doing; for if 1 once con-
quer my backwardness, and embark heartily, old as 1 am,
I shall harass you up and down the world till 1 tire you;
for I shall pursue it so eagerly, I shall never let you lie
still."
!
SECTION XXXIX.
Make a Trading Voyage in Ihis Ship.—Put into the river of Cam-
bodia.—Am Warned of My Danger by a Countryman, in Conse-
quence of Which We Set Sail, and are Pursued.—Great Dif
nculty in Making Our Escape.
A little while'after this there came in a Dutch ship
from Batavia; she was a coaster, not an European trader,
of about two hundred tons burden; the men, as they pre-
tended, having been so sickly that the captain had not
hands enough to go to sea with, so he lay by at Bengal;
and having, it seems, got money enough, or being willing,
for other reasons, to go for Europe, he gave public notice
he would sell his ship. This came to my ears before my
new partuer heard of it, and I had a great mind to buy it;
so 1 went to him and told him of it. Be considered
awhile, for he was no rash man neither; and at last re-
plied, "She is a little too big; however, we will have
her." Accordingly, we bought the ship, aud agreeing
with the master, we paid for her, and took possession.
When we had done so we resolved to engage the men, if
we could, to join with those we had, for the pursuing our
business; but, on a sudden, they having received not their
wages, but their share of the money, as we afterward
learned, not one of them was to be found; we inquired
much about them, and at length were told that they were
all gone together by land to Agra, the great city of the
Mogul's residence, to proceed from thence to Surat, and
then go by sea to the Gulf of Persia.
Nothing had so much troubled me a good while as that
I should miss the opportunity of going with them; for such
a ramble, 1 thought, and in such company as would both
have guarded and diverted me, would have suited mightily
with my great design; and 1 should have both seen the
world and gone homeward too. But 1 was much better
satisfied a few days after, when I came to know what sort
of fellows they were; for, in short, their history (vas that
this man they called captain was the gunner only, not the
commander; that they had been a trading voyage, in which
they had been attacked on shore by some of the Malays,
who had killed the captain and three of his men; and that
after the captain was killed, these men, eleven in number,
having resolved to run away with the ship, brought her to
Bengal, leaving the mate and five men more on shore.
Well, let them get the ship how they would, we came
honestly by her, as we thought, though we did not, 1 con-
fess, examine into things so exactly as we ought; for wo
never inquired anything of the seamen, who would cer-
tainly have faltered in their account, and contradicted one
another. Somehow or other we should have had reason to
have suspected them; but the man showed us a bill of sale
for the ship, to one Emanuel Clostershoven, or some such
name, for 1 suppose it was all a forgery, and called him-
self by that name, and we could not contradict him; and
withal, having no suspicion of the thing, we went through
with our bargain. We picked up some more English
sailors here after this, and some Dutch, and now we re-
solved on a second voyage to the south-east for cloves, etc
—that is to say, among the Philippine and Molucca isles.
In short, not to fill up this part of my story with trifles
when what is to come is so remarkable, I spent, from first
to last, six years in this country, trading from port to port,
backward and forward^ and with very good success, and
was now the last year with my new partner, going in the
ship above mentioned on c voyage to China, but designing
first to go to Siam to buj rice.
In this voyag9, being by contrary winds obliged to beat
lid and down a great while in the Straits of Malacca and
"mong the islands, we were no sooner got clear of those
difficult seas than we found our ship had sprung a leak,
but could not discover where it was. This forced us to
make some port; and my partner, who knew the country
better than 1 did, directed the captain to putinto the river
of Cambodia; for 1 had made the English mate, one Mr.
Thompson, captain, not being willing to take the charge
of the ship upon myself. This river lies on the north side
of the great bay or gulf which goes up to Siam. While we
were here, and going often on shore for refreshment, there
comes to me one day an Englishman, a gunner's mate on
board an English East India ship, then riding in the same
river. "Sir," says he, addressing me, you are a
stranger to me, and I to you; but I have something to tell
you that very nearly concerns you. 1 am moved by the
imminent danger you are in, an£ for aught 1 see, you
have no knowledge of it." "I know no danger I am in,''
said I, "but that my ship is leaky, and I can not find it
out; but I intend to lay her aground to-morrow, to see if
1 can find it." "But, sir, says he, "leaky or not
leaky, you will be wiser than to lay your ship on shore to-
morrow when you hear what I have to say to you. Do
you know, sir," said he, " the town of Cambodia lies
about fifteen leagues up the river; and there are two large
English ships about five leagues on this side, and three
Dutch?" "Well," said I, "and what is that to me?"
"Why, sir," said he, "is it for a man that is upon such
adventures as you are to come into a port, and not ex-
amine first what ships there are there, and whether he is
abl* to deal with them? I suppose you do not think you
are a match for them?" I could not conceive what he
meant; and I turned short upon him, and said: "1 wish
you would explain yourself; I can not imagine what reason
I have to be afraid of any of the Company's ships, or Dutch
ships. I am no interloper. What can they nave to say
to me?" "Well, sir, says he, with a smile, "if you
think yourself secure, you must take your chance; but
take my advice, if you do not put to sea immediately, you
will the very next tide be attacked by five long-boats full
of men, and perhaps if you are taken, you will be hanged
for a pirate, and the particulars be examined afterward.
I thought, sir," added he, " I should have met with a bet-
ter reception than this for doing you a piece of service of
such importance." "I can never be ungrateful," said I,
"for any service, or to-'any man that otters me any kind-
ness; but it is past my comprehension what they should
have such a design upon me for; however, since you say
there is no time to be lost, and that there is some villain-
ous design on hand against me, 1 will go on board this
minute, and put to sea immediately, if my men can stop
the leak; but, sir," said 1, "shall I go away ignorant of
the cause of all this? Can you give me no further light
into it?"
"I can tell you but part of the story, sir," says he;
"but 1 have a Dutch seaman here with me, and I belieVe
I could persuade him to tell you the rest; but there is
scarce time for it. But the short of the story is this—the
first part of which I suppose you know well enough—that
you were with this ship at Sumatra; that there your caj>>
tain was murdered by the Malays, with three of his men;
and that you, or somo of those that were on board with
you, ran away with the ship, and are since turned pirates.
This is the sum of the story, and you will all be seized as
pirates, I can assure you, and executed with very little
ceremony; for you know merchant ships show but little
law to pirates if they get them into their power." "Now
you speak plain English," said I, "and I thank you; and
though I know nothing that we have done like what yon
talk of, for I am sure we came honestly and fairly by the
ship; yet seeing such a work is doing, as you say, and that
you seem to mean honestly, I will be upon my guard."
"Nay, sir," says he, "do not talk of being upon your
guard; the best defense is to be out of danger. If you
have any regard for your life and the lives of all your men,
put to sea without fail at high water; and as you have a
whole tide before you, you will be gone too far out before
they can come down; for they will come away at high water,
and as they have twenty miles to come, yo»>will get near
two hours of them by the difference of the tide, not reckon-
ing the length of the way; besides, as they are only boats,
and not ships, they will not venture to follow you far out
to sea, especially if it blows." "Well," said I, "you
have been very kind in this; what shall 1 do to make you
amends?" "Sir," says he, "you may not be willing to
make me any amends, because you may not be convinced
of the truth of it. I will make an offer to you; I have
nineteen months' pay due to me on board the ship' ,'
which 1 came out of England in; and the Dutchman that
is with me has seven months' pay due to him. If you will
iriake good our pay to us, we will go along with you; if
you find nothing more in it, we will desise no more; but
if we do convince you that we have saved your lives, and
the ship, and the lives of all the men in her, we will leave
the rest to you."
1 consented to this readily. »nd went immediately on
board, and the two men with me. As soon as I came to
the ship's side, my partner, who was on board, came out
on the quarter-deck, aud called to me, with a great deal
of ioy. We have stopped the leak—we have stopped the
leak!" "Say you so?" said I; "thank God! but weig!'
anchor, then, immediately." "Weigh!" says he; """hat
do you mean by that? What is the matter?" "Ask no
questions," said I; "but set all hands to work, and weigh
without losing a minute." He was surprised; however,
he called the captain, and he immediately ordered the an-
chor to be got up; and though the tide was not quite down,
yet a little land-breeze blowing,, we stood out to sea. Then
I called him into the cabin, and told him the story; and
we called in the men, and they told us the rest of it; but
as it took up a great deal of time, before we had done a
seaman comes to the cabin door, and called out to us that
the captain bade him tell us we Were chased by five sloops,
or boats, full of men. ""Very well," said I; " then it is
apparent there is something in it." 1 then ordered all
our men to be called up, and told them there was a design
to seize the ship, and take us for pirates, and asked them
if they would stand by us, and by one another; the men
answered cheerfully, one and all, that they would live and
die with us. Then 1 asked the captain what way he
thought best for us to manage a fight with them; for re-
sist them I was resolved we would, and that to the last
drop. He said readily that the way was to keep them off
with our great shot as long as we could, and then to use
our small arms, to keep them from boarding us; but when
neither of these would do any longer, we would retire to
our close quarters, for perhaps they had not materials to
break open our bulkheads, or get in upon us.
The gunner had, in the meantime, orders to bring two
giins, to bear fore and aft, out of the steerage, to clear the
deck, and load them with musket-bullets and small pieces
of old iron, and what came next to hand. Thus we made
ready for fight; but all this while we kept out to sea, with
wind enough, and could see the boats at a distance, being
five large long-boats, folloiving us with all the sail they
could make.
Two of those boats (which by our glasses we could see
were English) outsailed the rest, were near two leagues
ahead of them, and gained upon us considerably, so that
we found they would come up with us; upon which we
fired a gun without ball, to intimate that they should bring
to; and we put out a flag of truce, as a signal for parley;
but they came crowding after us till within shot, when we
took in our white flag, they having made no answer to it,
and hung out a red flag, and fired at them with a 6hot.
Notwithstanding this, they came on till they were near
enough to call to them with a speaking-trumpet, bidding
them keep off at their peril.
It was all one; they crowded after us, and endeavored to
come under our stern, bo as to board us on our quarter;
upon which, seeing they were resolute for mischief, and
depended upon the strength that followed them, I ordered
to bring the ship to, so that they lay upon our broadside;
when immediately we fired five guns at them, one of which
had been leveled so true as to carry away the stern of the
hindermost boat, and we then forced them to take down
their sail, and to^un all to the head of the boat, to keep
her from sinking; so she lay by, and had enough of it; but
seeing the foremost boat crowd on after us, we made ready
to fire at her in particular. While this was doing, one of
the three boats that followed made up to the boat which
we had disabled, to relieve her, and we could see her take
out the men. We then called again to the foremost boat,
and offered a truce, to parley again, and to know what her
business was with us; but had no answer, only she crowded
close under our stern. Upon this, our gunner, who was a
very dexterous fellow, ran out his two case-guns, and fired
again at her, but the shot missing, the men in the boat
shouted, waved their caps, and came on. The gunner,
getting quickly ready again, fired among them a second
time, one shot of which, though it missed the boat
itself, yet fell in among the men, and we could easily
see did a great deal of mischief among them. We now
wore the ship again, and brought our quarter to bear
upon them, and firing three guns more, we found the
boat was almost split to pieces; in particular, her rudder
and a piece of her stern were shot quite away; so they
handed her sail immediately, and were in great disorder.
To complete their misfortune, our gunner let fly two guns
at them again; where he hit them we could not tell, but
we found the boat was sinking, and some of the men
already in the water; upon this, I immediately manned
out our pinnace, with orders to pick up some of the men
if they could, and save them from drowning, and immedi-
ately come on board ship with them, because we saw the
rest of the boats began to come up. Our men in the
pinnace followed their orders, and took up three men, one
of whom was just drowning, and it was a good while be-
fore we could recover him. As soon as they were on board
we arowasd all the sail we ccuid make, and stood furthe:.
on* to the sea; and we found that when the other &oat:
cams up to the first, they gave over their chase.
Being thus delivered from a danger which, though '.'.
knew not the reason of it, yet seemed to be much greater
than I apprehended, I resolved that we should change oar
course, and not let any one know whither we were going;
so we stood out to sea eastward, quite out of the course of
all European ships, whether they were bound to China or
anywhere else, within the commerce of the European na-
tions. When we were at sea we began to consult with th?
two aeamen, and inquire what the meaning cf all thi.r
should be; and the Dutchman confirmed 'tbs fanner:
story about the false sale cf the ship and of the murder o_
the captain, and alsc hew tea.'' 'is. this Dutchman, an:
four more, got into the woods, where they wandered about
a great while, till- at length he made his escape, and swam
off to a Dutch ship, which was sailing near the shore on its
way from China.
He then told us that he went to Batavia, where two of
the seamen belonging to the ship arrived, having deserted
the rest in their travels, and gave an account that the fel-
low who had run away with the ship sold her at Bengal to
a set of pirates, who were gone a-cruising in her, and that
they had already taken an English ship and two Dutch
ships very richly laden. This latter part we found to con-
cern us directly, though we knew it to be false; yet, as my
partner said, very justly, if we had fallen into their hands,
and they had had such a prepossession against us before-
hand, it had been in vain for us to have defended our-
selves, or to hope for any good quarter at their hands;
especially considering that our accusers had been our
judges, and that we could have expected nothing from
them but what rage would have dictated and an ungov-
erned passion have executed. Therefore it was his opinion
we should go directly back to Bengal, from whence we
came, without putting in at any port whatever—because
there we could give a good account of ourselves, could
Erove where we were when the ship put in, of whom we
ought her, and the like; and what was more than all the
rest, if we were put upon the necessity of bringing it be-
fore the proper judges, we should be sure to have some
jostioe, and not to be hanged first and judged afterward.
I was some time of my partner's opinion; but after a
little more serious thinking, 1 told him 1 thought it was a
very great hazard for us to attempt returning to Bengal,
for that we were ou the wrong side of the Sira'ts of Ma-
lacca, and that if the alarm was given, we Bhould be sure
to be waylaid on every side—that if we should be taken,
as it were, running away, we should even condemn our.
selves, and there would want no more evidence to destroy
us. I also asked the English sailor's opinion, who said he
was of my mind, and that we should certainly be taken.
This danger a little startled my partner and all the ship's
company, and we immediately resolved to go away to the
coast of Tonquin, and so on to the coast of China—and
pursuing the first design as to t-ade, find some way or
other to dispose of the ship, and come back in some of the
vessels of the country, such as we could get. This was
approved of as the best method for our security; and ac-
cordingly we steered away N.N.E., keeping above fifty
leagues off from the usual course to the eastward. This,
however, put u3 to some inconvenience; for, first, the
winds, when wo came that distance from the shore, seemed
to be more steadily against us, blowing almost trade, as we
call it, from the E. and E.N.E., so that we were a long
while upon our voyage, and we were but ill provided with
victuals for so long a run; and what was still worse, there
was some danger that those English and Dutch ships whose
boats pursued us, whereof some were bound that way,
might have got in before us, and if not, some other ship
bound to China might have information of us from them,
and pursue us with the same vigor.
1 must confess I was now very uneasy, and thought my-
self, including the late escape from the long-boats, to have
been in the most dangerous condition that ever I was in
through my past life; for whatever ill circumstances 1 had
been in, I was never pursued for a thief before; nor had 1
ever done anything that merited the name of dishonest or
fraudulent, much less thievish. I had chiefly been my own
enemy, or, as I may rightly say, I had been nobody's
enemy but my own; but now 1 was wofully embarrassed;
for though 1 was perfectly innocent, I was in no condition
to make that innocence appear; anil if I had been taken, it
had been under a supposed guilt, of the worst kind. This
made me very iuxious to maKeauescape, though which
way to do it I knew not, or what port or place we could
go to. My partner endeavored to encourage me by de-
scribing the several ports of that coast, and told me he
would put in on the coast of Cochin China, or the Bay of
Tonquin, intending afterward to go to Macao, where a
great many European families resided—and particularly
the missionary priests, who usually went thither in order
to their going forward to China.
Hither then we resolved.to go; and, accordingly, though
after a tedious course, and very much straitened for pro-
visions, we came within sight of the coast very early in the
morning; and upon reflection on the pa8t circumstances of
danger we were in, we resolved to put into a small river,
which, however, had depth enough of water for us, and to
see if we could, either overland or by the ship's pinnace,
come to know what ships were in any port thereabouts.
This happy step was, indeed, our deliverance; for though
we did not immediately see any European ships in the Bay
of Tonquin, yet the next morning there came into the bay
two Dutch ships; and a third without any colors spread
out, but whicn we believed to be a Dutchman, passed by
at about two leagues' distance, steering for the coast of
China; and in the afternoon went by two English ships
steering the same course; and thus we thought we saw
ourselves beset with enemies both one way and the other.
The place we were in was wild and barbarous—the people
thieves by occupation; and though, it is true, we had not
much to seek of them, and, except getting a few pro-
visions, cared not how little we had to do with them, yet it
was with much difficulty that we kept ourselves from be-
ing insulted by them several ways. We were in a small
river of this country, within a few leagues of its utmost
limits northward; and by our boat we coasted north-east,
to tho point of land which opens the great bay of Ton-
quin; and it was in this beating up along the shore that
we discovered we were surrounded with enemies. The
people we were among were the most barbarous of all the
inhabitants of the coast; and among other customs they
have this one: that if any vessel has the misfortune to bo
shipwrecked upon their coast, they make the men all pris-
oners or slaves; and it was not long before we found a
spice of their kindnesli this way, one the occasion follow-
ing.
1 have observed above that our ship sprung a leak at
sea, and that we could not find it out; and it happened
that, as 1 have said, it was stopped unexpectedly, on the
eve of our being pursued by the Dutch and English ships
in the Bay of Siam; yet, as we did not find the ship so per-
fectly tight and sound as we desired, we resolved, while
we were at this place, to lay her on' shore, and clean her
bottom, and, if possible, to find out where the leaks were.
Accordingly, having lightened the ship, and brought all
our guns and other movables to one side, we tried to bring
her down, that we might come at her bottom; but, on
second thoughts, we did not care to lay her on dry ground,
neither could we find out a proper place for it.
SECTION XL.
Obliged to Come to Anchor on a Savage Coast to Repair our Ship.—
We are Attacked by the Natives, Whom Our Carpenter Dis-
perses by a Whimsical Contrivance.—Serious Reflections upon
Our Disagreeable Situation.
The inhabitants came wondering down the shore to
look at us; and seeing the ship lie down on one side in such
a manner, and heeling in toward the shore, and not seeing
our men, who were at work on her bottom with stages,
and with their boats on the off-side, they presently con-
cluded that the ship was cast away, and lay fast on the
ground. On this supposition they came about us in two
or three hours' time with ten or twelve large boats, having
some of them eight, some ten men in a boat, intending,
no doubt, to have come on board and plundered the ship,
and if they found us there, to have carried us away for
slaves.
When they came up to the ship, and began to row round
her, they discovered us all hard at work on the outside of
the ship's bottom and side, washing, and graving, and
stopping, as every seafaring man knows how. They stood
for awhile gazing at us, and we, who were a little sur-
prised, could not imagine what their design was; but being
willing to be sure, we took this opportunity to get some of
us into the ship, and others to hand down arms and am-
munition to those that were at work, to defend themselves
with if there should be occasion. And it was no more
than need; for in less than a quarter «£ an hour's consul.
tation, they agreed, it seems, that the ship was really a
wreck, and that we were all at work endeavoring to save
her, or to save our lives by the help of our boats; and
when we handed our arms into the boat, they concluded,
by that act, that we were endeavoring to save some of our
goods. Upon this, they took it for granted we all be-
longed to them, and away they came directly upon our
men, as if ii had been in a line of battle.
Our men, seeing so many of them, began to be fright-
ened, for we lay but in an ill posture to fight, and cried
out to us to know what they should do. I immediately
called to the men that worked upon the stages to slip them
down, and get up the side into the ship, and bade those in
the boat to row round and come on board. The few who
were on board worked with all the strength and hands we
had to bring the ship to rights; however, neither the men
upon the stages nor those in the boats could do as they
were ordered hefore the Cochin Chinese were upon them,
when two of their boats boarded our long-boat, and began
to lay hold of the men as their prisoners.
The first man they laid hold of was an English seaman,
a stout, strong fellow, who, having a musket in his hand,
never offered to fire it, but laid it down in the boat, like a
fool, as I thought; but he understood his business better
than I could teach him, for he grappled the Pagan, and
dragged him by main force out of their boat into ours,
where, taking him by the ears, he beat his head so against
the boat's gunnel that the fellow died in his hands. In
the meantime, a Dutchman, who stood next, took up the
musket, and with the butt-end of it so laid about him,
that he knocked down five of them who attempted to enter
the boat. But this was doing little toward resisting
thirty or forty men, who, fearless because ignorant of
their danger, began to throw themselves into the long-
boat, where we had but five men in all to defend it; but
the following incident, which deserved our laughter, gave
our men a complete victory.
Our carpenter being prepared to grave the outside of the
ship, as well as to pay the seams where he had calked her
to stop the leaks, had got two kettles just let dowtt into
the boat, one filled with boiling pitch, and the other with
rosin, tallow, and oil, aud such stuff as the shipwivghts
use for that work; and the man that attended the ck/pen-
ter had a great iron' ladle in his hand, with whir a he su p-
plied the men that were at work with the hot stuff. Two
of the enemy's men entered the boat just where this fellow
stood in the fore-sheets; he immediately saluted them with
a ladle full of the stuff, boiling hot, which so burned and
scalded them, being half naked, that they roared out like
bulls, and, enraged with the fire, leaped both into the sea.
The carpenter saw it, and cried out, "Well done, Jack!
give them some more of it;" and stepping forward him-
self, takes one of the mops, and dipping it in the pitch-
pot, he and his man threw it among them so plentifully,
that, in short, of all the men in the three boats, there was
not one that escaped being scalded in a most frightful
manner, and made such a howling and crying that I never
heard a worse noise.
I was never better pleased with a victory in my life; not
only as it was a perfect surprise to me, and that our dan-
ger was imminent before, but as we got this victory with'
out any bloodshed, except of that man the seaman killed
with his naked hands, and which I was very much con-
cerned at. Although it may be a just thing, because
necessary (for there is no necessary wickedness in nat-
ure), yet I thought it was a sad sort of life, when we must
be always obliged to be killing our fellow-creatures to pre-
serve ourselves—and, indeed, I think so still; and I would
even now suffer a great deal rather than I would take
away the life even of the worst person injuring me; and 1
believe all considering people, who know the value of
life, would be of my opinion, if they entered seriously into
the consideration of it.
All the while this was doing, my partner and I, who
managed the rest of the men on board, had with great
dexterity brought the ship almost to rights, and having
got the guns into their places again, the gunner called to
me to bid our boat get out of the way, for he would let fly
among them. I called back again to him, and bid him
not offer to fire, for the carpenter would do the work with-
out him; but bid him heat another pitch-kettle, which our
cook, who was on board, took care of. However, the
enemy was so terrified with what they had met with in
their first attack, that they would not come on again; and
some of them who were furthest off, seeing the ship swim,
as it were, upright, began, as we suppose, to see their mis/
take, and gave over the enterprise, finding it was not as
they expected. Thus we got clear of this merry fight;
and having got some rice and some roots and bread, with
about sixteen hogs, on board two days before, we resolved
to stay here no longer, but go forward, whatever came of
it; for we made no doubt but we should be surrounded the
next day with rogues enough, perhaps more than our
pitch-kettle would dispose of for us. We therefore got all
our things on board the same evening, and the next morn-
ing were ready to sail; in the meantime, lying at anchor at
some distance from the shore, we were not so much con-
cerned, being now in a fighting posture, as well as in a sail-
ing posture, if any enemy had presented. The next day,
having finished our work within board, and finding our
ship was perfectly healed of all her leaks, we set sail. We
would have gone into the Bay of Tonquin, for we wanted
to inform ourselves of what was to be known concerning
the Dutch ships that had been there; but we durst not
stand in there, because we had seen several ships go in, as
we supposed, but a little before; so we kept on N.E. to-
ward the island of Formosa, as much afraid of being seen
by a Dutch or English merchant ship as a Dutch or En-
glish merchant ship in the Mediterranean is of an Algerine
man-of-war.
When we were" thus got to sea, we kept on N.E., as if
we would go to the Manillas or the Philippine Islands;
and this we did that we might not fall into the way of any
of the European ships; and then we steered north till we
came to the latitude of twenty-two degrees thirty seconds,
by which means we made the island of Formosa directly,
where we came to an anchor, in order to get water and
fresh provisions, which the people there, who are very
courteous in their manners, supplied us with willingly, and
dealt very fairly and punctually with us in all their agree-
ments and bargains. This is what we did not find among
other people, and may be owing to the remains of Chris-
tianity which was once planted here by a Dutch missionary
of Protestants, and it is a testimony of what 1 have often
observed—viz., that the Christian religion always civilizes
the people, and reforms their manners, where it is re-
ceived, whether it works saving effects upon them or no.
From thence we sailed still north, keeping the oast of
China at an equal distance, till we knew we were beyonu
all the ports of China where our European ships usually
come; being resolved, if possible, not to fall into any of
their hands, especially in this country, where, as our cir-
cumstances were, we could not fail of being entirely ruined.
Being now come to the latitude of thirty degrees, we re-
solved to put into the first trading port we should come at;
and standing in for the shore, a boat came off two leagues
to us with an old Portuguese pilot on board, who, knowing;
us to be a European ship, came to offer his services, which,
indeed, we were glad of, and took him on board; upon
which, without asking us whither we would go, he dis-
missed the boat he came in, and sent it back. 1 thought
it was now so much in our choice to make the old man
carry us whither we would, that I began to talk to him
about carrying us to the Gulf of Rankin, which is the
most northern part of the coast of China. The old man
said he knew the Gulf of Nankin very well; but smiling,
asked us what we would do there. I told him we would
sell our cargo and purchase China wares, calicoes, raw
silks, tea, wrought silks, etc.; and so we would return by
the same course we came. He told us our best port would
have been to put in at Macao, whore we could not have
failed of a market for our opinm to our satisfaction, and
might for our money have purchased all sorts of China
goods as cheap as we could at Nankin.'
Not being able to put the old man out of his talk, of
which he was very opinionated or conceited, I told him we
were gentlemen as well as merchants, and that we had a
mind to go and see the great city of Pekin, and the famous
court of the monarch of China. "Why, then," says the
old man, "you should go to Ningpo, where, by the rivej
which runs into the sea there, you may go up within five
leagues of the Great Canal. This canal is a navigable
stream, which goes through the heart of that vast empire
of China, crosses all the rivers, passes some considerable
hills, by the help of sluices and gates, and goes up to the
eity of Pekin, being in length near two hundred and
seventy leagues." "Well," said I, "Senor Portuguese,
but that is not our business now; the great question is, if
you can carry us up to the city of Nankin, from whence
we can travel to Pekin afterward?" He said he could do
so very well, and that there was a great Dutch ship gone
up that way just before. This gave me a little shock, for
a Dutch Bhip was now our terror, and we had much rather
have met the devil, at least if he. had not come in too
frightful a figure; and we depended upon it that a Dutch
ship would be our destruction, for we were in no condition
to fight them; all the ships they trade with into those
parts being of great burden, and of much greater force
thiin we were.
The old man found me a little confused, and under some
concern when he named a Dutch ship, and said to me:
"Sir, you need be under no apprehensions of the Dutch;
I suppose they are not now at war with your nation?"
"No," said I, " that's true; but I know not what liberties
men may take when they are out of the reach of the laws
of their own country." "Why," says he, "you are no
pirates; what need you fear? They will not meddle with
peaceable merchants, sure." These words put me into the
greatest disorder and confusion imaginable; nor was it
possible for me to conceal it so, but the old man easily
perceived it.
"Sir," says he, "I find you are in some disorder in
your thoughts at my talk; pray be pleased to go which
way you think fit, and, depend upon it, I'll do you all the
service 1 can." Upon this we fell into further discourse,
in which, to my alarm and amazement, he spoke of the
villainous doings of a certain pirate ship that had long
been tke talk of mariners in those seas; no other, in a
word, than the very ship he was now on board of, and
which we had so unluckily purchased. I presently saw
there was no help for it but to tell him the plain truth,
and explain all the danger and trouble we had suffered
through this misadventure, and, in particular, our earnest
wish to be speedily quit of the ship altogether; for which
reason we had resolved to carry up to Nankin.
The old man was amazed at this relation, and told us we
were in the right to go away to the north; and that, if he
might advise us, it should be to sell the ship in China,
which we might well do, and buy or build another in the
country; adding, that I should meet with customers enough
for the ship at Nankin, that a Chinese junk would serve
me very well to go back again; and that he would procure
me people both to buy one and sell the other. "Well,
but, senor," said 1, "as you say they know the ship so
well, 1 may, perhaps, if I follow your measures, be instru-
mental to bring some honest, innocent men into a terrible
broil; for wherever they find the ship they will prove the
guilt upon the men by proving this was the ship."
"Why," says the old man, " I'll find out a way to prevent
that; for as I know all those commanders you speak of
very well, and shall see them all as they pass by, I will be
sure to set them to rights in the thing, and let them know
that they had been so much in the wrong; that though
the people who were on board at first might run away with
the ship, yet it was not true that they had turned pirates;
and that, in particular, these were not the men that first
went off with the ship, but innocently bought her for their
trade; and 1 am persuaded they will so far believe me as
at least to act more cautiously for the time to come."
In about thirteen days' sail we came to an anchor, at
the south-west point of the great Gulf of Nankin; where I
learned by accident that two Dutch ships were gone the
length before me, and that I should certainly fall into
their hands. I consulted my partner again in this
exigency, and he was as much at a loss as I was. I then
asked the old pilot if there was no creek or harbor which
1 might put into and pursue my business with the Chinese
privately, and be in no danger of the enemy. He told me
if I would sail to the southward about forty-two leagues,
there was a little port called Quinchang, where the fathers
of the mission usually landed from Macao, on their prog-
ress to teach the Christian religion to the Chinese, and
where no European ships,*ver put in; and if I thought to
put in there, I might consider what further course to take
when I was on shore. He confessed, he said, it was not a
place for merchants, except that at some certain times
they had a kind of a'fair there, when the merchants from
Japan came over thither to buy Chinese merchandises.
The name of the port I may perhaps spell wrong, having
lost this, together with the names of many other places set
down in a little pocket-book, which was spoiled by the
water by an accident; but this I remember, that the
Chinese merchants we corresponded with called it by a
different name from that which our Portuguese pilot gave
it, who pronounced it Quinchang. As we were unanimous
in our resolution to go to this place, we weighed the next
day, having only goue twice on shore where we were, to
get fresh water; on both whi«h occasions the people of the
country were very civil, and brought abundance of pro*
visions to sell to us; but nothing without money.
We did not come to the other port (the wind being con-
trary) for five days; but it was very much to our satisfac-
tion, and I was thankful when I set my foot on shore, re-
solving, and my partner too, that if it was possible to dis-
pose of ourselves and effects any other way, thowgh not
profitably, we would never more set foot on board that un-
happy vessel. Indeed, I must acknowledge that of all the
circumstances of life that ever I hail any experience, nothing
makes mankind so completely miserable as that of being
in constant fear. Well does the Scripture say, " The fear
of man brings a snare;" it is a life of death, and the mind
is so entirely oppressed by it, that it is capable of no relief.
Nor did it fail of its usual operations upon the fancy., by
heightening every danger; representing the English and
Dutch captains to be men incapable of hearing reason, or
of distinguishing between honest men and rogues; or be-
tween a story calculated for our own turn, made out of
nothing, on purpose to deceive, and a true, genuine ac-
count of our whole voyage, progress, and design; for we
might many ways have convinced any reasonable creatures
that we were not pirates; the goods we had on board, the
course we steered, our frankly showing ourselves, and en-
tering into such and such ports; and even our very man-
ner, the force we had, the number of men, the few arms,
the little ammunition, short provisions; all these would
. have served to convince any men that we were no pirates.
The opinm and other goods we had on board would make
it appear the ship had been at Bengal. The Dutchmen
who, it was said, had the names of all the men that were
in the ship, might easily see that we were a mixture of
English, Portuguese, and Indians, and but two Dutchmen
on board. These, and many other particular circum-
stances, might have made it evident to the understanding
of any commander whose hands we might fall into that we
were no pirates.
But fear, that blind, useless passion, worked another
way, and threw us into the vapors; it bewildered our un-
derstandings, and set the imagination at work to form a
thousand terrible things that perhaps might never happen."
We first supposed, as indeed everybody had related to us,
that the seaman on board the English and Dutch ships,
but especially the Dutch, were so enraged at the name of
a pirate, and especially at our beating off their boats and
escaping, that they would not give themselves leave to in-
quire whether we were pirates or no, but would execute us
off hand, without giving us any room for a defense. We
reflected that there really was so much apparent evidence
before them, that they would scarce inquire after any
more; as, first, that the ship was certainly the same, and
that some of the seamen among them knew her, and had
been on board her; and secondly, that when we had iu-
telligence at the river of Cambodia that they were coming
down to examine us, we fought their boats and fled.
Therefore we made no doubt but they were as fully satis-
fied of our being pirates as we were satisfied of the con-
trary; and, as 1 often said, I know not but I should have
been apt to have taken those circumstances for evidence,
if the tables were turned, and my case was there; and
have made no scruple of cutting all the crew to pieces,
without believing, or perhaps considering what they
might have to offer in their defense.
But let that be how it will, these were our apprehen-
sions ; ar.d both my partner and I scarce slept a night with-
out dreaming of halters and yard-arms ; of fighting, and
being taken; of killing, and being killed; and one night I
was in such a fury in my dream, fancying the Dutchmen
had boarded us, and I was knocking one of their seamen
down, that I struck my doubled fist against the side of the
cabin I lay in with sucli a force as wounded my hard griev-
ously, broke my knuckles, and cut and bruised the flesh,
so that it awake me out of my sleep. Another apprehen-
tion I had was, the cruel usage we might meet with from
them if we fell into their hands; then the story of Am-
noyna came into my head, and how the Dutch might per-
haps torture us, as they did our countrymen there, and
make some of our men, by extremity of torture, confess to
crimes they never were guilt of, or own themselves and all
of us to be pirates, and so they would put us to death with
a formal appearance of justice; and that they might be
tempted to do this for the gain of our ship and cargo,
worth altogether four or five thousand pounds. We did
not consider that the captains of ships have noauthority to
do thus, and if we had surrendered prisoners to them they
could not answer the destroying us, or torturing us, but
would be accountable for it when they came to their coun-
try. However, if they were to act thus with us, what ad-
vantage would it be to us that they should be called to an
account for it? or if we were first to be murdered, what
satisfaction would it be to us to have them punished when
they came home?
I can not refrain taking notice here what reflections 1
bow had upon the vast variety of my particular cir»m-
stanceB; how hard 1 thought it that 1, who had spent forty
years in a life of continual difficulties, and was at last
come, as it were, to the port or haven which all men drive
at—viz., to have rest and plenty, should be a volunteer in
new sorrows by my own unhappy choice, and that I, who
had escaped so many dangers in my youth, should now
come to be hanged in my old age, and in so remote a
place, for a crime which I was not in the least inclined to,
much less guilty of. After these thoughts, something of
religion would come in; and 1 would be considering that
this seemed to me to be a disposition of immediate Provi-
dence, and I ought to look upon it and submit to it as
such. For, although 1 was innocent as to men, 1 was far
from being innocent as to my Maker; and I ought to look
in and examine what other crimes in my life were most
obvious to me, and for which Providence might justly in-
flict this punishment asa retribution; and thus I ought to
submit to this, just as I would to a shipwreck, if it had
pleased God to have brought auch a disaster upon me.
In its turn natural courage would sometimes take its
place, and then I would be talking myself up to vigorous
resolutions; that I would not be taken to be barbarously
used by a parcel of merciless wretches in cold blood; that
it were much better to have fallen into the hands of the
savages, though 1 were sure they would feast upon me
when they had taken me, than those who would perhaps
glut their rage upon me by inhuman tortures and barbari-
ties; that in the case of the savages, I always resolved to
die fighting to the last gasp, and why should 1 not do so
now? Whenever these thoughts prevailed, I was sure to
put myself into a kind of fever with the agitation of a sup-
posed fight; my blood would boil, and my eyes sparkle, as
if 1 was engaged, and I always resolved to take no quarter
at their hands; but, even, at last, if I could resist no
longer, 1 would blow up the ship and all that was in her
and leave them but little booty to boast of.
SECTION XLL
We Arrive in China in Safety.—Dispose of the Ship.—Description
of the Inhabitants.—Arrive at Pekin, and Find an Opportunity
of Returning to Europe.
The greater weight the anxieties and perplexities of
these things were to our thoughts while we were at sea,
the greater was our satisfaction when we saw ourselves on
shore; and my partner told me he dreamed that he had a
very heavy load upon his back, which he was to carry up a
hill, and found that he was not able to stand longer under
it; but that the Portuguese pilot came and took it off his
back, and the hill disappeared, the ground before him ap-
pearing all smooth and plain; and truly it was so; they
were all like men who had a load taken off their backs.
For my part, I had a weight taken off from my heart that
it was not able any longer to bear; and, 'as 1 said above,
we resolved to go no more to sea in that ship. When we
came on shore, the old pilot, who was now our friend, got
us a lodging, together with a warehouse for our goods; it
was a little hut, with a larger house adjoining to it, built
and also palisaded round with canes, to keep out pilferers,
of which there were not a few in that country; however,
the magistrates allowed us a little guard, and we had a
soldier with a kind of half pike, who stood sentinel at our
door; to whom we allowed a pint of rice and a piece of
money about the value of threepence per day, so that our
goods were kept very safe.
The fair or mart usually kept at this place had been over
some time; however, we found that there were three or
four junks in the river, and two ships from Japan, with
goods which they had bought in China, and were not gone
away, having some Japanese merchants on shore.
The first thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us was
to get us acquainted with three missionary Romish priest*
who were in the town, and who had been there some time
converting the people to Christianity; but we thought they
made but poor work of it, and made them but sorry Chris-
tians when they had done. One of these was a French-
man, whom they called Father Simon; another was a
Portuguese; and the third a Genoese. Father Simon was
courteous, and very agreeable company; but the other two
were more reserved, seemed rigid and austere, and applied
seriously to the work they came about—viz., to talk with
and insinuate themselves among the inhabitants wherever
they had opportunity. We often eat and drank with those
men; and though, I must confess, the conversion, is they
call it, of the Chinese to Christianity, is so far from the
true conversion required to bring heathen people to the
faith of Christ that it seems to amount to little more than
letting them know the name of Christ, and say some
prayers to the Virgin Mary and her Son, in a tongue which
they understood not, and to cross themselves, and the like;
yet it must be confessed that the religionists, whom we
call missionaries, have a firm belief that these people will
be saved, and that they are the instruments of it; and on
this account they undergo not only the fatigue of the voy-
age, and the hazards of living in such places, but often-
times death itself, and the most violent tortures, for the
sake of this work.
Father Simon was appointed, it seems, by order of the
chief of the mission, to go up to Pekin, and waited only
for another priest, who was ordered to come to him from
Macao, to go along with him. We scarce ever met.Jo-
gBther but he was inviting me to go that journey; telling
me how he would show me all the glorious things of that
mighty empire, and, among the rest, Pekin, the greatest
city in the world. "A city," said he, "that your Lon-
don and our Paris put together can not be equal to." But
as 1 looked on those things with different eyes from other
men, so 1 shall give my opinion of them in a few words,
when I come in the course of my travels to speak more
particularly of them.
Dining with Father Simon one day, and being very
merry together, 1 showed some litt7.a inclination to go with
him; and he pressed me and my partner very hard to con-
sent. "Why, father," says my 'partner, "should you de-
sire our company so much? you know we are heretics, and
you do not love us, nor can not keep us company with any
pleasure." "Oh," says he, "you may perhaps be good
Catholics in time; my business feei-e is to convert heathens,
and who knows but 1 may convert you too?" "Very well,
lather," said I, "so you will preach to us all the wav?"
"I will not be troublesome to you," says he;
ligion does not divest us of good manners; besides, we are
here like countrymen; and so we are, compared to the
j>Uce we are in; and if you are Huguenots, and I a Catho-
lic, we may all be Christians at last; at least, we are all
gentlemen, and we may converse so without being uneasy
to one another." I liked this part of his discourse very
well, and it began to put me in mind of my priest that I
had left in the Brazils; but Father Simon did not come up
to his character by a great deal; for thought this friar had
no appearance of a criminal levity in him, yet he had not
that fund of Christian zeal, strict piety, and sincere affec-
tion to religion that my other good ecclesiastic had.
But to leave him a little, though he never left us, nor
solicited us to go with him, we had something else before
us at first, for we had all this while our ship and our mer-
chandise to dispose of, and we began to be very doubtful
what we should do, for we T'ere now in a place of very lit-
tle business. Once I was •, bout to venture to sail for the
river of Kilam, and the city of Nankin; but Providence
seemed now more visibly, as I thought, than ever to con-
cern itself in our affairs; and I was encouraged, from this
very time, to think I should, one way or other, get out of
this entangled circumstance, and be brought home to my
own country again, though I had not the least view of the
manner. Providence, 1 say, begau here to clear up our
way a little; and the first thing that offered was, that our
old Portuguese pilot brought a Japan merchant to us, who
inquired what goods we had; and, in the first place, hs
bought all our opinm, and gave us a very good price JCr it,
paying us in gold by weight, some in small pieces of their
own coin, and some in small wedges, of about ten 01
twelve ounces each. While we were dealing with him for
our opinm, it came into my head that he might perhaps
deal for the ship too, and I ordered the interpreter to pro-
pose it to him. He shrunk up his shoulders at it when it
was first proposed to him; but in a few days after he came
to me, with one of the missionary priests for his inter
preter, and told me he had a proposal to make to me,
which was this: he had bought a great quantity of our
goods, when he had no thought of proposals made to him
of buying the ship; and that, therefore, he had not money
to pay for the ship; but if I would let the same men who
were in the ship navigate her, he would hire the ship to go
to Japan; and would send them from thence to the
Philippine Islands with another loading, which he would
pay the freight of before they went from Japau; and that
at their return he would buy the ship. I began to listen
to his proposal, and so eager did my head still run upon
rambling, that I could not but begin to entertain a notion
of going myself with him, and so to set sail from the
Philippine Islands away to the South Seas; accordingly, 1
asked the Japanese merchant if ho would not hire us to the
Philippine Islands and discharge us there. lie said No,
he could not do that, for then he could not have the re-
turn of his cargo; but he would discbarge us in Japan, at
the ship's return. Well, still I was for taking him at that
proposal, and going myself; but my partner, wiser than
myself, persuaded me from it, representing the dangers,
as well of the seas as of the Japanese, who are a false,
cruel, and treacherous people; likewise those of the Span-
iards at the Philippines, more false, cruel, and treacherous
than they.
But to bring this long turn of our affairs to a conclu-
sion; the first thing we had to do was to consult with the
captain of the ship, and with his men, and know if they
were willing to go to Japan. While I was-doing this, the
young man whom my nephew had left with me as my
companion came up, and told me that he thought that voy-
age promised very fair, and that there was a great prospect
of advantage, and he would be very glad if I undertook it;
but that if I would not, and would give him leave, he
would go as a merchant, or as I pleased to order him; that
if ever he came to England, and I was there and alive, he
would render me a faithful account of his success, which
should be as much mine as I pleased. I was loath to part
with him; but considering the prospect of advantage, which
really was considerable, and that he was a young fellow
likely to do well in it, I inclined to let him go; but I told
him 1 would consult my partner, and give him an answer
the next day. 1 discoursed about it with my partner, who
thereupon made a most generous offer. "You know it
has been an unlucky ship," said he, "and we bath resolve
not to go lo sea in it again; if your steward (so he called
my man) will venture the voyage, 1 will leave my share of
the vessel to him, and let him make the best of it; and if
V
we live to meet in England, and he meets with success
abroad, he shall account for one half of the profits of the
ship's freight to us; the other shall be his own."
If my partner, who was no way concerned with my young
man, made him such an offer, I could not do less than ,
offer him the same; and all the ship's company being will-
ing to go with him, we made over half the ship to him in
property, and took a writing from him, obliging him to
account for the other, and away he went to Japan. The
Japan merchant proved a very punctual, honest man to
him; protected him at Japan, and got him a license to
come on shore, which the Europeans in general have not
lately obtained. He paid him his freight very punctually;
sent him to the Philippines, loaded with Japan and China
wares, and a supercargo of their own, who, trafficking with
the Spaniards, brought back European goods again, and a
great quantity of spices; and there he was not only paid
his freight very well, and at a very good price, but not be-
ing willing to sell the ship, then the merchant furnished
him goods on his own account; and with some money, and
some spices of his own which he brought with him, he
went back to the Manillas, where he sold his cargo very
well. Here, having made a good acquaintance at Manilla,
he got his ship made a free ship, and the Governor of
Manilla hired him to go to Acapulco, on the coast of
America, and gave him a license to land there, and to
travel to Mexico, and to pass in any Spanish ship to Eu-
rope with all his men. He made the voyage to Acapulco
very happily, and there he sold his ship; and having thorn
also obtained allowance to travel by laud to Porto Bello,
he found means to get to Jamaica, with all his treasure,
and about eight years after came to England exceeding
rich.
But to return to our particular affairs: being now to part
with the ship and ship's company, it came before us, of
course, to consider what recompense we should give to the
two men that gave us such timely notice of the design
against us in the river Cambodia. The truth was, they
had done us a very considerable service, and deserved well
at our hands; though, by the way, they were a couple of
rogues, too; for, as they believed the story of our being
pirates, and that we had really run away with the ship,
they came down to us, not only to betray the design that
was formed against us, but to go to sea with us as pirates.
One of them confessed afterward that nothing else but the
hopes of going a-roguing brought him to do it; however,
the service they did us was not the less, and, therefore, as
I had promised to be grateful to them, I first ordered the
money to be paid them which they said was due to them
on board their respective ships; over and above that, 1.
gave each of them a small sum of money in gold, which
contented them very well. I then made the Englishman
gunner in the ship, the gunner being now made second
mate and purser; the Dutchman I made boatswain; so
they were both very well pleased, and proved very servicea-
ble, being both able seamen, and very stout fellows.
We were now on shore in China; if I thought myself
banished, and remote from my own country at Bengal,
where I had many ways to get home for my money, what
could 1 think of myself now, when I was about a thousand
leagues further off from home, and destitute of all manner
of prospect of return? All we had for it was this: that in
about four months' time there was to be another fair at
the place where we were, and then we might be able to
purchase various manufactures of the country, and withal
might possibly find some Chinese junks from Tonquin for
sale, that would carry us and our goods whither we pleased.
This I liked very well, and resolved to wait; besides, as our
particular persons were not obnoxious, so if any English or
Dutch ships came thither, perhaps we might have an op-
portunity to load our goods, and get passage to some other
place in India nearer home. Upon these hopes we resolved
to continue here; but, to divert ourselves, we took two or
three journeys into the country.
First, we went ten days' journey to Nankin, a city well
worth seeing; they say it has a million of people in it; it is
regularly built, and the streets are all straight, and cross
one another in direct lines. But when I come to compare
the miserable people of these countries with ours, their
fabrics, their manner of living, their government, their re-
ligion, their wealth, and their glory, as some call it, I must
confess that 1 scarcely think it worth my while to mention
them here. We wonder at the grandeur, the riches, the
pomp, the ceremonies, the government, the manufactures,
the commerce, and conduct of these people; not that there
is really any matter for wonder, but because, having a true
notion of the barbarity of those countries, the rudeness and
the ignorance that prevail there, we do not expect to find
any such thing so far off. Otherwise, what are their build-
ings to the palaces and royal buildings of Europe? What
their trade to the universal commerce of England, Hol-
land, France, and Spain? What are their cities to ours,
for wealth, strength, gayety of apparel, rich furniture,
and infinite variety? What are their ports, supplied with
a few junks and barks, to our navigation, our merchant
fleets, our large and powerful navies? Our city of Lon-
don has more trade than half their mighty empire; one
English, Dutch, or French man-of-war of eighty guns
would be able to fight almost all the shipping belonging to
China; but the grea-iness of their wealth, their trade, the
power of their government, and the strength of their
armies, may be a little surprising to us, because, as I have
said, considering them as a barbarous nation of pagans,
little better than savages, we did not expect such things
among them. But all the forces of their empire, though
they were to bring two millions of men into the field to-
gether, would be able to do nothing but ruin the country
and starve themselves; a million of their foot could not
stand before one embattled body of our infantry, posted so
as not to be surrounded, though they were not to be one to
twenty in number; nay, I do not boast if I say that thirty
thousand German or English foot, and ten thousand horse,
well managed, could defeat all the forces of China. Nor
is there a fortified town in China that could hold out one
month against the batteries and attacks of a European
army. They have fire-arms, it is true, but they are awk-
ward and uncertain in their going off; and their powder
has but little strength. Their armies are badly disciplined,
and want skill to attack, or temper to retreat; and there-
fore, I must confess, it seemed strange to me, when I came
home, and heard our people say such fine things of th*
power, glory, magnificence, and trade of the Chinese; be-
cause, as far as 1 saw, they appeared to be a contemptible
herd or crowd of ignorant, sordid slaves, subjected to a
government qualified only to rule such a people; and were
not its distance inconceivably great from Muscovy, and
that empire in a manner as rude, impotent, and ill gov-
erned as they, the Czar of Muscovy might with ease drive
them all out of their country, and conquer them in one
campaign; and had the czar (who is now a growing prince)
fallen this way, instead of attacking the war-like Swedes,
and equally improved himself in the art of war, as they say
he has done; and if none of the powers of Europe had en-
vied or interrupted him, he might by this time have been
Emperor of China, instead of being beaten by the King of
Sweden at Narva, when the latter was not one to six in
number.
As their strength and their grandeur, so their naviga-
tion, commerce, and husbandry are very imperfect, com-
pared to the same things in Europe; also, in their knowl-
edge, their learning, and in their skill in the sciences, they
are either very awkward or defective, though they have
globes or spheres, and a smattering of the mathematics,
and think they know more than all the world besides. But
they know little of the motions of the heavenly bodies; and
so grossly and absurdly ignorant are their common people,
that when the sun is eclipsed, ihey think a great dragon
has assaulted it, and is going to run away with it; and
they fall a-clattering with all the drums and kettles in the
country, to fright the monster away, just as we do to hive
a swarm of bees.
As this is the only excursion of the kind which I have
made in all the accounts I have given of my travels, so I
shall make no more such. It is none of my business, nor
any part of my design; but to give an account of my own
adventures through a life of inimitable wanderings, and a
long variety of changes, which, perhaps, few that come
after me will have heard the like of; I shall, therefore, say
very little of all the mighty places, desert countries, and
numerous people 1 have yet to pass through, more than
relates to my own story, and which my concern among
them make necessary.
1 was now, as near as 1 can compute, in the heart of
China, about thirty degrees north of the line, for we were
returned from Nankin. I had indeed a mind to see the
city of Pekin, which I had heard so much of, and Father
Simon importuned me daily to do it. At length his time
of going away being set, and the other missionary who was
to go with him being arrived from Macao, it was necessary
that we should resolve either to go or not; so 1 referred it
to my partner, and left it wholly to his choice, who at
length resolved it in the affirmative, and we prepared far
oar journey. We set out with very good advantage as to
finding the way; for we got leave to travel in the retinue of
one of their mandarins, a kind of viceroy or principal
magistrate in the province where they reside, and who
take great state upon them, traveling with great attend-
ance, and great homage from the people, who are some-
times greatly impoverished by them, being obliged to fur-
nish provisions for them and all their attendants in their
journeys. 1 particularly observed in our traveling with
bis baggage, that though we received sufficient provisions
ooth for ourselves and our horses from the country, as be-
longing to the mandarin, yet we were obliged to pay for
everything we had, after the market price of the country,
and the mandarin's steward collected it duly from us.
Thus our traveling in the retinue of the mandarin, though
it was a great act of kindness, was not such a mighty favor
to us, but was a great advantage to him, considering there
were above thirty other people traveled in the same man-
ner besides us, under the protection of his retinue; for the
country furnished all the provisions for nothing to him,
and yet he took our money for them.
We were twenty-five days traveling to Pekin, through a
country exceeding populous, but 1 think badly cultivated;
the husbandry, the economy, and the way of living mis-
erable, though they boast so much of the industry of the
people; I say miserable, if compared with our own, but
not so to these poor wretches, who know no other. The
pride of the poor people is infinitely great, and exceeded by
nothing but their poverty, in some parts, which adds to
that which I call their misery; and 1 must needs think the
savages of America live much more happy than the poorer
dort of these, because as they have nothing, so they desire
nothing; wherea3 these are proud and insolent, and in the
468 ROBINSON CRUSOE.
ostentation is inexpressible; and, if they can, they love to
keep multitudes of servants or slaves, which is to the last
degree ridiculous, as well as their contempt of all the world
but themselves.
I must confess I traveled more pleasantly afterward in
the deserts and vast wildernesses of Grand Tartary than
here, and yet the roads here are well paved and well kept,
and very convenient for travelers; but nothing was more
awkward to me than to see such a haughty, imperious, in-
solent people, in the midst of the grossest simplicity and
ignorance; and my friend Father Simon and I used to be
very merry upon these occasions, to see their beggarly
pride. For example, coming by the house of a country
geutleman, as Father Simon called him, about ten leagues
off the city of Nankin, we had first of all the honor to
ride with the master of the house about two miles; the
state he rode in was a perfect Don Quixotism, being a
mixture of pomp and poverty. His habit was very proper
for a merry-andrew, being a dirty calico, with hanging
sleeves, tassels, and cuts and slashes almost on every side;
it covered a taffety vest, so greasy a3 to testify that his
honor must be a- most exquisite sloven. His horse was a
poor, starved, hobbling creature, and two slaves followed
him on foot to drive the poor creature along; he had a
whip in his hand, and he belabored the beast as fast about
the head as his slaves did about the tail; and thus he rode
by us, with about ten or twelve servants, going from the
city to his country seat, about half a league before us.
We traveled on gently, but this figure of a gentleman rode
away before us; and as we stopped at a village about an
hour to refresh us, when we came by the country seat oi
this great man, we saw him in a little place before hia
door, eating a repast. It was a kind of garden, but ha
was easy to be seen; and we were given to understand that
the more we looked at him the better he would be pleased.
He sat under a tree, something like the palmetto, which
effectually shaded him over the head, and on the south
side; but under the tree was placed a large umbrella,
which made that part look well enough. He sat lolling
back in a great elbow-chair, being a heavy, corpulent man,
and had his meat brought him by two women slaves. He
had two more, one of whom fed the squire with a spoon,
and the other held the dish with one hand, and scraped off
what he let fall upon his worship's beard and taffety vest.
Leaving the poor wretch to please himself with our look-
ing at him, as if we admired his idle pomp, we pursued
our journey. Father Simon had the curiosity to stay to
inform himself what dainties the country justice had to
feed on in all his state, which he had the honor to taste of,
and which was, I think, a mess of boiled rice, with a great
pieoe of garlic in it, and a little bag filled with green pep-
per, and another^plant which they have there, something
like our ginger, but smelling like musk, and tasting like
mustard; all this was put together, and a small piece of
lean mutton boiled in it, and this was his worship's repast.
Four or five servants more attended at a distance, who we
supposed were to eat of the same after their master. As
for our maudarin with whom we traveled, he was respect-
ed as a king, surrounded always with his gentlemen, and
attended in all his appearances with such pomp that I
saw little of him but at a distance. I observed that there
was not a horse in his retinue but that our carriers' pack-
horses in England seemed to me to look much better;
though it was hard to judge rightly, for they were so cov-
ered with equipage, mantles, trappings, etc., that we could
scarce see anything but their feet and their heads as they
went along.
I was now light-hearted, and all my late trouble and per-
plexity being over, I had no anxious thoughts about me,
which made this journey the pleasanter to me; in which
no ill accident attended me, only in passing or fording a
small river, my horse fell and made me free of the coun-
try, as they call it—that is to say, threw me in. The place
was not deep, but it wetted me all over. I mention it be-
cause it spoiled my pocket-book, wherein I had set down
the names of several people and places which I had occa-
sion to remember, and which, not taking due care of, the
leaves rotted, and the words were never after to be read.
At length we arrived at Pekin. 1 had nobody with me
but the youth whom my nephew had given me to attend
mo as a servant, and who proved very trusty and diligent;
and my partner had nobody with him but one servant, who
was a kinsman. As for the Portuguese pilot, he being de-
sirous to see the court, we bore his charges for his com-
pany, and for our use of him as an interpreter, for he un-
derstood the language of the country, and spoke good
French and a little English. Indeed, this old man was
most useful to us everywhere; for we had not been above
a week at Pekin, when he came laughing. "Ah, Seuor
Inglese," says he, " 1 have something to tell will make
your heart glad." "My heart glad," says I; "what can
that be? I don't know anything in this country can either
give me joy or grief to any great degree." "Yes, yes,"
said the old man, in broken English, " make you glad, me
. sorry." "Why," said I, "will it make you sorry?"
"Because," said he, "you have brought me here twenty-
five days' journey, and will leave me to go back alone; and
which way shall I get to my port afterward, without a
ship, without a horse, without pecune?"—so he called
money, being his broken Latin, of which he had abun-
dance to make us merry with. In short, he told us there
was a great caravan of Muscovite and Polish merchants in
the city, preparing to set out on their journey by land to
Muscovy, within four or five weeks; and he was sure we
would take the opportunity to go with them, and leave
him behind, to go back alone.
I confess I was greatly surprised with this good news,
and had scarce power to speak to him for some time, but
at last I said to him, " How do you know this? are you
sure it is true?" "Yes," says he; "I met this morning
in the street an old acquaintance of mine, an Armenian,
who is among them. 'He came last from Astracan, and
was designed to go to Tonquin, where I formerly knew
him, but has altered his mind, and is now resolved to go
with the caravan to Moscow, and so down the river Wolga
to Astracan." "Well, senor," says I, "do not be un-
easy about being left to go back alone; if this be a method
for my return to England, it shall be your fault if you go
back to Macao at all." We then went to consult together
what was to be done; aud 1 asked my partner what he
thought of the pilot's news, and whether it would suit with
his affairs? He told me he would do just as I would; for
he had settled all his affairs so well at Bengal, and left his
effects in such good hands, that as we had made a good
voyage, if he could invest it in China silks, wrought and
raw, he would be content to go to England, and then
make a voyage back to Bengal by the Company's ships.
Having resolved upon this, we agreed that if our Portu-
guese pilot would go with us, we would bear his charges to
Moscow, or to England, if he pleased; nor, indeed, were
we to be esteemed overgenerous in that either, if we had
not rewarded him further, the service he had done us being
really worth more than that; for he had not only been a
pilot to us at sea, but he had been like a broker for us on
shore; and his procuring for us a Japan merchant was
some hundreds of pounds in our pockets. So, being will-
ing to gratify him, which was but doing him justice, and
very willing also to have him with us besides, for be wft? a
most necessaVy man on all occasions, we agreed to giva
him a quantity of coined gold, which, as 1 computed it,
was worth one hundred and seventy-five pounds sterling,
between us, and to bear all his charges, both for himself
and horse, except on?y a horse to carry his goods. Having
settled this between ourselves, we called him to let him
know what we had resolved. I told him he had complained
of our being willing to let him go back alone, and I was
now about to tell him we designed he should not go back
at all. That as we had resolved to go to Europe with the
caravan, we were very willing he should go with us; and
that we called him to know his mind. He shook his head
and said it was a long journey, and that he had no pecune
to carry him thither, or to subsist himself when he came
there. We told him we believed it was so, and therefore
we had resolved to do something for him that should let
him see how sensible we were of the service he had done
us, and also how agreeable he was to us; and then I told
him what we had resolved to give him here, which he
might lay out as we would do our own; and that as for hi3
charges, if he would go with us we would set him safe on
shore (life and casualties excepted), either in Muscovy or
England, as he would choose at our own charge, except
only the carriage of his goods. He received the proposal
like a man transported, and told U3 he would go with us
over all the whole world; and so we all prepared for our
journey. However, as it was with us, so it was with the
other merchants; they had many things to do, and instead
of being ready in five weeks, it was four months and some
days before all things were got together.
SECTION XL1I.
Set out by the Caravan.—Account of the' Valuable Effects We
took with Us.—Further Description of the Interior of China.—
Pass the Great Wall.—Attacked by Tartars, Who are Dispersed
by the Resolution of a Scots Merchant.—The old Pilot Saves
My Life.—We are Again Attacked, and Defeat the Tartars.
It was the beginning of February, new style, when we
set out from Pekin. My partner and the old pilot had
eone express back to the port where we had first pat in, to
dispose of some goods which we had left there; and I, with
a Chinese merchant whom I had some knowledge of at
Nankin, and who camo to Pekin on his own affairs, went
to Nankin, where 1 bought ninety pieces of fine damasks,
with about two hundred pieces of other very fine silk of
several sorts, some mixed with gold, and had all these
brought to Pekin against my partner's return. Besides
this, we bought a large quantity of raw silk, and some
other goods, our cargo amounting, in these goods only, to
about three thousand five hundred pounds sterling; which,
together with tea and some fine calicoes, and three camels*
loads of nutmegs and cloves, loaded in all eighteen camels
for our share, besides those we rode upon; these, with two
or three spare horses, and two horses loaded with pro-
visions, made together twenty-six camels and horses in our
retinue.
The company was very great, and, as near as I can re*
member, made between three and four hundred horses, and
upward of one hundred and twenty men, very well armed
and provided for all events; for as the eastern caravans
are subject to be attacked by the Arabs, so are these by
the Tartars. The company consisted of people of several
nations; but there were above sixty of them merchants or
inhabitants of Moscow, though of them some were
Livonians; and to our particular satisfaction, five of them
were Scots, who appeared also to be men of great experi-
3uce in business, and of very good substance.
When we had traveled one day's journey, the guides,
who were five in number, called all the passengers, except
the servants, to a great council, as they called it. At this
council every one deposited a certain quantity of money to"
a common stock, for the necessary expense of buying for-
age on the way, where it was not otherwise to be had, and
for satisfying the guides, getting horses, and the like.
Here, too, they constituted the journey, as they call it—
viz., they named captains and officers to draw us all up,
and give the word of command, in case of an attack, and
give every one their turn of command; nor was this form-
ing us into order any more than what we afterward found
needful on the way.
The road all on this side of the country is very populous,
and is full of potters and earth-makers—that is to say,
people that temper the earth for the China ware. As 1
was coming along, our Portuguese pilot, who had always
something or other to say to make us merry, told me he
would show me the greatest rarity in all the country, and
that I should have this to say of China, after all the ill-
humored things that I had said of it, that I had seen one
thing which was not to be seen in all the world beside. I
was very importunate to know what it was; at last he told
ma it was a gentleman's house built with China ware.
"Well," says I, "are not the materials of their buildings
jthe products of their own country, and so it is all China
ware, is it not?" "No, no," says he, "I mean it is a
house all made of China ware, such as you call it in Eng-
land, or as it is nailed in our country, porcelain." " Well,"
says I, "such a thing maybe. How big is it? Can we
carry it in a box upon a camel? If we can we will buy it."
"Upon a camel!" says the old pilot, holding up both his
hands; "why, there is a family of thirty people lives in
it."
1 was then curious, indeed, to see it; and when I came
to it, it was nothing but this: it was a timber house, or a
house built, as we call it in England, with lath and plaster,
but all this plastering was really China ware—that is to
say, it was plastered with the earth that makes China ware.
The outside, which the sun shone hot upon, was glazed,
and looked very well, perfectly white, and painted with
blue figures, as the large China ware in England is paint-
ed, and hard as if it had been burned. As to the inside,
all the walls, instead of wainscot, were lined with hardened
and painted tiles, like the little square tiles we call galley-
tiles in England, all made of the finest China, and the fig-
ures exceeding fine indeed, with extraordinary variety of
colors, mixed with gold, many tiles making but one figure,
but joined so artificially, the mortar being made of the
same earth, that it was very hard to see where the tiles
met. The floors of the rooms were of the same compo-
sition, and as hard as the earthen floors we have in use in
several parts of England; as hard as stone, and smooth,
but not burned and painted, except some smaller rooms,
like Closets, which were all, as it were, paved with the
same tiles; the ceiling and all the plastering work in the
whole house were of the same earth; and, after all, the
roof was covered with tiles of the same, but of a deep shin-
ing black. This was a China ware house indeed, truly and
literally to be called so, and had I not been upon the jour-
ney, I could have stayed some days to see and examine the
particulars of it. They told me there were fountains and
fish-ponds in the garden, all paved on the bottom and sides
with the same; and fine statues set up in rows on the walks,
entirely formed of the porcelain earth, burned whole.
As this is one of the singularities of China, so they may
be allowed to excel in it; but I am very sure they excel in
their accounts of it; for they told me such incredible things
of their performance in crockery ware, for such it is, that
I care not to relate, as knowing it could not be true.
They told me, in particular, of one workman that made a
ship with all its tackle and masts and sails in earthenware,
big enough to carry fifty men. If they had told me he
launched it, and made a voyage to Japan in it, I might
have said something to it indeed; but as it was, I knew the
whole of the story, which was, in short, that the fellow
lied; so I smiled, and said nothing to it. This odd sight
kept me two hours behind the caravan, for which ihe
leader of it for the day fined me about the value of three
shillings; and told me if it had been three days' journey
without the wall, as it was three days' within, he must
have fined me four times as much, and made me ask par-
don the next council-day. I promised to be more orderly;
and, indeed, I found afterward the orders made for keep-
ing all together were absolutely necessary for our common
safety.
In two days more we passed the great China wall, made
for a fortification against the Tartars; and a very great
work it is, going over hills and mountains in an end-
less track, where the rocks are impassable, and the preci-
pices such as no enemy could possibly enter, or indeed
climb up, or where, if they did, no wall could hinder
them. They tell us its length is near a thousand English
miles, but that the country is five hundred in a straight
measured line, which the wall bounds, without measuring
the windings and turnings it takes; it is about four fa-
thoms high, and as many thick in some places.
I stood still an hour or thereabouts without trespassing
on our orders (for so long the caravan was in passing the
gate), to look at it on every side, near and far off; 1 mean
what was within my view; and the guide, who had been
extolling it for the wonder of the world, was mighty eager
to hear my opinion of it. I told him it was a most excel-
lent thing to keep out the Tartars; which he happened not
to understand as I meant it, and so tot . . . # a compli-
ment; but the old pilot laughed: "Oh, Seno*r Inglese,"
says he, "you speak in colors." "In colors!" said I,
"what do you mean by that?" "Why, you speak what
looks white this way and black v,hat way—gay one way and
dull another. You tell him it is a good wall to keep out
Tartars; you tell me by that it is good for nothing but to
keep out Tartars. I understand you, Seuor Inglese, I
understand you; but Senor Chinese understood you his
own way." "Well," says I, "do you think it would
stand out an army of our country people, with a good
train of artillery; or our engineers, with two companies of
miners? Would not they batter it down in ten days, that
an army might enter in battalia; or blow it up in the air,
foundation and all, that there should be no sign of it left?"
"Ay, ay," says he, " I know that." The Chinese wanted
mightily to know what I said to the pilot, and I gave him
leave to tell him a few days after, for we were then almost
out of their country, and he was to leave us a little time
after this; but when he knew what I said, he was dumb all
the rest of the way, and we heard no more of his fine stories
of the Chinese power and greatness while he stayed.
After we passed this mighty nothing, called a wall,
something like the Picts' wall, so famous in Northumber-
land, built by the Komans, we began to find the country
thinly inhabited, and the people rather confined to live in
fortified towns, as being subject to the inroads and depre-
dations of the Tartars, who rob in great armies, and there-
fore are not to be resisted by the naked inhabitants of an
open country. And here I began to find the necessity of
keeping together in a caravan as we traveled, for we saw
several troops of Tartars roving about; but when 1 came
to see them distinctly, I wondered more that the Chinese
Empire could be conquered by such contemptible fellows;
for they are a mere horde of wild fellows, keeping no
crder, and understanding no discipline or manner of fight.
Their horses are poor lean creatures, taught nothing, and
fit for nothing; and this we found the first day we saw
them, which was after we entered the wilder part of the
oountry. Our leader for the day gave leave for about six-
teen of us to go a-hunting, as they call it; and what was
this but a-hunting of sheep!—however, it may be called
hunting, too, for these creatures are the wildest and swift-
est of foot that ever 1 saw of their kind; only they will not
run a great way, and you are sure of sport when you begin
the chase, for they appear generally thirty or forty in a
flock, and, like true sheep, always keep together when
they fly.
In pursuit of this odd sort of game it was our hap to
meet with about forty Tartars; whether they were hunting
muitor:, as we were, or whether they looked for another
kind of prey, we know not; but as soon as they saw us,
one of them blew a hideous blast on a kind of horn. This
was to call their friends about them, and in less than ten
minutes a troop of forty or fifty more appeared, at about
a mile distance; but our work was over first, as it hap-
pened.
One of the Scots merchants of Moscow happened to be
among us; and as soon as he heard the horn he told us
that we had nothing to do but to charge them without loss
of time; and drawing us up in a line, he asked if we were
resolved. We told him we were ready to follow him; so
he rode directly toward them. They stood gazing at us
like a mere crowd, drawn up in no sort of order at all; but
as soon as they saw us advance, they let fly their arrows,
which missed us, very happily. Not that they mistook
their aim, but their distance; for their arrows all fell a
little short of us, but with so true an aim, that had we
been about twenty yards nearer, we must have had several
men wounded, if not killed.
Immediately we halted, and though it was at a great dis-
tance, we fired, and sent them leaden bullets for wooden
arrows, following our shot full gallop, to fall in among
them sword in hand—for so our bold Scot that led us
directed. He was, indeed, but a merchant, but he be-
haved with such vigor and bravery on this occasion, and
yet with such cool courage too, that 1 never saw any man
in action fitter for command. As soon as we came up to
them we fired our pistols in their faces and then drew; but
they fled in the greatest confusion imaginable. The only
stand any of them made was on our right, where three of
them stood, and, by signs, called the rest to come back to
them, having a kind of scimitar in their hands, and their
bows hanging to their backs. Our brave commander,
without asking anybody to follow him, gallops up close to
them, and with his fusee knocks one of them off his horse,
killed the second with his pistol, and the thim t«u away.
Thus ended our fight; but we had this misfortune attend-
ing it, that all our mutton we had in chase got away. We
had not a man killed or hurt; as for the Tartars, there
were about five of them killed—how many were wounded
we knew not; but this we knew, that the other party were
so frightened with the noise of our guns that they fled, and
never made any attempt upon us.
We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and
therefore the Tartars were not so bold as afterward; but in
about five days we entered a vast, wild desert, which held
us three days' and nights' march; and we were obliged to
carry our water with us in great leathern bottles, and to
encamp all night, just as 1 have heard they do in the
desert of Arabia. I asked our guides whose dominion this
was in, and they told me this was a kind of border that
might be called no man's land, being a part of Great
Karakathy, or Grand Tartary; that, however, it was all
reckoned as belonging to China, but that there was no
.care taken here to preserve it from the inroads of thieves,
and therefore it was reckoned the worst desert in the whole
march, though we were to go over some much larger.
In passing this frightful wilderness we saw, two or three
times, little parties of the Tartars, but they seemed to be
upon their own affairs, and to have no design upon us;
and so, like the man who met the devil, if they had noth-
ing to say to us, we had nothing to say to them; we let
them go. Once, however, a party of them came so near
as to stand and gaze at us. Whether it was to consider if
they should attack us or not, we knew not; but when we
had passed at some distance by them, we made a rear-
guard of forty men, and stood ready for them, letting the
caravan pass half a mile or thereabouts before us. After
awhile they marched off, but they saluted us with five-
arrows at theiv parting, which wounded a horse so that it
disabled him, and we left him the next day, poor creature,
in great need of a good farrier. We saw no more arrows
or Tartars that time.
We traveled near a month after this, the ways not being
so good as at first, though still in the dominions of the
Emperor of China, but lay for the most part in the vil-
lages, some of which were fortified, because of the incur-
sions of tha Tartars. When we were come tc one of those
towns (about two days and a half's journey before we came
to the city of Naum), I wanted to ouy a camel, of which
there are plenty to be sold all the way upon that road, and
horses also, such as they are, because, so many caravans
coming that way, they are often wanted. The person that
I spoke to to get me a camel would have gone and fetched
one for me; but I, like a fool, muBt be officious, and go
myself along with him; the place was about two miles out
of the village, where it seems they kept the camels and
horses feeding under a guard.
1 walked in on foot, with my old pilot and a Chinese,
being very desirous of a little variety. When we came to
the place it was a low, marshy ground, walled round with
stones, piled up dry/without mortar or earth among them,
like a park, with a little guard of Chinese soldiers at the
door. Having bought a camel, and agreed for the price,
1 came away, and the Chinese that went with me led the
camel, when on a sudden came up five Tartars on horse-
back. Two of them seized the fellow and took the camel
from him, while the other three stepped up to me and my
old pilot, seeing us, as it were, unarmed, for I had no
weapon about me but my sword, which could but ill de-
fend me against three horsemen. The first that came up
stopped short upon my drawing my sword, for they are
arrant cowards; but a second, coming upon my left, gave
me a blow on the head, which I never felt till afterward,
and wondered, when I came to myself, what was the Shat-
ter, and where I was, for he laid me flat on the ground;
but my never-failing old pilot, the Portuguese, had a pis-
tol in his pocket, Which I knew nothing of, nor the Tar-
tars either; if they had, I suppose they would not have at-
tacked us, for cowards are always boldest when there is no
danger. The old man, seeing me down, with a bold heart
stepped up to the fellow that had struck me, and laying
hold of his arm with one hand, and pulling him down by
main force a little toward him, with the other shot him in
the head, and laid him dead upon the spot. He then
immediately stepped up to him who had stopped us, as I
said, and before he could come forward again, made a blow
at him with a scimitar, which he always wore, but, miss-
ing the man, struck his horse in the side of the head, cut
one of the ears off by the root, and a great slice down by
the side of his face. The poor beast, enraged with the
wound, was no more to be governed by hk rider, though
the fellow sat well enough too, but away he flew, and car-
ried him quite out of the pilot's reach; and at some dis-
tance, rising upon his hind legs, threw down the Tartar,
»nd fell upon him.
In this interval the poor Chinese came in who had lost
the camel, but he had no weapon; however, seeing the
Tartar down, and his horse fallen upon him, away he runs
to him, and seizing upon an ugly weapon he had by his
side, something like a pole-ax, he wrenched it from him,
and made shift to knock his Tartarian brains out with it.
But my old man had the third Tartar to deal with still;
and seeing he did not fly, as he expected, nor come on to
fight him, as he apprehended, but stood stock still, the old
man stood still too, and fell to work with his tackle to
charge his pistol again; but as soon as the Tartar saw the
pistol away he scoured, and left my pilot, my champion I
called him afterward, a complete victory.
By this time 1 was a little recovered. I thought, when
I first began to wake, that I had been in a sweet sleep; but,
as 1 said above, I wondered where I was, how 1 came upon
the ground, and what was the matter. A few moments
after, as sense returned, I felt pain, though I did notjcnow
where; so I clapped my hand to my head, and took it away
bloody; then I felt my head ache; and in a moment mem-
ory returned, and everything was present to me again. I
iunipad upon my feet instantly, and got hold of my sword,
but no enemies were in view; I found a Tartar lying dead,
and his horse standing very quietly by him; and, looking
further, I saw my deliverer, who had been to see what the
Chinese had done, conr'ng back with his hanger in his
hand. The old man, seeing me on my feet, came run-
ning to me, and joyfully embraced me, being afraid before
that I had been killed. Seeing me bloody, he would see
how 1 was hurt; but it was not much, only what we call a
broken head; neither did I afterward find any great incon-
venience from the blow, for it was well again in two or
three days.
We made no great gain, however, by this victory, for we
lost a camel and gained a horse. I paid for the lost camel,
and sent for another; but I did not go to fetch it myself;
I had had enough of that.
The city of Naum, which we were approaching, is a
frontier of the Chinese Empire, and is fortified in their
fashion. We wanted, as I have said, above two days' jour-
ney of this city when messengers were sent express to every
part of the road to tell all travelers and caravans to halt
till they had a guard sent for them; for that an unusual
body of Tartars, making ten thousand in all, had appeared
in the way, about thirty miles beyond the city.
This was very bad news to travelers; however, it was
carefully done of the governor, and we were very glad to
hear we should have a guard. Accordingly, two days
after, we had two hundred soldiers sent us from a garrison
of the Chinese on our left, and three hundred more from
the city of Naum, and with these we advanced boldly.
The three hundred soldiers from Naum marched in our
front, the two hundred in our rear, and our men on each
side of our camels, with' our baggage and the whole cara-
van in the center; in this order, and well prepared for bat-
tle, we thought ourselves a match for the whole ten thou-
sand Mogul Tartars, if they had appeared; but the next
day, when they did appear, it was quite another thing.
SECTION XLI1I.
Further Account of our Journey.—Description of an Idol, "Which
We Destroy.—Great Dunger We Incur Thereby—Account of
Our Travels Through Muscovy.
Early in the morning, when marching from a little
town called Changu, we had a river to pass, which we were
obliged to ferry; and, had the Tartars had any intelli-
gence, then had been the time to have attacked us, when,
the caravan being over, the rear-guard was behind; but
they did not appear there. About three hours after, when
we were entered upon a desert of about fifteen or sixteen
miles over, we knew, by a cloud of dust they raised, that
the enemy was at hand, and presently they came on upon
the spur.
Our Chinese guards in the front, who had talked so big
the day before, began to stagger; and the soldiers fre-
quently looked behind them, a certain sign in a soldier that
he is just ready to run away. My old pilot was of my
mind; and being near me, called out, "Seuor Inglese,
these fellows must be encouraged, or they will ruin us all;
for if the Tartars come on they will never stand it." "I
am of your mind," said I; "but what must be done?"
"Done?" says he; "let fifty of our men advance, and
flank them on each wing, and encourage them. They will
fight like brave fellewsin brave company; but without this
they will every man turn his back." Immediately I rode
up to our leader and told him, who was exactly of our
mind; accordingly, fifty of us marched to the right wing,
and fifty to the left, and the rest made a line of rescue;
and so we marched, leaving (he last two hundred men to
make a body of themselves, and to guard the camels; only
that, if need were, they should send a hundred men to as-
sist the last fifty.
At last the Tartars came on, and an innumerable com-
pany they were; how many we could not tell, but ten thou-
sand, we thought, at the least. A party of them came on
first, and viewed our posture, traversing the ground in the
front of our line; and, as we found them within gunshot,
our leader ordered the. two wings to advance swiftly, and
give them a salvo on each wing with their shot, which was
done. They then went off, I suppose, to give an account
of the reception they were like to meet with; indeed, that
salute cloyed their stomachs, for they immediately halted,
stood awhile to consider of it, and wheeling off to the left,
they gave over their design for that time, which was very
agreeable to our circumstances.
Two days after we came to the city of Naun, or Naum;
we thanked the governor for his care of us, and collected
to the value of a hundred crowns, or thereabouts, which
we gave to the soldiers sent to guard us; and here we
rested one day. This is a garrison indeed, and there were
nine hundred soldiers kept here; but the reason of it was,
that formerly the Muscovite frontiers lay nearer to them
than they now do, the Muscovites having abandoned that
part of the country, which lies from this city west for
about two hundred miles, as desolate and unfit for use;
and more especially being so very remote, and so difficult
to send troops thither for its defense; for we were yet
above two thousand miles from Muscovy properly bo called.
After this we passed several rivers, and two dreadful des-
erts; one of which we were sixteen days passing over;
and, on the 13th of April, we came to the frontiers of the
Moscovite dominions. I think the first town or fortress,
whichever it may be called, that belonged to the ozar, wa?
called Arguna, being on the west side of the river Arguna.
I could not but feel great satisfaction that I was arrived in
a country governed by Christians; for though the Mus-
covites do, in my opinion, but just deserve the name of
Christians, yet such they pretend to be, and are very de-
vout in their way. It would certainly occur to any reflect-
ing man who travels the world as I have done, what a
blessing it is to be brought into the world where the name
of God and a Redeemer is known, adored, and worshiped;
and not where the people, given up to strong delusions,
worship the devil, and prostrate tliemselve to monsters,
elements, horrid-shaped animals, and monstrous images.
Not a town or city we passed through but had their pago-
das, their idols, and their temples, and ignorant people
worshiping even the works of their own hands. Now we
came where, at least, a face of the Christian worship ap-
peared; where the knee was bowed to Jesus; and whether
ignorantly or not, yet the Christian religion was owned,
and the name of the true God was called upon and adored;
and it made my soul rejoice to see it. 1 saluted the brave
Scots merchant with my first acknowledgment of this; and
taking him by the hand, I said to him, " Blessed be God,
we are once again among Christians." He smiled, and
answered, "Do not rejoice too soon, countryman; these
Muscovites are but an odd sort of Christians; and but for
the name of it you maj see very little of the substance for
some months further of our journey." "Well," says 1,
"but still it is better than paganism, and worshiping of
devils." "Why, I will tell you," says he; "except the
Russian soldiers in the garrisons, and a few of the in-
habitants of the cities upon the road, all the rest of this
country, far above a thousand miles further, is inhabited
by the worst and most ignorant of pagans." And so, in-
deed, we found it.
We now launched into the greatest piece of solid earth
that is to be found in any part of the world; we had, at
least, twelve thousand miles to the sea eastward; two thou-
sand to the bottom of the Baltic Sea westward; and above
three thousand, if we left that sea, and went on west, to
the British and French channels; we had full five thou-
sand miles to the Indian or Persian Sea south; and about
eight hundred to the Frozen Sea north.
We advanced from the river Arguna by easy and moder-
ate journeys, and were very visibly obliged to the care the
czar has taken to have cities and towns built in as many
places as it is possible to place them, where his soldiers
keep garrison, something like the stationary soldiers placed
by the Romans in the remotest countries of their empire;
some of which I had read of were placed in Britain, for
the security of commerce, and for the lodging of travelers.
Thus it was here; for wherever we came, though at these
towns and stations the garrisons and governors were Rus-
sians, and professed Christians, yet the inhabitants were
mere pagans, sacrificing to idols, and worshiping the sun,
moon, and stars, or all the host of heaven; and not only
so, but were, of all the heathens and pagans that ever I
met with, the most barbarous, except only that they did
not eat men's flesh.
Some instances of this we met with in the country be-
tween Arguna, where we enter the Muscovite dominions,
and a city of Tartars and Russians together, called Nortzi-
ousky, in which is a continued desert or forest, which cost
us twenty days to travel over. In a village near the last
of these places I had the curiosity to go and see their way
of living, which is most brutish and unsufferable. They
had, 1 suppose, a great sacrifice that day; for there stood
out, upon an old stump of a tree, a diabolical kind of idol
made of wood; it was dressed up, too, in the most filthy
manner; its upper garment was of sheep-skins, with the
wool outward; a great Tartar bonnet on the head, with
two horns growing through it; it was about eight feet high,
yet had no feet or legs, nor any other proportion of parts.
This scarecrow was set up at the outer side of the vil-
lage; and when I came near to it there were sixteen or
seventeen creatures all lying flat upon the ground round
this hideous block of wood; I saw no motion among them,
any more than if they had been all logs, like the idol, and
at first 1 really thought they had been so; but, when I
came a little nearer, they started up upon their feet, and
raised a howl, as if they had been so many deep-mouthed
hounds, and walked away, as if they were displeased at our
disturbing them. A little way off from the idol, and at
the door of a hut, made of sheep and cow-skins dried, stood
three men with long knives in their hands; and in the
middle of the tent appeared three sheep killed, and one
youag bullock. These, it seems, were sacrifices to that
senseless log of an idol; the three men were priests belong-
ing to it, and the seventeen prostrated wretches were the
people who brought the offering, and were making their
prayers to that stock.
I confess I was more moved at their stupidity and brutish
worship of a hobgoblin than ever I was at anything in my
life, and, overcome with rage, I rode up to the hideous
idol, and with my sword made a stroke at the bonnet that
was on its head, and cut it in two; and one of our men
that was with me, taking hold of the sheep-skin that cov-
ered it, pulled at it, when, behold! a most hideous outcry
ran through the village, and two or three hundred people
came about my ears, so that I was glad to ticour for it, tor
some had bows and arrows; but I resolved from that mo-
ment to visit them again. Our caravan rested .three nights
at the town, which was about four miles off, in order to
Erovide some horses which they wanted, several of the
orses having been lamed and jaded with the long march
over the last desert; so we had some leisure here to put
my design in execution. I communicated it to the
Scots merchant, of whose courage 1 had sufficient testi-
mony; I told him what I had seen, and with what indig-
nation 1 had since thought that human nature could be so
degenerate; I told him if 1 could get but four or five men
well armed to go with me, I was resolved to go and destroy
that vile, abominable idol, and let them see that it had no
power to help itself, and consequently could not be an ob-
ject of worship, or to be prayed to, much less help them
that offered sacrifices to it.
He at first objected to my plan as useless, seeing that,
owing to the gross ignorance o, the people, they could not
be brought to profit by the less^, I meant to teach them;
and added that, from his knowledge of the country and its
customs, he feared we should fall into great peril by giving
offense to these brutal idol worshipers. This somewhat
stayed my purpose, but 1 was still uneasy all that day to
put my project in execution; and that evening, meeting
the Scots merchant in our walk about the town, 1 again
called upon him to aid me in it. When he found me reso-
lute he said that, on further thought, he could not but
applaud the design, and told me. I should not go alone,
but he would go with me; but he would go first and bring
a stoat fellow, one of his countrymen, to go also with us;
"and one," said he, "as famous for his zeal as you cam
desire any one to be against such devilish things as these."
So we agreed to go, only we three and my man-servant,
and resolved to put it in execution the following night
about midnight, with all possible secrecy.
We thought it better to delay it till the next night, be-
cause the caravan being to set forward in the morning, we
lupposed the governor could not pretend to give them any
satisfaction upon us when we were out of his power. The
Scota merchant, as steady in his resolution for the enter-
prise as bold in executing, brought me a Tartar's robe or
gown of sheep-skins, and a bonnet, with a bow and arrows,
and had provided the same for himself and his country-
man, that the people, if they saw us, should not determine
who we were. All the first night we spent in mixing up
some combustible matter, with aqua vita, gunpowder, and
such other materials as we could get; and having a good
quantity of tar in a little pot, about an hour after night
we set out upon our expedition.
We came to the place about eleven o'clock at night, and
found that the people had not the least suspicion of danger
attending their idol. The night was cloudy: yet the moon
gave us light enough to see that the idol stood just in the
same posture and place that it did before. The people
seemed to be all at their rest; only that in the great hut,
where we saw the three priests, we saw a light, and going
up close to the door, we heard people talking as if there
were five or six of them; we concluded, therefore, that if
we set wildfire to the idol, those men would come out im-
mediately, and run up to the place to rescue it from de-
struction; and what to do with them we knew not. Once
we thought of carrying it away, and setting fire to it at a
distance; but when we came to handle it, we found it too
bulky for our carriage, so we were at a loss again. The
second Scotsman was for setting fire to the hut, and knock-
ing the creatures that were there on the head when they
came out; but I could not join with that; I was against
killing them, if it were possible to avoid it. "Well,
then, said the Scots merchant, " I will tell you what we
will do: we will try to make them prisoners, tie their
hands, and make them stand and see their idol destroyed."
As it happened, we had twine or pack-thread enough
about us, which we used to tie our fire-locks together with;
so we resolved to attack these people first, and with as little
noise as we could. The Srst thing we did we knocked at
the door, when one of the priests coming to it, \fe imme-
diately seized upon him, stopped his mouth, and tied his
hands behind him, and led him to the idol, where we
gagged him that he might not make a noise, tied his feet
also together, and left him on the ground.
Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that
another would come out to see what the matter was; but
we waited so long till the third man came back to us; and
then nobody coming out, we knocked again gently, and
immediately out came two more, and we served them just
in the same manner, but were obliged to go all with them,
and lay them down by the idol some distance from one
another; when, going back, we found two more were come
out of the door, and a third stood behind them within the
door. We seized the two, and immediately tied them,
when the third, stepping back and crying out, my Scots
merchant went in after them, and taking out a composition
we had made that would only smoke and stink, he set fire
to it, and threw it in among them. By that time the other
Scotsman and my man, taking charge of the two men
already bound, and tied together also by the arm, led
them away to the idol, and left them there, to see if their
idol would relieve them, making haste back to us.
When the furze we had thrown in had filled the hut with
so much smoke that they were almost suffocated, we threw
in a small leather bag of another kind, which flamed like a
candle, and following it in, we found there were but four
people, who, as we supposed, had been about some of their
diabolical sacrifices. They appeared, in short, frightened
to death, at least so as to sit trembling and stupid, and not
able to speak either, for the smoke.
We quickly took them from the hut, where the smoke
soon drove us out, bound them as we had done the others,
and all without any noise. Then we carried them alto-
gether to the idol; when we came there, we fell to work
with him. First, we daubed him all over, and his robes
also, with tar, and tallow mixed with brimstone; then we
stopped his eyes, and ears, and mouth full of gunpowder,
and wrapped up a great piece of wildfire in his bonnet;
then sticking all the combustibles we had brought with us
upon him, we looked about to see if we could find anything
else to help to burn him; when my Scotsman remembered
that by the hut, where the men were, there lay a heap of
dry forage; away he and the other Scotsman ran and
fetched their arms full of that. When we had done this,
we took all our prisoners, and brought them, having untied
their feet and ungagged their mouths, and made them
stand up, and set them before their monstrous idol, and
then set fire to the whole.
We stayed by it a quarter of an hour or thereabouts, till
the powder in the eyes, and mouth, and ears of the idol
blew up, and as we could perceive, had split altogether;
and in a word, till we saw it burned so that it would soon
be quite consumed. We then began to think of going
away; but the Scotsman said, " No, we must not go, for
these poor deluded wretches will all throw themselves into
the fire, and burn themselves with the idol." So we re-
solved to stay till the forage was burned down too, and
then came away and left them. After the feat was per-
formed, we appeared in the morning among our fellow-
travelers, exceedingly busy in getting ready for our jour-
ney; nor could any man suppose that we had been anywhere
but in our beds.
But the affair did not end so; the next day came a great
number of the country people to the town gates, and in a
most outrageous manner demanded satisfaction of the Rus-
sian governor for the insulting their priests and burning
their great Cham Chi-Thaungu. The people of Nortziousky
were at first in a great consternation, for they said the
Tartars were already no less than thirty thousand strong.
The Russian governor sent out messengers to- appease
them, assuring them that he knew nothing of it, and that
there had not a soul in his garrison been abroad, so that it
could not be from anybody there: but if they could let him
know who did it, they should be exemplarily punished.
They returned haughtily, that all the country reverenced
the great Cham Thi-Thaungu, who dwelt,in the sun,
and no mortal would have dared to offer violence to his
image but some Christian miscreant; and they therefore
resolved to denounce war against him and all the Russians,
who, they said, were miscreants and Christians.
The governor, unwilling to make a breach, or to have
any cause of war alleged to be given by him, the czar hav-
ing strictly charged him to treat the conquered country
',
with gentleness, gave them all the good if or In He could.
At last he told them there was a caravan gone toward Ruh-
sia that morning, and perhaps it was some of them who
had done them this injury; and that if they would be satis-
fied with that, he would send after them to inquire into it.
This seemed to appease them a little; and accordingly the
governor sent after us, and gave us a particular account
how the thing was; intimating withal, that if any in our
caravan had done it they should make their escape; but
that whether we had done it or no, we should make all the
haste forward that was possible: and that, in the mean-
time, he would keep them in play as long as he could.
This was very friendly in the governor: however, when
it came to the caravan, there was nobody knew anything
of the matter; and as for us that were guilty, we were least
of all suspected. However, the captain of the caravan for
the time took the hint that the governor gave us, and we
traveled two days and two nights without any considerable
stop, and then we lay at a village called Plothus: nor did
we make any long stop here, but hastened on toward Jara-
wena, another Muscovite colony, and where we expected
we should be safe. But upon the second day's march from
Plothus, by the clouds of dust behind us at a great dis-
tance, it was plain we were pursued. We had entered a
vast desert, and had passed by a great lake called Schanks
Oser, when we perceived a large body of horse appear on
the other side of the lake, to the north, we traveling west.
We observed they went away west, as we did, but had sup-
posed we would have taken that side of the lake, whereas,
we very happily took the south side; and in two days more
they disappeared again: for they, believing we were still
before them, pushed on till they came to the Udda, a very
great river when it passes further north, but when we
came to it we found it narrow and fordable.
The third day they had either found their mistake, or
had intelligence of us, and came pouring in upon us toward
dusk. We had, to our great satisfaction, just pitched upon
a convenient place for our camp; for as we had just enterod
upon a desert about five hundred miles over, where we had
no towns to lodge at, and, indeed, expected none but the
city Jarawena, which we had yet two days' march to; the
desert, however, had some few woods in it on this side,
and little rivers, which ran all into the great river Udda;
it was in a narrow strait, between little but very thick
woods, that we pitched our camp that night, expecting to
be attacked before morning. As it was usual for the
Mogul Tartars to go about in troops in that desert, so the
cararans always fortify themselves every night against
them, as against armies of robbers; and it was, therefore,
no new thiug to be pursued. But we had this night a
most advantageous camp: for as we lay between two
woods, with a little rivulet running just before our front,
we could not be surrounded, or attacked any way but in
our front or rear. We took care also to make our front as
strong as we could, by placing our packs, with the camels
and horses, all in a line, on the inside of the river, and
felling some trees in our rear.
In this posture we encamped for the night; but the
enemy was upon us before we had finished. They did not
come on like thieves, as we expected, but sent three mes-
sengers to us, to demand the men to be delivered to them
that had abused their priests and burned their idol, that
they might burn them with fire; and upon this, they said,
they would go away, and do us no further harm, otherwise
they would destroy us all. Our men looked very blank at
this message, and began to stare at one another to see who
looked with the most guilt in their faces; but nobody was
the word—nobody did it. The leader of the caravan sent
word he was well assured that it was not done by any of
our camp; that we were peaceful merchants, traveling on
our business; that we had done no harm to them or to any
one else; and that, therefore, they must look further for
the enemies who had injured them, for we were not the
people; so they desired them not to disturb us, for if they
did we should defend ourselves.
They were far from being satisfied with this for an
answer; and a great crowd of them came running down in
the morning, by break of day, to our camp; but seeing us
so well posted, they durst come no further, than the brook
in our front, where they stood in such number as to terrify
us very much; indeed, some spoke of ten thousand. Here
they stood and looked at us awhile, and then, setting up a
great howl, let fly a crowd of arrows among us; but we
were well enough sheltered under our baggage, and I do
not remember that one of us was hurt.
Somo time after this we saw them move a little to our
right, and expected them on the rear: when a cunning
fellow, a Cossack of Jarawena, calling to the leader of the
caravan, said to him, "I will send all these people away
to Sibeilka." This was a city four or fire days' journey
at least to the right, and rather behind us. So he takes
his bow and arrows, and getting on horseback, he rides
away from our rear directly, as it were back to Nortziou-
sky; after this he takes a great circuit about, and comas
directly on the army of the Tartars as if he had been sent
expressly to tell them a long story that the people who had
burned the Cham Chi-Thaungu were gone to Sibeilka, with
a caravan of miscreants, as he called them—that is to say,
Christians; and that they had resolved to burn the god
Scal-lsar, belonging to the Tonguses. As this fellow was
himself a Tartar, and perfectly spoke their language, he
eounterfeited so well that they all believed him, and away
they drove in a violent hurry to Sibeilka. In less than
three hours they were entirely out of our sight, and we
never heard any more of them, nor whether they went to
Sibeilka or no. So we passed away safely on to Jarawena,
where there was a Russian garrison, and there we rested
five days.
Prom this city we had a frightful desert, which held us
twenty-three days' march. We furnished ourselves with
some tents here, for the better accommodating ourselves
in the night; and the leader of the caravan procured six-
teen wagons of the country, for carrying our water or pro-
visions, and these carriages were our defense every night
round our little camp; so that had the Tartars appeared,
unless they had been very numerous indeed, they would
not have been able to hurt us. We may well be supposed
to have wanted rest again after this long journey; for in
this desert we neither saw house nor tree, and scarce a
bush; though we saw abundance of the sable-hunters, who
are all Tartars of Mogul Tartary, of which this country is
a part; and they frequently attack small caravans, but we
saw no numbers of them together.
After we had passed this desert we came into a country
pretty well inhabited—that is to say, we found frowns and
castles, settled by the czar with garrisons of stationary
soldiers, to protect the caravans and defend the country
against the Tartars, who would otherwise make it very
dangerous traveling; and his czarish majesty has fliven
10
such strict orders for the well guarding the caravans, that,
if there are any Tartars heard of in the country, detach-
ments of the garrison are always sent to see the traveler
safe from station to station. Thus the governor of Adin-
skoy, whom I had an opportunity to rua&e a visit to, by
means of the Scots merchant, who was acquainted with
him, offered us a guard of fifty men, if we thought there
was any danger, to the next station.
I thought, long before this, that as we came nearer to
Europe we should find the country better inhabited, and
the people more civilized; but I found myself mistaken in
both; for we had yet the nation of the Tonguses to pass
through, where we saw the same tokens of paganism aud
barbarity as before; only, as they were conquered by the
Muscovites, they were not so dangerous, but for rudeness
of manners and idolatry no people in the world ever went
beyond them. They are all clothed in skins of beasts, and
their houses are built of the same; you know not a man
from a woman, neither by the ruggedness of their counte-
nances nor their clothes; and in the winter, when the
ground is covered with snow, they live underground in
vaults, which have cavities going from one to another. If
the Tartars had their Cham Chi-Thaungu for a whole vil-
lage or country, these had idols in every hut and every
cave. This country, I reckon, was, from the desert I
spoke of last, at least four hundred miles, half of it being
another desert, which took us up twelve days' severe
traveling, without house or tree; and we were obliged
again to carry our own provisions, as well water as bread.
After we were out of this desert, and had traveled two
days, we came to Janezay, a Muscovite city, or station, on
the great fiver Janezay, which, they told us there, parted
Europe from Asia.
All the country between the river Oby and the river
Janezay is as entirely pagan, and the people as barbarous,
as the remotest of the Tartars. I also found, which I ob-
served to the Muscovite governors whom 1 had an opportu-
nity to converse with, that the poor pagans are not much
wiser, or nearer Christianity, for being under the Musco-
vite government, which they acknowledged was true
enough—but that, as they said, was none of their busi-
ness; that if the czar expected to convert his Siberian,
Tonguse, or Tartar subjects, it should be done by sending
clergymen among them, not soldiers; and they added,
with more sincerity than I expected, that it was not so
much the concern of their monarch to make the people
Christians as to make them subjects.
From this river to the Oby we crossed a wild, unculti-
vated country, barren of people and good management,
otherwise it is in itself a pleasant, fruitful, and agreeable
conntry. What inhabitants we found in it are all pagans,
except suoh as are sent among them from Russia; for this
is the country—I mean on both sides the river Oby—
whither the Muscovite criminals that are not put to death
are banished, and from whence it is next to impossible they
should ever get away. I have nothing material to say of
my particular affairs till I came to Tobolski, the capital
city of Siberia, where I continued some time on the follow-
ing account:
We had now been almost seven months on our journey,
and winter began to come on apace; whereupon my part-
ner and I called a council about our particular affairs, in
which we found it proper, as we were hound for England,
to consider how to dispose of ourselves. They told us of
sledges and reindeer to carry us over the snow in the winter
time, by which means, indeed, the Russians travel more in
winter than they can in summer, as in these sledges they
are able to run night and day: the snow, being frozen, is
one universal covering to nature, by which the hills, vales,
rivers, and lakes are all smooth and hard as a stone, and
they run upon the surface, without any regard- to what is
underneath.
But I had no occasion to urge a winter journey of this
kind. 1 was bound to England, not to Moscow, and my
route lay two ways: either 1 must go on as the caravan
went, till I came to Jarislaw, and then go off west for
Narva and the Gulf of Finland, and so on to Dantzic,
where I might possibly sell my China cargo to good ad-
vantage;^ I must leave the caravan at a little town on
the Dwina, from whence 1 bad but six days by water to
Archangel, and from thence might be sure of shipping
either to England, Holland, or Hamburg.
Now, to go any of these journeys in the winter would
have been preposterous, for as to Dantzic, the Baltic wouhi
have been frozen up and I could not get passage; and to
go by land in those countries was far less safe than among
the Mogul Tartars: likewise, as to Archangel in October
all the ships would be gone from thence, and even the
merchants who dwell there in summer retire south to Mos-
cow in the winter, when the ships are gone; so that I could
have nothing but extremity of cold to encounter, with a
scarcity of provisions, and must lie in an empty town all
! the winter. Therefore, upon the whole, I thought it much
my better way to let the caravan go, and make provisions
to winter where I was, at Tobolski, in Siberia, in the lati-
tude of about sixty degrees, where I was sure of three
things to wear out a cold winter with—viz., plenty t»'f pro-
visions, such as the country afforded, a warm house, with
fuel enough, and excellent company.
I was now in quite a different climate from my beloved
island, where 1 never felt cold, except when 1 had my
ague; on the contrary, 1 had much to do to bear any
clothes on my back, and never made any fire but without.
doors, which was necessary for dressing my food, etc.
Now I had three good vests, with large robes or gowns
over them, to hang down to the feet, and button close to
the wrists; and all these lined with furs, to make them
sufficiently warm. As to a warm house, I must confess I
greatly dislike our way in England of making fires in
every room in the house, in open chimneys, which, when
the fire is out, always keeps the air in the room cold as the
climate. So I took an apartment in a good house in the
town, and ordered a chimney to be built like a furnace, in
the center of six or seven rooms, like a stove; the funnel
to carry the smoke went up one way, the door to come at
the fire went in another, and all the rooms were kept
equally warm, but no fire seen, just as they heat baths in
England. By this means we had always the same climate
in all the rooms, and an equal heat was preserved; and yet
we saw no fire, nor were ever incommoded with smoke.
The most wonderful thing of all was, that it should be
possible to meet with good company here, in a country so
barbarous as this—one of the most northernly 'parts of
Europe. But this being the country where the state crimi-
nals of Muscovy, as I observed before, are all banished,
this city was full of Russian noblemen, gentlemen, soldiers,
and courtiers. Here was the famous Prince Galitzin, the
old German Robostiski. and several other persons of note,
and some ladies. By means of my Scotch merchant.
whom, nevertheless, I parted with here, I made an ac-
quaintance with several of these gentlemen; and from
these, in the long winter nights in which I stayed here, I
received several very agreeable visits.
SECTION XLIV.
Conversations with a Russian Grandee.—Set out on My Journey
Homeward.—Harassed by Kalmucks on the Road.—Arrival at
Archangel.—Sail From Thence, and Arrive Safely in England.
It was talking one night with a certain prince, one of
the banished ministers of state belonging to the czar, that
the discourse of my particular case began. He had been
telling me abundance of fine things of the greatness, the
magnificence, the dominions, and the absolute power of
the Emperor of the Russians: I interrupted him, and told
him I was a greater and more powerful prince than ever
the czar was, though my dominion were not so large, or
my people so many. The Russian grandee looked a little
surprised, and, fixing his eyes steadily upon me, began to
wonder what 1 meant. I said his wonder would cease
when I had explained myself, and told him the story at
large of my living in the island; and then how 1 managed
both myself and the people that were under me, just as I
have since minuted it down. They were exceedingly taken
with the story, and especially the prince, who told me,
with a sigh, that the true greatness of life was to be mas-
ters of ourselves; that he would not have exchanged such a
state of life as mine to be Czar of Muscovy; and that he
found more felicity in the retirement he seemed to be ban-
ished to there, than ever he found in the highest authority
he enjoyed in the court of his master the czar; that the
height of human wisdom was to bring our tempers down
to our circumstances, and to make a calm within, under
the weight of the greatest storms without. When he came
first hither, he said, he used to tear the hair from his
head, and the clothes from his back, as others had done
before him; but a little time and consideration had made
him look into himself, as well as round him to things with-
out: that he found the mind of man, if it was but once
brought to reflect upon the state of universal life, and how
little this world was concerned in its troe felicity, was per-
V
fectly capable ot making a felicity for rtself, fully satisfy-
ing to itself, and suitable to its own best ends and desires,
with but very little assistance from the world. That being
now deprived of all the fancied felicity which he enjoyed
in the full exercise of worldly pleasures, he said he was at
leisure to look upon the datk side of them, where he found
all manner of deformity; and was now convinced that virt-
ue only makes a man truly wise, rich, and great, and
preserves him in the way to a superior happiness in a
future state; and in this, he said, they were more happy in
their banishment than all their enemies were, who had full
possession of all the wealth and power they had left behind
them. "Nor, sir," says he, "do I bring my mind to this
politically, from the necessity of my circumstances, which
some call miserable; but, if I know anything of myself, I
would not now go back, though the czar my master should
call me, and reinstate me in all my former grandeur."
He spoke this with so much warmth in his temper, so
much earnestness and motion of his spirits, that it was evi-
dent it was the true sense of his soul; there was no room
to doubt his sincerity. 1 told him I once thought myself
a kind of monarch in my old station, of which 1 had given
him an account; but that 1 thought he was not only a
monarch, but a great conqueror; for that he had got a vic-
tory over his own exorbitant desires, and the absolute
dominion over himself, he whose reason entirely governs
his will, is certainly greater than he that conquers a city.
I had been here eight months, and a dark, dreadful win'
ter I thought it; the cold so intense that I could not so
much as look abroad without being wrapped in furs, and
a kind of mask of fur before my face, with only a hole for
breath, and two for sight: the little daylight we had was
for three months not above five hours a day, and six at
most; only that the snow lying on the ground continually,
and the weather being clear, it was never quite dark. Our
horses were kept, or rather starved, underground; and as
for our servants, whom we hired here to look after our-
selves and horses, we had, every now and then, their
fingers and toes to thaw and take care of, lest they should
mortify and fall off.
It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses being
close, the walls thick, the windows small, and the glass all
double. Our food was chiefly the flesh of deer, dried and
cured in the season; bread good enough, but baked as bis-
cuits; dried fish of several sorts, and some flesh of mutton,
and of bufialoes, which is pretty good meat. All the stores
of provisions for the winter are laid up in the summer, and
well cured: our drink was water, mixed withaqua vitm in-
stead of brandy; and for a treat, mead instead of wine,
which, however, they have very good. The hunters, who
venture abroad all weathers, frequently brought us in fine
venison, and sometimes bear's flesh, but we did not much
care for the last. We had a good stock of tea, with which
we treated our friends, and we lived cheerfully and well,
all things considered.
It was now March, the days grown considerably longer,
and the weather at least tolerable; so the other travelers
began to prepare sledges to carry them over the snow, and
to get things ready to be going; but my measures being
fixed, as 1 have said, for Archangel, and not for Muscovy
or the Baltic, I made no motion; knowing very well that
"the ships from the south do not set out for that part of the
world till May or June, and that if 1 was there by the be-
ginning of August, it would be as soon as any ships would
be ready to sail. Therefore 1 made no haste to be gone,
as others did: in a word, 1 saw a great many people, nay,
all the travelers, go away before me. It seems every year
they go from thence to Muscovy for trade, to carry furs,
and buy necessaries, which they bring back with them to
furnish their shops: also others went on the same errand to
Archangel.
In the month of May I began to make all ready to pack
up; and, as I was doing this, it occurred to me that, see-
ing all these people were banished by the czar to Siberia,
and yet, when they came there, were left at liberty to go
whither they would, why they did not then go away to any
part of the world, wherever they thought fit; and I began
to examine what should hinder them from making such an
attempt. But my wonder was over when I entered upon
that subject with the person 1 have mentioned, who
answered me thus: "Consider, first, sir," said he, "the
place where we are; and, secondly, the condition we are
in; especially the generality of the people who are banished
thither. We are surrounded with stronger things than
bars or bolts; on the north side, an unnavigable ocean,
where ship never sailed, and boat never swam; every other
way we have above a thousand miles to pass- through the
czar's own dominions, and by ways utterly impassable, ex-
cept by the roads made by the government, and through
the towns garrisoned by his troops; in short, we .could
neither pass undiscovered by the road, nor subsist any
. other way, so that it is in.vain to attempt it."
I was silenced at once, and found that they were in a
prison every jot as secure as if they had been locked up in
the castle at Moscow: however, it came into my thoughts
that I might certainly be made an instrument to procure
the escape of this excellent person; and that, whatever
hazard I ran, I would certainly try if I could carry him
off. Upon this, I took an occasion one evening to tell him
my thoughts. I represented to him that it was very easy
for me to carry him away, there being no guard over him
in the country; and as I was not going to Moscow, but to
Archangel, and that I went in the retinueof a caravan, by
which I was not obliged to lie in the stationary towns in
the desert, but could encamp every night where 1 would,
we might easily pass uninterrupted to Archangel, where
I would immediately secure him on board an English ship,
and carry him safe along with mo; and as to his subsis-
tence and other particulars, it should be my care till he
could better supply himself.
He heard me very attentively, and looked earnestly on
me all the while I spoke; nay, I could see in his very face
that what 1 said put his spirits into an exceeding ferment;
his color frequently changed, his eyes looked red, and his
heart fluttered, till it might be even perceived in his
countenance; nor.could he immediately answer me when I
had dose, and, as it were, hesitated what he would say to
it: but after he had paused a little, he embraced me, and
said, "How unhappy are we, unguarded creatures as we
are, that even our greatest acts of friendship are made
snares unto us, and we are made tempters of one another!"
He then heartily thanked me for my offers of service, but
withstood resolutely the arguments 1 used to urge him to
set himself free. He declared, in earnest terms, that he
was fully bent on remaining where he was rather than seek
to return to his former miserable greatness, as he called it:
where the seeds of pride, ambition, avarice, and luxury
might revive, take root, and again overwhelm him. "Let
me remain, dear sir," he said, in conclusion—" let me re-
main in this blessed confinement, banished from the crimes
of life, rather than purchase a show of freedom at the ex-
pense of the liberty of my reason, and at the future happi-
ness which I now have in my view, but should then, I fear,
quickly lose sight of; for I am but flesh; a man, a mere
inan; and have passions and affections as likely to possess
and overthrow me as any man. Oh, be not my friend and
tempter both together!".
If I was surprised before, I was quite dumb now, and
stood silent, looking at him, and, indeed, admiring what I
saw. The struggle in his soul was so great that, though
the weather was extremely cold, it put him into a most
violent heat; so I said a word or two, that 1 would leave
him tc consider of it, and wait on him again, and then I
withdrew to my own apartment.
About two hours after I heard somebody at or near the
door of my room, and I was going to open the door, but
he had opened it and come in. "My dear friend," says
he, "you had almost overset me, but 1 am recovered. Do
not take it ill that I do not close with your offer. I assure
you it is not for want of sense of the kindness of it in you;
and I came to make the most sincere acknowledgment of
it to you; but 1 hope I have got the victory over myself."
"My lord," said I, "I hope you are fully satisfied that
you do not resist the call of Heaven." "Sir," said he,
"if it had been from Heaven, the same power would have
influenced me to have accepted it; but I hope, and am
fully satisfied, that it is from Heaven that I decline it, and
I have infinite, satisfaction in the parting, that you shall
leave me an honest man still, though not a free man."
I had nothing to do but to acquiesce, and make pro-''
fessions to him of my having no end in it but a sincere de-
sire to serve him. He embraced me very passionately, and
assured me he was sensible of that, and should always
acknowledge it; and with that he offered me a very fine
present of sables—too much, indeed, for me to accept
from a man in his circumstances, and I would have avoided
them, but he would not be refused. The next morning I
sent my servant to his lordship with a small present of tea,
anil two pieces of China damask, and four little wedges of
,lupan gold, which did not all weigh above six ounces or
i hereabouts, but were far short of the value of his sables,
fciuuh, when I came to England, 1 found worth near tw«
Hundred pounds. He accepted the tea, and one piece of
the damask, and one of the pieces of gold, which had a
fine stamp upon it, of the Japan coinage, which I found
he took for the rarity of it, but would not take any more:
and he sent word by my servant that he desired to speak
with me.
When 1 came to him he told me I knew what had passed
between us, and hoped I would not move him any more in
that affair; but that, since 1 had made such a generous
offer to him, he asked me if I had kindness enough to offer
the same to another person that he would name to me, in
whom he had a great share of concern. In a word, he
told me it was his only son; who, though I had not seen
him, was in the same condition with himself, and above
two hundred miles from him, on the other side of the Oby;
but that, if 1 consented, he would send for him.
I made no hesitation, but told him I would do it. I
made some ceremony in letting him understand that it was
wholly on his account; and that, seeing I could not prevail
on him, I would show my respect to him by my concern
for his son. He sent the next day for his son; and in
about twenty days he came back with the messenger,
bringing six or seven horses, loaded with very rich furs,
which, on the whole, amounted to a very great value. His
servants brought the horses into the town, but let the
young lord at a distance till night, when he came incognito
into our apartment, and his father presented him to me;
and, in short, we concerted the manner of our traveling,
and everything proper for the journey.
I had bought a considerable quantity of sables, black
fox-skins, fine ermines, and such other furs as are very
rich in that city, in exchange for some of the goods I had
brought from China; in particular for the cloves and nut-
megs, of which 1 sold the greatest part here, and the rest
afterward at Archangel, for a much better price than T
could have got at London; and my partner, who was sensi-
ble of the profit, and whose business, more particularly
than mine was merchandise, was mightily pleased with our
stay, on account of the traffic we made here.
It was the beginning of June when I left thjs remote
Elace. We were now reduced to a very small' caravan,
aving only thirty-two horses and camels in all, which
passed for mine, though my new guest was proprietor of
eleven of them. It was natural also that I should take
more servants with me than 1 had before; and the young
lord passed for my steward; what great man I passed for
myself I know not, neither did it concern me to inquire.
We had here the worst and the largest desert to pass over
that we met with in our whole journey; I call it the worst,
because the way was very deep in some places, and very
uneven in others; the best we had to say for it was, that
we thought we had no troops of Tartars or robbers to fear,
as they never came on this side of the river Oby, or at least
very seldom; but we found it otherwise.
My young lord had a faithful Siberian servant, who was
perfectly acquainted with the country, and led us by
private roads, so that we avoided coming into the principal
towns and cities upon the great road, such as Tumeu, Soloy
Kamaskoy, and several others; because the Muscovite gar-
risons which are kept there are very curious and strict in
their observation upon travelers, and searching lest any of
the banished persons of note should make their escape that
way into Muscovy; but, by this means, as we were kept
out of the cities, so our whole journey was a desert, and
we were obliged to encamp and lie in our tents, when we
might have had very good accommodation in the cities on
the way; this the young lord was so sensible of, that he
would not allow us to lie abroad when we came to several
cities on the way, but lay abroad himself, with his servant,
in the woods, and met us always at the appointed places.
We had just entered Europe, having passed the river
Kama, which in these parts is the boundary between
Europe and Asia, and the first city on the European side
was called Soloy Kamaskoy, that is, the great city on the
river Kama. And here we thought to see some evident
alteration in the people; but we were mistaken; for as we
bad a vast desert to pass, which is near seven hundred
miles long in some places, but not above two hundred milei
over where we passed it, so, till we came past that horrible
place, we found very little difference between that country
and Mogul Tartary. The people are mostly pagans; their
houses and towns full of idols; and their way of living
wholly barbarous, except in the cities and villages near
them, where they are Christians, as they call themselves,
of the Greek Church: but have their religion mingled with
so many relics of superstition, that it is scarce to be known
in some places from mere sorcery and witchcraft.
In passing this forest (after all our dangers were, to om
imagination, escaped), 1 thought, indeed, we must have
been plundered and robbed, and perhaps murdered, by a
troop of thieves: of what country they were I am yet at a
loss to know; but they were all on horseback, carried bows
and arrows, and were at first about forty-five in number.
They came so near to us as to be within two musket shot,
and, asking no questions, surrounded us with their horses,
and looked very earnestly upon us twice; at length, they
placed themselves just in our way; upon which we drew
up in a little line, before our camels, being not above six-
teen men in all. Thus drawn up, we halted, and sent out
the Siberian servant, who attended his lord, to see who
they were; his master was the more willing to let him go,
because he was not a little apprehensive that they were a
Siberian troop sent out after bim. The man came up near
them with a flag of truce, and called to them; but though
he spoke several of their languages, or dialects of languages
rather, he could not understand a word they said; however,
after some signs to him not to come near them at his peril,
the fellow came back no wiser than he went; only that by
their dress, he said, he believed them to be some Tartars
of Kalmuck, or of the Circassian hordes, and that there
must be more of them upon the great desert, though he
never heard that any of them were seen so far north before.
This was small comfort to us; however, we had no
remedy: there was on our left hand, at about a quarter of
a mile distance, a little grove, aud very near the road. I
immediately resolved we should advance to those trees, and
fortify ourselves as well as we could there; for, first, I
considered that the trees would in a great measure cover us
from their arrows; and, in the next place, they could not
come to charge us in a body: it was, indeed, my old Portu-
guese pilot who proposed it, and who had this excellency
attending him, that he was always readiest and most apt
to direct and encourage us in cases of the most danger.
We advanced immediately, with what speed we could, and
gained that little wood; the Tartars, or thieves, for we
knew not what to call them, keeping their stand, and not
attempting to hinder us. When we came thither, we
found, to our great satisfaction, that it was a swampy
piece of ground, and on the one side a very great spring of
water, which, running out in a little brook, was a little
further joined by another of the like size; and was, in
short, the source of a considerable river, called afterward
the Wirtska; the trees which grew about this spring were
not above two hundred, but very large, and stood pretty
thick, so that as soon as we got in, we saw ourselves per-
fectly safe from the,enemy unless they attacked us on foot.
While we stayed here waiting the motion of the enemy
some, hours, without perceiving that they made any move-
ment, our Portuguese, with some help, cut several arms
of trees half off, and laid them hanging across from one
tree to another, and in a manner fenced us in. About two
hours before night they came down directly upon us; and
though we had not perceived it, we found they had been
joined by some more, so that they were near fourscore
horse; whereof, however, we fancied some were women.
They came on till they were within half shot of our little
wood, when we fired one musket without ball, and called
to them in the Russian tongue to know what they wanted,
and bade them keep off; but they came on with a double
fury up to the wood-side, not imagining we were so barri-
caded that they could not easily break in. Our old pilot
was our captain as well as our engineer, and desired us not
to fire upon them till they came within pistol-shot, that
we might be sure to kill, and that when we did fire we
should be sure to take good aim; we bade him give the
word of command, which he delayed so long that they were
some of them within two pikes' length of us when we let
fly. We aimed so true that we killed fourteen of them,
and wounded several others, as also several of their horses;
for we had all of us loaded our pieces with two or three
bullets apiece at least.
They were terribly surprised with our fire, and retreated
immediately about one hundred rods from.us; in which time
we loaded our pieces again, and seeing them keep that dis-
tance, we sallied out, and caught four or five of their
horses, whose riders we supposed were killed; and coming
up to the dead, we judged they were Tartars, but knew
not how they came to make an excursion such an unusual
length.
About an hour after they again made a motion to attack
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 498
*
break in; but finding ns always ready to face them, they
went oft again; and we resolved not to stir for that night.
We slept little, but spent the most part of the night in
strengthening our situation, and barricading the entrances
into the wood, and keeping a strict watch. We waited for
daylight, and when it came, it gave us a very unwelcome
discovery indeed; for the enemy, who we thought were
discouraged with the reception they rnet with, were now
greatly increased, and had set up eleven or twelve huts or
tents, as if they were resolved to besiege us; and this little
camp they had pitched upon the open plain, about three
quarters of a mile from us. I confess I now gave myself
over for lost, and all that 1 had; the loss of my effects did
not lie so near me, though very considerable, as the
thoughts of falling into the hands of such barlariansat the
latter end of my journey, after so many difficulties and
hazards as I had gone through, and even in sight of our
port, where we expected safety and deliverance. As to my
partner, he was raging, and declared that to lose his goods
would be his ruin, and that he would rather die than be
starved, and he was for fighting to the last drop.
The young lord, a most gallant youth, was for fighting
to the last also; and my old pilot was of opinion that we
were able to resist them all in the situation we were then
in. Thus we spent the day in debates of what we should
do; but toward evening we found that the number of onr
enemies still increased, and we did not know but by the
morning they might still be a greater number: so 1 began
to inquire of those people we had brought from Tobolski
if there were no private ways by which we might avoid
them in the night, and perhaps retreat to some town, or
get help to guard us over the desert. The young lord's
Siberian servant told us, if we designed to avoid them, and
not fight, he would engage to carry us off in. the night, to
a way that went north, toward the river Petruz, by which
he made no question but we might get away, and the Tar-
tars never discover it; but, he said, his lord had told him
he would not retreat, but would rather choose to fight. I
told him he mistook his lord: for that he was too wise a
man to love fighting for the sake of it; that I knew he was
brave enough by what he had showed already; but that he
knew better than to desire seventeen or eighteen men to
fight five hundred, unless an unavoidable necessity forced
them to it; and that if he thought it possible for us to
escape in the night, we had nothing else to do but to
attempt it . He answered, if his lordship gave him such
orders, he would lose his life if he did not perform it; we
soon brought his lord to give that order, though privately,
and we immediately prepared for puttmg it in practice.
And Grstir as soon as it began to be dark, we kindled a
fire in our little camp, which we kept burning, and pre-
pared so as to make it burn all night, that the Tartars
might conclude we were still there; but as soon as it was
dark, and we could see the stars (for our guide would not
stir before), having all our.horsos and camels ready loaded,
we followed our new guided who I soon found steered him-
self b^r the north star, the country being level for a long
way.
After we had traveled two hours very hard, it began to
be lighter still; not that it was dark all night, but the
moon began to rise, so that, in short, it was rather lighter
than we wished it to be; but by six o'clock the next morn-
ing we had got above thirty miles, having almost spoiled
our horses. Here we found a Kussian village, named
Kermazinskoy, where we rested, and heard nothing of the
Kalmuck Tartars that day. About two hours before night
we set out again, and traveled till eight the next morning,
though not quite so hard as before; and about seven o'clock
we passed a little river, eall.d Kirtza, and came to a good
large town inhabited by Bussians, called Ozomys; there we
heard that several troops of Kalmucks had been abroad
upon the desert, but that wo were now completely out of
danger of them, which ;vas to our great satisfaction. Here
we were obliged to get some fresh horses, aud having need
enough of rest, we stayed five days; aud my partner and I
agreed to give the honest Siberian who conducted us thither
the value of ten pistoles.
In five days more we came to VeuSs'mai upou. the river
Witzogda, and running into the Dwina: we were there,
very happily, near the end of our travels by land, that
river being navigable, in seven days' passage, to Archangel.
From heuce we came to Lawrenskoy, the 3d of July; and
providing ourselves with two luggage boats, and a barge
for our own convenience, we embarked the 7th, and arrived
ill safe at Archangel the 18th; having been a year, five
months, and three days on the journey, inoluding our stay
of about eight months at Tobolski.
We were obliged to stay at this place six weeks for the
arrival of the ships, and must have tarried longer, had not
a Hamburgher come in above a mouth sooner than any of
the English ships; when, after some consideration that the
city of Hamburgh might happen to be as good a market
for our goods as London, we all took freight with him;
and, having put our goods on board, it was most natural
for me to put my steward on board to take care of them;
by which means my young lord had a sufficient opportu-
nity to conceal himself, never coming on shore again all
the time we stayed there; and this he did that he might
not be seen in the city, where some of the Moscow mer-
chants would certainly have seen and discovered him.
We then set sail for Archangel the 20th of August, the
same year; and, after no extraordinary bad voyage, arrived
Bafe in the Elbe the 18th of September. Here my partner
and I found a very good sale for our goods, as well those
of China as the sables, etc., of Siberia: and, dividing the
produce, my share amounted to three thousand four hun-
dred and seventy-five pounds, seventeen shillings, and three
pence, including about six hundred pounds' worth of dia-
monds, which I purchased at Bengal.
Here the young lord took his leave of us, and went up
the Elbe, in order to go to the court of Vienna, where he
resolved to seek protection, and could correspond with those
of his father's friends who were left alive. He did not part
m without testimonials of gratitude for the service 1 had done
. him, and for my kindness to the prince, his father.
To conclude: having stayed near four months in Ham-
burgh, I came from thence by land to the Hague, where 1
embarked in the packet, and arrived in London the 10th
of January 1705, having been absent from England ten
years and nine months. And here, resolving to harass
myself no more, I am preparing for a longer journey than
all these, having lived seventy-two years a life of infinite
variety, and learned sufficiently to know the value of re-
tirement, and the blessing of ending our days in peace.
THE BSD,
i ',
i
f
