ROBINSON CRUSOE
Retold For Little Folks

*r
CHARLES LGKAHAMSGI
New Yoait 1
7oAe '111

S-'^%L
7oAe '111
'.'

Robinson Crusoe
CRUSOE IS CAST ON A DESERT ISLAND
M
PY name is Robinson CrUsoe, and my father was a merchant
who lived in the city of York. When a boy I ran away
from home to go to sea, but after some years of a sailor's life I
bitterly regretted my conduct. The ship I was on was overtaken
by a violent storm, and I and the rest of those on board were
obliged to try and save ourselves in a small boat The fury
of the tempest overturned the boat and threw us all into the
water. As I was a good swimmer I managed to keep afloat,
tijl at last the waves cast me, more dead than alive, upon a
large piece of rock. I grasped firm hold of this, and as soon
as I could breathe again I clambered up the cliffs to the shore,
and there I sank down upon the grass, safe beyond the reach
of the water.
The first thing I did was to thank God for having spared my
life. Then I thought of my poor comrades, who no doubt had
all been drowned. After a while I began to look around me
to see what kind of place I was in, and as far as I could discover
I was alone on a desolate coast. So although it had not been my
fate to die with my companions, yet I was in a sad plight, for I
was wet to the skin, and had no dry clothes into which I could
change. Neither had I any food to eat or water to drink. I
also feared there might be wild beasts upon the land where I was
that would kill and eat me, for I had no weapon with which to
defend myself. These thoughts all but drove me mad, and I
ran up and down the shore, wringing my hands and crying aloud.
At last it grew dark, and I was so very tired that I sat down
to try and think how I could spend the night in safety. Seeing
a large thick fir-tree not far off I decided to climb amid
its branches, and stay there till daylight, when I could see
my surroundings more clearly. So I found a resting-place
amid the green boughs of the tree, and there I fell into
a deep sleep.
When I awbke it was broad day, the wind had dropped,
and the sea was quite calm. I got down from my perch,
and walked to the shore There I saw that our ship had
been lifted off the sand by the swelling of the tide during
the night, and was driven up almost as far as the rock
whereon I had been dashed. Then the thought struck me
that, if I waited until the tide had ebbed far out, I could
easily reach the ship's side, and might be able to get some
clothes and food out of her. This idea filled me with new
hope, and I eagerly watched for the ebbing of the tide.
At about noon I could walk within a quarter of a mile of

ROBINSON CRUSOE
mnesm
V ^ ~

CRUSOE FINDS HIS SHIP DRIVEN CLOSE TO THE SHORE
the ship, so I plunged into the water and swam up to
her. My next difficulty was to find a way in which to get
on board, for the vessel lay aground and high out of the
water. I swam round her twice, and the second time I
spied a small piece of rope which was hanging down over
her side, and so low that I could just get hold of it. By
the help of this rope I pulled myself up on to the ship. Here
I found that she had a great deal of water in her, but that
she lay on the side of a bank of hard earth, so that her
stern stood high out of the water, while her bow was nearly
level with the surface. This had left free from damp all that
was contained in the part that stood up, and to my great joy the
place where the food was kept happened to be in this part.
I at once set to work to see what was spoilt and what was
good. I was fortunate enough to discover some clothes, and
also a box of tools, which proved to be the most useful prize
to me. I found, too, some powder and shot that were
untouched by the water, with some guns, swords, and a
couple of pistols.
We had taken two cats and a dog on board with us, and
when these poor animals heard me moving about they came
running up, showing every sign of joy at the sight of me again.
I was none the less pleased to see them, and determined to
take them to shore with me, where I should be very glad of
their companionship.
Now what I wanted more than anything else was a boat,
in which to carry the things to land, but as there was not one
to be had I decided to make -a raft with those pieces of wood
I could find on the ship. Before I commenced this work,
however, as I was extremely hungry, I paid a visit to the
CRUSOE PULLS HIMSELF UP ON TO THE SHIP
ship's larder, and there had
a good meal, which the dog
and cats shared with me. I
also filled my pockets with
biscuits, which I ate as I
went about looking for wood
with which to make my raft.
I found some large spars
and planks, and some old
masts, and round each of
these I tied a piece of rope
so that it could not drift
away, and then flung it into
the sea.
When this was done I
went down the side of the
ship and tied them, each one to the next, at both ends.
I then laid two or three short pieces of plank across, and so
made a very fair raft.
On to this raft, which was strong enough to bear any
reasonable weight, I put as many things as it would hold,
and then, with the aid of an old oar I found in the ship, I
managed to guide my craft to land.
This was by no means an easy task, and once I and my
goods were all but cast into the sea J but at last, after much
care and trouble* I succeeded in getting my cargo safely upon
shore.
The next thing I did was to make a little tent, with a sail, and
the chests and boards which I had brought ashore on the raft.
Into this tent I carried everything the sun or the rain would spoil

CRUSOE GUIDES HIS RAFT TO LAND
Then, as I was.quite-tired
out with my work, I spread a
rug upon the ground inside-my
shelter, put my gun by my side,
and fell fast asleep.
The next day I again went
to the ship with my raft, for I
was determined„to get'exerything
out of her I possibly could. I
found a great many most'useful
things, such as some big bags
of nails, a big roll of sheel
lead, a large quantity of bread,
flour, sugar, cheese, a little
corn, and, above all, that.most
useful thing called a grindstone.
Besides this I took away all the
iron and the wood I could carry, as I thought it might prove
of great service to me. I cut down the masts of the ship,,
and sawed them into pieces^that I could lower down the side
of the vessel on to my raft. I took with me *also, two barrels
of musket bullets, seven muskets and a fowling-piece, a large
bag full of small shot, and all the men's clothes that I could
find. Feeling sure that they would come in useful, I took with
me all the sails that I could get
I was very much afraid when I was away from land, that
my food would be eaten on the shore. But when I came back,
I found no sign of any visitor; only there sat a creature like a
wild cat upon one of my chests. When I came towards it, it ran
away a little distance, and then stood still. It sat very calmly and

looked me full in the face, as if it wanted to make friends with me.
I pointed my gun at it, but as it did not understand what it was,
it did not move an inch. I threw it a piece of biscuit, which it
ate, and then it looked for more. But since I had no more to
spare, the creature walked away.
Each day when the tide was out I went over to the wreck
and brought away as much as I could carry, and right glad
I was that I lost no time in doing- so, for on the tenth day
the wind blew a great gale, and that night there was a storm.
When I went to look out to sea the next morning, there was
no ship to be seen.. She had been torn to pieces by the waves.
My next thought was of how I could build myself some
sort of house to live in, for I did not feel at all safe in my tent
I had a fear that savages or wild beasts might come upon me
at any time.
By going up to the top of a hill I could see a good way
round the land I was upon, and as far as my sight could tell
me, I was on an island, which appeared to be uninhabited except
by wild birds and animals. But I did not know whether
savages ever visited that part of the coast, and I was in great
dread lest any should come and discover me.
So I looked about for a suitable spot whereon to build
myself a safer, stronger shelter. I discovered a little green
plain on the side of a rising hill, which seemed to me to be
just the place I wanted. The hill was of rock, and in that
part of it just by the plain there was a hollow place worn a
little way in. It was here I decided to make my home.
First of all I drew a half circle upon the ground before
the hollow place in the rock, and on this I pitched two rows
of strong stakes, one row a little distance from the other.
S

I drove them into the ground till they stood very firm like
piles. Then I took the pieces of iron chain I had got from
the ship, and laid them all round, one upon another, between
these two rows of stakes. When I had done this it was
so strong a fence that neither man nor beast could get into
it, or over it. The way I got in myself was by a short
ladder, which, when I was safely over, I drew up after me;
and so I felt I was completely fortified.
1 next removed my tent and put it up inside this fence, and
I also made a second and larger covering to go right over the
whole. This formed a double tent, and as I made the outer one
with tarpaulin it was very strong and weather-proof
V.
When I had done this i began to work my way into
the hollow of the rock, and thus I made me a cave, which
served like a, cellar to my house. I carried the earth and
stones which I dug out of the rock through my tent, and
laid them within my fence, which raised the ground about
a foot and a half.
I had found a very good hammock in the ship, and I
slung this up in my shelter so that it served me for a bed,
and was a most comfortable one too.
When my fortress was complete, I next proceeded to fetch all
the things I had brought from the ship, and place them within
my cave. It took me some time to do this, as the last lot
were still on the shore where I had left them when I landed,
for I had been too tired to
bring them up the cliff then.
Besides this work I found
time to go out every day in
search of food. I took my
gun and my dog and shot
a wild duck, or any beast
I could see. I had to eat
the flesh of any bird or beast
that was fit to make a meal
of, and I kept the 6kins of
all the animals I killed and
stretched and dried them.
Of course I made a fire, by
which I cooked the meat
before I ate it.
I was fortunate enough

to discover a spring of fresh water not far from where I "had
pitched my tent, so that I felt that for some little time I was
provided for.
CRUSOE MAKES HIS HOME COMFORTABLE
A FTER I had been upon the island ten or twelve days,
it came into my thoughts that I soon should not know
what day it was, or which was Sunday in the week. So I
got a piece of wood and, with my knife, I cut these words
upon it: "I came on shore here on the 30th of September,
1659". Then I fixed a high post into the ground outside
my tent, and nailed the wood on it, in the shape of a cross.
Every morning I cut a notch upon the sides of this post,
and when it was Sunday I cut a notch twice as long as the
rest. When it was the first day of a new month I cut one
as long again as that long one, and thus I kept my calendar
and knew how the time went.
It was very hot in the part of the world I was in, so much
so, that I had to lie down in the middle of the day, and go
on with my work early in the morning and in the cool of
the evening. I arranged my day in this manner. Directly
I had eaten some breakfast I went out with my gun and my
dog for three hours, then I worked till about eleven o'clock,
after which I cooked and ate whatever I had been able to
get fcr my dinner. From twelve till two I lay down in my
tent, and then in the evening I set to work again.
While out on my walks about the island, I discovered a
kind of wild pigeon that made its home in the holes in the
rocks. I was able to catck some of these birds, and found
CRUSOE PUTS UP HIS CALENDAR

them very good to eat. I took one or two of the young ones
out of a nest and brought them up myself, hoping they would
stay with me as pets, but when they grew up they flew away,
which showed they were happier in their natural state.
I had a great wish to put a roof of wood over my tent,
and also make myself a chair and a table. To do this I
needed some smooth planks of wobd, and I spent many hours
of patient toil to get these. I had first to cut down a tree,
lay the trunk along the ground, and set to work to hew it flat
on either side with my axe. When I had brought it to be
as thin as a plank, I hammered it smooth with my mallet.
In.this way I made rafters for the roof of my house, and
a smooth top for my table. I also managed to make a very
(air specimen of a chair.
My next care was to arrange all my belongings in decent
order, so that everything should be ready to my hand. I have
already mentioned that I brought all my goods into the cave
at the back of my tent, where they lay in a confused heap,
and thus took up a vast deal of room, while I had to search
among them for anything I needed.
I made some large shelves, which I fixed up all along one
side of my cave, and upon these I placed my nails, tools,
and such-like things. I also knocked pieces of wood into
the wall of the rock, upon which I hung my guns and those
articles that would hang up. When all was finished I felt
very proud and pleased with the result of my labour, for my
cave looked so neat, and, now that they were all spread out

^
CRUSOE CUTS A PIECE FROM THE IRON TREE
in order, my belongings looked very many, and very useful
ones too.
As I had found some ink on the ship, when 1 grew tired
of work I was able to amuse myself by writing, which I could
then do in comfort, for I had made for myself a table and chair
which were more or less comfortable,
I thought I would like to enlarge my cave, and so give
myself more room to move about in, so I next turned my
attention to this task. I sorely needed three things which
I had not, to help me with the work. These were a pick-
axe, a shovel, and a wheel-barrow.
For a pick-axe I had to make use of an iron crow-bar,
which served my purpose fairly well, but was very heavy to
handle. As to a wheel-barrow, 1 had to manage without one,
and instead I made me a wooden thing something like a
hod in which labourers carry mortar, and in this I carried
away the earth I dug out of my cave. But a spade or a
shovel I could not do without, so I taxed my brain to find a
way in which to make one.
While walking through the forest I noticed a kind of tree
which is sometimes called the iron-tree, because the wood of
it is so exceedingly hard. Then jt struck me that I might
make a spade out of this hard wood. So, with much labour,
and almost spoiling my axe, I managed to cut off a piece
of the trunk of the tree, I spent hours cutting and shaping
this into a shovel, till at length I had one that did very well
for my use.
It took me just four days, always excepting the time I spent
in going out in search of food, to make the hod and shovel,
and. when they were completed I began to work my way

into the rock. I did this sideways, and as the earth was loose
and sandy I got on fairly quickly.
It was fortunate I could busy myself in this way just then,
for it began to rain very heavily, so I could not have worked
out-of-doors. I got very wet going out to kill game for my
meals; and, as the rain lasted many days, I determined that
when it was fine I should get in as large a supply of food as
possible, so that I need not go hunting in the bad weather.
- While I was busy enlarging my house it occurred to me
that I might work round in the rock till I came to the outside
again, and if I did this I should have a back way into my
tent. So I hollowed out a large space in the earth, gradually
turning tne passage, till I came out a few yards beyond my
tent. I then made a door to this opening in the rock, and
thus I had a back entrance into my house, as well as a great
deal more room inside.
As I had no candles or light of any Sort I had to go to
bed directly it was dark. I did not like this at all. so my
next care was. to find some way to make a lamp, and after
a little thought I succeeded in doing so. First I made a
small dish of clay, which I baked hard in the sun. Then I
saved the fat of the dead goats, which I melted into grease
and put in the dish. In this I placed a shred of rope, which
served as a wick. Thus I had a lamp, which, though it did
not give a very brilliant light, was good enough to see by.
Once as I was at work by my tent I had a bad fright,
for suddenly some of the earth fell from the edge of the hill
above me, while two of the posts I had set up gave a loud
crack. I was afraid the cliff might be going to fall upon me,
so I got over my wall and ran down the hill as quickly as
1 could. When I reached the ^ottom I felt the ground shake
beneath me, and then I knew it was an earthquake. I sank
upon my knees overcome with terror, while the earth shook so
much that it Would have brought down a strong house. The
sea became fierce with the violence of the shock, and the wind
blew a great gale.
The storm raged so wildly that the very trees were torn
up by their roots. This lasted three hours, during which time
I lay upon the ground, not knowing what to do to save
myself. But at length all became calm once more, and then
the rain fell in torrents. I got so wet that I was forced to
seek refuge in my cave again, although I was still in fear
1 >'A

j&
lest it should (all in upon me. However, as all was quiet,
at last I grew more at ease; but I hoped there would not
be another earthquake while I was upon the island!
Once when I was out with my gun I shot at a young
goat and broke its leg, byt did not kill it. I caught the poor
little thing and carried it home. Then I bound up its leg
and took care of it, and in time the leg became quite well,
while the goat grew tame and fed upon the green at my door.
I also caught a young parrot, which I took home with me.
After a while I taught it to speak, and it learnt to call me
by my name quite distinctly, and would amuse me very much
by repeating sentences after me as I sat at work.
Though I had made such a strong fence round my tent
I still did not feel quite safe. So I dug up a lot of turf, and
piled this outside my wall till it entirely covered it. When
this was done the place might have been part of the earth
as God had made it, for no one could have told it was the
work of man. Thus, had any people come upon the shore
they would never have guessed there was a human dwelling-
place upon the cliff. So I now felt secure in my home.
I had brought from the ship a small bag, which had in
it what I thought were but a few husks of corn and some
dust. So, as I could make use of the bag, I threw out the
husks on the ground by my tent. Some weeks after, irjuch

"I SAW A FEW STALKS OF BARLEY GROWING*

fo my astonishment, I saw a few stalks of barley growing
out of the earth. I was very puzzled, as I was sure no corn
grew wild in that place. Then it occurred to me that I
had thrown the husks out of the bag on to this spot, which
explained how the barley came to grow. I also saw some
stalks of rice, so there must have been some seeds of that
in the bag also. I took care to save the ears of this corn
to sow them in the proper season, that in time I might
be able to make bread. I also kept the rice to sow.
That same day I discovered a large tortoise, or turtle,
lying on the shore. This was the first that I had seen,
although I found qut, afterwards that there were hundreds
on the other side of the island. I killed this one and cooked
the flesh of it, which I found a pleasant change after goat's
flesh; for I had had no other kind of meat since I had come
oh this horrible island. I found in the turtle sixty eggs, which
were also very good to eat.
CRUSOE MAKES MANY USEFUL THINGS
I
HAD been much troubled by the loss of one of my cats,
which had run away from me and had entirely disappeared
for some weeks. I feared she must be dead, as I could see
no sign of her about the island. However, one day when
I was at work in my tent, I was very surprised to hear a
loud mewing outside. I pushed up the door in my roof)
and, looking out, I saw my lost cat, and with her three little
kittens! I was pleased to see my puss again, although much
astonished at the sight of her family; but as she evidently
expected me to take them all into my home, I did so. The
kittens were strong little creatures and soon grew into big
cats, so that I had rather more of them than I wanted!
It was about this time that I passed some of my most
miserable days upon the island, for I fell ill. I felt very cold
and strange, with great pain in my head and limbs. I had
to go to bed, and was filled with fear at my sad and lonely
state; for I was sick, with no one to comfort or help me.
I was ill for some days but was just able to cook some of
the turtle's eggs, which, fortunately, I had by me. I ate these
and drank a little rum, and then lay still in my hammock
waiting till I felt better. One day I happened to look in
my chest to find something, and I saw my Bible lying among
the things. I think God must have sent me to the chest,
for l had forgotten the book was there. I took it out to
3*;
CRUSOE 4S PRESENTED WITH THRfiB UTTLB KITTENS
CRUSOE MAKES BASKETS FROM THE TWIGS

read as I lay still, and in it I saw the words in which God
bids us call upon Him in our hour of need and He will
help us. Tlys promise sank into my heart, and I knelt
down to beg the Almighty to aid me in my distress.
Soon after I fell into a deep sleep and did not wake till
late the next day. I then felt I had much more strength,
and was able to get up and go on with my work. I was
weak for some days, but at' last grew quite well again. Each
morning I read the Bible, and God sent His love and peace
into my heart, which gave me great consolation in my lonely
life.
I had now been on the island some time, and as yet I had
not been very far from the part where I lived. So I thought
I would take a long walk with my dog and see what I could
discover. I found some sugar-canes growing wild, and also
many different kinds' of fruit, such as limes, melons, and
grapes. I was right glad of these, for they were very fresh
and ripe. There were also orange, lemon, citron, and cocoa
trees. In fact that part of the island farther from the shore
was so beautiful and green and rich, that I decided to build
myself a kind of bower in which I could sleep when I felt, I
should like to spend a few days there. I did this, and made
a fence round it the same as I had round my tent, and there
I lay quite safe all night.
I cut a lot of twigs from the trees about my country
house, as I named it, and these twigs I laid in the sun till
they became quite dry. Then I gathered them into bundles
and took them to my cave. I amused myself for some time
making baskets with the twigs. I made a large number of-all
kinds and sizes, and they were of great service_Jo_ me.J!* Some
strong, deep ones I intended to keep tny corn in, instead of
sacks, and others I used for carrying things in. Indeed I
seldom went out after this without a basket on my back in case
I wanted to bring something home with me. There were two
other things I much needed, and these were a jug to hold
liquid, and a pot or sauce-pan in which I could make broth.
So I set to work to see if I could supply these wants as I had
done others.
With this idea I turned my hand to pottery, and shaped
some jugs out of clay. You would have laughed if you
had seen the odd, ugly things I made. Some of them fell in
and some fell out, while others came to pieces just as I thought
I had them firm and whole. However, at last I had two
large clay jars, which I dried hard in the sun. But, alas!
although these jars would hold things dry, they would not bear
being put over the fire to boil water in. As I dearly wanted
to make myself some broth I was very disappointed, till to
my great delight I discovered a way in which I could make
them strong enough. I had had a large fire to cook my food,
and when I put it out I saw a piece of one of my clay jars in
the ashes, burnt hard as a stone and red as a tile. "So," said
I, "if a piece will burn so hard, a whole jar will do the same."
I went to work at once and made a great fire round three
large jars, till they were red-hot right through. I let them
burn all night, and next day I had some pots as hard as
could be, in which I could boil my meat to make broth.
I next had to think about making myself some clothes, for
those I had were then quite worn out. I have already told you
that I kept and dried the skins of the beasts I shot, and these now
became useful. The first thing I made from them was a large
CRUSOE MAKES CLOTHES FOR HIMSELF

fur cap, and this answered so well that I soon made a whole
suit. I cut the clothes very loose, so that I should not be too
hot in them, and when I went out in the rain I found that
the wet ran off the fur, which kept me almost dry.
Then I thought I should like to make an umbrella, not so
much to keep off the rain as the sun, which was Very fierce
indeed. I took a world of pains over this, and it was a long
time before I could get anything that would do. I made many
attempts, but they were of no use. However, as I had set
my mind upon having my umbrella, I worked hard until I had
succeeded in making one. The most difficult part was getting
it to shut up and to open again. As I did not always want to
have to carry it spread over my head, I did not feel satisfied
until I had got it to let down and draw in. At last I managed
this; so when there was neither sun nor rain I could close my
umbrella and use it as a walking-stick.
From one side of the island I could see the .coast of
the mainland not very far distant. The sight filled me with
longing for a boat, in which I could go out to sea and
reach some place -where I might find means to get back to
my friends.
This idea took such hold of me that I determined to try
to make a canoe, such as the Indians make, out of the
trunk of a great tree. I chose a tree as near as possible to
the water, and many a weary stroke it cost me to get the
trunk upon the ground and to cut and hew it into the shape
of a boat. All this took me a very long time, but when
at last my boat was finished
I thought myself well paid
for all my toil. The next
task was to get the boat
to the sea, and I found I
could not drag or push it
to the shore, as it was far
too heavy for one man to
shift. So, as I could not
take it to the water, the only
other thing to do was to
bring the water to the boat.
To do this I had to dig
out a dock from the shore
to the place where the boat
lay. This meant much more
labour; but I did it ail with
«*4i

a will, because I knew that in the end I should have a boat
in which to go off to sea.
Besides digging this dock I had other things to attend
to, and among these was my crop of rice and barley.
The seeds I had sown bid fair to yield me a good supply
of corn, but I found there were thieves that would rob me
of it. First came the wild goats and hares, which ate it so
close that it could not shoot into stalks. So I had to build
a fence round to keep the beasts out, and I set my dog to
guard it at night, Thus I got rid of the thieves, for soon
they would not venture near the place.
But when the corn grew to the ear, all the wild fowls
flew round and pecked at it till I saw they would leave me
none. So I fetched my gun and shot at them, and this gave
them such a Scare that they all went off, screaming loudly. But
as soon as I had gone back they all came in a cloud to feast
upon my corn, I was at a loss to know what to do, till at
last I thought of a plan by which I might save my crop. I
shot three of the birds and hung their dead bodies on a
stick, to warn all the others that their fate would be the same if
they came near. This kept them in so much fear that they not
only kept off the corn, but would not come to that part of
the land at all. Of this I was very glad, you may be sure.
CRUSOE MAKES A VOYAGE
JJAVING got my boat to the sea I was eager to get into
her, and make a trip round the island, that I might see
how she went in the water. So I proceeded to fit out my
little craft ready for the journey. I put up a small mast
CRUSOE DIGGING OUT A DOCK
y"
in her, and made a sail out of one that I had taken from the
ship. Then I made some lockers, or boxes, in which to put
food, powder and shot, or anything I thought it wise to take
with me.
I also cut a long hollow place in the inside of the boat,
where I could lay my gun, making a flap to hang over it,
to keep it dry. I fixed my umbrella in the stern, so that
it stood up behind me as I sat, and could keep the sun off
my head. For an anchor I took a piece of broken iron
grappling that I had brought from the ship.
As I intended going right round the island I put a good
supply of food in my boat I also took with me two thick
coats, which were in one of the seamen's chests. I thought
one of these would serve me as a bed, and the other as a
blanket. For 1 made up my mind to anchor my boat in
some safe spot where I could pass the night, and then
continue my journey the following morning.
Thus fully prepared I went out to sea. I made a very
fair start, but when I had gone some little distance I found
a great ledge of rocks lying out a good way into the sea,
partly under the water and partly above it Beyond these
there stretched a long shoal of dry sand, extending as far
as my eye could reach. So that to get round this I should
have to go a very long way out to sea
When first I discovered this I was going to give up my
trip and return to my tent; then I thought I would anchor
my boat and go ashore where I was, to see if I could find
out how far this shoal really extended.
Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on land,
climbing up a hill which seemed to overlook the point I wished
CRUSOE MAKES A TRIP ROUND THE ISLAND

to view. There I saw the full length of the trait of sand, and
since it was not such a very great distance out I decided to
venture round it. Accordingly I got into my boat once more
and pushed off. I soon regretted my rash act, for when I reached
the sand, all at once I felt my boat carried under me at a rapid
pace. I tried in vain to stop it, but to my horror I found I
was caught in a strong current of water, which swept me far
out to sea. I cannot describe my terror when I realized the
position in which I was; for I was being driven out into the
wide ocean and was quite unable to guide my boat against
the force of the water. I felt I should never reach land any
more, and my heart sank at the thought of the danger I was in.
For six long hours I was borne over the waves, and then
at length a breeze blew up and I set my sail to meet it. To
my deep joy and thankfulness the boat went before the wind,
and in a few more hours I had brought my little craft safe to shore.

When I had landed I fell upon my knees and thanked God
for having once more delivered me out of my terrible danger.
Then I fetched the food which I had brought with me and
enjoyed a good meal on the beach. After that 1 drew my
boat up into a little cove, and, being quite worn out with
the labour and the peril of my voyage, I lay down and was
soon fast asleep.
I awoke the next morning feeling much refreshed, and
began to wonder how I was going to get home with my
boat. I had gone through such dreadful risk upon the sea
that I could not attempt to return by water. I therefore re-
solved to find some place where I could hide my boat, and
then to set out back to my tent on foot As I walked along

h
's-^g&t***
the coast I came upon a little bay, which was just the place
I wanted for my boat. So I stowed her safely away under
some trees, and taking my umbrella and my gun I prepared
for my march home.
I found the walk a very pleasant one, and as I passed
some trees I surprised a flock of beautiful bright-coloured
parrots, who flew out and surrounded me, nearly touching my
head and face.
When it grew dusk I had reached my country house, or
bower, and as I knew I should not be able to get back to my
cave before nightfall, ( decided to sleep there and proceed
upon my journey the next morning. So I got over the fence
and lay down among the soft leaves, where I very soon fell
fast asleep.
Now judge, if you can, what a shock I must have had
when I was awakened by a voice calling me by my name
several times.
"Robin, poor Robin Crusoe!" said the voice; "where have
you been, Robin Crusoe?"
So deep in sleep was I at first, being dead tired after the
hard work I had done, that I thought it must be a dream.
But when I heard my name again called in a clear voice, quite
near me, I gave a great start and sprang up in fright. As
soon as I did so my eyes fell on my parrot, which sat on a
twig by me, and then I knew at once that it was he who had
called to me. He said the words just as I had taught him;
and when I realized it was he it made me smile to think
how he had startled me,
I held out my hand to him, and calling him by his name,
the dear old creature came and sat on my thumb, and
CRUSOE IS STARTLED BY HIS PARROT
.^

did all he could to show me
how glad he was to see me
once more. He continued talk-
ing to me, "Poor Robin Crusoe!
How did you come here? Where
have you been?" In this way
I carried him home along with
me to my tent
I had now had enough of
the sea for some time, and had
plenty to do thinking over the
great danger in which I had
been. I should have been very
glad to have had my boat on
my side of the island again, but
I did not know how it could be
done. So I had to be happy without the boat, which had taken
so many months of hard work to make.
As soon as I had settled down again I was not idle, for,
as I then had a good supply of corn, I next turned my hand
to bread-making. I made a deep round dish out of the iron-
wood, and also a great beater with which to pound my corn
into flour. To sift the meal from the bran I made use of
some muslin that I found in one of the chests I had got from
the ship. Then came the question—how was I to bake my
bread without an oven? This is how I did it. The hearth
of my fire was made of clay tiles. When the wood was
burnt red I drew it on to this hearth, and there I let it lie
till the place was very hot. I then swept off the wood and
put my loaves down. Over them I put one of my large clay

pots, and round the pot I drew all the fire. Thus 1 baked
my bread as well as if it had been done in the best oven in
the world. In the same way I baked some cakes of the rice.
There was one thing I much longed to have, and that
was a pipe. A great deal of tobacco grew wild on the island,
and I often wished I could have a smoke. So I tried to
make myself a pipe out of clay, as I had made my pots and
dishes. The first two or three attempts were failures, and
broke when I put the hot wire down their stems to make
the air passage. But at last I got one through which I
could draw the smoke quite well. It was an ugly, clumsy-
looking thing, but caused me much joy and comfort, for I
dearly liked a smoke when resting from my labours.
I now discovered that my powder was almost finished,
and I knew that once
this was gone I should
never be able to get any
more. So I had to think
how I should be able, if I
had no powder, to kill a
goat so as to have meat.
Therefore my next
plan was to get some
goats, that I might tame
them and have a flock of
my ^own. But as they
were all so wild I did
not know how to catch
them'. However, at last
I set a trap for them
trrs


and caught five. The way in which I made a trap was
this. First I dug a large pit in the earth, in a pface
where the goats usually went to feed. Over this pit I placed
a frame made of twigs, and upon this I put some corn ajid
dry rice. I did this in such a way that when the goats ate
they would fall into the pit, and the frame would close and
shut them in. Thus I caught three kids and two goats, which,
though they had a fall, were not at all hurt. In fact one old
he-goat was so fierce that I had quite a sharp fight with him.
I let him go at last, and he ran off as fast as he could
^.
I alw let the other goat go free, and kept only the three kids.
I tied cords to these and led them home with me.
It took me a good while to tame them, but 1 gave them
sweet corn to eat and was very* kind to them till at last they
grew to know me and lost their fear. t%To prevent them from
running wild when they grew up, I had to set about doing
something to keep the tame.ones from the wild. The only
way to do this was to have a piece of ground, fenced around
with a hedge or with palings, to keep them in so well that
those inside could not get out and those outside could not get in.
This was terribly hard work for one man, but it was so
necessary that I at once set about looking for a piece of ground
where there was likely to be something for goats to eat, water
for them to drink, and cover to keep them from the sua

When I found a suitable place I made a hedge round it
and then turned the kids loose in it In about a year and a
half, I had a flock of about twelve goats—kids and all; and
in two years more, I had three and forty, besides several
that I took and killed for my food.
Thus I got my tame herd. I learnt to milk these goats,
and in time to make butter and cheese, which were a great
treat to me.
I have already mentioned that there was a quantity of
grape vines upon the island, and this fruit, in the form of
raisins, now served as an agreeable addition to my larder. I
cut a number of bunches and hung them in the sun to dry.
By this means, I obtained raisins when the fresh fruit was
not to be had.
CRUSOE FINDS A FOOTPRINT ON THE SHORE
I
T would have made you smile to see .me and my pets at
our meals. First there was the king of the island, who
was myself; then came my parrot, my dog, and my two cats,
one on either side of me. Each of these had a bit now and
then from my hand, while the parrot would talk to us all the time.
Now I began to think I should like to walk round to the
other side of the island, and see if my boat was still where I
had left her. This inclination increased upon me every day,
till at length I resolved to take the journey. A very queer-
looking man you would have thought me, had you met me on
my way! I wore my hat and suit of goats' skin, and had my
gun in one hand and my umbrella in the other. Stockings
and shoes I had none, and from my waist I hung a saw,
.CRUSOE AND HIS PETS AT MEAL-TIME
while at my back I carried
a basket. Fastened in my
belt", which was also of
goats' skin, I had a dagger
and a pouch full of powder
and shot. As for my face,
it was burnt brown by the
sun, and my hair and beard
were very long and had a
somewhat wild appearance.
In this kind of dress I
went my new journey, and
was out three or four days.
When I arrived at the bay
I found that my boat was
still where I had fastened
it, quite safe among the trees. I so much wished to get her
to the part of the coast where I lived that I almost made up
my mind to try and go back in her by water.
Then the memory of the terrible danger I had been in
before put me in such fear lest the same might happen
again that I gave up the idea. Instead, I made another
resolution, which was more safe, though it would cost me
much labour. This was to make another boat, so that I
should have one if I ever needed it near my home. I had
no further adventures upon this journey, and returned to my
tent eager' to start upon this next piece of work.
But an event happened soon after, which put all my plans to
flight. One day, as I was by the sea-shore, I saw the print
of a man's naked foot, which was very plainly to be seen in the


soft sand. I stood still like one thunderstruck, or as if I
had met a ghost. Then I had a good look all round and up
and down the shore, but I could not see the sign of a man,
nor anything else but this one print of a foot. I went up to
the top of a small hill near that I might have a better view
of the surrounding land, but there was nothing to be seen
save the wide stretch of coast. A thousand confused thoughts
all rushed into my mind at once, as I tried to imagine how
that footprint came to be there. It was evident that a man
must have been on that part of the shore, and this idea filled
me with extreme terror, for I feared it might be some cannibals
who had landed there.
Before leaving the spot 1 went to the mark again, to make
perfectly sure I had seen aright. But there was no room for

T^p?
>^ w-
^^J*

<5 ^»
CRUSOE MEASURES THE FOOTPRINT BY HIS OWN FOOT
I'Vu
-4 ^;
:. "^
any doubt, for the exact print of a foot lay in the sand, toes,
heel, and every part completely shown. I gave one last look
and then ran back home as fast as my legs could carry me. I
was so terrified that I glanced behind me at every two or three
steps, thinking each bush or tree hid some savages who would
spring out upon me. I hardly paused to breathe till I had got
over my wall and was safe in my tent.
I had no sleep that night, for my mind was too much filled
with frightful ideas and fancies. Indeed, the dread of falling
into the hands of cannibals so possessed me that I dare not
go out of my house for the next two or three days. At last it
struck me that it might possibly be the print of my own foot that
I had seen, which had been left when I was on that part of
the island before* So that all my fears might have been for
no reason at all.
After this explanation occurred to me I ventured outside
my tent once more, but I went about with much dread, for
I felt I might have to run for my life at any time. As nothing
happened, by degrees I grew bolder, and made up my mind
to go to the footprint again, and put my foot down upon
it, to see if it was a mark I had left myself. But when
I came to measure it by my own foot I saw that it could
not be the same, for mine was not so large by a great deal.
This told me that some stranger must have been on shore
there, and my old fear returned to me.
All I could think of then was to make the guard round
my house yet more strong, so that no one could come at me
when I was inside. So I built yet another wall, in which
I made holes for my guns to go through. I put six of ^ the
guns I had got from the ship all round, in such a way that
J could fire them all off at once if I chose. When this was
done I set to work to plant young trees outside the place
where my home was. Thus in time I had a wood sq strong
and thick that no one could pass through it. I found a way
to get in and out myself by means of my ladder, but no one
else could have guessed how to do this.
My next care was for my flock of goats. I had a fear
lest they should be hurt, or lest any man should steal them
from me. The best plan I could think of was to set a fence
round two or three bits of ground, as much out of sight as
I could find, and to put some of the goats in each piece.
Then, thought I, if one lot are found and taken, the others
will still be left me.
At this time I discovered a natural cave in the earth,
which went in a vast way. It was near the place where I had
my bower in the woods, and was at the foot of a large rock.
The mouth of it was very dark, and only just big enough
to allow me to walk in. When first 1 went in I had a
great shock, for I saw two bright eyes that shone like stars
in the gloom.
At this sight I made more haste, to get out than I had
done to get in. But at length I said I would not be a
coward, but would go and see whose eyes they were. So
I took up a light and in I went. This time I heard a
loud sigh, which made "my hair stand on end with fright.
Still I did not turn back, but held up my light to see
whence it came. And there I saw a very old goat, which
lay on the ground. The poor beast tried to rise, but was
not able to do so. I saw he was dying of old age,~so
I left him there to end his days in peace, and went
CRUSOE FINDS AN OLD COAT IN THE CAVE
on my way in the cave. When I got through the narro*.
part I found myself in a large high vault, the walls of which
shed gleams of gold and brilliant light all round. The floor
was dry and level, and had a sort of small loose gravel upon
it. I think there must have been 'gold and precious stones
in the rock, as it gave forth such a glow.
I was very glad to have discovered this cave, which, besides
being such a fine sight, was so safe a place to hide in.
The poor old goat died very soon, and I dug him a grave
near the place where he. lay.
One day, as I was about to start out for my daily walk, I
was surprised to see the light of some fire upon the shore.
I stopped short m alarm at the sight, and then hurried back
into my tfent. But I could not rest quietly indoors, for I was
very excited and felt I must
find out what this fire was.
So I got my ladder and
mounted to the top of the
hill. Then, pulling out my
spying - glass, which I had
taken on purpose, I lay flat
on the ground, and began
to look for the place
whence the smoke arose.
I soon saw, to my horror,
that a number of savages
were sitting round a fire
which they had made to
cook their dreadful meal of
human flesh. Their canoes

were lying on the shore near,
so I supposed they intended
going back when they had
finished their cruel feast.
I cannot describe the
feeling of disgust and of fear
this sight gave me, and I
anxiously waited to see what
the cannibals would do. To
my great joy they did as I
had expected, for all went off
again in their boats. This
showed me that they came to
the island only to have their
horrible meals, and that they
would not be likely to find
my home if I kept good
watch for them, and could hide myself whenever they were about.
One night, not long after this, it blew a great gale and I heard
the firing of a gun. I started up and ran as fast as I could
to the hill to find out if I could see or hear whence it had
been fired. When I got to the top, the gun went off again,
and I could see by the flash that it came from far out at sea.
This told me it must be some ship lost in the stormy in need
of help^ Though I was powerless to help them, I thought
they might help me. So I gathered all the dry wood I could
get near at hand, and having made a pile of it on the hill, I
set light to it. The wood being very dry, there was soon a
bright blaze. But the rest of the night passed, and though
I kept up my fire, there were no more signs of the ship.

"I TOOK A COOP WOK AT THE SAVAGES"
^
When daylight came 1 saw, to my deep grief, the wreck
of a large ship cast upon the rocks. And in a day or two the
corpse of a poor boy was washed ashore.
CRUSOE RESCUES A SAVAGE
O
NE night, as I sat thinking, an idea suggested itself to
me of a way in which h might be possible to return
to my friends. If I could but get one of the savages into
my hands I would make him help me to take a large boat
out to sea, and show me how to get to the mainland. So,
said I to myself, cost what it may, the next time they come
on this shore I will have one for my own.
A whole year passed by, then at last one day I found
that the savages were there again. The first signs* that I saw
were five boats on the sands not far from my tent. I knew
that each boat held four or six men, so, I was afraid that
I could not hope to take one of the savages to make him my
slave. For, how could I, with no one to help me, fight so
many wild blacks? For a while, therefore, I lay quiet in my
castle, full of disappointment and of gloomy thoughts. Then
I felt that I could not remain still any longer, so I prepared
all my guns ready for an attack, and going to the outside of
my tent I listened eagerly to hear if I could distinguish
any sound made by the cannibals. But as nothing reached
my ears I became very impatient to see what they were doing,
and I decided to mount the hill and have a view of them.
So I got over my wall and went to the very top of the
cliff, where, hiding myself behind some high, round pieces of
rock, I took a good look at the savages through my glass.
I saw that they had lighted a
fire, and were all leaping in a
wild dance round it. Then
my gaze fell on two poo*
wretches who lay upon the
ground by them. One of the
savages went up to them and
gave the first a blow on the
head with his club. The
poor man fell dead instantly,
and it made me turn sick to
think that they would soon
cook and eat him. Just then
the other poor creature saw
there was a chance for him
to save his life, while they
were busy with their cruel knives. So he ran off with all speed,
and came towards me. This gave me a great fright, for I thought
that the whole tribe would come to catch him, and that they might
find me and my home. But I lost some of my fear when I
saw that not more than three ran in chase, and that these could
not run half so fast as he who fled from them.
They soon came to that part of the shore, where as the
tide was up, the sea met the rocks, and here I thought the
poor man must surely be caught. But he made a plunge into
the water and swam through it. Then on he flew as swiftly as
a dart. Two of those who were on his track could swim, but
the third could not; so this on^ returned to the others. The
two who followed took much more time to swim than the man
who ran from them, so that he got a long start.

THE PRISONER ESCAPING FROM THE CANNIBALS
Now, thought I, is my chance to get a slave, by saving
this poor black's life. So off I went at full speed to my tent,
and I got two guasy Then I went round a short cut that I
knew till I found myself at the back of the savage who fled and
in front of those who gave him chase. I called aloud, and
this made the first man start and look round.
When he saw me he was as much in fear of me as of those
who came to catch him. But I made a sign for him to come
back; then I ran up to those who were chasing him, and, with
a blow from my gun, I laid the first on the ground. At this
the man with him took his bow and arrow and would have
shot me had I not fired at him first. The poor black who
fled stood stock-still, and I could see he was terrified at the
noise and the smoke of my gun, and that he would soon
fly from me too. So I made signs to him to come near,
and I did all I could to make him see that I wished to
be his friend.
At last he came close to me, and, falling full length on
the ground before me, he laid his head at my feet. Then
he lifted my foot and put it upon his head. By doing this
he meant to show that he would be my slave for ever. I made
him get up, and with smiles and kind words I let him know
that I would not harm him.
He said some words to me, which, though I did not under-
stand their meaning, I thought most pleasant to hear, as they
were the first sound of a man's voice, except my own, that I
had heard for many long years.
Then I took the poor fellow to my cave and gave him
some bread and dried grapes to eat, with a drink of fresh
water.
"HE LAID HIS HEAD AT MY FEET."
JT
The rest of the savages did not try to find the two whom
I had killed, but must have gone back in their boats, for we
saw no more of them.
I soon taught my new companion to speak to me and to
understand what I said to him. First, I let him know his
name should be Friday, as that was the day upon which I
saved his life.
Then I gave him some clothes to wear, and a very comical
figure he looked in them at first. As he had never worn any
proper clothes before, he did not know how to put them on;
and when he had got them on he was very awkward in them.
However, after a while he became quite used to them and
was very glad indeed to have them.


In a short time we went to the place where the cannibals
had had their dreadful feast, and I made Friday put all the
bones in a heap, and burn them to ashes. As he did so I
saw that he would have liked to eat some of the flesh, for he
was still a savage at heart. But I made signs to show him
how the very thought of eating human flesh turned me sick with
horror and loathing, and that if he did so I would kill him.
Then he became filled with shame, and did not show any such
wish again. I taught him to eat bread and drink broth instead,
and it was very funny to see him with his basin and spoon. He
generally dipped his fingers in the basin, and found it most
difficult to carry a spoonful of soup to his mouth. But after
a few days he began to eat like any ordinary man, and found
decent food a great deal nicer than human flesh.
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led on the island.
[Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the names of
.f
almost everything I had need of, and of every place to which
I had to send him. In short, I now had a companion, and
thus could make use of my tongue again.
CRUSOE MAKES ANOTHER BOAT,
*"PHERE was one thing that Friday told me, which put
a new idea into my head. He said that once a small
boat full of white men had come on shore in his land. His
tribe had not done them any injury, but had let them have
food and drink It occurred to me that these men must
have come off the wreck which I had seen, so I asked Friday
to tell me if he thought that they were still in his country.
He said that they were when he left it.
After this talk I thought a good deal of how I could join
these white men. So I told Friday we would make a big
boat, and that he should go home in it. At this he became
very grave and sad, but made no answer.
"Why are you so sad?" I asked.
"Are you cross with me?" said he. "What me done?"
I told him that I was not cross with him at all
"Then why send me home?" he said.
"Why!" I cried. "Would you not like to go back to
your own people?"
"Yes, yes," he replied '• But only if we both go. No
me and not you." There were tears in his eyes as he spoke,
which let me see how true was his love for me. So I
told him that if we could go we should do so together.
The next thing that we did was to make a large boat.
I again chose a tree as near the water as possible, and we
CRUSOE AND FRIDAY GET THE BOAT DOWNTO THE WATER
set to work with a will to cut and hew it into shape. In
a month's time we had a fine boat, and in another two weeks
we had got her into the water. To do this we cut the trunks
of several smaller trees, which we used as rollers, and upon
these we pushed our craft to the shore.
"Can we go to your land in her?" 1 then asked Friday.
"Yes, yes," he answered. "We can go in her very well,
even though great wind blow."
Having got the boat into the sea, we fixed her safely up
at the edge of the water by means of long poles, which we
drove into the sand upon either side of her and fastened securely
with rope. I then went to work to make a mast and a sail, and
to fit her with a rudder. For the mast I chose a straight young
cedar-tree, which I found not far off, and which I set Friday to
cut down. As for the sail, I managed to make one out of
the pieces I had left from those I had brought from the ship.
When all this was done I had to teach Friday how to sail and
to guide our craft. For, although he knew very well how to
paddle a canoe, he knew nothing about a sail and a rudder, and
was most amazed when he saw me work the boat by these means.
So I showed him how the sail jibbed, or filled this way or that
as the course changed, and how the boat could be worked
to and fro in the water by the rudder. After a little practice
he became well used to all these things and was a very
good sailor.
Having made all ready for our departure from the island,
I began to lay by a store of food to take with us upon our
journey. I was busy one morning upon something of this
kind, when I called to Friday and bid him go to the sea-
shore and see if he could find a turtle or tortoise. He had
CRUSOE AND FRIDAY FINISHING THEIR BOAT
not been gone long when he came running back, and before
I had time to speak to him he cried out: "O master! O sorrow!
Obad!"
"What is it, Friday?" said I.
"There come one, two, three canoes to shore!" he replied.
By this he meant that three boats full of savages were on
their way to land.
"Well," I answered, "do not be afraid. We must fight
them. Will you stand by me, Friday, and do as I bid you?"
"Yes, yes," he replied, "me shoot. But there come great
lot, and we are but two!"
"Never mind that," said I; "our guns will scare those
whom we do not kill,"
So I made Friday take the guns and load them with
powder and shot, while I got two pistols, ready for our fight.
I hung my big sword by my side, and I gave Friday a hatchet
to carry. When we were thus prepared, I took my glass and
went up the hill to see what I could discover. I saw that
there were twenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoe^
upon the shore, and that the cannibals had come, as before,
to feast upon the dead bodies of the prisoners.
They had landed just where a number of trees grew close
to the sea, and I made up my mind that we would go into
this wood and await our chance to attack the wretches, and,
if possible, to save their victims. So I again went to Friday
and asked him if he were ready to stand by me, and help
to defend me, if I did the same for him.
"Me die when you bid, Master," he answered readily.
We then divided our arms and set off to march to the
wood. When we arrived there I bade Friday go softly

among the trees and look to see what the savages were doing.
He did so and returned to tell me that they were all about the
fire, and that near them there lay bound upon the sand a
white, bearded man, whom they would soon kill and eat. I
was filled with horror at the mention of the white, bearded
man, and, going forward myself, I saw plainly by my glass a
white man who lay upon the beach with his hands and feet tied
together. He was dressed like a European, and it made my
blood run cold to think that he should meet with such a
dreadful face. I determined to do all in my power to save
him, even if it meant the loss of my own life. So I turned
to my faithful black, and said: "Now, Friday, do as I bid
you and do not fail!"
Friday again promised to obey
me in all things. I then took aim
at the savages with my gun, and
Friday did likewise.
"Fire!" said I, and we both
let fly at them. Friday took his
aim better than I did, for he
killed three of the savages, and
wounded three more, while I
only killed one and wounded
another. All the others sprang
up and looked wildly about.
They were so amazed and
terrified that they did not know
which way to run, or what to do.
Friday kept his eyes fixed upon
me, and I bade him do just
as I did. Then, while the cannibals were looking about in
every direction to see where the firing came from, I presented
my gun again, and Friday did the same with his.
"Are you ready?" said I.
"Yes," he answered.
"Then fire!" I cried. Again we shot into the midst
of the savages, and killed five and wounded many more.
"Now, Friday," I continued, "follow me!"
So saying I rushed out of the wood and showed myself
to the cannibals, while Friday, with much courage, came forward
to my side. I told him to keep firing at the rest while I
went and tried to save the poor white man, who still lay bound
upon the sands. When I got to his side I pulled out my

knife and cut the cords which were round his hands and feet,
at the same time asking him who he. was.
"A Christian," he replied. But he was so weak and
faint that he could hardly speak. When he recovered he
began to try and thank me for delivering him, but I stopped
him, and said that there was no time to talk then, as we must
all fight for our lives. He replied that he was strong enough
to do his share; so I put into his hands a gun and sword,
which he took very eagerly.
Meanwhile Friday had been firing at the savages and had
killed a great number. Some leapt into their canoes, and
I saw them fall into the boat, overcome by terror. However,
they managed to get out to sea before Friday had time to shoot
them. The others let fly their
arrows at us, and we had a
sharp fight against them. The -^»
white man fell upon them like •«*•
a fury, killing many with his
sword as well as with his gun.
When Friday had used all
his powder and shot he went
at them with his hatchet, and
seemed determined to put an
end to the lot of them. Some
flew into the wood, when Friday
gave chase and killed three of
them. But one was too nimble
for him and managed to get to
the sea, into which he plunged
desperately, and swam out with

"THEIR ARROWS FELL THICKLY ABOUT OS*
tj
all his might to those who had escaped in the canoe. I then
called Friday and gave him some powder and shot from my
own pouch, bidding him get his gun and reload it. After this
the three of us stood together and fired again at the rest
of the cannibals. Their arrows fell thickly about us, but at
length all those who did not get off to sea were killed.
When I went to one of the boats left on shore by our
enemies, I was surprised to find another poor black lying in
the bottom of the canoe. He was bound hand and foot, as
the white man had been, and was almost dead with fear. I
immediately cut the cords and tried to help him to stand up;
but he could not speak nor move, and groaned most piteously.
He appeared to think I had only unbound him in order to
take him to be killed. When Friday came / up I bade him
speak to the poor fellow and make him understand that I should
do him no harm. I told him to give the man a drink of water
to revive him. But when Friday came to hear his voice and
look into his face he at once fell upon his neck and kissed
him, then cried, sang, and danced like a madman. It was
some time before I could make him speak to me and tell me
what was the matter, but when he grew a little quieter he
said it was his father. The two were so glad to meet that
it did my heart good to see them.
"Have you any bread left for your father, Friday?" said I.
He shook his head, and answered: "None. Ugly dog eat
all up self!"
By this he meant that he had eaten all his bread. So I
gave him a small cake out of my own pouch, and also some
dried grapes. He took these to the old man, then left the
boat and ran off at such a rate that he was out of sight before
V*~
I could ask him why he went. But in a little while he returned,
and I found that he had been home for a jug of fresh water
to quench his father's thirst. He then most tenderly helped
the poor black to get out of the boat, and supported him while
he walked up the beach. The old man was still very faint and
weak, so Friday made him sit down by some trees while he
gave him a drink of water, and did all he could to help him
to recover his strength and spirits. I was quite moved by the
affection and devotion he showed towards his parent, and the
white man appeared equally touched by the scene.
We then took the two men home with us, and made beds
for them to rest on, for they were both very weak. In fact
the poor white man was really ill from all he had gone
through. When he was quite well again, I had a long talk
with him, and he told me he was a Spaniard, and had been
on the wreck 1 had seen. He said teh more men had got to
land with him, and were now with the savages, and in much
fear of their lives. They could not get away, as they had no
ship, nor had they any tools with which to build one. I said
I would like to help them if I could, and that if they could
come to my island we might make a fine ship together,
which would take us all to our friends. He replied that he
was sure that they would be only too glad to do so, and would
feel very grateful indeed if I would send them help.
So I made up my mind to send the Spaniard and Friday's
father to see these men, and bring them back to the island.
When I suggested this to my guest he said he would be very
pleased to go to fetch his friends. s
Therefore one day, when there was a fine wind,, he and the
old black went off in one of the boats, in which the savages
FRIDAY GIVES HIS FATHER A DRINK OF WATER

CRUSOE WATCHES THE MEN FROM THE ENGLISH SHIP
">
had brought them. I gave them food and guns to take with
them, and wished them all luck upon their journeyJ
CRUSOE LEAVES THE ISLAND
GOME days after the Spaniard and the old negro had gone,
Friday came running to me, and said: "They are come!
They are come! I can see a boat!" I ran up the hill to look
out, and there was a boat on its way to our shore. But
I also saw a large ship far out at sea, and it was an
English ship. I cannot describe the joy I felt when I saw
one of our own ships'. Yet I had some doubts, for I did
not know if the men who were in the boat were friends or
foes. So I told Friday to lie quiet, for these were not the ones
we expected. Just then the small boat came to shore, and I
saw there were ten white men in it Three of them had their1
hands tied together with a rope. When they were taken out of
the boat they fell on their knees as if to beg for their lives.
Then I saw one of the others lift up his arm as if to strike
them. However, he did not do so, but left them lying on the
shore while he and his companions went inland, as if to see
in what kind of place they were.
They all went into the wood, and in an hour or two I
saw that they had lain down and gone to sleep. The three
bound men still lay by a great tree. So, as the rest were asleep*
I made up my mind to go to them, and see if I could help
them. With Friday at my heels I went round to where
they were. When they caught sight of me they had such
a fright at my strange dress and wild appearance that
they were about, to run away from me,
ROBINSON CRUSOE
ROBINSON CRUSOE
ROBINSON CRUSOE
*' Have no fear," said I, "for I am your friend. Tell me
how you come to be in -this sad state, and whether I and my
man can help you?"
"I was the captain of that ship you see," answered one
of the men. "The crew are a bad lot, and when we were
out at sea they rose up against me, and tried to kill me, so
that they could have the ship for their own. Then they
changed their minds, and instead of taking my life they brought
me and my two mates to this island, where they intend to
leave us. We feared we must die, as we did .not think there
was anyone here to save us!"
"Well," said I, "these brutes are now asleep not far off.
If I help you to get free, will you give me your word to be
true to me, and take me and my man to England in your
ship?"
The captain said he would be more than glad to do
this; so I unbound his hands, and those of his mates, and gave
them a gun each. As we approached the sleeping men they
heard us, and sprang to their feet. When they saw us all
with arms, they knelt down to beg us to spare them. We told
them we would do so if they would promise to be true and to
obey our commands. They gave us their word that they would
do as we wished, so we did not harm them. But the captain
told me that they were such bad men that it would be better
not to let them come on the ship with us, as they were not to
be trusted.
So I told them that, although they deserved to be hanged,
we would spare their lives and leave them behind to live upon
the island as I had done. They were quite willing to remain,
so I left them all my things for their use, and told them how
CRUSOE SPEAKS TO THE THREE PRISONERS
to make their bread, plant their corn, and do all I had done
myself. I also left a letter with them, which I told them to
give to the Spaniards and to Friday's father, when they returned
to the island. In this letter I explained how I came to leave
the place, and I promised to send a ship to take them all to
their homes as soon as I could. Then Friday and I prepared
to get into the boat that was to take us on board the vessel.
I took with me my goat-skin hat, my umbrella, and my parrot.
My poor old dog had died some time before.
I knew not what to do for joy when I saw the fine
vessel which was waiting to take me back to home and
friends. As we rowed away I took one long, last look at the
island upon which I had spent so many lonely years.

•
- . . 4
FAR away, whither the swallows fly when winter comes to us, there
lived a King who had eleven sons and one daughter, Elizabeth. The
eleven brothers — they were of course princes—went to school with
a star on the breast and a sword at the side, and wrote with diamond
pencils on slates framed with gold, and read and wrote so well one
could at once see they were princes. Their sister, Elizabeth, sat on
a little stool of crystal glass, and had a picture-book which had cost
half a kingdom.
How happy were those children! but it was not to last.
Their father, who was King of the whole country, married a wicked
Queen, who was very unkind to the poor children. Already on the
wedding-day they felt this. There was a great f&te at the castle, and
the children played at " giving a ball;" but instead of having plenty of
cakes and fruit, as before, the Queen gave them a cupful of sand,
saying that they might fancy it was something nice.
The following week she sent the little Elizabeth into the country to
a peasant's cottage; and before long she made the King believe so
many bad things she told him about the poor princes, that he became
quite indifferent to what became of them.
"Fly out into the world, and take care of yourselves," said the
wicked Queen; "fly in the form of great birds without voices." But
she could not do them all the injury that she really wished, and they
became eleven beautiful wild swans, which with a we'rd cry flew out
of the windows across the park and the woods.
It was still quite early when they flew past the cottage where
Elizabeth was lying asleep. They flew several times round the roof,
twisting their long necks and flapping their wings, but nobody heard
or saw them. They had to continue their flight far into the wide
world, and they flew into a big dark forest reaching down to the shore.'
THE WILD SWANS.
Poor little Elizabeth stood in the peasant's cottage playing with a
green leaf, — for she had nothing else to play with, — and she pricked
a hole in it, looked through it at the sun, and she thought she saw her
brothers' bright eyes; while every time the hot rays fell on her cheek
she thought of their kisses.
One day passed like another. If the wind sighed in the rose-bushes
outside, it said to the roses, " Who can possibly be more beautiful than
you?" But the roses shook their heads and said, " Lizzie is." And
if on Sundays the old peasant-woman sat in the porch reading the
Bible, the wind turned the leaves and said to it, "Who can possibly

be as good as you ordain ?"1 "Lizzie is," the Bible would answer.
And it was but the truth what the roses and the Bible said.
When she reached the age of fifteen she was called home; but when
the Queen saw how lovely she was, she became very wroth and jealous
of her, and would gladly have changed her into a wild swan; but she
dared not just then, as the King wished to see his daughter.
Early in the morning the Queen went into the bath-room, which wa*
built of marble and furnished with the softest cushions and the choicest
carpets, taking three toads with her, which she kissed, saying to the
first, "Place yourself on Elizabeth's head vhen she gets into the
bath, so that she may become as stupid as you;" and to the second,
1 A slight and justifiable alteration of the original. — Tr.
>m
"Place yourself on her brow, so that she may become as ugly as you, and
that her father may not know her;" while to the third she said, " Settle
yourself near her heart, and let her get a mind so wicked that she will
suffer for it." Then she threw the toads into the water, which assumed
a greenish color thereby, called Elizabeth, undressed her, and let her
get into the bath. At the same instant she dipped under the water
one toad settled in her hair, one on her brow, and the third on her
bosom; but she did not seem to notice it. When she rose from the
water, three red poppies floated on the surface. If the toads had not
been poisonous and kissed by the Witch, they would have been changed
into red roses. Flowers they still became by resting on her head and
bosom; but she was too good and innocent for the witchery to have
any effect on her.
When the wicked Queen saw that, she rubbed Elizabeth with walnut-
juice, so that her skin became brown, smeared a nasty ointment over
her lovely face, and entangled her beautiful hair, so that nobody could
recognize the charming Elizabeth.
When her father saw her, he became quite frightened, and said it was
not his daughter. Nobody else would acknowledge her but the yard-dog
and the swallows; but they were poor, and had little voice in the matter.
Poor Elizabeth began to cry, and thought of her eleven brothers, who
were all gone. Sorrowful she stole out of the palace, and wandered the
'whole day across fields and moors into a great forest. She did not
know whither to go; she was so unhappy, and longed for her brothers;
they had surely been driven into the world like herself; she would seek
them.
She had only been in the forest a little while when night set in. She
had lost her way, but lay down peacefully on the soft moss, said her
prayers, and rested her head against the stem of a tree. Everything
was so quiet and calm, the air so balmy, and round about in the grass
and on the moss shone hundreds of glow-worms like green fire, and
when she touched the boughs with her hands they fell down like little
shooting stars.
All through the night she dreamt of her brothers; they played again
together as when children, wrote with diamond pencil on gold slates,
and looked into the beautiful picture-book which had cost half a
kingdom; but they li'id not write figures and words as before; no,
they related their bravest deeds, all that they had experienced and
said, and in the picture-book all was alive: the birds sang, and people
came out of the book and spoke to her; but as soon as she turned the
leaves they again jumped into their places, so that there should be no
confusion among them.
When she arose, the sun was already high; she could not see it, as
the boughs of the high trees were so close, but the rays played outside
like a fluttering veil of gold. The greensward smelt so fresh, and the
birds very nearly alighted on her shoulders. She could hear the noise
of a brook; it was a water-course falling into a pond with the softest
sand bottom. It was almost surrounded by close underwood, but in
one spot the stags had made a path, and by this Elizabeth reached the
water, which was so clear that had not the wind shaken the trees and
shrubs they would have appeared as if painted on the bottom.
When she saw her own face, she became very frightened, so brown
and ugly she was; but as soon as she had rubbed her face with her
little hand her white skin came out, and she took oft" her garments and
went into the refreshing water. A lovelier princess did not exist in tho
whole world.
When she had dressed, and plaited her long hair, she went to a bub-
bling spring, drank some water from her hand, and walked farther into
the forest without knowing whither. She thought of her brothers, and
of the good Lord, who would not desert her, for He made the wild
apples grow to feed the hungry. She soon found some on a tree, the
fruit weighing down the boughs. On these she made a meal, and then
wandered into the darkest part of the forest . It was so still here she
could hear her own footsteps and every leaf rustling under her foot
.
Not a bird could be seen, and not a ray of the sun could penetrate the
thick leafy covering. The tall stems stood so close together that they
had the appearance of wooden palisades on all sides, and there was a
solitude here she had never experienced before.
The night following was very dark, not a single glow-worm shining
on the moss, and she went sorrowful to sleep. Then she fancied that
the boughs above her parted, and that the Lord, surrounded by little
angels, looked down upon her.
When she awoke, she knew not whether it was a dream or reality.
When she had walked some distance, she met an old woman with
berries in a basket, who gave her some. Elizabeth asked her if she had
seen eleven princes ride through the forest. "No," the woman said;
"but yesterday I saw eleven swans with golden crowns on their heads
in the river close by."
And she led Elizabeth a little way farther, to a hill, below which ran
a river nearly overshadowed by leafy trees.
Elizabeth said good-by to the old woman, and wandered along the
river till it flowed into the sea.
The great lovely ocean lay before the young maiden, but not a single
vessel or boat was to be seen, and how, then, was she to get farther?
She looked at the thousands of pebbles on the shore, polished and
rounded by the water. Glass, iron, stones, everything piled up there,
had been given the same shape by the water, which was nevertheless
softer than her hand. "The water never ceases rolling, and the hard
substances become moulded; neither will I tire," she thought . "Thanks
for your teachings, you crystal, rolling waves. Some time, so my heart
tells me, you shall carry me to my dear brothers."
On the weed cast up by the sea lay eleven white swan's feathers,
which she gathered; there were drops of water on them, but whether
they were dew or tears nobody could tell. It was lovely by the shore,
but she did not notice it, for the sea was in constant motion, displaying
in a few hours more variety than a lake in a year. If a great dark
cloud came floating above, the sea seemed to say, "I, too, can look
dark," and the wind blew harder, and the waves donned their white
caps; and if the clouds were red and the wind slept, the sea looked like
a rose-leaf; now it was green, now white; but however calm it was,
there was always a gentle motion by the shore: the.sea swelled like the
breast of a sleeping child.
As the sun was setting, Elizabeth saw eleven white swans, with golden
crowns on their heads, flying toward the shore. One flew behind the
other, looking like a long white ribbon. Elizabeth went up on the hill
by the shore, hiding herself behind a shrub, and the eleven swans
settled close by, flapping their great white wings.
Just as the sun set, the swans' feathers fell off", and there stood Eliza-
beth's brothers, the eleven princes. She uttered a loud cry; for, though
they had altered much, she was sure it was they, and she threw herself
into their arms, called them by name, and they became delighted at
leeing their little sister, who had grown so lovely. They laughed and
wept, and had soon told one another how cruel their step-mother had
been to them all.
"We are all doomed to fly about as swans as long as the sun is up,"
said the eldest brother, "but as soon as it sets, we regain our natural
form; therefore we have to take care to have land under our feet at
f
sunset, for it* we are high up in the air we should fall down like other
human beings. We do not dwell here. On the other side of the water
is a land as beautiful as this, but the way thither is long; we have to
cross a great ocean, and there is no island on the way where to rest for
the night, only a solitary rock rises from the middle of the ocean. It
is not bigger than we can just find a resting-place on it when sitting
close together, and when the sea is high the waves dash over us; but
still we are thankful for it. There we rest for the night in our human
form, and without this rock we should never be able to visit our beloved
country, as we require the two longest days in the year for our flight
.

Only once a year we may visit our home; we may remain there eleven
days, and fly across this great forest, whence we can see the palace in
which we were born and where our father resides, and also the church
in which our mother lies buried. Here we imagine that the trees and
shrubs are related to us; here the wild horses canter over the plain as
in our childhood; here the charcoal-burner sings the same old songs to
which we danced when young; here is our country; hither we feel
drawn, and here we have found you, dear little sister. Two days more
we may remain here; then we must depart for the other beautiful land
across the sea, but which is not our country. How shall we be able to
take you with us, having neither vessel nor boat?"
"Oh, how can I save you? " said the sister.
/Ind they talked nearly the whole night, sleeping only a few hours.
Elizabeth woke at the sound of swans' wings above her. H4k
brothers were already transformed, and they flew in great circles, and
then far away. But one, the youngest, remained, and it laid its head
in her lap, and she stroked its snow-white neck. They were together
the whole day, and toward evening the others returned, and as soon
as the sun had set they assumed their human form.
"To-morrow we leave here, and may not return for a year," said the
eldest; "but we cannot leave you here. Have you courage to come
with us? My arm being strong enough to carry you through the
forest, we shall all of us be strong enough to carry you across the sea."
"Oh, yes, take me with you !" said Elizabeth.
The whole night was spent in making a net of soft willow-bark and
tough reeds, and it was large and strong. On this Elizabeth went to
rest, and when the sun rose and the brothers were transformed into
wild swans, they seized it with their beaks, and flew with their dear
sister, who was still asleep, high up toward the clouds. And as the
sun shone right on her face, one of the swans flew above her head so
as to shade it with its big wings. They were far out at sea when
Elizabeth awoke; she thought she was still dreaming, so strange it
seemed to her to be borne through the air across the sea. At her side
lay a bough with delicious berries on it, and a bundle of sweet roots
which had been gathered for her by her youngest brother, and she
smiled gratefully to him, recognizing him flying above her and shading
her.
They were so high up that the greatest ships they saw below looked
like gulls on the sea. A great cloud was behind them; it was a moun-
tain, and Elizabeth saw her own and the shadows of the eleven swans
on it in gigantic size. It was the most magnificent spectacle she
had ever beheld, but as the sun rose higher the floating shadows
disappeared.
All the day long they kept on their course with the speed of arrows;
but still they flew slower than on other occasions, as they had Elizabeth
to carry. A storm approached, and evening drew near. Trembling
with terror, Elizabeth saw the sun sink, and still the solitary rock in
the sea was not to be seen; it seemed as if the swans redoubled their
efforts Oh! she was the cause of their slow flight. When the sun
set they would become human beings, fall into the sea, and be drowned.
She prayed ardently to her Father, but still the rock was not in sight
The dark clouds drew nearer and nearer, and the fierce gusts of wind
bespoke a storm; the clouds looked like a great threatening wall,
which moved forward heavy as lead, and one flash of lightning followed
upon another.
Now the sun's disc touched the horizon. Elizabeth's heart trembled;
but then the swans shot down so quickly she thought she was falling,
but they still flew. The sun was half under water, when, lo! she be-
held the little rock, not bigger than the head of a seal, above water.
The sun sank rapidly; it was now only as big as a star, when she
touched the rock with her foot, and at the same moment the sun went
out like the last spark in a burnt piece of paper. She saw her brothers
stand around her arm-in-arm, but there was only room for herself and
them. The waves swept over the rock and drenched them, the sky
looked as if on fire, and peals of thunder followed each other; but
sister and brothers held one another's hands, and sang a hymn which
gave them courage.
At daybreak the air was calm and quiet, and as soon as the sun rose
the swans flew away from the rock with Elizabeth. The sea was still
rough, and when they were high up in the air the white foam on the
dark-green water looked like a number of swans floating on the waves.
When the sun had risen higher, Elizabeth saw before her, as if
floating in the air, a mountainous land capped with glittering glaciers,
and a palace nearly a mile long, with striking rows of columns rising
one above the other, while below rose forests of palms and the most
gorgeous flowers.
She asked if it was the land they were bound for; but the swans
shook their heads, for what she saw was the lovely fairy-castle of
Fata Morgana, whither it would be fatal to carry any human being.
As Elizabeth was looking at it, mountains, forests, and palace fell into
a chaotic mass, and in their places rose twenty grand cathedrals, all
alike, with high towers and pointed windows. She thought she heard
the swell of the organs, but it was that of the sea. When close upon
the cathedrals, they changed into a fleet of ships sailing below her; she
looked down and found that it was only a mist sweeping over the sea.
A constant change went on before her eyes, when at last she beheld the
real land whither she was bound. There rose lovely blue mountains,
with cedar forests, towns, and castles; and long before the sun set she
was seated on a mountain, before a great cave overgrown with splendid
green creepers, looking like embroidered tapestry.
V
'
** Now we shall see what you will dream to-night," said her youngest
brother, showing her sleeping apartment to her.
"May I but dream how I shall save you !" she said.
The thought occupied her very much, and she prayed to God to
assist her, and even in her sleep continued her prayer. Then it seemed
to her as if she were flying high up in the air, toward the palace of
Fata Morgana, and that the Fairy came to meet her, so beautiful and
resplendent; but still she was like the old woman who gave her the
berries in the forest and told her of the swans with the golden crowns.
"Your brothers may be saved," she said; "but have you the courage
and perseverance?" The sea is certainly softer than your fine hands,
and still moulds the hard stones; but the sea has no heart, and does not
know the pain that your fingers will suffer; it does not endure the
agony you will have to. Do you see the stinging nettle I hold in my
hand? Many like it grow around the cave in which you sleep; only
those which grow there and in the churchyards are of use, remember
that! Those you must gather, however much they sting your skin into
blisters; crush them with your feet; and you will obtain yarn, of which
you must spin eleven shirts with long sleeves; throw these over the
eleven swans, and the witchery will be broken. But remember, from
the moment you begin this task, and till it is fulfilled, you must not
speak, even if it takes you years; the first words you utter will pene-
trate like a dagger into the hearts of your brothers; on your tongue
their lives depend. Remember all this!"
And at the same moment she touched her with the nettle, and it
stung her like fire, so that she awoke. It was broad daylight, and
close by her lay a nettle like the one she had seen in her dream. Then
she fell on her knees and thanked God, and went out of the cave to
begin her task.
She caught the nasty nettles with her hands, and they burnt her like
fire, great blisters forming on her hands and arms; but that she suffered
gladly for the sake of rescuing her dear brothers. She crushed every
nettle with her soft naked feet, and wound the green yarn.
As the sun was setting, her brothers returned, and when they found
her so silent they thought it was some fresh witchery x>f their wicked
step-mother; but when they saw her hands, they understood what she
was doing for their sake, and the youngest brother began to cry; but
where his tears fell the pain ceased, and she felt not the burning
blisters.
^
She spent the night in her task, for she had no peace till she had
saved her brothers; and the whole of the next day, while the swans
were absent, she sat in solitude, but the time had never passed so
quickly with her. One shirt was already finished, and she began the
second one.
Then all of a sudden horns sounded among the mountains, and she
became very frightened; but the sound came nearer, and she heard the
hounds baying; terrified, she ran into the cave, tied the nettles she had
collected, and the shirt, into a bundle, and sat down upon it.
At the same moment a dog came out of the underwood, and soon
after another; they barked furiously, ran back, and returned, and
shortly afterward all the huntsmen stood outside the cave, the hand-
somest of whom was the King of the land; and he went up to Elizabeth,
saying, " How did you get here, you lovely child?"
Elizabeth shook her head; she did not dare to speak, for on that
depended her brothers' life and rescue; and she hid her hands under
her apron, so that the King should not see her sufferings.
"Come with me," he said; "you must not remain here; and if you
are as good as you are beautiful, I will give you dresses of silk and
velvet, and place a golden crown on your head, and you shall reside in
my finest palace."
He lifted her upon his horse, though she cried and wrung her hands;
but the King said, " I wish only to be kind to you, and some day you
will thank me therefor." And he rode off with her before him on the
horse, the huntsmen following.
At sunset the splendid royal city with its spires and cupolas lay
before them, and the King led her into his palace, where great foun-
tains splashed in lofty marble halls, and beautiful pictures decorated
the walls; but she had no eyes for anything, and wept from grief.
Indifferent, she let the tiring-maids dress her in royal robes, twine
pearls in her hair, and draw soft gloves on her blistered hands.
When she appeared in all her splendor, she was so lovely that the
Court bowed lower for her than before, and the King at once chose
her for his bride, although the Archbishop shook his head, and
whispered that the lovely forest maiden was sure to be a witch, who
had blinded his eyes and deceived his heart.
But the King paid no heed to this, and let the bands play, and had
the costliest dishes set forth, while the loveliest maidens danced before
them. And she was led through fragrant gardens into magnificent
chambers., but not a smile crossed her lips or shone in her eye: grief
was in her face, as if being her heirloom. The King opened a little
room adjoining her sleeping apartment, which was covered and hung
with the costliest mats, and exactly like her cave; on the floor lay the
yarn she had made from the nettles, and on the wall hung the shirt
which was ready. One of the huntsmen had brought it all away as a
curiosity.
"Here you may fancy you are still in your old home," said the King.
"Here is the work you were engaged in, and in the midst of all your
splendor it will please you to look back upon that time."
, When Elizabeth saw what was uppermost in her mind, a smile played
on her lips, and the blood returned to her cheeks; she thought of the
saving of her brothers, and kissed the King's hand, who pressed her to
his heart and let the marriage be announced. The lovely, dumb forest
maiden was to become the Queen of the land.
The Archbishop whispered evil words into the King's ear, but they
did not touch his heart. The wedding took place, and the Archbishop
had himself to place the crown on her head, which he did, pressing it
in anger down on her forehead so heavily that it hurt her. But she felt
a greater pain in her heart, through the loss of her brothers. Her
mouth was closed, for a single word would have been the death of her
brothers; but her eyes spoke love to the kind, handsome King, who did
all he could to please her. Every day she became fonder of him. Oh,
had she only dared to confide to him her sufferings! But she must
remain dumb; dumb she had to accomplish her task. Therefore she
stole in the night from his side into the little secret chamber, and fin-
ished one shirt after another; but when she began the seventh she had
no more yarn.
She knew that the nettles she required grew in the churchyard, and
that she must gather them herself; but how to get there?
"Oh, what is the pain in my hands compared with the sufferings of
my heart?" she thought. "I must risk it. God will protect me."
With a trembling heart, as if she was doing something wrong, she
stole in the moonlit night into the garden, passed through the long
avenues into the deserted streets, to the churchyard, where she beheld
a number of vampires sitting on the gravestones, quite naked, who were
digging up bodies from the newly made graves and eating the flesn.
Elizabeth had to pass close to them, and they glared at fter; but, saying
a prayer, she gathered the nettles and returned home.
Only one person had seen her, namely, the Archbishop. He was up
while others were sleeping, and he now became convinced that the
Queen was a witch, who had bewitched the King and the whole people.
In the confessional he told the King what he had seen, and what he
thought of it; but as the words passed his lips the saintly images around
shook their heads, as if to say, " It is not so; Elizabeth is innocent."
But the Bishop interpreted the action differently; namely, that they were
shaking their heads at her wickedness. Two big tears rolled down the
King's cheeks, and he went home with a doubting heart. Pretending
to sleep at night, but not closing an eye, he felt Elizabeth rising from

the bed, which she repeated every night; and every time he followed
her and saw her go into her secret chamber.
Every day he became more gloomy. Elizabeth noticed it, but did
not suspect the cause. It made her, however, uneasy, and she suffered
much for her brothers. Her tears fell like sparkling diamonds on the
purple and velvet, though everybody who saw her splendor envied her.
At last she had finished all the shirts but one, and for that she had
neither yarn nor nettles. Once more, for the last time, she had to go
to the churchyard. She thought with horror of the lonely walk and
the disgusting vampires, but her resolution was as firm as her confidence
in God.
1 Elizabeth went, but was followed by the Archbishop and the King,
-
who saw her go in through the gate of the churchyard; and when they
came up, they saw the vampires sitting on the gravestones, and the
King turned his head away at the sight, thinking of her who had only
just quitted his side.
"The people must judge her," he 9aid; and the people condemned
her to be burnt.
From the stately apartments of the palace she was taken to a dark
and damp dungeon, where the wind whistled through the grated win-
dows, and instead of velvet and silk cushions to lie on she was given
the bundle of nettles she had gathered, as well as the shirts she had
made. But they could not have given her anything she cared more
for, and cheerfully she set to work, and prayed to God. Outside, the
mob were singing songs in derision of her, and nobody said a kind word
to her.
Toward night she heard the whirring of swan's wings near the grating
of her window. It was her youngest brother, who had discovered her
place of confinement, and she wept with pleasure, though she knew
that probably it was her last night; now, however, her task was nearly
finished, and her brothers were near her.
The Archbishop came to stay with her during her last hours,
according to his promise to the King; but she implored with signs
and eyes to be left alone; for this night was the last of her task, and
without it all her sufferings, tears, and sleepless nights would be en-
dured in vain. The Bishop went away after upbraiding her; but she
knew she was innocent, and continued her work.
Little rats came to assist her as far as in their power by carrying the
nettle to her feet, while a thrush settled itself at the window and sang
merrily the whole night, so that she should not lose her courage.
It was still daybreak, and it wanted an hour to sunrise, when
suddenly the eleven brothers appeared at the gate of the palace asking
to see the King; but they were told they could not, as the King was
still in bed and nobody dared to wake him. They begged and they
threatened, so that the guard was called; but in the same instant the
King appeared, asking what the noise was about, when, lo! the sun
arose, the princes disappeared, and eleven wild swans flew away over
the palace.
A great number of people were passing out of the city to see
Elizabeth burned. A wretched hack drew the cart on which she
sat dressed in coarse sackcloth. Her long golden hair hung loosely
down her shoulders, her cheeks were deadly pale, and she moved her
lips slightly as she wove the green yarn; for even on the road to
another world she did not cease working. The ten shirts lay at her
feet, and she was working on the eleventh.
The mob began to jeer at her, calling out, "Look at the witch, how
she mumbles! She has n't even got a prayer-book; she prefers her
wicked work. Take it away from her!"
And they crowded in upon her to tear it away, when eleven white
swans flew up, and seated themselves around her on the cart, striking
about with their great wings.

The people fell back in terror, whispering, " It is a sign from above!
She is certainly innocent!"
Then the executioner caught her by the hand, and at the same
moment she threw the eleven shirts over the swans, and, lo! there
stood the eleven handsome princes; but the youngest had a swan'f
wing instead of his right arm, as Elizabeth had not been aMe to
finish it.
"Now I may speak," she said. "I am innocent."
And the people, who saw what had happened, bowed down before
V
her as to a saint; but she sank senseless into her brothers' arms, quite
overcome with anxiety and pain.
"Yes, she is innocent," said the eldest brother, relating all; and
while he spoke, a scent as from a thousand roses filled the air, for every
fagot of wood in the pyre had struck root and begun to grow. There
was soon a hedge of red roses, and above them all hung a snow-white
flower, shining like a star, which the King broke and laid on Elizabeth's
breast, and she awoke with peace and happiness in her heart
.
All the church-bells began to peal of their own accord; while thou-
sands of birds flocked around, and there was a procession back to the
palace such as nobody had ever beheld.

In the city of Florence, not far from the Piazza del Granduca, runs
a little cross-street which is called, I believe, Porta Rossa. Here lies,
in front of a kind of bazaar where fruit is sold, a splendid chisled pig,
cast in bronze.
The fresh crystal water gushes from the mouth of the animal, which
from age is dark green in color. The snout alone shines as if it had
been polished, which, in fact, it has by the numerous children and
beggars who grasp it with their hands when drinking from it. It is
quite a picture to see the well-shaped animal embraced by some pretty,
half-naked boy as he puts his rosy lips to the spout.
Every visitor to Florence will easily find the spot; he need only ask
the first chance beggar for the Bronze Pig.
It was late one winter's night. The mountains were covered with
snow, but the moon was up, and moonlight in Italy gives as good a
light as on a dark winter's night in the North; yes, better, in fact, for
the clear blue air here elevates the mind, whereas in the North the
cold steel-gray sky weighs as heavily as the cold hard earth which
shall some day cover one's mortal shell. te
Away in the garden of the Grand Duke's palace, below the cover of
the cypress, where even in winter thousands of flowers bloom, a little
ragged boy had been sitting all the day, — a boy who might be the
personification of Italy, smiling, and still so destitute. He was hungry
and thirsty, for nobody had given him anything; and when it became
dark the gate-keeper turned him out, as the garden was to be closed.
For a long while he stood dreaming on the bridge across the Arno,
looking at the images of the stars sparkling in the water below tht
splendid bridge.
He then approached the Bronze Pig, knelt down, put his little arms
around its broad neck and his tiny mouth to the animal's shining snout,
THE BRONZE PIG.
and drank deep draughts of the refreshing fluid. Close by lay a couple
of lettuce-leaves and some chestnuts; these were his supper. Not a
single person could be seen in the street; and being quite alone, he
leaned up against the neck of the animal, resting his curly little head
against that of the Pig, and in a few moments he was asleep.
• The clock in the cathedral struck solemnly the midnight hour, and
lo! the Pig was alive. The boy heard it say quite plainly, " Hold on,
my little boy, for I am off;" and away it ran. It was a run indeed!
First they reached the Piazza d(el Granduca, and the bronze horse
carrying the statue of the Grand Duke neighed loudly. The dazzling
escutcheon on the old Town Hall shone like transparent pictures, and
Michael Angelo's David swung
his sling. There was indeed life!
The bronze groups representing
Perseus and "The Rape of the
Sabines" were quite too real;
Tor a cry of despair burst from
them across the grand, silent
square.
Next, the Bronze Pig halted
at the Palazzo degli Uffizi, in
the colonnade, where the nobil-
ity gather for the carnival.
"Hold on," said the animal;
*' for now we run upstairs."
The little one did not say a
word, for, though trembling a lit-
tle, he felt so happy.
They entered a long gallery; he knew it well from former visits.
On the walls hung paintings, and around stood statues and busts, al!
in the loveliest light, as if it were noonday. But the splendor seen
when the door of a chamber at the end was opened far surpassed this.
That sight the boy never forgot.
Here stood the statue of a woman, — a form as lovely as only Nature
and the hand of the greatest master of the marble could mould. She
moved her beautiful limbs; dolphins sprang at her feet, and immor-
tality shone in her eyes. The world calls her the Medicean Venus.
On each side of her stood magnificent marble statues of men; one
was sharpening a sword: he is called the Whetter. The Wrestling

Gladiators, the other group is called. The sword is sharpened, and the
gladiators wrestle for the Goddess of Beauty.
The boy was dazzled with all the splendor; the walls shone with
colors, and in everything was life and motion. But all the statues did
not move from their places, for the glory from the heads of the
Madonna, Christ, and St. John bound them. The holy figures were
no longer paintings; they were the holy persons themselves.
What light and splendor in every hall! And the little boy saw it
all, for the Bronze Pig took him into every one. But one painting in
particular fixed itself in his mind, principally through the happy chil-
dren in it. He had once nodded to them in daylight. It represents
Christ descending to Hell, by Angelo Bronzino, and the expression
of confidence in the faces of the children of reaching heaven is the
chief beauty of the work. Two little ones embrace each other, and
a third holds his hand out to another without, and points to himself
as if to say, "I am going to heaven."
The boy looked longer at that painting than at any other, and the
Bronze Pig, too, remained immovable before it. A faint sigh was
heard. Did it come from the painting, or the animal? The boy held
out his hand toward the smiling children, but the Bronze Pig ran away
with him through the open antechamber.
"I thank you from the bottom of my heart, and may God bless you
for what you have let me see, dear animal 1" said the boy, stroking it as
it went thump! thump! down the stairs with him.
"The same to you," answered the Bronze Pig. "I have helped you,
and you have helped me, for only with an innocent child on my back
have I the power to move. You see I even dare to come under the rays
of the lamp before the image of the Madonna. I may carry you
everywhere except into the church; but if outside it, I may look in
through the door. You must not, however, get down, for if ;'ou do I
assume the form I have in the day at Porta Rossa."
"I shall not leave you, dear animal," said the little boy, who was at
that moment being carried at a swift pace through the streets to the
church Santa Croce. The great double portals flew open, and the light
from the altar fell upon the deserted square. A strange glimmer
streamed from a monument over a grave in one of the left side-aisles,
thousands of stars forming like a glory around it. An escutcheon orna-
mented the grave, — a red ladder on blue ground, looking as if on fire
It was Galilei's grave. It is a simple monument, but the red ladder o\.
the blue ground is a very striking escutcheon, for it is the symbol of
Art itself, along which Genius ascends to heaven.
In the right side-aisles every monument on the costly sarcophagi
seemed to have become animated. Here stood Michael Angelo, there
Dante with the laurel-wreath round his head, and Alfieri and Macchia-
veili: side by side rest all these great sons of Italy.1
The church is a splendid one, and far more beautiful than the marble
cathedral, though not so large.
The marble garments seemed to move as the great statues looked
towards the altar, where white-clad boys swung golden censers, the
fragrance from which streamed from the church into the square
without.
The boy held forth his hand toward the splendid light, when at the
same moment the Bronze Pig ran off with him. He held on to it with
all his might, feeling the wind whistle in his ears. He thought he heard
the portals of the church scrape on their hinges as they were closed,
but in the same instant he felt losing his consciousness, an icy chill
shook him, and he awoke.
It was morning, and he was leaning against the Bronze Pig at Porta
Rossa, which looked just as usual.
Fear and terror filled his heart at the thought of her whom he called
motlier, who had yesterday sent him out to gain some money. He had
none. He was hungry and thirsty, but still he embraced and kissed the
Bronze Pig once more, nodded again to it, and then turned into a lane
so narro''. that a loaded donkey could hardly have passed along it. A
great, iron-shod door stood ajar; here he went up a stone staircase,
with dirty walls, and a rope for banister, till he reached an open gallery
where clothes were drying. From here, steps led down into the court-
yard, past the well from which the inhabitants of the house drew their
water by means of iron chains, pail dangling by pail in the air, while
the chains rattled and spilt the water into the yard.2 One more stone
staircase he scaled, when he encountered a woman, about middle age,
with thick, black hair.
"What have you brought home?" she asked sternly.
1 Michael Angelo's grave is just opposite Galilei's. On the monument is his bust and
three figures, — Sculpture, Painting, and Architecture. Close by is that of Dante, though the
body lies at Ravenna. On the monument is seen Italy pointing to the statue of Dan*_*, and
Poetry weeping. A little farther off are the graves of Alfieri and Macchiavelli.
'X have deemed it right to leave out a passage here. — Tr.
"Please don't be angry," the boy pleaded; "I could not get any-
thing, absolutely nothing," and he caught his mother's skirt as if wish-
ing to kiss it. They then entered a wretched room, on the floor of
which stood an earthen jar with charcoal in it, a so-called tnarito, which
she took on her arms and warmed her hands by.
"I am sure you got something," she said to the boy, knocking him
with her elbow.
The boy began to cry, and she kicked him so that he shrieked.
"If you don't be quiet," she said, " I will knock your brains out with
the jar," at the same time swinging it in the air so menacingly that the
boy threw himself on the floor with a piercing cry. Just then a neigh-
bor entered, also with a tnarito on her arm.
"Felicita," said the latter, "what are you doing to the child?"
"The child is mine," said the other, roughly. "I can kill it if I like,
and you too, Gianina; mind that; " and she swung the jar threateningly.
The other woman held up hers for protection, and smash! went the
jars, the bits, fire, and ashes being strewn over the room. But the boy
had fled out of the room, across the courtyard, and out of the house.
The poor little boy ran till he lost his breath, when he happened to
be at the church of Santa Croce, by the door of which he had stood the
night before, and he entered.
It was fully lit up, and he knelt by the first grave on the right, that
of Michael Angelo, and sobbed aloud. People came and went, mass
was said, but nobody took any notice of the boy, except an elderly
man who stood for a while looking at him and then went away.
Hunger and thirst tortured the poor little boy so that ho nearly
fainted, and he crept into a corner between the wall and the monument,
where he went to sleep.
It was evening when he awoke by somebody shaking him. He rose
quickly, and the elderly man stood before him.
"Are you ill? Where do you live? Have you been here all the
day?" he asked. The questions being truthfully answered, the man
led him to a little house in a by-street close at hand. They entered a
glove workshop where his wife was busy sewing, while a little white
Bolognese poodle was playing before her on the table, which rushed
toward the boy.
"The two innocents know each other," said the wife, patting them
both. The boy was then given food and drink by the kind people,
and they told him he might remain with them for the night. The next
day Master Guiseppe would speak with his mother. He was given a
plain little bed, but it was a royal one compared with lying on the hard
stone floor at home, and he slept soundly and dreamt of the Bronze
Kg-
The next morning Master Guiseppe went out, and that made the
little boy very unhappy, for he knew he went to his mother to take him
back; and he wept, and kissed the little dog. But the wife nodded to
them both.
And what news did Master Guiseppe bring home? He spoke long
with his wife, and she nodded, and patted the boy. "It is a nice boy,"
she said. "He may become as good a glove-maker as you are, and his
hands are soft and pliant . Madonna has destined him for a glove-
maker."
And the boy remained in the house, the wife herself teaching him to
sew. He picked up and became happy, and began to tease Bellissima,
as the little dog was called; but that made his mistress very angry, and
the boy was very sorry for what he had done. Thoughtful he sat in
his little chamber which looked on to the street, for he could not sleep.
The Bronze Pig was in his thoughts, and suddenly he heard a noise
outside, " Clauck! clauck!" "It must be the Bronze Pig," he thought,
rushing to the window. But there was nothing down there.
"Help the signore to carry his paint-case," said his mistress- the next
morning, when a neighbor, a young painter, came out carrying a case
and a large roll of canvas. The boy took the box and followed the
painter, who proceeding to the picture-gallery went up the staircase the
boy knew so well from the night he had run up the same on the Bronze
Pig. He recognized the statues, the lovely Venus, and the splendid
paintings.
Now they stood before Bronzino's painting of Christ and the little
laughing children, and the boy laughed too, for he was with them in
heaven.
"Well, now you had better go home," said the painter, as the boy
had waited to see him raise his easel.
"May I look at you painting?" said the boy. "May I be allowed
to see how you transfer the painting to that piece of white stuff?"
*' I am not going to paint now," said the artist, opening his box of
chalks. His hand travelled rapidly, while his eye rested on the great
painting, and though the touches were faint, Christ was soon depicted
on the canvas.
"But now you must be off," said the painter; and the boy went
quietly home and took his place on the table, learning to sew gloves.
But all the day his thoughts were in the picture-gallery, and therefore
he pricked his fingers and was very awkward; but he did not tease Bel-
lissima. At night, the door being still open, he stole out. It was a
cold but starlight night, so lovely and bright. He wandered through
the streets, already quiet and deserted, and soon afterwards he stood
before the Bronze Pig. He bent over it and kissed its shining snout.
"You dear animal," he said; "how I have been longing after you!
To-night we must have a ride."

But the Bronze Pig did not stir, and the fresh water gushed from its
mouth. Then, just as the little boy had seated himself on its back, he
felt something tugging at his trousers; he looked down and beheld —
Bellissima! The dog had stolen after him without being noticed, and
he barked as if saying, "Don't you see me? What do you sit there
for?" No fierce dragon could have frightened the boy more than
the dog in that place. Bellissima in the streets, and without being
"dressed," as his mistress called it. What would it end in? Bellissima
never went out in the winter without wearing a little sheepskin coat,
which had been made for him. It was tied with a red ribbon round
the neck, and had a rosette and a bell. The dog looked almost like a
little lamb when dressed thus for a walk with the signora. Bellissima
V,
there without being dressed! All the boy's illusions were gone; but
itill he kissed the Bronze Pig, and took the dog, which trembled with
cold, on his arms, and ran off for home as fast as he could.
"What are you running off with?" two policemen called out; and the
dog began to bark. "Where have you stolen that pretty dog?" and
they took it away from him.
"Oh, do give him back to me !" pleaded the boy.
"If you have n't stolen him, tell them at home that they can have him
back at the station," they said, and walked off.
What terrible fear and despair! The boy did not know whether to
throw himself in the Arno or go home and confess all. "They are
sure to kill me," he thought. "But I should like to die, for then 1
should go to Jesus and the Madonna." And then he went home; but
mostly because he wished to die.
The door was closed, and he could not reach the knocker. There
was not a soul in the street; but a stone lying near, he began to knock
with it
.
"Who is that? " somebody asked within.
"It is I," he said. "Bellissima is lost . Open the door and kill me!"
The anxiety for Bellissima became very great, particularly on the
part of the mistress of the house, who, looking on the wall, saw the
sheepskin hang there.
"Bellissima at the station!" she called out . "You naughty boy!
How did you get her out? She is sure to freeze to death. Fancy the
delicate creature among the rough men!" Her husband had to go
out . His wife cried with the boy, and all the people in the house,
including the painter, appeared on the scene. He took the boy
between his knees, and questioning him, gathered all about the Bronze
Pig and the picture-gallery, though it was not easy to understand.
The artist soothed the boy, and tried to put a kind word in for him
with his mistress; but she was not pacified till her husband brought
the dog. Now there was joy, and the artist patted the boy on the
head and gave him a number of drawings.
What a collection! There were comical heads among others, but,
what was the finest of all, the Bronze Pig itself. Could anything be
better? There it was in a few touches, and even the house behind it.
"Oh, if I could only draw and paint," sighed the boy; "then I
should possess all the world."
The next day, when he was alone, he seized a pencil and attempted
iu copy the Bronze Pig; and he succeeded. It was certainly a little
awkward and a little out of proportion, but still one could sec what it
was meant to represent, and the boy was delighted with the result.
The pencil would at first not travel so well; but the following day there
stood a second Bronze Pig by the side of the first, and it was a great
deal better; and the third he drew was so good that everybody could
see what it was meant to represent.
But he was slow in learning to sew gloves, and the errands in the
city took very long, for the Bronze Pig had taught him that all pictures
might be transferred to paper; and Florence is a huge picture-book to
those who take tho trouble to look at it.

On the Piazza della Trinitd stands a column on the top of which the
Goddess of Justice is placed, blindfolded, and with the scales and the
sword. Soon she stood on the paper, and it was the glove-maker's
little boy who had drawn it.
The collection of drawings increased, but still all in it were dead
things, when one day Bellissima jumped before the boy. "Be quiet,"
he said, "and you shall come among my drawings." But the dog
would not stand still, so he tied it on to a chair by its head and tail.
The dog began to snarl and struggle, and in the same instant the
signora entered.
"You wicked boy!" she cried in great rage, striking him at the
"N
same time. "Out of the house with you at once! You are a nasty
ungrateful wretch!" and she kissed her little dog.
As the boy was on the point of going, the artist came upstairs — and
here was the turning-point in the boy's career.
In the year 1834 there was an exhibition of paintings in the Academic
delle Arte in Florence, at which two paintings, hanging side by side,
attracted immense attention. On the smallest was seen a lively little
boy, who was in the act of drawing a little white poodle, which was
tied on to a chair by its head and tail. There was a life and truthful-
ness in the painting which captivated everybody. The artist was, it
was stated, a young Florentine who had been found in the street as a
boy, and who, on being brought up as a glove-maker, had taught
himself to draw. A now famous painter had discovered the boy's
talent just as he was on the point of being dismissed because he had
tied up the signora's pet dog to serve as his model.
The glove-maker's apprentice had become a great painter, — that, this
picture alone testified; but the one next to.it more so. It represented
only a single figure; namely, a pretty, ragged boy lying asleep, leaning
against the Bronze Pig in the street Porta Rossa. Every one knew the
spot. The child's arms encircled the animal's head, and he was sleep-
ing peacefully, while the lamp at the image of the Madonna threw a
strong light on his pale, beautiful face. It was a grand painting, and
mounted in a fine gilt frame, on the corner of which hung a wreath
of laurels; but between the leaves fluttered a black ribbon, and a long
black veil descended therefrom.
The young artist had the same day gone to his heavenly rest
.

THERE was once a poor Prince who had a kingdom which certainly
was very small, but still large enough to get married on, and married he
wanted to be.
It was indeed bold of him to say to the Emperor's daughter, "Will
you marry mc?" But he dared to do so, for he was known far and
wide, and there were hundreds of princesses who would have jumped
at the offer. But don't think she did.
Well, now we shall hear.
On the grave of the Prince's father grew a rose-tree; oh, such a
lovely rose-tree! but it only bloomed once in five years, and then it bore
only one flower. That flower smelt, however, so sweet that anybody
who smelt it forgot at once all his troubles. He had also a nightingale
which could sing the most beautiful airs, and the rose and the bird were
presented to the Princess in two big silver cases.
The Emperor had them carried into a room where the Princess was
playing with her ladies-in-waiting at giving " at homes," for they had
nothing else to do; and when she saw the big cases with the presents,
she clapped her hands with delight.
"Oh, I wish it were a little kitten," she said; but then the lovely rose
tvas brought out.
*' Ah, how beautifully it is made!" exclaimed the court ladies.
"It is more than that," said the Emperor; "it is neat."
But the Princess touched it.and almost began to cry.
"Fie, pa!" she exclaimed; "it is not artificial, it is natural t*'
"Fie!" cried all her ladies in chorus; "it is natural f"
"Well, let us see what is in the other case before we lose our temper,"
said the Emperor; and the nightingale was brought out. It sang so
beautifully that it was impossible to say anything against it at first.
THE SWINE-HERD.
"Superb! charmante!" ejaculated the ladies; for of course they ail
spoke French, one worse than another.
"How the bird reminds me of the deeply lamented Empress's mu-
sical box," said an old courtier. "Ay, it is the same tone, the same
execution."
"It is, it is indeed," said the old Emperor, with tears in his eyes.
"I believe it is not natural," said the Princess.
"Oh, yes, it is," replied those who had brought it.
"Well, let it fly," said the Princess; and she would have nothing what-
ever to do'with the Prince.
But he was not disheartened. He rubbed his face with dirt, put on
old clothes, pressed his hat over his eyes, and went to the palace of the
Emperor.
"How do you do, Emperor?" he said. "Can I get some situation
here?"
"Well," replied the Emperor, "we have many applicants here; but
all the same I want somebody to look after the pigs, for I have a good
many of them."
And so the Prince was made Imperial Swine-herd. He was given
a wretched little room close to the pigsty, where he had to live. But
he sat working the whole day, and in the evening he had made a little
saucepan, with bells all around the brim, and when it boiled, the bells
began to play the well-known old song, —
"Oh, my little darling,
I love you!"
But the strangest part of it was that anybody putting his finger into it
could smell the dinner that was being cooked in every kitchen in the
whole town; so that was really something better than the rose.
Then the Princess came along with her ladies, and when she heard the
song she stopped, being much pleased, for she too could play "Oh, my
little darling." It was the only thing she knew; and that she could only
play with one finger.
"Why, it is the song / play," she said. "He must be an educated
swine-herd. Look here! Just go and ask him what the instrument
costs."
And one of the ladies had to go into the mire; bat she put pattens
Over her shoes.
"What do you want for that saucepan?" she asked.
"I want ten kisses from the Princess," answered the Swine-herd.
'» ~%^3?'
* Lor!'" exclaimed the lady.
"Well, I won't take less," said the Swine-herd.
"What does he ask?" inquired the Princess.
"I don't dare to say it," said the lady; "it is so awful."
"Well, you can whisper it to me," replied the Princess; and so the
lady whispered.
"He must be mad," exclaimed the Princess, and walked quickly
away.

But when she had gone a little distance the bells began again to
play, —
r "Oh, my little darling,
I love you!"
"Look here," said the Princess, " ask him if he won't take ten kisses
from my ladies."
"No, thank you," replied the Swine-herd; "ten kisses from the Prin-
cess, or I keep my saucepan."
"How very annoying!" exclaimed the Princess. "Well, you will have
to stand around me, so that nobody shall see it."
And the ladies placed themselves around her, and the Swine-herd
received the ten kisses, and the Princess the saucepan.
Oh, what joy there was now! Night and day the saucepan had to
boil; and in the whole town there was n't a kitchen in which they did not
know what was being cooked, from the courtiers down to the lowest
.
THE SWINE-HERDL
±vtf&3^.
••We know who is going to have tripe and onions," they exclaimed,
"and who is going to have mutton cutlets. Oh, how interesting!"
"Very interesting indeed," rejoined the old mistress of the cere-
monies.
"But take care you hold your tongues," said the Princess; "for re«
member, I am the Emperor's daughter."
"Oh, dear, yes!" exclaimed the court ladies.
The Swine-herd, that is, the Prince, — but of course they did not know
he was anything but a common Swine-herd, — spent the day in making
a rattle, which, when it was turned, played all the waltzes, galops,
and polkas composed since the world was created.
"It is really superb" said the Princess, as she passed. "I never
heard a prettier composition. Look here! go and ask him what he
wants for the instrument; but I will not be kissed."
"He wants a hundred kisses from the Princess," replied the lady who
had inquired.
"He must be mad," said the Princess, walking away.
But when she had gone some distance she paused and said, "I
must encourage art; I am the Emperor's daughter. Tell him he shall
have the same number as yesterday; the rest he can take from my
ladies."
"But we don't care about it," they answered.
"Nonsense!" said the Princess; "if I kiss him, you can. Remember,
I pay and feed you." And the lady had to proceed to the Swine-herd
again.
"A hundred kisses, or eac!>. keeps his own," was the reply.
"Stand around me," said the Princess; and so the kissing began.
"What does that crowd down by the pigsty mean?" said the Em-
peror to himself, standing on the balcony; and he rubbed his eyes and
put on his spectacles. "I am sure it is the ladies-in-waiting who are up
to some joke; I must go and see what it is; " and he drew his slippers
up at the heels, for they were trodden down.
How fast he ran!
As soon as he got into the yard he walked very quietly, and the
ladies had so much to do with counting the kisses that they did not
notice him. He raised himself on tiptoe.
"What in the world is this?" he exclaimed, when he saw the kissing;
and in the next moment he struck the Swine-herd on the head with his
slipper, just as he was receiving the eighty-sixth kiss.
y"
"Out with you both !" he exclaimed, for he was very angry. And so
the Princess and Swine-herd were turned out of the empire.

There she now stood, crying; and then it began to rain.
"Oh, poor wretch that lam!" exclaimed the Princess; "if I had only
taken the handsome Prince! I am so
unhappy!"
Then the Swine-herd went behind
a tree, washed the dirt off his face,
threw away his shabby clothes, and
went before her in his princely gar-
ments, looking very handsome.
"I have learned to despise you," he
said. "You refused an honest Prince,
and you did not appreciate the rose and
the nightingale, but the common Swine-
herd you kissed for a plaything. Now
you must lie on the bed you have made
for yourself."
And then he went into his kingdom
and locked the gate, while the Prin-

cess was left outside with her saucepan and rattle,
In China, as you know, the Emperor is a Chinese, and all those about
him Chinese. It is now many years ago, but that is just the reason
why the story is worth hearing before it is lost . The Emperor's palace
was the most magnificent in the world, entirely made of the finest porce-
lain, and it was so delicate that one had really to be careful when touch-
ing it. In the park were rarest flowers, and to the most gorgeous, silver
bells were attached, which rang, so that nobody should pass without
noting them. Everything was carefully arranged in the Emperor's
park, and it was so great that the gardener did not know how far it ex-
tended; for if one continued to walk in it one entered the most beautiful
forest, with tall trees and deep lakes. The forest reached right down
to the deep and blue sea, and great ships could float close into it. Here
in the woods lived a Nightingale which sang so beautifully that even
the poor fisherman, who had his work to attend to, lay listening at
night. "Oh, how sweetly it sings!" he exclaimed.
From all the countries in the world people came to the Emperor's
city, who admired the same, the palace and the park; but when they
heard the Nightingale they all said, "That is the most wonderful."
And when the travellers came home, many a book was written about
the city, the palace, and the park, and nobody forgot the Nightingale.
It was praised the most; and those who could write sonnets wrote the
most beautiful in its honor.
The books went all over the world, and some at last reached the Em-
peror. He was sitting in a chair of gold, reading and reading, and
every moment he nodded his head; for he liked to read the flattering
accounts of the city, the palace, and the park. "But the Nightingale
is the most wonderful of all," it said.
"What is this?" he exclaimed. "The Nightingale! I don't know
it . Does such a bird exist in my empire, and that in my own park
.
THE NIGHTINGALE.
!
too? I never heard of it before. It is the sort of thing one learns by
reading."
And he called one of his courtiers, who was so noble that when any-
body who was below him in rank ventured to speak to him, he only an-
swered by putting his tongue out.
"It is stated to be a most remarkable bird, here called a Night-
ingale," said the Emperor. "It is said to be the most wonderful
thing in my whole empire. Why has n't somebody told me about it
before?"
"I never heard of the thing," replied the courtier; "it has never
been presented at Court."
"I desire it to come and sing for me to-night;" said the Emperor;
"the whole world seems to know what I possess, except myself."
"I have never heard of the Nightingale," repeated the courtier;
"but I will find him, most certainly."
But where? The courtier ran up and down stairs, and through all
the chambers and passages of the palace, but nobody whom he met had
heard of the Nightingale, and said that no doubt it was all fiction, what
was written about it.
"I beg your Imperial Majesty not to believe what the book says; it
is all fiction, if not sorcery."
"But the book in which I have read it has been sent to me by
the great Emperor of Japan, therefore it must be true. I command
the Nightingale to be here to-night. If not, the whole Court will
be drummed on their stomachs after supper."
"Tsing-pa!" exclaimed the courtier, and ran up and down stairs, and
through all the chambers and passages of the palace again, followed by
half the Court, for they did not like being drummed on their stomachs.
There was an incessant inquiry for the wonderful Nightingale, which all
the world knew, but nobody at Court.
At last they found a little girl in the kitchen who said, " Dear me, my
lord, the Nightingale! I know it, and how lovely it sings! I am
allowed to carry some remnants from the table every night to my
mother, who lives by the sea, and when I return, and being tired rest
in the forest, I hear it singing. My eyes become filled with tears there-
by; I feel as if my mother kisses me."
"Little kitchen-maid," said the courtier, " I will get you a situation
as under-cook, and let you see Ae Emperor <at, if yoti'will showstfS
the Nightingale, for it has be*en ordered to Court tcHiight."
-
And so they all set out for the forest where the Nightingale used to
sing. After a little while they heard the lowing of a cow.
"Ah," said the courtier, " here it is! There is, indeed, great strength
in such a small animal. I am sure I have heard it before."
"No, my lord, that is a cow lowing," said the kitchen-maid. "We
are still far from the place."
Then they heard the croaking of frogs.
"Magnificent," said the Court chaplain; "I hear it. It is like
church-bells."
"No, that is the frogs," said the girl; "but now we shall soon hear
him."
Now the Nightingale began to sing.

"That's it," said the kitchen-maid. "Listen! And there it sits,"
she added, pointing to a little bird on a bough.
"Is it possible?" said the courtier. "I never thought he was like
that. How common it looks! Surely it must have lost all its color at
the sight of so many grand people."
"Little Nightingale," cried the kitchen-maid, " our gracious Emperor
wishes so much that you should sing before him."
"I will do so with great pleasure," replied the Nightingale; and it
sang so sweetly that everybody was charmed.
"It is like glass bells," said the courtier. "Just look how the little
throat works; it is remarkable that we have never heard of it before
It is sure to be a success at Court."
"Shall I sing once more for the Emperor?" asked the Nightingale,
believing that the Emperor was present.
"Charming little Nightingale !" said the courtier, "I have the pleasure
of informing you that the Emperor commands your presence at Court
to-night, in order to delight him with your lovely voice."
"It sounds best in the woods," said the Nightingale; but still it
followed them, as the Emperor wished it.
The palace was like a fairy castle. Walls and roofs, which were
all of porcelain, sparkled in the light of thousands of golden lamps,
while the choicest flowers which could sing were ranged in the cor-
ridors.
In the middle of the great hall, where the Emperor sat, a tree of gold
was raised, on which the Nightingale was to sit. The whole Court was
present, and the little kitchen-maid was allowed to stand behind the
door, as she was now promoted. Everybody was in Court dress, and
everybody looked at the little gray bird to which the Emperor was
nodding. Then the Nightingale sang so charmingly that tears rose
to the eyes of the Emperor and even rolled down his cheeks. And the
Nightingale sang sweeter still, so lovely that the Emperor's heart was
touched; which made him so delighted that he offered it his gold slip-
per to wear round its neck; but the Nightingale declined the offer
with thanks, for it was already more than satisfied.
"I have seen tears in the eyes of the Emperor," it said; "that is
enough for me. An Emperor's tear is worth the finest gem. I am
fully repaid;" and it sang again more beautifully than before.
"It is the dearest flirtation I have known," said the ladies; and they
took water in their mouths to cluck when anybody spoke to them,
and tried to think that they too were nightingales. Ay, even the ser-
vants deigned to remark that they were pleased; and that was the
greatest compliment, for they are the most difficult to please. Yes, the
Nightingale was indeed a success.
„ The bird had to remain at Court, had its own cage, and could walk
out twice a day and once a night. It had twelve attendants, who all
held a silk ribbon attached to its legs, so there wasn't much enjoyment
in the walks.
The whole town talked about the wonderful bird; and when two per-
sona met each other, one said, "Nightin," and the other only, "gale;"
and so they understood each other. Ay, eleven little boys were even
named after it, though not a single one of them could sing a note.
One day the Emperor received a big parcel, outside which was
written, " Nightingale."
"Here is a new book about our bird," said the Emperor. But it was
no book. It was a work of art in a box; namely, an artificial night-
ingale, which was like the real one, only it was covered with precious
stones. As soon as it was wound up it sang one of the melodies of the
real bird, while its tail bobbed up and down glittering with silver and
gold. Round its neck hung a ribbon, on which was written, "The
Emperor of Japan's nightingale is poor compared with the Emperor of
China's."
"It iscJiarmante" they all cried; and he who had brought the artificial
bird was at once created Imperial Grand Master of the Nightingale.
"Now they must sing together," said the Emperor; but it did not go
well, for the real Nightingale sang in its natural way, and the artificial
one could not keep time.
Then the artificial bird sang alone, which it did as well as the real
one; and in addition it glittered like bracelets and rings, which, of
course, was more delightful to look at.
Thirty-three times it sang the same song without being tired, and
some wanted it to sing it again; but the Emperor thought that now the
real Nightingale ought to sing. But where was it? Nobody had no-
ticed it flying away through the open window to its green woods.
"What does that mean?" said the Emperor. And the courtiers
thought it was very ungrateful of the bird. "But we have the best left,"
they said; and so the artificial Nightingale had to sing again, and every-
body praised it far more than the real one.
"You see, your Majesty," said a courtier, "with the real bird one
never knows what is to come, but here everything is arranged. That
comes and nothing else. It can be explained; we may even rip it open
and show how one waltz follows another."
"That is just my opinion, too," cried the rest of the Court. Then
the Emperor ordered the bird to sing before the people on the Sunday
following, and they were as delighted as if they had taken too much
tea, for that is really Chinese; and they all held up one finger, nodded
their heads, and said "Ah!" But the poor fishermen who had heard
the real Nightingale said that the artificial one sang well in its way, but
that it lacked something, they could not say what.
The real Nightingale was next banished from the empire.
The artificial Nightingale was placed on a silk cushion By tfie
Emperor's bed, and around were laid all its presents of precious stones.
It was given the title of " Imperial Bedroom Songster," with the rank
of Number One on the left side; for the Emperor considered that side
the most aristocratic, because it was the side of the heart, — for the
heart is on the left side even with an Emperor.
The Court Composer wrote five-and-twenty volumes about the bird,
so lengthy and so learned, with the most difficult Chinese words. And
those who read them said it was all very clear; for if they had not, they
would of course have been declared fools and been drummed on the
stomach.
Thus a year passed. The Emperor, the Court, and all the people
knew every note in the artificial Nightingale's song; but that was just
why they liked it, for then they could all sing as well. The boys in
the street sang, "Zizi-zi! clunck! clunck! clunck!" as well as the Em-
peror himself. Ay, it was quite charming!
But one night as the Emperor was lying in bed listening to the bird's
song, something went "Bang!" inside it; there was a crack and
whir-r-r-r! all the wheels spun round — and all was silent.
The Emperor at once jumped out of bed and called his body-physi-
cian; but what could he do? Then a watchmaker was called, and after
much talking and examining he succeeded in repairing it somehow; but
it had to be used carefully, as the springs were worn out and could not
be replaced, if it should sing at all. There was great grief everywhere,
and only once a-year the bird was allowed to sing; and that was quite
enough. The Court Composer made a speech with all the strange
words in it, saying that it was as good as before; and so everybody
said the same.
- /ive years had elapsed, when there was a great grief in the country;
for the Emperor was ill and could not live, and he was much beloved
by his subjects. A new Emperor had already been proclaimed, and
people stood outside the palace asking the courtiers how the Emperor
was.
"T! T!" they said, and shook their heads.
The Emperor lay cold and pale in his great splendid bed, and the
Court, believing him dead, hurried out to do homage to the new Em-
peror. The attendants ran out to talk about the matter, and the ladies-
in-waiting had a great tea-party. In every room and corridor carpets
had been laid down, and therefore not a single sound was heard any-
where. But the Emperor was not yet dead. Calm and pale he lay in
V
his magnificent bed with long silk curtains and heavy gold tassels,
while the moon shone upon him from a window high up on the wall,
as well as on the artificial Nightingale.
The poor Emperor could hardly breathe; he felt as if somebody was
sitting on his chest; and opening his eyes he beheld Death sitting on
the bed, with the Emperor's crown on his head, his sword in his hand,
and the imperial standard over his shoulder. And all around strange
heads peeped through the folds of the bed-curtains, some of whom

were horrible to look at, and others pleasant. They were the Emperor's
good and bad deeds who looked at him, while Death weighed on his
chest
.
"Do you remember me?" said one. "Do you remember me?"
added another. And they told him of his bad deeds till a cold per-
spiration gathered on his forehead.
''I don't know anything about it!" cried the Emperor. "For
heaven's sake, music, music! — the great Chinese drum! only stifle
what they are saying!"
But they continued, and Death nodded his head at what they were
relating, like a true Chinese.
, "Music! music !" cried the Emperor again in agony. "Dear litde
gold-bird, sing! only sing! I have given you gold and precious stones;
I have with my own hands hung my gold slipper round your neck.
Sing, only sing!"
But the bird remained silent; there was nobody to wind it up, and
otherwise it could not sing. And Death continued'to stare at the Em-
peror with his hollow eyes, while the silence around was quite terrible.
In that moment a lovely song was heard close to the window; it
was the little living Nightingale sitting without. It had heard about
the Emperor's illness, and had come to comfort and encourage him.
And as it sang, the horrible phantom became fainter and fainter, while
the blood in the Emperor's body coursed quicker and quicker, and
even Death listened, and said encouragingly, " Go on, little Nightin-
gale 1 go on!"
"I will if you will give me the golden sword, if you will give me
that standard, if you will give me the Emperor's crown," responded the
bird.
And Death gave every one for a song; while the Nightingale sang
about the peaceful graveyard, where the white roses bloom, where the
honeysuckle scents the air, and where the green grass is moistened by
the tears of mourners, so that Death began to long so much for his
garden that he swept out of the window like a cold white mist.
"Thank you, thank you, little divine bird!" cried the Emperor; "I
know you. Although I banished you from my domains, you have
driven the horrible phantoms from my bed and Death from my heart.
How can I repay you?"
"I am fully rewarded," replied the Nightingale; "I drew tears from
your eyes the first time I sang to you; that I shall never forget. Those
are jewels which the heart of a songster prizes above all others; but
now you must sleep, and become well and strong. In the mean time I
will sing to you."
When the morning sun shone in on him through the window, the
Emperor awoke quite restored; but none of his attendants had as yet
returned, for they believed he was dead; and the Nightingale was still
singing.
"You must always remain with me," said the Emperor; "you shall
only sing when you like, and the artificial Nightingale I will destroy."
"No, don't do that," answered the Nightingale. "It did what it
could do; keep it . I cannot live at the palace, but let me come when I
like. I will come at night, and sit outside your window and sing to you,
so that you may be delighted as well as reflective. I will sing of those
who are happy and those who are suffering, of the good and bad hid-
den around you. The little songster flies far and wide, to the poor
fisherman and the honest peasant. I will come and tell you all; but I
love your heart better than your crown, though the crown has a halo
around it . But you must promise me one thing —"
* "Everything!" cried the Emperor, as he stood in his imperial robes
in which he had dressed himself, holding the heavy gold sword to his
heart.
"You must promise me never to tell anybody that a little songster
tells you everything."
And so the Nightingale flew away.
Then the attendants entered to look at their deceased Emperor. Y«s»
there they stood amazed; and the Emperor said, " Good-morning."


A STORV IN SEVEN PARTS.
First Part,—wkick deals with the Looking-glass and its Fragments.
WELL, now we are going to begin, and when we have got to the end
of the story we shall know more than we do now, for it is of a wicked
demon, — one of the very worst.
One day he was in high spirits, for he had made a looking-glass
which possessed this peculiarity, — thct everything good or beautiful
reflected in it dwindled down to almost nothing, but whatever was
worthless and unsightly stood out bolrily *.nd became still worse. The
most beautiful landscapes when seen in 't looked only like cooked
spinach, and even handsome people became repulsive, or stood on their
heads and looked ridiculous. The faces were so distorted that they
could not be recognized; and if any one had a freckle, never mind how
small, it was sure to spread over nose and mouth. That was highly
amusing, the demon said. When anything good or innocent entered a
man's head there was a grin on the face of the looking-glass, and the
demon laughed heartily at his ingenious invention. All who attended
his school of sorcery related everywhere that a miracle had happened,
and that now, for the first time, one could see what man and the world
^ ._.-*._
THE SNOW-QUEEN.
really were like They ran about everywhere with the looking-glass,
till at last there was no man and no country that had not been distorted
by it . Not satisfied with this, they flew up to Heaven with it to scoff
at the angels; but the looking-glass shook so violently with its own
grinning that it slipped out of their hands, and having fallen to the
earth broke into hundreds of millions of billions of pieces, ay, even
more,—and these caused greatest mischief, for some of the pieces
were not larger than dust, .and whoever got them in his eyes as they
were flying about in the air saw the whole human race distorted; for
each particle, however small, retained the peculiarity of the looking-
glass when whole. Some men even got a small piece of the glass in
their hearts; and that was dreadful, for the heart became like a lump
of ice. Some of the pieces were so large that they were used for
window-panes, but it would not do to look at one's friends through
them. Other pieces were made into spectacles, and then indeed all
went wrong, particularly when people put them on in order to see right
and to be just.
And some of the dust of the broken glass is still flying about in the
air. But now we shall hear.
Second Part. — A Little Boy and a Little Girl.
IN a large city, where there were so many people and houses that
there was not room enough for all to have even a little garden, and
where they were mostly, therefore, obliged to be satisfied with flowers
in flower-pots, there lived two poor children who had a garden a little
larger than a flower-pot. They were not brother and sister, but were
as fond of each other as if'they had been so. Their parents lived exactly
opposite each other, in two attics; and where the roof of the one house
would have joined the other they were separated by a gutter running
between them; but in each house there was a small window, so that
one had but to step across the gutter to reach from the one ,.;ttic
to the other.
Outside each window was a large wooden box, in which grew some
kitchen-herbs and a rose-tree, flourishing equally well in both. It
occurred to the parents to place the boxes crossways over the gutter,
so that they reached nearly from one window to the other, looking like
two walls covered with flowers. For peas hung down over the sides of
;„~*
Z£F&,
the boxes, and the branches of the rose-trees bent forward towards
each other, so that it looked almost like a triumphal arch of leaves and
flowers. As the boxes were very high, and the children not allowed
to climb upon them, they often received permission to get out of the
windows, where, seated on their little stools under the rose-trees, they
used to play together.
In winter there was an end to this amusement, for the windows were
often quite covered with ice; but then the children warmed halfpence
on the stove, and laying the warm coin against the frozen glass made a
beautiful peep-hole, so round! and behind each there shone a bright,
sparkling eye, — that of the little girl and the little boy. His name
was Kay, and hers Gerda. In summer they could be together with
one jump; but in winter they had to run down all the stairs of the one
house and up those of the other, while the snow was falling without
.
"Those are the white bees swarming," the old Grandmother used
to say.
"Have they a queen too?" asked the little boy, for he knew there
was such a one among the real bees.
"Yes, they have," said the Grandmother. "She is flying there, where
they are swarming thickest; she is the largest of them all, and she
never rests quiet on the ground, but flies up again into the black
clouds. Often during the winter night she flies through the streets of
the toim and looks in through the windows, which are then covered
with frost in such strange forms as if they were so many flowers."
"Yes, that I have seen," said both children; and now they knew that
it was true.
"Can the Snow-queen enter here?" asked the little girl.
"Let her come," said the boy, "and I will put her on the stove; then
she will melt."
But the Grandmother smoothed his hair and told them other stories.
That evening, when little Kay was at home and half undressed, he
climbed into a chair by the side of the window and looked through the
hole. Some flakes of snow were falling, and one among them, the very
largest, remained lying on the rim of the flower-box. It increased more
and more, till at last it became a lady dressed in the finest white gauze,
as if formed by millions of star-like flakes. She was so beautiful, but
of ice, — dazzling, glistening ice; and yet she was alive. Her eyes
sparkled like two bright stars, but they were restless and unsteady.
She nodded towards the window and beckoned with her finger, which
"V
ft ightened the little boy so much that he jumped down from the chair;
and just then it seemed as if a large bird flew past the window.
The next day there was a clear frost. Then spring came; the sun
shone, the trees began to bud, the swallows built their nests, the win-
dows were opened, and the littie children again sat in their tiny garden,
high up on the roof in the gutter.
The roses bloomed more beautifully than ever this summer; and the
little girl having learned a hymn in which there was mention of roses, it
"eminded her of her own, and she sang the hymn to the little boy, who
joined in it, —
"Though the bloom of the rose will fade away,
We shall meet the dear Christ-child some day."
The little ones held each other by the hand, kissed the roses, and
looked into the bright sunshine, as if beholding the Christ-child.
What delightful summer days those were, and how pleasant it was
to be out of doors near the fresh rose-trees, which seemed as if they
would never have done blooming!
Kay and Gerda were seated, looking over a picture-book of animals
and birds, when, just as the church-
bells struck five, Kay exclaimed,
"Oh, something sharp has run into
my heart, and now something has
flown into my eyes!"
The little girl took him round the
neck and looked in his eyes; but
no, there was nothing to be seen.
"I think it is gone again," he
said; but it was not gone. It was
just one of the pieces of the magic
glass, which, we recollect, fell and
was broken, — the hateful glass that
made everything great and good
reflected in it appear small and con-
temptible; but what was bad and
mean was made most of, and the
faults in anything became very prominent . Poor Kay had got one of
these pieces into his heart too, and soon that would become a lump of
ice. It did not hurt him any longer, but still it was there.
"Why are you crying?" he asked. "It makes you look so ugly,

O"
'KAY AND GERDA WERE SKATZk
TOGETHER."
and there is nothing whatever the matter with me." Then all at once
he exclaimed, "Look, how nasty that rose is! it is all worm-eaten; and
this one is quite out of shape. They are ugly flowers, like the box in
which they grow;" and he kicked the box, and tore off some of the
roses.
"What are you doing, Kay?" cried the little girl; and as he saw
her fright he tore off another rose and clambered in through his window,
away from the dear little Gerda.
When she afterwards came with the picture-book he said it was only
fit for babies; and when the old Grandmother told stories, he would
constantly interrupt her with a "but;" and when he could manage it,
he got behind her, and putting a pair of spectacles on his nose, imitated
her so exactly that all who saw him laughed. Soon he could mimic
the inhabitants of the whole street, imitating their peculiarities and
weaknesses, so that people said, "That boy has a wonderful head;" but
it was only the glass that had got into his eyes, the glass that was in his
heart; and that was the reason why he teased even little Gerda, who
loved him with all her heart.
His play was now quite different from what it used to be, it was so
sensible. One winter's day, when it was snowing, he brought a large
magnifying-glass, and holding out a corner of his blue coat, let the
snow-flakes fall upon it.
"Look through the glass, Gerda," he said; and the snow-flakes
appeared much larger, looking like beautiful flowers or ten-cornered
stars; they were quite beautiful to look at . "Now, are not these more
interesting than the real flowers?" Kay said. "See, there is not a sin-
gle fault in them, they are all perfect; if they could but remain without
melting!"
Soon after, Kay appeared with large gloves on, carrying his little
sliding-sledge on his back; and he shouted in Gerda's ear, "I have got
leave to go to the great square, where the other boys play;" and he
was gone.
There, in the square, the boldest of the boys fastened their sledges
behind the farmers' carts, and went a good way with them. All was
life; and when they were at the height of their play there came a
large long sledge, painted entirely white, and in it sat a figure muffled
up in white fur, with a white fur cap on. The sledge drove round the
sqrare ten times, and Kay quickly fastened his little sledge to it . It
ran faster and faster, and then turned into one of the streets that
run out ot the square. The person driving turned round and nodded
so friendly to Kay, just as if they knew each other; and each time he
was on the point of unfastening his sledge the person nodded to him
again, so that he remained where he was, and they drove out through the
city gates. The snow began to fall so thickly that the little boy could
not see his hand, and then he undid the string with which he had
fastened himself to the large sledge; but that was of no use, for his little
sledge remained attached to the other, and on they flew as fast as the
wind. He called out as loud as he could, but no one heard him, and
the sledge seemed to drive over hedges and ditches; then he grew
quite frightened, and tried to say his prayers, but could think of nothing
but his multiplication-table.
The snow-flakes grew larger and larger, till at last they appeared
like white chickens, when of a sudden they turned aside and the
large sledge stopped. The person driving it stood up, and Kay now
saw that it was a lady, tall, slim, and dazzlingly white. It was the
Snow-queen.
"We have had a good drive," she said; "but you are cold? Come,
creep under my bear-skin." And she seated him by her side in the
sledge, covering him up with the skin; but he felt as if he were sinking
into a snow-drift.
"Are you still cold? " she asked, kissing him on the forehead. Oh!
that was colder than ice, and seemed to penetrate to his very heart,
which was already almost a lump of ice. He felt as if he were going to
die, but only for a moment, after which he was comfortable, and did not
in the least feel the cold.
"My sledge! do not forget my sledge!" he cried. Of that he thought
first; and it was fastened to one of the white chickens, which followed
with it on its back. The Snow-queen kissed Kay again, and then he
forgot little Gerda, Grandmother, and all at home.
"You must have no more kisses," she said, " or else I shall kiss you
to death."
Kay looked at her; she was so beautiful, and a more intelligent,
lovely face he could not imagine. She no longer seemed of ice, as
when she sat outside on the window-sill and beckoned to him. In his
eyes she was perfection, and he had no fear; he told her that he could
reckon in his head, and knew the number of square miles the country
contained, as well as the number of its inhabitants, and she smiled at all
he said It then seemed to him as if he did not yet know enough, and
he looked up into the vast expanse of air. She flew up with him, hignc*
and higher, on to the black clouds; and the storm whistled and howled,
but it sounded like old songs. They flew over forests and lakes, over
seas and continents. Beneath them the cold wind whistled, the wolve3
howled, the snow sparkled; but high above them the moon shone
brightly, and on this Kay's eyes were fixed the whole long winter's
night . During the day he slept at the feet of the Snow-queen.
Third Part. — The Flower-garden of the Sorceress.
But how did little Gerda get on when Kay did not return? What
could have become of him? No one knew, no one could give any in-
formation. The boys could only vcll that they had seen him fasten his
sledge to a magnificent large .::<., whi~h had driven along the street
and out of the city gates. N one could tell where he was. Many
tears were shed, and LttL Gerda cried more than all. Then it was
said he was dead, that nc had falkn into the river which flowed past the
town. Oh, what lo. g, dreary winter days those were!
Now spring came and warm sunshine.
"Kay is dead and gone!" said little Gerda.
"I do not think so," said the Sunshine in reply.
u Kay is dead and gone!" she said to the Swallows.
"We do not think so," they answered; and at last little Gerda did
AOt think so either.
"I will put on my new red shoes," she said one morning, — " those
which Kay has never seen, — and I will go down to the River and ask
it about him."
It was still early. She kissed her old Grandmother, who was not
awake yet, and having put on the red shoes, went all alone out of the
city gates and down to the River.
"Is it true that you have taken my little playfellow? " she said. "I
will give you my red shoes if you will restore him to me."
It seemed to her as if the waves nodded in a peculiar way, and she then
took her red shoes — the things she liked best of all she had — and
threw them both into the river; but they fell near the shore and were
washed on land again. It was exactly as if the River would not take
what was so dear to her, for it had not little Kay to give in return; but
she thought she had not thrown the shoes out far enough, so she got
\
Into a boat, which lay among the rushes, and going to the farthest
end of it she threw the shoes into the water again. But the boat was
not fastened, and the motion she caused in it set it off from land. She
noticed it and hastened to get back, but it was already more than a
yard from land, and now drifted fast out into the river.
Then little Gerda became very frightened, and began to cry; but no
one heard her excepting the Sparrows, and they could not carry her on to
land, but they flew along the banks singing, as if to console her, " Here
we are! here we are!" The boat glided down the stream, and little
Gerda sat there quite quiet, in her stockings, while her little red shoes
floated after; but they could not overtake the boat
.

It was very pretty on both sides; there were beautiful flowers, old
trees, and meadows with sheep and cows, but not a human being was to
be seen.
"Perhaps the River will carry me to little Kay," she thought, and
then she grew more cheerful; she stood up, and for hours she admired
the beautiful green banks. At length she came to a large orchard full of
cherry-trees, in which there stood a little house with strange red and
blue windows. It had a straw roof, and in front stood two wooden sol-
diers, who presented arms as Gerda passed.
She called to them, thinking they were alive, but they returned nr
answer, as was quite natural.
Gerda cried still louder; and then there came an old, a very old
woman out of the house, supporting herself with a hooked stick. She
wore a large straw hat painted all over with the most beautiful
flowers.
"You poor little child!" said the old woman, " how did you get on
to the great rushing river, and be thus carried out into the world?" And
she walked right into the river, caught hold of the boat with the hook
of her stick, and having drawn it to land, lifted little Gerda out.
Gerda was delighted to feel herself on dry land again, though a little
bit frightened at the strange old woman.
"Come, and tell me who you are and how you came here," she
said.
And Gerda told her. The old woman shook her head, mumbling,
"Hem! hem!" and when Gerda asked her whether she had seen little
Kay, she said that he had not passed yet, but that he would be sure to
come, and that therefore she must not be sad, but had better taste her
cherries, and look at her flowers, which were more beautiful than any
picture-book, and that each could tell a story. She then took Gerda
by the hand, and having led her into the house, locked the door.
The windows were very high up, and the panes of glass red, blue,
and yellow, so that the light came in in various colors, which looked
very strange. On the table were the most -delicious cherries, of which
Gerda ate as many as she felt inclined, for she had permission to do so.
While she was eating, the old wom-n combed her hair with a golden
comb, and her beautiful yellow hair shone so bright, and curled round
her pretty, cheerful little face, which was as round and blooming as a
rose.
"I have always longed to have a dear little girl like you," said the
old woman, "and you shall see how well we will get on together."
As she combed Gerda's hair, the little girl forgot more and more her
playfellow Kay, for the old woman was a sorceress; but she was not a
wicked witch, and only conjured a little, just for her own amusement,
and she wished to keep Gerda with her. Therefore she went into the
garden, and touching all the rose-trees with her stick, they sank down
into the black earth, so that there was no trace left of where they had
stood. The old woman was afraid that when Gerda saw the rose-trees
she might think of her own, and remembering little Kay, run away.
She then took Gerda into the flower-garden. Oh, what a scent,
and what splendor! There were all imaginable flowers of every sea-
son of the year, so that no picture-book could be finer or prettier.
Gerda danced with delight, and played till the sun went down behind
the high cherry-trees, when she had a beautiful bed with red sflk pil-
lows stuffed with violets, and she slept and dreamed as delightfully as
any queen on her wedding-day.
The next day she again played with the flowers in the warm sunshine;
and thus many days passed by. Gerda knew every flower; but as many
as there were, it seemed to her as if one were wanting, though she did
not know which. Now, one day she was sitting, looking at the old
woman's painted hat, and just the most beautiful of the flowers was a
rose. The old woman had forgotten to blot that out when she banished
the others into the earth; but so it is when one has not one's thoughts
about one. "What! " Gerda cried, "are there no roses here?" She
looked in all the beds, but none was to be found; and then she sat
down and cried, when it so happened that her tears fell on the spot
where a rose-tree was buried, and as the warm tears fell on the ground
the tree sprang up in full bloom and with blossoms as beautiful as
they had ever been. Gerda threw her arms round the tree, kissed the
roses, and thought of her own rose-tree at home, as well as of little
Kay.
"Oh, how I have been delayed!" said the little girl. "I came to
look for Kay. Do you know where he is?" she asked the flowers.
"Do you think he is dead?"
"He is not dead," said the Roses, " for we have been in the earth,
where all the dead are, and Kay was not there."
"Thank you very much," said Gerda; and she went to the other flow-
ers, looked into their calyxes, and asked, "Cannot you tell me where
little Kay is?"
But each flower stood there in the sunshine, dreaming its own fairy-
tale, which Gerda had to listen to; but of Kay they knew nothing.
And what did the Tiger-lily say?
"Do you hear the drum? Drum! drum!—only two notes, always
the same, — drum! drum! Listen to the funeral dirge of the women
and the chant of the priests! The Hindoo woman stands in her long red
mantle on the funeral pile; the flames flicker around her and her dead
husband; but the Hindoo woman thinks of a living one there in the
crowd, of him from whose eyes the fire burns hotter, and troubles her
heart more than the flames which will soon burn her body to ashes.
Will the flame of the heart be consumed in the flame of the funeral
pile?"
"I don't understand a word of all that," said little Gerda.
*' That is my story," answered the Tiger-lily.
What does the Convolvulus say?
"At the end of a mountain path rises an old castle. The ivy climDs
up the old red walls, thickly covering the balcony, and there stands a
beautiful girl. She leans over the balustrade, looking eagerly down the
path. No rose is fresher than she; no apple-blossom carried from the
tree by the wind moves more gracefully. Now her magnificent satin
garment rustles. Is he not coming yet?"
"Do you mean Kay?" asked little Gerda.
"I am speaking only of my story, my dream," the Convolvulus
answered.
What says the Snowdrop?
"A board hangs on a rope fastened between two trees. That is a
swing; and two pretty little girls, with dresses as white as snow, and
long green ribbons fluttering from their hats, are seated in it, swinging.
Their brother, who is bigger than they, is standing in the swing, with
one arm round the rope to keep himself up, for in one hand he holds a
cup and in the other a clay pipe; he is blowing soap-bubbles. The
swing is moving, and the bubbles fly with beautiful, constantly changing
colors; the last still hangs to the pipe and is trembling in the wind. A
little black dog is standing on its hind legs, wanting to get into the
swing too. The bubble floats away, the dog falls and barks, for it is
teased. The dog is angry and the bubble bursts. A swinging-board
and a bursting bubble arc my song."
"I dare say your story is very pretty, but you tell it in such a melan-
choly way, and there is not a word in it about little Kay."
What do the Hyacinths say?
"There were three sisters so lovely and fragile. The dress of one
was red, of another blue, and that of the third entirely white. Hand in
hand they danced by the side of a lake in the bright moonshine. They
were not fairies, but human beings. There was a sweet scent, and the
girls disappeared in the forest. The scent became stronger, and three
coffins, in which lay the three beautiful girls, glided out of the forest
and floated across the lake, glow-worms flying around them. Are
the girls asleep, or are they dead? The scent from the flowers says
they are dead, and the vesper bell tolls for their funeral."
"You make me quite sad," said Gerda. "You have such a strong
scent that I cannot help thinking of the dead girls. Can it be that Kay
is really dead? The Roses have been buried, and they say * No.'"
*' Ding, dong!" sounded the Hyacinth bells. "We do not toll for
little Kay, — we do not know him; we only sing our song, the only one
we know."
Gerda went to the Buttercup, which shone from among its glittering
green leaves, and said, " You are a little bright sun. Tell me if you
know whether I shall find my playfellow."
The Buttercup shone so beautifully, and looked at Gerda, but its
song was not of Kay either.
"In a small yard the sun shone so warmly the first day of spring;
the rays were reflected from the white walls of the house, and close
by stood the first yellow flower, sHning like gold in the sun. The
old grandmother was sitting out of door, in her chair, and her grand-
daughter, a poor but beautiful servant-giri, was parting from her after
a short visit . She kissed her grandmother. In that kiss there was a
blessing. Well, that it, my little story."
"My poor old Grandmother!" Gerda sighed; "she is no doubt long-
ing for me, and is sad about me as she was about Kay. But I will
soon be back home, and bring Kay with me. It is of no use my asking
the flowers, for they only know their own song, and can give me no
information." She then tucked up her dress, in order to be able to run
faster; but as she jumped over a Narcissus, it struck her across the
legs. So she stopped, looked at the long white flower, and said, " Per-
haps you have something to tell me;" and she bent down her ear to
the flower. Now, what did the Narcissus say?
"I see myself! I see myself!" it said. "Oh, how beautiful I am!
Up above, in a small attic, stands a little dancer half-dressed. She
stands first on one leg and then on both. She is nothing but a vision.
She is pouring water out of the teapot upon a piece of stuff; that is
her stays. Cleanliness is next to godliness. And the white dress which
hangs upon the nail has also been washed in the teapot and dried on
the roof. She puts it on, and tying a yellow handkerchief round her
neck, makes the dress look whiter still. With one leg out, look! she is
standing on a stalk. I see myself! I see myself!"
"I care little about that," said Gerda. "You need not tell me that;"
and she ran off to the end of the garden.
The door was locked; but she pressed heavily against the rusty lock
and it sprang open, when out she ran on her bare feet, out into the wide
world. She looked back three times, but there was no one following
her. When she could run no longer, she seated herself upon a large
s
stone, and looking round her, saw that the summer was gone; it was
late in the autumn; but that could not be seen in the beautiful garden,
where the sun was always shining, and where there were flowers of all
seasons.
"Oh, goodness! how long I have been delayed!" little Gerda said.
"Why, it has grown autumn, and now there is no time to rest!" So
she got up again to go on.
Oh, dear! how sore and tired her little feet were! and all around her
it looked cold and cheerless. The long leaves of the willow were quite
yellow, and the dew dripped from them. One leaf after another fell,
and only the sloe-thorn bore fruit, but it was so sour that it made her
make faces. How bleak and depressing it was in the wide world!
Fourth Part.—The Prince and the Princess.
Gerda was obliged to rest again; and just opposite the spot where she
was sitting a large Raven was hopping about on the snow. It had been
watching her for some time, shaking its head, and now it cried, " Caw!
caw! how do?" It could not ex-
press itself better, but meant well
with the little girl, and asked where
she was going all alone into the
wide world. Gerda felt how much
there lay in that one word " alone;"
and then she told her whole story,
asking whether it had seen Kay.
The Raven nodded quite know-
ingly, and said, "It may be! it
may be!"
"What! you think you have
seen him!" the little girl cried, and
hugged the Raven so that she
nearly squeezed it to death.
"Gently, gently!" said the Ra-
ven. "I think I know; I think it
may have been little Kay; but, for certain, by now the Princess has
driven you out of his thoughts."
"Does he live with a Princess?" asked Gerda.

•mow rr cried, 'caw I caw! how do i'
"I understand what you say," replied the Raven, "but I find it
difficult to express myself in your language. If you understand the
Raven's tongue it will go better."
"No, 1 never learned that," said Gerda; "but my Grandmother knew
it . Oh, had I but learned it!"
"It does not matter," said the Raven; "I will tell you the story as
well as I can, though it will be done badly;" and then it related all it
knew.
"In the kingdom in which we are now sitting lives a Princess, who
is awfully clever; but then, she has read all the newspapers in the
world,—read and forgotten them again, so clever is she. Lately she
was sitting on her throne, which is said not to be over-pleasant, when
she began to sing; and the theme of her song was, 'Why should I not
marry?' 'Well, there is something in that,' she said, and so she deter-
mined to get married; but she must have a husband who knew how to
answer when spoken to, not one who could only stand and look grand,
for that is so stupid. Then she had all her court ladies drummed
together, and when they heard what her intention was they were much
delighted. 'That's what I like,' one said; and,' I have been thinking
of that too,' said another. You may believe every word of what I tell
you," said the Raven, "for I have a tame sweetheart who wanders at
liberty all over the palace, and it is she who has told me all."
The sweetheart was, as a matter of course, a raven too.
"The newspapers appeared with a border of hearts and the Princess's
monogram. Therein might be read that every good-looking young
man was at liberty to go to the palace and converse with the Princess,
and that she would marry him who spoke the best and who appeared
to feel at home there. Yes, yes!" said the Raven, "you may believe
what I say, for it is as true as I am sitting here. There was a great con-
course of people, crowding and pushing; but nobody succeeded, either
the first or second day. They could all speak well enough out in the
street; but when they got into the palace and saw the guards in silver
and the stairs lined with footmen in gold, and saw the splendid rooms,
they became quite bewildered; so that when they stood before the
throne on which the Princess sat, they could do nothing but repeat the
last word she had uttered, and that she did not particularly care about
hearing repeated. It was exactly as if the good people had swallowed
snuff and fallen asleep, till they were in the street again, when they could
talk fast enough. There was a string of people all the way from the city
gates up to the palace, and I was there myself to see them," said the
Raven. "They grew hungry as well as thirsty; but in the palace they
did not get as much as a glass of water. Some, it is true, had prudently
taken some bread and butter with them, but did not share it with
their neighbor, for they thought, 'Let him look hungry, and the
Princess will certainly not have him'"
"But Kay, little Kay l" asked Gerda; "when did he come? Was he
among the crowd?"
"Patience! patience! for we are just coming to him. It was on
the third day, there came a little person without horse or carriage, but
walking merrily straight up to the palace. His eyes were bright like
yours, and he had beautiful long hair, but he was poorly dressed."
"That was Kay!" shouted Gerda with delight . "At last I have
found him!" and she clapped her little hands.
"He had a little knapsack on his bacl," continued the Raven.
"No, that must have been his sledge," Gerda said; "for he went
away with his sledge on his back."
"That may be," replied the Raven, "for I did not pay particular
attention to it; but this I know from my sweetheart, that when he got
inside the palace and saw the body-guard in silver, and the footmen in
gold on the stairs, he was not in the least abashed, but nodded, and said
to them, 'It must be tedious work to stand there on the stairs, so I
will go in at once.' The rooms were splendidly lighted, and there were
lords and gentlemen walking about barefooted, with gold salvers. It
was all quite solemn, though his boots creaked awfully; but he was not
in the least concerned."
"That was certainly Kay," Gerda said. "I know he had new boots
on, for I heard them creak."
"Yes, creak they did," continued the Raven; "but merrily he walked
straight up to the Princess, who was sitting on a pearl as large as a
spinning-wheel; and all the court ladies with their maids and their
maids' maids, and the courtiers with their servants and their servants'
servants, who kept a boy in turn, were standing around, and the nearer
they stood to the door the prouder they looked. The servants' ser-
vants' boy, who always wears slippers, stands so proudly in the door
that one dare scarcely look at him."
"That must be horrible," said little Gerda; "but Kay has gained the
Princess for all that."
"If I had not been a Raven I would have had her myself, though I
am engaged," said the Raven. "My tame sweetheart says that he
spoke as well as I speak when I am talking our language. He was gay
and well behaved, but had not come at all to pay court to the Princess,
but only to hear how clever she was. He had every reason to be
satisfied with her, and she no less so with him."
"Oh for certain that was Kay," Gerda said, "for he was always so
clever; he knew reckoning. Will you not introduce me into the palace?"
"Well, that is easily said," answered the Raven, " but how are we to
manage it? I must talk it over with my tame sweetheart, and she will no
doubt be able to advise us; for I must tell you that a little girl like you
will never obtain permission to enter in the ordinary way."
"Oh, yes, I shall," said Gerda, "for as soon as Kay hears that I am
there he will come out directly and fetch me."
"Wait for me there at the stile," said the Raven, and wagging its
head, it flew off.
The Raven did not return till late in the evening, when it said: "She
sends you all sorts of kind messages, and here is a small loaf for you
which she took from the kitchen, where there is plenty of them; for no
doubt you are hungry. It is impossible for you to be admitted into the
palace, as you are barefooted. The guards in silver and the footmen in
gold would never allow it; but do not cry, for you shall go in. My
sweetheart knows a little back staircase which leads up to the bed-
room, and she knows where to find the key."
So they went into the garden, into the great avenue, where one leaf
was falling off after the other; and when the lights in the palace were
put out, the Raven led Gerda to a back door, which stood ajar.
Oh, how Gerda's heart beat with fear and anxiety 1 She felt exactly
as if she were going to do something wrong; and yet she only wanted to
know whether little Kay was there, and there he must be. So vividly
she called to mind his clear eyes and long hair, and it seemed as if she
saw him smiling as he used to do when at home they sat together under
the roses. He would surely be pleased to see her, and to hear what a
long way she had come for his sake, as also to know how they had all
fretted at home at his not returning. Oh, what fear, and at the same
fime what delight!
They were now on the stairs, where a small lamp was burning, and
on the floor stood the tame Raven, turning her head first on one side
iud then on the other, looking at Gerda, who courtesied, as her Grand-
mother had taught her to do.
** My future husband has said so much to me in your praise, and
four story too is very touching," said the tame Raven. "If you, my
little lady, will take the lamp, please, I will lead the way. We are
going straight there, and we shall not meet any one."
"It seems to me as if some one is coming just behind us," said
Gerda; and then there was a rustling past them. It was like shadows
on the wall, — horses with flowing manes and slender legs, huntsmen,
and ladies and gentlemen on horseback.
"Those are only dreams," said the Raven, "and come to carry
the ladies' and gentlemen's thoughts off to the chase; which is well,
for we can then examine them better in bed. But I hope that when
you have risen to honor and dignity you will show a grateful
heart."
"It is quite unnecessary to talk about that," said the Raven from the
forest.
They now entered the first room, the walls of which were hung with
rose-colored silk and artificial flowers. Here the dreams rushed past them
again, but went so fast that Gerda could not catch a sight of them. One
room was more splendid than another, — it was almost enough to make
one giddy; and now they reached the bedroom. The ceiling here was
like large palm-leaves, made of the most beautiful glass, and from the
centre were suspended, by a golden branch, two beds in the form of
Ulies. The one was white, and in that lay the Princess; while the other
was red, and in that Gerda was to look for little Kay. She bent one of
the red leaves on one side and saw a brown neck. Oh, that was Kay!
She called his name out aloud, holding the lamp over him. The
dreams rushed past again; he awoke and turned his head: it was not
little Kay!
The Prince's neck only was like Kay's; but he was young and
handsome. At the same time the Princess's face appeared from among
the white lily leaves, and she asked what was the matter. Little Gerda
then cried and told her whole story, and all that the Ravens had done
for her.
"Poor child!" said the Prince and Princess, praising the Ravens for
what they had done, and saying they were not at all angry, but that
they must not repeat it. And a reward was promised them.
"Will you be free," asked the Princess, "or will you have a settled
appointment as court Ravens, with all the kitchen remains?"
The two Ravens made their bows, and begged they might have 9
settled appointment, for they thought of their old age, saying, "It is
nice to have something when one gets old."
The Prince then got out of his bed and let Gerda sleep in it; more he
could not do. She folded her little hands, and thought, " How good
men and animals are!" and then, closing her eyes, she slept soundly.
The dreams came flying back, and they looked like angels drawing a
sledge, on which sat Kay and nodded. But the whole was only a
dream, and was therefore all gone as soon as she awoke.
The next day she was clothed from head to foot in silk and velvet, and
she received the offer to remain at the palace and enjoy herself; but she

only begged for a little carriage with a horse, and for a pair of boots,
when she would go out again into the wide world and look for Kay.
And she got not only the boots, but a muff; and when she wished to
leave, a new coach of pure gold drew up at the door, with the Prince's
and Princess's coat-of-arms upon it, like shining stars. The coachman,
footman, and outriders — for there were outriders too — wore golden
crowns. The Prince and Princess themselves helped her into the car-
riage and wished her success. The Raven of the forest, who was now
married, accompanied her the first ten miles, sitting by her side, — for
riding backwards disagreed with him, — while the other Raven stood at
the door flapping her wings. She could not go with them, as she suffered
y
from headache since she had a settled appointment at the palace and
got too much to eat. The inside of the carriage was lined with cakes
and sweets, and in the seat were fruits and gingerbread nuts.
"Farewell! farewell 1" said the Prince and Princess, while little Gerda
wept, and the Raven wept too. They went on for ten miles, and then the
Raven had to say good-by, which was the saddest parting of all. He
flew up into a tree and flapped his black wings as long as he could see
the carriage, which shone like the sun.
Fifth Part. — The Little Robber-girl.
THEY drove through the dark forest, but the carriage gave a light
like a torch, which affected the robbers' eyes so that they could not
bear it
.
"That is gold! that is gold!" they cried, and rushing forward, seized
the horses, killed the little jockeys, coachman, and servants, and then
dragged little Gerda out of the carriage.
"She is nice, she is fat, she has been fed upon nuts!" said the old
Robber-woman, who had a long bristly beard, and eyebrows which
bung down over her eyes
"Why, she is as good as a fat lamb! how nice she will taste!" and
she drew out her long knife, which shone so that it was horrible to
look at
.
"Au!" the woman cried at the same moment, for she was bitten in
the ear by her own daughter, who was hanging at her back, and who
was so wild and wicked that nothing could be done with her. "You
nasty imp !" cried the mother, and now she had no time to kill Gerda.
"She shall play with me," said the little Robber-girl. "She shall give
me her muff and her beautiful dress, and shall sleep with me in my
bed;" and she then bit her mother again, so that the woman jumped
about, and the robbers laughed, shouting, "See how she dances with
her cub!"
"I will get into the carriage," said the Robber-girl; and she would
have her own way, for she was so obstinate and spoilt; so she and
Gerda entered it, and were driven over stones and through ditches
deeper into the forest . The little Robber-girl was no taller than Gerda,
but stronger, with broader shoulders and darker skin. Her eyes were
black, and had rather a melancholy expressioa She laid hold of Gerda
round the waist and said, "They shall not kill you as long as 1 am
not angry with you! You are a princess, I suppose?"
"No," said Gerda, and told all she had undergone, and how much she
loved little Kay.
The Robber-girl looked at her quite seriously, nodded her head
slightly, and said, "They shall not kill you, even if I am angry with
you; for I 'll do it myself then." She dried Gerda's eyes, and then
put both her hands in the beautiful muff which was so soft and warm.
Now the carriage stopped, and they were in the courtyard of a
Robber's castle. It was all in ruins, and the ravens and crows flew out

of the holes, and large bull-dogs, of which each looked as if it could
devour a man, sprang towards them; but they did not bark, for that
was forbidden.
In the large old smoke-colored hall, in the middle of the stone
floor, a huge fire was burning, and the smoke, rising to the roof, had to
find itself an outlet. Soup was boiling in a caldron, and hares and
rabbits were roasting on spits.
"To-night you shall sleep with me, with all my animals," the Robber-
girl said; and after they had had something to eat and drink, they went
into a corner, where there was straw and a piece of carpet . More
than a hundred pigeons sat above upon laths and sticks, and they all
,
/
seemed to be asleep, though they did turn round a little at the approach
of the two little girls.
"They all belong to me," said the Robber-girl; and catching hold of
one of the nearest by the feet, she shook it until it flapped its wings.
"Kiss her," she cried, touching Gerda in the face with it. "Yonder,
behind those bars, there are two wood-pigeons that would fly away di-
rectly if they were not properly secured; and here stands my dear old
Boo!" As she said this she pulled the horns of a Reindeer, which was
fastened by a bright copper ring round its neck. "We have to keep
him a prisoner too, or he would be off". Every evening I tickft flis
throat with my sharp knife, which frightens him dreadfully." The little
girl drew a long knife out of a crack in the wall, and let it glide across
the Reindeer's throat, which made the poor beast tremble and kick; and
the little Robber-girl, laughing, drew Gerda into the bed with her.
"Are you going to keep that knife in bed with you?" Gerda asked,
and looked rather frightened at it
.
"I always sleep with a knife," said the Robber-girl; "one can never
tell what may happen; but let me again hear what you said about little
Kay, and why you came out into the wide world." And Gerda told all
again, from beginning to end; and the wood-pigeons cooed in their
cage, but the others slept . The little Robber-girl put one arm round
Gerda's neck, and holding the knife in the other, soon fell asleep; but
Gerda could not close her eyes: she did not know whether she was
to live, or whether death awaited her. The robbers sat round the fire,
drinking and singing, while the Robber-woman turned summersaults.
It was quite horrible for the little girl to watch them.
The Wood-pigeons said, "Kourrou! kourrou! we have seen little
Kay. A white chicken carried his sledge, and he sat in the Snow-
queen's carriage, which drove close over the forest as we lay in our
nest. She blew upon us young ones, and all excepting us two died.
Kourrou! kourrou!"
"What are you saying up there?" Gerda asked. "Where was the
Snow-queen going to? Do you know anything about it?"
"She was most likely going to Lapland, for it is always snow and
ice there. Ask the Reindeer that is tied up there."
"It is ice and snow, and it is delightful and healthy there," said
the Reindeer. "There one can jump and run about. There the Snow-
queen has her summer tent; but her palace is up towards the North
Pole, on the island called Spitzbergen."
\
"Oh, Kay! dear little Kay!" Gerda said.
"Now you must lie quiet," said the Robber-girl, "or I will run the
knife into you."
Next morning Gerda told her all that the Wood-pigeons had said,
and the little Robber-girl looked quite serious, but nodding her head
said, " It does n't matter! it does n't matter! Do you know where Lap-
land is? " she asked the Reindeer.
"Who should know better than I?" answered the animal, its eyes
sparkling. "I was born and bred there, and there I have run about
on the snow-field."
"Listen!" said the Robber-girl to Gerda. "You see that all the men
are gone; my mother, however, is still here, and she will remain; but
about midday she drinks out of a great flask, and then sleeps a little. I
will then do something for you." Then she jumped out of bed, rushed
to her mother, and pulling her beard, said, " My own beloved goat,
good-morning!" Her mother in return boxed her ears so that they
became red and blue; but that was from sheer love.
As soon as her mother was asleep, after having drunk out of the
flask, the Robber-girl went to the Reindeer and said: "I might still have
a good deal of fun, tickling you with the sharp knife, for then you are
very amusing; but that does n't matter. I will unfasten you and let you
out, so that you may run back to Lapland; but you must make good
use of your legs, and carry this little girl to the Snow-queen's palace,
where her playfellow is. You heard what she said, for she spoke loud
enough, and you were listening." The Reindeer jumped high into the
air with delight. The Robber-girl lifted little Gerda on its back,
having taken the precaution to tie her fast, and even to give her a little
cushion to sit upon. "It does n't matter," she said. "There are your fur
boots, for it will be cold; but the muff I shall keep, for it is so pretty.
You shall not freeze, however, for you shall have my mother's large,
warm gloves, which will reach up to your elbow. There, put them on.
Now, as to your hands, you look exactly like my ugly mother."
Gerda cried with joy.
*' I won't have you blubbering," said the little Robber-girl; "now
you ought to look particularly happy. Here are two loaves and a
ham, so you will not die of hunger." Both were fastened behind her;
and the little Robber-girl opened the door, having chained up all the
big dogs, cut the rope with her sharp knife, and said to thf Reindeer,
•' Now run, but take great care of the little girl."
Gerda stretched out her hands, with the large gloves on, towards the
Robber-girl, and cried "Good-by! " and the Reindeer flew as fast as
possible through the great forest, and over heath and marsh. The
wolves howled, and the birds of prey screamed, "Atsche! atsche 1"
which sounded exactly like sneezing from the sky.

^/*i/ar
"Those are my old Northern Lights," said the Reindeer; "see how
they shine!" and it ran even faster than before. It ran day and night.
The loaves were eaten, and the ham also, and then they were in
Lapland.
Sixth Part. — The Lapp Woman and*the Finn Woman.
THEY stopped at a small house, and a miserable place it was. The
roof reached down to the ground, and the door was so low that the in-
mates had to crawl on their stomachs when they wanted to go in or out.
There was no one at home excepting an old Lapp Woman, who was
cooking fish by the light of a train-oil lamp, and to her the Reindeer
told Gerda's whole story; but his own first, for that appeared to him by
far the more important, and the cold had nipped Gerda so that she could
not speak.
"Oh, you poor creatures!" said the old Lapp Woman; "you havt far
to run still. You must go more than a hundred miles ?oto Lapland, for
there the Snow-queen lives. I will write a few words on a dried stock-
fish, for I have no paper, and that I will give you for the Finn Woman
up there, for she can give you more accurate information than I."
Now as soon as Gerda was warm, and had got something to eat and
drink, the old Woman wrote a few words on a dried codfish, begged
Gerda to take great care of it, and having tied her on the Reindeer
again, off it started. "Atsche! atsche!" it sounded from above, in the
air, and the whole night long the Northern Lights shone most beauti-
fully. They arrived in Finmarken, and knocked at the Finn Woman'*
chimney, for she had no door at all.

It was so hot inside that the Finn Woman was nearly naked. She
was small of figure, and very dirty. She immediately undid Gerda's
things, taking off her gloves and boots, for it would otherwise have been
too hot for her; laid a lump of ice on the Reindeer's head, and then
read what was written on the fish. She read it three times, when she
knew it by heart; so she put the fish in the soup-pot, for it was good to
eat, and she never wasted anything.
Then the Reindeer told its own story and next Gerda's; and the
Finn Woman blinked with her clever eyes, but said nothing.
* You are so clever," said the Reindeer; "I know that you can tie
all the winds of the world together with one piece of string, so that
when the sailor unfastens the first knot, he has a fair wind; if he unties
the second, it blows freshly; but if the third and fourth be untied, the
wind rages so that the trees of the forest fall. Won't you prepare the
little girl a drink, to give her the strength of twelve men, so that she
may vanquish the Snow-queen?"
"The strength of twelve men!" said the Finn Woman. "That would
not help her much;" and then she went to a cupboard, from which
she took a large rolled-up skin. As she unrolled it there appeared
strange letters written upon it, and she read till the water dripped down
from her forehead.
But the Reindeer begged again so hard for Gerda, and she looked at
the Finn Woman with such beseeching eyes, full of tears, that she again
began to blink her eyes, and drawing the Reindeer into a corner, whis-
pered to him, while she put fresh ice upon his head: "Little Kay is
still with the Snow-queen, and finds everything there to his taste, so
that he thinks it the best place in the world; but this is caused by his
having a piece of broken glass in his heart and another piece in his
eyes. They must come out, or he will never be a man, and the Snow-
queen will retain her full power over him."
"But can you not give little Gerda something, so that she may obtain
power over all?"
"I cannot give her greater power than she already possesses; and do
you not see how great that is? Do you not see that men and beasts
must serve her; and how, barefooted as she is, she has got on so well
in the world? She cannot receive her power from us; that is in her own
heart, and consists in her being a good, innocent child. If she cannot
herself get into the Snow-queen's palace and free little Kay from the
glass, we cannot help her. Ten miles from here the Snow-queen's
garden begins, and there you must carry the little girl. Set her down
at the large bush which stands there in the snow covered with red ber-
ries; and do not waste many words, but make haste back here." Then
the Finn Woman placed Gerda upon the Reindeer, which ran off as fast
as it could. "Oh, I have not got my boots! I have not got my gloves!"
little Gerda cried out, for this she noticed in the piercing cold; but the
Reindeer did not venture to stop, and it ran on till it came to the bush
with the red berries. There it put her down, kissed her, and large
bright tears ran down the animal's cheeks when it started off back
again. There stood poor Gerda, without boots and without gloves, in
the middle of that fearfully cold Lapland!
THE SNOW-QUEEN.
She ran forward as fast as possible, and was soon met by a whole
regiment of snow-flakes, which did not fall from heaven, for the sky was
quite clear; but they ran straight along the ground, and the nearer they
came the larger they grew. Gerda remembered how large and beauti-
ful those looked which she saw through the magnifying glass; but these
were much larger, and far different: they were living, and dreadful to
look at; they were the Snow-queen's guards. They had the strangest
shapes, some looking like frightful porcupines, others like knots of living
snakes stretching out their heads, and others like fat little bears with

bristly hair; but all were a glittering white,— they were all living snow-
flakes.
Then little Gerda prayed, and the cold was so great that she could
see her own breath coming like smoke out of her mouth. The breath
became denser and denser, at length assumed the forms of little angels,
which grew larger and larger as they touched the ground. They all
wore helmets on their heads, and held spears and shields in their hands,
and their number was constantly increasing, so that by the time Gerda
had finished her prayer she was surrounded by a whole legion. They
hrust their spears into the frightful snow-flakes, breaking them into
hundreds of pieces, and Gerda went on joyously and in safety. The
angels kissed her hands and feet, so that she felt less how extremely cold
it was; and quickly she hastened on to the Snow-queen's palace.
But now let us first see what Kay was doing. He was certainly not
thinking of little Gerda, and, least of all, that she was then standing
outside the palace.
Seventh Part. —Of the Snow^ueeris Palace, and what happened in it.
THE palace walls were of driven snow, and the doors and windows of
the cutting winds. There were more than a hundred rooms, as the snow
had formed them, the largest extending several miles, and all were
lighted by the bright Northern Lights. They were all so large, so
empty, and so icy-cold and shining! There was never any amusement
there, not even a bears' ball, — for which the storm could have provided
music, and the polar bears could have shown off their antics, walking
on their hind legs. There were never any card-parties either, with tea
and gossip, but empty, cold, and vast were the rooms of the Snow-
queen's palace.
In the middle of the empty, immense snow-room there was a frozen
lake, cracked into a thousand pieces, but each piece was so like the
others that it seemed a masterly work of art; and in the middle of this sat
the Snow-queen when she was at home. She used to say that she then
sat on the Mirror of Reason, and that it was the only one in the world.
Little Kay was quite blue with cold, —: indeed, almost black; but he
did not know it, for she had kissed away the frost-shiver, and his heart
was like a lump of ice. He was dragging some sharp-edged, flat pieces
of ice about, and these he fitted together in all possible ways, just as
we do small pieces of wood which we call the Chinese puzzle. Kay
was also forming figures of the most wonderful description; and that
was the Ice-Game of Reason. In his eyes the figures were perfect,
and of the highest importance, for the piece of broken glass which
was in his eye made him think so. He formed whole words, but he
could never succeed in the one word he wished to have, — the word
Eternity; for the Snow-queen had said to him, "If you can suc-
ceed in forming that one word you shall be your own master, and
I will give you the whole world, together with a pair of new skates."
But he could not.
"I am now going to pay a visit to the warmer countries," said the
Snow-Queen, "and intend giving a peep into the black caldrons," — she
meant the volcanoes of Etna and Vesuvius. "I will cover them with
white, which will also do good to the orange-trees and vines." Then
the Snow-queen flew away, and Kay was left alone in those vast,
empty rooms, staring at the pieces of ice, and thinking and thinking
till his brain ached. He sat there so stiff and still that he looked as if
he were frozen.
Just then little Gerda came into the palace through the large gate.
Here were cutting winds; but she said her evening prayer, and the

winds were lulled as if they wanted to go to sleep, and she entered the
large, empty, cold room. She then saw Kay, recognized him at once,
and running up to him pressed him closely to her, and cried, "Kay!
dear little Kay! so I have found you at last!"
But he sat quite still, stiff, and cold, and little Gerda cried bitter,
burning tears, which fell upon his breast, and penetrating to his heart
thawed the lump of ice and dissolved the piece of broken glass. He
looked at her, and she sang the hymn, —
"Though the bloom of the rose will fade away,
We shall meet the dear Christ-child some day.
Then Kay burst into tears, and cried till the pieces of glass vmc
trashed out of his eyes, — when he recognized her, and exclaimed in
delight, "Gerda! dear little Gerda! where have you been all this time,
and where have I been?" He looked all around, and continued,
"How cold it is here, and how vast and empty!" He pressed closely
to her, and she laughed and cried in turns. There was such joy that
even the pieces of ice danced; and when they were tired and lay down
again they formed the letters of the word which, when discovered, the
Snow-queen said he should be his own master, and she would give him
the whole world, besides a pair of new skates.
Gerda kissed his cheeks, and the color came back into them; she
kissed his eyes, and they were as bright as her own; she kissed his
hands and feet, and he was himself again. The Snow-queen might
now return, for his discharge was there written in sparkling ice.
They took each other by the hand and wandered out of the palace.
They spoke of their grandmother, and of the rose-trees upon the roof,
and wherever they went the winds were lulled and the sun burst forth;
and when they got to the bush with the red berries they found the
Reindeer waiting for them, and another with it. These carried them
first to the Finn Woman, in whose hot room they warmed themselves
and obtained information about their homeward journey; and then to
the old Lapp Woman, who had made new clothes for them and got a
sledge ready.
The two reindeer took them quickly to the borders of the country,
and there the first green was springing up. Here they parted from
the Reindeer and the old Lapp Woman, and all cried, " Good-by!"
The little birds began to twitter, the buds were green on the trees in the
woods, and out of it came riding a young girl on a beautiful horse
which Gerda knew, for it was the one that h-d been harnessed to the
golden carriage. This was the Robber-girl, with a red cap on her head
and pistols in her belt. She had had enough of home, and was now
travelling towards the North, to take another course later if that did
not please her.
She and Gerda immediately recognized each other, and there was
great rejoicing.
"You are a pretty fellow!" she said to little Kay; "I should like to
know whether you deserve that one should run to the end of the world
after you?"
But Gerda tapped her on the cheek and asked after the Prince and
Princess.
*' They have gone to a foreign country," said the Robber-giri
"And the Ravens?" asked Gerda.
"The Raven is dead," she answered, "and his wife, now a widow,
goes about with a piece of black cotton round her leg, and laments
dreadfully; but that is nothing but talk. But now tell me how it
fared with you, and how you managed to catch him."
And Gerda and Kay told her all.
The Robber-girl took them both by the hand, and promised that if
«ver she should pass through their town she would come up to visit
them; and then she rode on into the wide world.

Gerda and Kay continued their way hand in hand. It was delightful
spring, with green leaves and beautiful flowers; the church-bells rang
merrily, and they recognized the high steeples and the large city; it
was that in which they lived. So they entered it and went to their
grandmother's house, up the stairs, and into the room, where every-
thing was just as it used to be, the clock going "tick, tick!" and the
hands moving; but then they noticed that they were no longer children.
The roses in the roof-gutter, in full bloom, crept in through the open
window; and there stood the two children's stools, and Gerda seated
herself on hers, and Kay took his, holding each other still by the hand.
The cold, empty splendor of the Snow-queen's palace was forgotten lik«
a disagreeable dream. The grandmother sat in the clear sunshine and
1
reaa aloud from the Bible," Except ye become as little children ye
shall in no wise enter Heaven."
Kay and Gerda looked at each other, and both thought of the old
hymn,—
"Though the bloom of the rose will fade away,
We shall meet the dear Christ-child some day."
There they sat, grown up, and yet children; for in their hearts they
were children. And it was summer, — warm, delightful summer within
and without
.

Oh, how cold it was! It snowed and blew so just as it was getting
dark, and it was the last day of the year. It was New Year's Eve.
In the cold and darkness a poor little girl was wandering in the
streets with bare head and feet . She had had on slippers when she left
home, but what good were they? They were very large, — her mother
had worn them last, so big they were, — and the little girl had lost them
as she hurried across the street to escape two rapidly driven vans.
One of the slippers was not to be found, and the other a boy ran away
with, saying he would use it for a cradle when he got children.
There wandered the little girl on her tiny naked feet, which were red
and blue with the cold. She had a lot of wooden matches in an old
apron, and she carried one bundle in her hand. Nobody had bought
anything of her the whole day, and nobody had given her a copper.
She was hungry and cold, and looked so wretched, poor little mite!
The snow-flakes fell on her long yellow hair, which clustered so prettily
round her neck; yet she thought but little of that ornament. From all
windows light shone, and in the streets it smelled so deliciously of roast
goose, for it was New Year's Eve.1
She sat down in a corner between two houses, one of which projected
a little more than the other, and drew up her little feet, but she froze all
the more. And she did not dare to go home, for as she had not sold
any matches, and nobody had given her anything, her father would
beat her; and it was cold at home, too. They lived right under the
roof, where the wind whistled through holes filled with straw and rsgs.
Her little hands were quite benumbed with cold. Oh, how nice a
match would be! If she only dared to draw one from the bundle and
strike it against the wall and warm her hands! She drew one out.
J^-r-atch / how it sputtered and burnt! When she held her hand around
1 Roast goose is very commonly eaten in Scandinavia on New Year's Eve. — Tb.
THE LITTLE MATCH-GIRL.
It, it was a warm, bright flame like a little candle. It was such a wonder-
ful light! The little girl fancied she was sitting in front of a great fire
with shining fire-irons, it burnt so splendidly and warmed so much.
What was that? The little girl already stretched out her feet to warm
them — and the match went out. The stove was gone; she was sitting
with a little bit of burnt wood in her hand.
Another one was lighted. It burnt and shone, and where the light
fell on the wall it became as transparent as gauze, and she could look

•T ^
) >
right into the room. A table was laid with a snow-white cloth and fine
china, and splendid stuffed goose steamed on the table. And what was
most glorious was that the goose jumped from the dish and waddled
along the floor, with a knife and fork in the back, right up to the poor
girl, when — the match went out, leaving her only the black wall to
stare at
.
She lit a new one. Now she was sitting under the loveliest Christmas-
tree, far bigger and more decorated than that she had seen through the
door at the rich merchant's last Christmas. Thousands of candles
burnt on the green branches, and variegated pictures like those she
had seen in the shop-windows looked down upon her. The little one
stretched both her hands upwards, when — the match went out! But
the thousands of lights rose higher and higher, and she saw that they
had become bright stars. One fell, leaving a long bright trail in the sky.
^s
"Now somebody has just died!" said the little girl; for her old
grandmother, who was the only one who had been kind to her, and who
was dead, had told her that when a star falls a soul ascends to Heaven.
She struck one match more, and it shone around her; and lo! in the
light stood her grandmother, looking so bright, kind, and good.
"Grandmother!" cried the child; "take me with you. I know you
will disappear with the light, like the warm stove, the splendid goose,
and the great Christmas-tree." And she struck quickly all her matches

in the bundle, for she wished to retain her grandmother. And the
matches shone with a brightness clearer than daylight. Grandmother
had never looked so handsome and so tall. She lifted the little girl in
her arms, and they flew in glory and joyousness so high, so high! but
there was no hunger, no care, no cold, for they were with God.
But the little girl sat in the corner frozen to death; still a happy
smile played round her mouth and her cheeks were red. She had
frozen to death on the last night of the old year.
New Year's morning rose upon the little corpse, which still held ths
bundle of matches, most of which were burnt. "She has tried to warm
herself," people said. But nobody knew what a lovely sight she had
beheld, and in what glory she had gone with her old grandmother into
New Year's joys.
V
*
I
I
Retold For Little Folks

*r
CHARLES LGKAHAMSGI
New Yoait 1

S-'^%L
7oAe '111
'.'
Robinson Crusoe
CRUSOE IS CAST ON A DESERT ISLAND
M
PY name is Robinson CrUsoe, and my father was a merchant
who lived in the city of York. When a boy I ran away
from home to go to sea, but after some years of a sailor's life I
bitterly regretted my conduct. The ship I was on was overtaken
by a violent storm, and I and the rest of those on board were
obliged to try and save ourselves in a small boat The fury
of the tempest overturned the boat and threw us all into the
water. As I was a good swimmer I managed to keep afloat,
tijl at last the waves cast me, more dead than alive, upon a
large piece of rock. I grasped firm hold of this, and as soon
as I could breathe again I clambered up the cliffs to the shore,
and there I sank down upon the grass, safe beyond the reach
of the water.
The first thing I did was to thank God for having spared my
life. Then I thought of my poor comrades, who no doubt had
all been drowned. After a while I began to look around me
to see what kind of place I was in, and as far as I could discover
I was alone on a desolate coast. So although it had not been my
fate to die with my companions, yet I was in a sad plight, for I
was wet to the skin, and had no dry clothes into which I could
change. Neither had I any food to eat or water to drink. I
also feared there might be wild beasts upon the land where I was
that would kill and eat me, for I had no weapon with which to
defend myself. These thoughts all but drove me mad, and I
ran up and down the shore, wringing my hands and crying aloud.
At last it grew dark, and I was so very tired that I sat down
to try and think how I could spend the night in safety. Seeing
a large thick fir-tree not far off I decided to climb amid
its branches, and stay there till daylight, when I could see
my surroundings more clearly. So I found a resting-place
amid the green boughs of the tree, and there I fell into
a deep sleep.
When I awbke it was broad day, the wind had dropped,
and the sea was quite calm. I got down from my perch,
and walked to the shore There I saw that our ship had
been lifted off the sand by the swelling of the tide during
the night, and was driven up almost as far as the rock
whereon I had been dashed. Then the thought struck me
that, if I waited until the tide had ebbed far out, I could
easily reach the ship's side, and might be able to get some
clothes and food out of her. This idea filled me with new
hope, and I eagerly watched for the ebbing of the tide.
At about noon I could walk within a quarter of a mile of

ROBINSON CRUSOE
V ^ ~

CRUSOE FINDS HIS SHIP DRIVEN CLOSE TO THE SHORE
the ship, so I plunged into the water and swam up to
her. My next difficulty was to find a way in which to get
on board, for the vessel lay aground and high out of the
water. I swam round her twice, and the second time I
spied a small piece of rope which was hanging down over
her side, and so low that I could just get hold of it. By
the help of this rope I pulled myself up on to the ship. Here
I found that she had a great deal of water in her, but that
she lay on the side of a bank of hard earth, so that her
stern stood high out of the water, while her bow was nearly
level with the surface. This had left free from damp all that
was contained in the part that stood up, and to my great joy the
place where the food was kept happened to be in this part.
I at once set to work to see what was spoilt and what was
good. I was fortunate enough to discover some clothes, and
also a box of tools, which proved to be the most useful prize
to me. I found, too, some powder and shot that were
untouched by the water, with some guns, swords, and a
couple of pistols.
We had taken two cats and a dog on board with us, and
when these poor animals heard me moving about they came
running up, showing every sign of joy at the sight of me again.
I was none the less pleased to see them, and determined to
take them to shore with me, where I should be very glad of
their companionship.
Now what I wanted more than anything else was a boat,
in which to carry the things to land, but as there was not one
to be had I decided to make -a raft with those pieces of wood
I could find on the ship. Before I commenced this work,
however, as I was extremely hungry, I paid a visit to the
CRUSOE PULLS HIMSELF UP ON TO THE SHIP
ship's larder, and there had
a good meal, which the dog
and cats shared with me. I
also filled my pockets with
biscuits, which I ate as I
went about looking for wood
with which to make my raft.
I found some large spars
and planks, and some old
masts, and round each of
these I tied a piece of rope
so that it could not drift
away, and then flung it into
the sea.
When this was done I
went down the side of the
ship and tied them, each one to the next, at both ends.
I then laid two or three short pieces of plank across, and so
made a very fair raft.
On to this raft, which was strong enough to bear any
reasonable weight, I put as many things as it would hold,
and then, with the aid of an old oar I found in the ship, I
managed to guide my craft to land.
This was by no means an easy task, and once I and my
goods were all but cast into the sea J but at last, after much
care and trouble* I succeeded in getting my cargo safely upon
shore.
The next thing I did was to make a little tent, with a sail, and
the chests and boards which I had brought ashore on the raft.
Into this tent I carried everything the sun or the rain would spoil

CRUSOE GUIDES HIS RAFT TO LAND
Then, as I was.quite-tired
out with my work, I spread a
rug upon the ground inside-my
shelter, put my gun by my side,
and fell fast asleep.
The next day I again went
to the ship with my raft, for I
was determined„to get'exerything
out of her I possibly could. I
found a great many most'useful
things, such as some big bags
of nails, a big roll of sheel
lead, a large quantity of bread,
flour, sugar, cheese, a little
corn, and, above all, that.most
useful thing called a grindstone.
Besides this I took away all the
iron and the wood I could carry, as I thought it might prove
of great service to me. I cut down the masts of the ship,,
and sawed them into pieces^that I could lower down the side
of the vessel on to my raft. I took with me *also, two barrels
of musket bullets, seven muskets and a fowling-piece, a large
bag full of small shot, and all the men's clothes that I could
find. Feeling sure that they would come in useful, I took with
me all the sails that I could get
I was very much afraid when I was away from land, that
my food would be eaten on the shore. But when I came back,
I found no sign of any visitor; only there sat a creature like a
wild cat upon one of my chests. When I came towards it, it ran
away a little distance, and then stood still. It sat very calmly and

looked me full in the face, as if it wanted to make friends with me.
I pointed my gun at it, but as it did not understand what it was,
it did not move an inch. I threw it a piece of biscuit, which it
ate, and then it looked for more. But since I had no more to
spare, the creature walked away.
Each day when the tide was out I went over to the wreck
and brought away as much as I could carry, and right glad
I was that I lost no time in doing- so, for on the tenth day
the wind blew a great gale, and that night there was a storm.
When I went to look out to sea the next morning, there was
no ship to be seen.. She had been torn to pieces by the waves.
My next thought was of how I could build myself some
sort of house to live in, for I did not feel at all safe in my tent
I had a fear that savages or wild beasts might come upon me
at any time.
By going up to the top of a hill I could see a good way
round the land I was upon, and as far as my sight could tell
me, I was on an island, which appeared to be uninhabited except
by wild birds and animals. But I did not know whether
savages ever visited that part of the coast, and I was in great
dread lest any should come and discover me.
So I looked about for a suitable spot whereon to build
myself a safer, stronger shelter. I discovered a little green
plain on the side of a rising hill, which seemed to me to be
just the place I wanted. The hill was of rock, and in that
part of it just by the plain there was a hollow place worn a
little way in. It was here I decided to make my home.
First of all I drew a half circle upon the ground before
the hollow place in the rock, and on this I pitched two rows
of strong stakes, one row a little distance from the other.
S

I drove them into the ground till they stood very firm like
piles. Then I took the pieces of iron chain I had got from
the ship, and laid them all round, one upon another, between
these two rows of stakes. When I had done this it was
so strong a fence that neither man nor beast could get into
it, or over it. The way I got in myself was by a short
ladder, which, when I was safely over, I drew up after me;
and so I felt I was completely fortified.
1 next removed my tent and put it up inside this fence, and
I also made a second and larger covering to go right over the
whole. This formed a double tent, and as I made the outer one
with tarpaulin it was very strong and weather-proof
V.
When I had done this i began to work my way into
the hollow of the rock, and thus I made me a cave, which
served like a, cellar to my house. I carried the earth and
stones which I dug out of the rock through my tent, and
laid them within my fence, which raised the ground about
a foot and a half.
I had found a very good hammock in the ship, and I
slung this up in my shelter so that it served me for a bed,
and was a most comfortable one too.
When my fortress was complete, I next proceeded to fetch all
the things I had brought from the ship, and place them within
my cave. It took me some time to do this, as the last lot
were still on the shore where I had left them when I landed,
for I had been too tired to
bring them up the cliff then.
Besides this work I found
time to go out every day in
search of food. I took my
gun and my dog and shot
a wild duck, or any beast
I could see. I had to eat
the flesh of any bird or beast
that was fit to make a meal
of, and I kept the 6kins of
all the animals I killed and
stretched and dried them.
Of course I made a fire, by
which I cooked the meat
before I ate it.
I was fortunate enough

to discover a spring of fresh water not far from where I "had
pitched my tent, so that I felt that for some little time I was
provided for.
CRUSOE MAKES HIS HOME COMFORTABLE
A FTER I had been upon the island ten or twelve days,
it came into my thoughts that I soon should not know
what day it was, or which was Sunday in the week. So I
got a piece of wood and, with my knife, I cut these words
upon it: "I came on shore here on the 30th of September,
1659". Then I fixed a high post into the ground outside
my tent, and nailed the wood on it, in the shape of a cross.
Every morning I cut a notch upon the sides of this post,
and when it was Sunday I cut a notch twice as long as the
rest. When it was the first day of a new month I cut one
as long again as that long one, and thus I kept my calendar
and knew how the time went.
It was very hot in the part of the world I was in, so much
so, that I had to lie down in the middle of the day, and go
on with my work early in the morning and in the cool of
the evening. I arranged my day in this manner. Directly
I had eaten some breakfast I went out with my gun and my
dog for three hours, then I worked till about eleven o'clock,
after which I cooked and ate whatever I had been able to
get fcr my dinner. From twelve till two I lay down in my
tent, and then in the evening I set to work again.
While out on my walks about the island, I discovered a
kind of wild pigeon that made its home in the holes in the
rocks. I was able to catck some of these birds, and found
CRUSOE PUTS UP HIS CALENDAR

them very good to eat. I took one or two of the young ones
out of a nest and brought them up myself, hoping they would
stay with me as pets, but when they grew up they flew away,
which showed they were happier in their natural state.
I had a great wish to put a roof of wood over my tent,
and also make myself a chair and a table. To do this I
needed some smooth planks of wobd, and I spent many hours
of patient toil to get these. I had first to cut down a tree,
lay the trunk along the ground, and set to work to hew it flat
on either side with my axe. When I had brought it to be
as thin as a plank, I hammered it smooth with my mallet.
In.this way I made rafters for the roof of my house, and
a smooth top for my table. I also managed to make a very
(air specimen of a chair.
My next care was to arrange all my belongings in decent
order, so that everything should be ready to my hand. I have
already mentioned that I brought all my goods into the cave
at the back of my tent, where they lay in a confused heap,
and thus took up a vast deal of room, while I had to search
among them for anything I needed.
I made some large shelves, which I fixed up all along one
side of my cave, and upon these I placed my nails, tools,
and such-like things. I also knocked pieces of wood into
the wall of the rock, upon which I hung my guns and those
articles that would hang up. When all was finished I felt
very proud and pleased with the result of my labour, for my
cave looked so neat, and, now that they were all spread out

^
CRUSOE CUTS A PIECE FROM THE IRON TREE
in order, my belongings looked very many, and very useful
ones too.
As I had found some ink on the ship, when 1 grew tired
of work I was able to amuse myself by writing, which I could
then do in comfort, for I had made for myself a table and chair
which were more or less comfortable,
I thought I would like to enlarge my cave, and so give
myself more room to move about in, so I next turned my
attention to this task. I sorely needed three things which
I had not, to help me with the work. These were a pick-
axe, a shovel, and a wheel-barrow.
For a pick-axe I had to make use of an iron crow-bar,
which served my purpose fairly well, but was very heavy to
handle. As to a wheel-barrow, 1 had to manage without one,
and instead I made me a wooden thing something like a
hod in which labourers carry mortar, and in this I carried
away the earth I dug out of my cave. But a spade or a
shovel I could not do without, so I taxed my brain to find a
way in which to make one.
While walking through the forest I noticed a kind of tree
which is sometimes called the iron-tree, because the wood of
it is so exceedingly hard. Then jt struck me that I might
make a spade out of this hard wood. So, with much labour,
and almost spoiling my axe, I managed to cut off a piece
of the trunk of the tree, I spent hours cutting and shaping
this into a shovel, till at length I had one that did very well
for my use.
It took me just four days, always excepting the time I spent
in going out in search of food, to make the hod and shovel,
and. when they were completed I began to work my way

into the rock. I did this sideways, and as the earth was loose
and sandy I got on fairly quickly.
It was fortunate I could busy myself in this way just then,
for it began to rain very heavily, so I could not have worked
out-of-doors. I got very wet going out to kill game for my
meals; and, as the rain lasted many days, I determined that
when it was fine I should get in as large a supply of food as
possible, so that I need not go hunting in the bad weather.
- While I was busy enlarging my house it occurred to me
that I might work round in the rock till I came to the outside
again, and if I did this I should have a back way into my
tent. So I hollowed out a large space in the earth, gradually
turning tne passage, till I came out a few yards beyond my
tent. I then made a door to this opening in the rock, and
thus I had a back entrance into my house, as well as a great
deal more room inside.
As I had no candles or light of any Sort I had to go to
bed directly it was dark. I did not like this at all. so my
next care was. to find some way to make a lamp, and after
a little thought I succeeded in doing so. First I made a
small dish of clay, which I baked hard in the sun. Then I
saved the fat of the dead goats, which I melted into grease
and put in the dish. In this I placed a shred of rope, which
served as a wick. Thus I had a lamp, which, though it did
not give a very brilliant light, was good enough to see by.
Once as I was at work by my tent I had a bad fright,
for suddenly some of the earth fell from the edge of the hill
above me, while two of the posts I had set up gave a loud
crack. I was afraid the cliff might be going to fall upon me,
so I got over my wall and ran down the hill as quickly as
1 could. When I reached the ^ottom I felt the ground shake
beneath me, and then I knew it was an earthquake. I sank
upon my knees overcome with terror, while the earth shook so
much that it Would have brought down a strong house. The
sea became fierce with the violence of the shock, and the wind
blew a great gale.
The storm raged so wildly that the very trees were torn
up by their roots. This lasted three hours, during which time
I lay upon the ground, not knowing what to do to save
myself. But at length all became calm once more, and then
the rain fell in torrents. I got so wet that I was forced to
seek refuge in my cave again, although I was still in fear
1 >'A

j&
lest it should (all in upon me. However, as all was quiet,
at last I grew more at ease; but I hoped there would not
be another earthquake while I was upon the island!
Once when I was out with my gun I shot at a young
goat and broke its leg, byt did not kill it. I caught the poor
little thing and carried it home. Then I bound up its leg
and took care of it, and in time the leg became quite well,
while the goat grew tame and fed upon the green at my door.
I also caught a young parrot, which I took home with me.
After a while I taught it to speak, and it learnt to call me
by my name quite distinctly, and would amuse me very much
by repeating sentences after me as I sat at work.
Though I had made such a strong fence round my tent
I still did not feel quite safe. So I dug up a lot of turf, and
piled this outside my wall till it entirely covered it. When
this was done the place might have been part of the earth
as God had made it, for no one could have told it was the
work of man. Thus, had any people come upon the shore
they would never have guessed there was a human dwelling-
place upon the cliff. So I now felt secure in my home.
I had brought from the ship a small bag, which had in
it what I thought were but a few husks of corn and some
dust. So, as I could make use of the bag, I threw out the
husks on the ground by my tent. Some weeks after, irjuch

"I SAW A FEW STALKS OF BARLEY GROWING*

fo my astonishment, I saw a few stalks of barley growing
out of the earth. I was very puzzled, as I was sure no corn
grew wild in that place. Then it occurred to me that I
had thrown the husks out of the bag on to this spot, which
explained how the barley came to grow. I also saw some
stalks of rice, so there must have been some seeds of that
in the bag also. I took care to save the ears of this corn
to sow them in the proper season, that in time I might
be able to make bread. I also kept the rice to sow.
That same day I discovered a large tortoise, or turtle,
lying on the shore. This was the first that I had seen,
although I found qut, afterwards that there were hundreds
on the other side of the island. I killed this one and cooked
the flesh of it, which I found a pleasant change after goat's
flesh; for I had had no other kind of meat since I had come
oh this horrible island. I found in the turtle sixty eggs, which
were also very good to eat.
CRUSOE MAKES MANY USEFUL THINGS
I
HAD been much troubled by the loss of one of my cats,
which had run away from me and had entirely disappeared
for some weeks. I feared she must be dead, as I could see
no sign of her about the island. However, one day when
I was at work in my tent, I was very surprised to hear a
loud mewing outside. I pushed up the door in my roof)
and, looking out, I saw my lost cat, and with her three little
kittens! I was pleased to see my puss again, although much
astonished at the sight of her family; but as she evidently
expected me to take them all into my home, I did so. The
kittens were strong little creatures and soon grew into big
cats, so that I had rather more of them than I wanted!
It was about this time that I passed some of my most
miserable days upon the island, for I fell ill. I felt very cold
and strange, with great pain in my head and limbs. I had
to go to bed, and was filled with fear at my sad and lonely
state; for I was sick, with no one to comfort or help me.
I was ill for some days but was just able to cook some of
the turtle's eggs, which, fortunately, I had by me. I ate these
and drank a little rum, and then lay still in my hammock
waiting till I felt better. One day I happened to look in
my chest to find something, and I saw my Bible lying among
the things. I think God must have sent me to the chest,
for l had forgotten the book was there. I took it out to
3*;
CRUSOE 4S PRESENTED WITH THRfiB UTTLB KITTENS
CRUSOE MAKES BASKETS FROM THE TWIGS

read as I lay still, and in it I saw the words in which God
bids us call upon Him in our hour of need and He will
help us. Tlys promise sank into my heart, and I knelt
down to beg the Almighty to aid me in my distress.
Soon after I fell into a deep sleep and did not wake till
late the next day. I then felt I had much more strength,
and was able to get up and go on with my work. I was
weak for some days, but at' last grew quite well again. Each
morning I read the Bible, and God sent His love and peace
into my heart, which gave me great consolation in my lonely
life.
I had now been on the island some time, and as yet I had
not been very far from the part where I lived. So I thought
I would take a long walk with my dog and see what I could
discover. I found some sugar-canes growing wild, and also
many different kinds' of fruit, such as limes, melons, and
grapes. I was right glad of these, for they were very fresh
and ripe. There were also orange, lemon, citron, and cocoa
trees. In fact that part of the island farther from the shore
was so beautiful and green and rich, that I decided to build
myself a kind of bower in which I could sleep when I felt, I
should like to spend a few days there. I did this, and made
a fence round it the same as I had round my tent, and there
I lay quite safe all night.
I cut a lot of twigs from the trees about my country
house, as I named it, and these twigs I laid in the sun till
they became quite dry. Then I gathered them into bundles
and took them to my cave. I amused myself for some time
making baskets with the twigs. I made a large number of-all
kinds and sizes, and they were of great service_Jo_ me.J!* Some
strong, deep ones I intended to keep tny corn in, instead of
sacks, and others I used for carrying things in. Indeed I
seldom went out after this without a basket on my back in case
I wanted to bring something home with me. There were two
other things I much needed, and these were a jug to hold
liquid, and a pot or sauce-pan in which I could make broth.
So I set to work to see if I could supply these wants as I had
done others.
With this idea I turned my hand to pottery, and shaped
some jugs out of clay. You would have laughed if you
had seen the odd, ugly things I made. Some of them fell in
and some fell out, while others came to pieces just as I thought
I had them firm and whole. However, at last I had two
large clay jars, which I dried hard in the sun. But, alas!
although these jars would hold things dry, they would not bear
being put over the fire to boil water in. As I dearly wanted
to make myself some broth I was very disappointed, till to
my great delight I discovered a way in which I could make
them strong enough. I had had a large fire to cook my food,
and when I put it out I saw a piece of one of my clay jars in
the ashes, burnt hard as a stone and red as a tile. "So," said
I, "if a piece will burn so hard, a whole jar will do the same."
I went to work at once and made a great fire round three
large jars, till they were red-hot right through. I let them
burn all night, and next day I had some pots as hard as
could be, in which I could boil my meat to make broth.
I next had to think about making myself some clothes, for
those I had were then quite worn out. I have already told you
that I kept and dried the skins of the beasts I shot, and these now
became useful. The first thing I made from them was a large
CRUSOE MAKES CLOTHES FOR HIMSELF

fur cap, and this answered so well that I soon made a whole
suit. I cut the clothes very loose, so that I should not be too
hot in them, and when I went out in the rain I found that
the wet ran off the fur, which kept me almost dry.
Then I thought I should like to make an umbrella, not so
much to keep off the rain as the sun, which was Very fierce
indeed. I took a world of pains over this, and it was a long
time before I could get anything that would do. I made many
attempts, but they were of no use. However, as I had set
my mind upon having my umbrella, I worked hard until I had
succeeded in making one. The most difficult part was getting
it to shut up and to open again. As I did not always want to
have to carry it spread over my head, I did not feel satisfied
until I had got it to let down and draw in. At last I managed
this; so when there was neither sun nor rain I could close my
umbrella and use it as a walking-stick.
From one side of the island I could see the .coast of
the mainland not very far distant. The sight filled me with
longing for a boat, in which I could go out to sea and
reach some place -where I might find means to get back to
my friends.
This idea took such hold of me that I determined to try
to make a canoe, such as the Indians make, out of the
trunk of a great tree. I chose a tree as near as possible to
the water, and many a weary stroke it cost me to get the
trunk upon the ground and to cut and hew it into the shape
of a boat. All this took me a very long time, but when
at last my boat was finished
I thought myself well paid
for all my toil. The next
task was to get the boat
to the sea, and I found I
could not drag or push it
to the shore, as it was far
too heavy for one man to
shift. So, as I could not
take it to the water, the only
other thing to do was to
bring the water to the boat.
To do this I had to dig
out a dock from the shore
to the place where the boat
lay. This meant much more
labour; but I did it ail with
«*4i

a will, because I knew that in the end I should have a boat
in which to go off to sea.
Besides digging this dock I had other things to attend
to, and among these was my crop of rice and barley.
The seeds I had sown bid fair to yield me a good supply
of corn, but I found there were thieves that would rob me
of it. First came the wild goats and hares, which ate it so
close that it could not shoot into stalks. So I had to build
a fence round to keep the beasts out, and I set my dog to
guard it at night, Thus I got rid of the thieves, for soon
they would not venture near the place.
But when the corn grew to the ear, all the wild fowls
flew round and pecked at it till I saw they would leave me
none. So I fetched my gun and shot at them, and this gave
them such a Scare that they all went off, screaming loudly. But
as soon as I had gone back they all came in a cloud to feast
upon my corn, I was at a loss to know what to do, till at
last I thought of a plan by which I might save my crop. I
shot three of the birds and hung their dead bodies on a
stick, to warn all the others that their fate would be the same if
they came near. This kept them in so much fear that they not
only kept off the corn, but would not come to that part of
the land at all. Of this I was very glad, you may be sure.
CRUSOE MAKES A VOYAGE
JJAVING got my boat to the sea I was eager to get into
her, and make a trip round the island, that I might see
how she went in the water. So I proceeded to fit out my
little craft ready for the journey. I put up a small mast
CRUSOE DIGGING OUT A DOCK
y"
in her, and made a sail out of one that I had taken from the
ship. Then I made some lockers, or boxes, in which to put
food, powder and shot, or anything I thought it wise to take
with me.
I also cut a long hollow place in the inside of the boat,
where I could lay my gun, making a flap to hang over it,
to keep it dry. I fixed my umbrella in the stern, so that
it stood up behind me as I sat, and could keep the sun off
my head. For an anchor I took a piece of broken iron
grappling that I had brought from the ship.
As I intended going right round the island I put a good
supply of food in my boat I also took with me two thick
coats, which were in one of the seamen's chests. I thought
one of these would serve me as a bed, and the other as a
blanket. For 1 made up my mind to anchor my boat in
some safe spot where I could pass the night, and then
continue my journey the following morning.
Thus fully prepared I went out to sea. I made a very
fair start, but when I had gone some little distance I found
a great ledge of rocks lying out a good way into the sea,
partly under the water and partly above it Beyond these
there stretched a long shoal of dry sand, extending as far
as my eye could reach. So that to get round this I should
have to go a very long way out to sea
When first I discovered this I was going to give up my
trip and return to my tent; then I thought I would anchor
my boat and go ashore where I was, to see if I could find
out how far this shoal really extended.
Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on land,
climbing up a hill which seemed to overlook the point I wished
CRUSOE MAKES A TRIP ROUND THE ISLAND

to view. There I saw the full length of the trait of sand, and
since it was not such a very great distance out I decided to
venture round it. Accordingly I got into my boat once more
and pushed off. I soon regretted my rash act, for when I reached
the sand, all at once I felt my boat carried under me at a rapid
pace. I tried in vain to stop it, but to my horror I found I
was caught in a strong current of water, which swept me far
out to sea. I cannot describe my terror when I realized the
position in which I was; for I was being driven out into the
wide ocean and was quite unable to guide my boat against
the force of the water. I felt I should never reach land any
more, and my heart sank at the thought of the danger I was in.
For six long hours I was borne over the waves, and then
at length a breeze blew up and I set my sail to meet it. To
my deep joy and thankfulness the boat went before the wind,
and in a few more hours I had brought my little craft safe to shore.

When I had landed I fell upon my knees and thanked God
for having once more delivered me out of my terrible danger.
Then I fetched the food which I had brought with me and
enjoyed a good meal on the beach. After that 1 drew my
boat up into a little cove, and, being quite worn out with
the labour and the peril of my voyage, I lay down and was
soon fast asleep.
I awoke the next morning feeling much refreshed, and
began to wonder how I was going to get home with my
boat. I had gone through such dreadful risk upon the sea
that I could not attempt to return by water. I therefore re-
solved to find some place where I could hide my boat, and
then to set out back to my tent on foot As I walked along

h
's-^g&t***
the coast I came upon a little bay, which was just the place
I wanted for my boat. So I stowed her safely away under
some trees, and taking my umbrella and my gun I prepared
for my march home.
I found the walk a very pleasant one, and as I passed
some trees I surprised a flock of beautiful bright-coloured
parrots, who flew out and surrounded me, nearly touching my
head and face.
When it grew dusk I had reached my country house, or
bower, and as I knew I should not be able to get back to my
cave before nightfall, ( decided to sleep there and proceed
upon my journey the next morning. So I got over the fence
and lay down among the soft leaves, where I very soon fell
fast asleep.
Now judge, if you can, what a shock I must have had
when I was awakened by a voice calling me by my name
several times.
"Robin, poor Robin Crusoe!" said the voice; "where have
you been, Robin Crusoe?"
So deep in sleep was I at first, being dead tired after the
hard work I had done, that I thought it must be a dream.
But when I heard my name again called in a clear voice, quite
near me, I gave a great start and sprang up in fright. As
soon as I did so my eyes fell on my parrot, which sat on a
twig by me, and then I knew at once that it was he who had
called to me. He said the words just as I had taught him;
and when I realized it was he it made me smile to think
how he had startled me,
I held out my hand to him, and calling him by his name,
the dear old creature came and sat on my thumb, and
CRUSOE IS STARTLED BY HIS PARROT
.^

did all he could to show me
how glad he was to see me
once more. He continued talk-
ing to me, "Poor Robin Crusoe!
How did you come here? Where
have you been?" In this way
I carried him home along with
me to my tent
I had now had enough of
the sea for some time, and had
plenty to do thinking over the
great danger in which I had
been. I should have been very
glad to have had my boat on
my side of the island again, but
I did not know how it could be
done. So I had to be happy without the boat, which had taken
so many months of hard work to make.
As soon as I had settled down again I was not idle, for,
as I then had a good supply of corn, I next turned my hand
to bread-making. I made a deep round dish out of the iron-
wood, and also a great beater with which to pound my corn
into flour. To sift the meal from the bran I made use of
some muslin that I found in one of the chests I had got from
the ship. Then came the question—how was I to bake my
bread without an oven? This is how I did it. The hearth
of my fire was made of clay tiles. When the wood was
burnt red I drew it on to this hearth, and there I let it lie
till the place was very hot. I then swept off the wood and
put my loaves down. Over them I put one of my large clay

pots, and round the pot I drew all the fire. Thus 1 baked
my bread as well as if it had been done in the best oven in
the world. In the same way I baked some cakes of the rice.
There was one thing I much longed to have, and that
was a pipe. A great deal of tobacco grew wild on the island,
and I often wished I could have a smoke. So I tried to
make myself a pipe out of clay, as I had made my pots and
dishes. The first two or three attempts were failures, and
broke when I put the hot wire down their stems to make
the air passage. But at last I got one through which I
could draw the smoke quite well. It was an ugly, clumsy-
looking thing, but caused me much joy and comfort, for I
dearly liked a smoke when resting from my labours.
I now discovered that my powder was almost finished,
and I knew that once
this was gone I should
never be able to get any
more. So I had to think
how I should be able, if I
had no powder, to kill a
goat so as to have meat.
Therefore my next
plan was to get some
goats, that I might tame
them and have a flock of
my ^own. But as they
were all so wild I did
not know how to catch
them'. However, at last
I set a trap for them
trrs


and caught five. The way in which I made a trap was
this. First I dug a large pit in the earth, in a pface
where the goats usually went to feed. Over this pit I placed
a frame made of twigs, and upon this I put some corn ajid
dry rice. I did this in such a way that when the goats ate
they would fall into the pit, and the frame would close and
shut them in. Thus I caught three kids and two goats, which,
though they had a fall, were not at all hurt. In fact one old
he-goat was so fierce that I had quite a sharp fight with him.
I let him go at last, and he ran off as fast as he could
^.
I alw let the other goat go free, and kept only the three kids.
I tied cords to these and led them home with me.
It took me a good while to tame them, but 1 gave them
sweet corn to eat and was very* kind to them till at last they
grew to know me and lost their fear. t%To prevent them from
running wild when they grew up, I had to set about doing
something to keep the tame.ones from the wild. The only
way to do this was to have a piece of ground, fenced around
with a hedge or with palings, to keep them in so well that
those inside could not get out and those outside could not get in.
This was terribly hard work for one man, but it was so
necessary that I at once set about looking for a piece of ground
where there was likely to be something for goats to eat, water
for them to drink, and cover to keep them from the sua

When I found a suitable place I made a hedge round it
and then turned the kids loose in it In about a year and a
half, I had a flock of about twelve goats—kids and all; and
in two years more, I had three and forty, besides several
that I took and killed for my food.
Thus I got my tame herd. I learnt to milk these goats,
and in time to make butter and cheese, which were a great
treat to me.
I have already mentioned that there was a quantity of
grape vines upon the island, and this fruit, in the form of
raisins, now served as an agreeable addition to my larder. I
cut a number of bunches and hung them in the sun to dry.
By this means, I obtained raisins when the fresh fruit was
not to be had.
CRUSOE FINDS A FOOTPRINT ON THE SHORE
I
T would have made you smile to see .me and my pets at
our meals. First there was the king of the island, who
was myself; then came my parrot, my dog, and my two cats,
one on either side of me. Each of these had a bit now and
then from my hand, while the parrot would talk to us all the time.
Now I began to think I should like to walk round to the
other side of the island, and see if my boat was still where I
had left her. This inclination increased upon me every day,
till at length I resolved to take the journey. A very queer-
looking man you would have thought me, had you met me on
my way! I wore my hat and suit of goats' skin, and had my
gun in one hand and my umbrella in the other. Stockings
and shoes I had none, and from my waist I hung a saw,
.CRUSOE AND HIS PETS AT MEAL-TIME
while at my back I carried
a basket. Fastened in my
belt", which was also of
goats' skin, I had a dagger
and a pouch full of powder
and shot. As for my face,
it was burnt brown by the
sun, and my hair and beard
were very long and had a
somewhat wild appearance.
In this kind of dress I
went my new journey, and
was out three or four days.
When I arrived at the bay
I found that my boat was
still where I had fastened
it, quite safe among the trees. I so much wished to get her
to the part of the coast where I lived that I almost made up
my mind to try and go back in her by water.
Then the memory of the terrible danger I had been in
before put me in such fear lest the same might happen
again that I gave up the idea. Instead, I made another
resolution, which was more safe, though it would cost me
much labour. This was to make another boat, so that I
should have one if I ever needed it near my home. I had
no further adventures upon this journey, and returned to my
tent eager' to start upon this next piece of work.
But an event happened soon after, which put all my plans to
flight. One day, as I was by the sea-shore, I saw the print
of a man's naked foot, which was very plainly to be seen in the


soft sand. I stood still like one thunderstruck, or as if I
had met a ghost. Then I had a good look all round and up
and down the shore, but I could not see the sign of a man,
nor anything else but this one print of a foot. I went up to
the top of a small hill near that I might have a better view
of the surrounding land, but there was nothing to be seen
save the wide stretch of coast. A thousand confused thoughts
all rushed into my mind at once, as I tried to imagine how
that footprint came to be there. It was evident that a man
must have been on that part of the shore, and this idea filled
me with extreme terror, for I feared it might be some cannibals
who had landed there.
Before leaving the spot 1 went to the mark again, to make
perfectly sure I had seen aright. But there was no room for

>^ w-
^^J*

<5 ^»
CRUSOE MEASURES THE FOOTPRINT BY HIS OWN FOOT
I'Vu
-4 ^;
:. "^
any doubt, for the exact print of a foot lay in the sand, toes,
heel, and every part completely shown. I gave one last look
and then ran back home as fast as my legs could carry me. I
was so terrified that I glanced behind me at every two or three
steps, thinking each bush or tree hid some savages who would
spring out upon me. I hardly paused to breathe till I had got
over my wall and was safe in my tent.
I had no sleep that night, for my mind was too much filled
with frightful ideas and fancies. Indeed, the dread of falling
into the hands of cannibals so possessed me that I dare not
go out of my house for the next two or three days. At last it
struck me that it might possibly be the print of my own foot that
I had seen, which had been left when I was on that part of
the island before* So that all my fears might have been for
no reason at all.
After this explanation occurred to me I ventured outside
my tent once more, but I went about with much dread, for
I felt I might have to run for my life at any time. As nothing
happened, by degrees I grew bolder, and made up my mind
to go to the footprint again, and put my foot down upon
it, to see if it was a mark I had left myself. But when
I came to measure it by my own foot I saw that it could
not be the same, for mine was not so large by a great deal.
This told me that some stranger must have been on shore
there, and my old fear returned to me.
All I could think of then was to make the guard round
my house yet more strong, so that no one could come at me
when I was inside. So I built yet another wall, in which
I made holes for my guns to go through. I put six of ^ the
guns I had got from the ship all round, in such a way that
J could fire them all off at once if I chose. When this was
done I set to work to plant young trees outside the place
where my home was. Thus in time I had a wood sq strong
and thick that no one could pass through it. I found a way
to get in and out myself by means of my ladder, but no one
else could have guessed how to do this.
My next care was for my flock of goats. I had a fear
lest they should be hurt, or lest any man should steal them
from me. The best plan I could think of was to set a fence
round two or three bits of ground, as much out of sight as
I could find, and to put some of the goats in each piece.
Then, thought I, if one lot are found and taken, the others
will still be left me.
At this time I discovered a natural cave in the earth,
which went in a vast way. It was near the place where I had
my bower in the woods, and was at the foot of a large rock.
The mouth of it was very dark, and only just big enough
to allow me to walk in. When first 1 went in I had a
great shock, for I saw two bright eyes that shone like stars
in the gloom.
At this sight I made more haste, to get out than I had
done to get in. But at length I said I would not be a
coward, but would go and see whose eyes they were. So
I took up a light and in I went. This time I heard a
loud sigh, which made "my hair stand on end with fright.
Still I did not turn back, but held up my light to see
whence it came. And there I saw a very old goat, which
lay on the ground. The poor beast tried to rise, but was
not able to do so. I saw he was dying of old age,~so
I left him there to end his days in peace, and went
CRUSOE FINDS AN OLD COAT IN THE CAVE
on my way in the cave. When I got through the narro*.
part I found myself in a large high vault, the walls of which
shed gleams of gold and brilliant light all round. The floor
was dry and level, and had a sort of small loose gravel upon
it. I think there must have been 'gold and precious stones
in the rock, as it gave forth such a glow.
I was very glad to have discovered this cave, which, besides
being such a fine sight, was so safe a place to hide in.
The poor old goat died very soon, and I dug him a grave
near the place where he. lay.
One day, as I was about to start out for my daily walk, I
was surprised to see the light of some fire upon the shore.
I stopped short m alarm at the sight, and then hurried back
into my tfent. But I could not rest quietly indoors, for I was
very excited and felt I must
find out what this fire was.
So I got my ladder and
mounted to the top of the
hill. Then, pulling out my
spying - glass, which I had
taken on purpose, I lay flat
on the ground, and began
to look for the place
whence the smoke arose.
I soon saw, to my horror,
that a number of savages
were sitting round a fire
which they had made to
cook their dreadful meal of
human flesh. Their canoes

were lying on the shore near,
so I supposed they intended
going back when they had
finished their cruel feast.
I cannot describe the
feeling of disgust and of fear
this sight gave me, and I
anxiously waited to see what
the cannibals would do. To
my great joy they did as I
had expected, for all went off
again in their boats. This
showed me that they came to
the island only to have their
horrible meals, and that they
would not be likely to find
my home if I kept good
watch for them, and could hide myself whenever they were about.
One night, not long after this, it blew a great gale and I heard
the firing of a gun. I started up and ran as fast as I could
to the hill to find out if I could see or hear whence it had
been fired. When I got to the top, the gun went off again,
and I could see by the flash that it came from far out at sea.
This told me it must be some ship lost in the stormy in need
of help^ Though I was powerless to help them, I thought
they might help me. So I gathered all the dry wood I could
get near at hand, and having made a pile of it on the hill, I
set light to it. The wood being very dry, there was soon a
bright blaze. But the rest of the night passed, and though
I kept up my fire, there were no more signs of the ship.

"I TOOK A COOP WOK AT THE SAVAGES"
^
When daylight came 1 saw, to my deep grief, the wreck
of a large ship cast upon the rocks. And in a day or two the
corpse of a poor boy was washed ashore.
CRUSOE RESCUES A SAVAGE
O
NE night, as I sat thinking, an idea suggested itself to
me of a way in which h might be possible to return
to my friends. If I could but get one of the savages into
my hands I would make him help me to take a large boat
out to sea, and show me how to get to the mainland. So,
said I to myself, cost what it may, the next time they come
on this shore I will have one for my own.
A whole year passed by, then at last one day I found
that the savages were there again. The first signs* that I saw
were five boats on the sands not far from my tent. I knew
that each boat held four or six men, so, I was afraid that
I could not hope to take one of the savages to make him my
slave. For, how could I, with no one to help me, fight so
many wild blacks? For a while, therefore, I lay quiet in my
castle, full of disappointment and of gloomy thoughts. Then
I felt that I could not remain still any longer, so I prepared
all my guns ready for an attack, and going to the outside of
my tent I listened eagerly to hear if I could distinguish
any sound made by the cannibals. But as nothing reached
my ears I became very impatient to see what they were doing,
and I decided to mount the hill and have a view of them.
So I got over my wall and went to the very top of the
cliff, where, hiding myself behind some high, round pieces of
rock, I took a good look at the savages through my glass.
I saw that they had lighted a
fire, and were all leaping in a
wild dance round it. Then
my gaze fell on two poo*
wretches who lay upon the
ground by them. One of the
savages went up to them and
gave the first a blow on the
head with his club. The
poor man fell dead instantly,
and it made me turn sick to
think that they would soon
cook and eat him. Just then
the other poor creature saw
there was a chance for him
to save his life, while they
were busy with their cruel knives. So he ran off with all speed,
and came towards me. This gave me a great fright, for I thought
that the whole tribe would come to catch him, and that they might
find me and my home. But I lost some of my fear when I
saw that not more than three ran in chase, and that these could
not run half so fast as he who fled from them.
They soon came to that part of the shore, where as the
tide was up, the sea met the rocks, and here I thought the
poor man must surely be caught. But he made a plunge into
the water and swam through it. Then on he flew as swiftly as
a dart. Two of those who were on his track could swim, but
the third could not; so this on^ returned to the others. The
two who followed took much more time to swim than the man
who ran from them, so that he got a long start.

THE PRISONER ESCAPING FROM THE CANNIBALS
Now, thought I, is my chance to get a slave, by saving
this poor black's life. So off I went at full speed to my tent,
and I got two guasy Then I went round a short cut that I
knew till I found myself at the back of the savage who fled and
in front of those who gave him chase. I called aloud, and
this made the first man start and look round.
When he saw me he was as much in fear of me as of those
who came to catch him. But I made a sign for him to come
back; then I ran up to those who were chasing him, and, with
a blow from my gun, I laid the first on the ground. At this
the man with him took his bow and arrow and would have
shot me had I not fired at him first. The poor black who
fled stood stock-still, and I could see he was terrified at the
noise and the smoke of my gun, and that he would soon
fly from me too. So I made signs to him to come near,
and I did all I could to make him see that I wished to
be his friend.
At last he came close to me, and, falling full length on
the ground before me, he laid his head at my feet. Then
he lifted my foot and put it upon his head. By doing this
he meant to show that he would be my slave for ever. I made
him get up, and with smiles and kind words I let him know
that I would not harm him.
He said some words to me, which, though I did not under-
stand their meaning, I thought most pleasant to hear, as they
were the first sound of a man's voice, except my own, that I
had heard for many long years.
Then I took the poor fellow to my cave and gave him
some bread and dried grapes to eat, with a drink of fresh
water.
"HE LAID HIS HEAD AT MY FEET."
JT
The rest of the savages did not try to find the two whom
I had killed, but must have gone back in their boats, for we
saw no more of them.
I soon taught my new companion to speak to me and to
understand what I said to him. First, I let him know his
name should be Friday, as that was the day upon which I
saved his life.
Then I gave him some clothes to wear, and a very comical
figure he looked in them at first. As he had never worn any
proper clothes before, he did not know how to put them on;
and when he had got them on he was very awkward in them.
However, after a while he became quite used to them and
was very glad indeed to have them.


In a short time we went to the place where the cannibals
had had their dreadful feast, and I made Friday put all the
bones in a heap, and burn them to ashes. As he did so I
saw that he would have liked to eat some of the flesh, for he
was still a savage at heart. But I made signs to show him
how the very thought of eating human flesh turned me sick with
horror and loathing, and that if he did so I would kill him.
Then he became filled with shame, and did not show any such
wish again. I taught him to eat bread and drink broth instead,
and it was very funny to see him with his basin and spoon. He
generally dipped his fingers in the basin, and found it most
difficult to carry a spoonful of soup to his mouth. But after
a few days he began to eat like any ordinary man, and found
decent food a great deal nicer than human flesh.
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led on the island.
[Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the names of
.f
almost everything I had need of, and of every place to which
I had to send him. In short, I now had a companion, and
thus could make use of my tongue again.
CRUSOE MAKES ANOTHER BOAT,
*"PHERE was one thing that Friday told me, which put
a new idea into my head. He said that once a small
boat full of white men had come on shore in his land. His
tribe had not done them any injury, but had let them have
food and drink It occurred to me that these men must
have come off the wreck which I had seen, so I asked Friday
to tell me if he thought that they were still in his country.
He said that they were when he left it.
After this talk I thought a good deal of how I could join
these white men. So I told Friday we would make a big
boat, and that he should go home in it. At this he became
very grave and sad, but made no answer.
"Why are you so sad?" I asked.
"Are you cross with me?" said he. "What me done?"
I told him that I was not cross with him at all
"Then why send me home?" he said.
"Why!" I cried. "Would you not like to go back to
your own people?"
"Yes, yes," he replied '• But only if we both go. No
me and not you." There were tears in his eyes as he spoke,
which let me see how true was his love for me. So I
told him that if we could go we should do so together.
The next thing that we did was to make a large boat.
I again chose a tree as near the water as possible, and we
CRUSOE AND FRIDAY GET THE BOAT DOWNTO THE WATER
set to work with a will to cut and hew it into shape. In
a month's time we had a fine boat, and in another two weeks
we had got her into the water. To do this we cut the trunks
of several smaller trees, which we used as rollers, and upon
these we pushed our craft to the shore.
"Can we go to your land in her?" 1 then asked Friday.
"Yes, yes," he answered. "We can go in her very well,
even though great wind blow."
Having got the boat into the sea, we fixed her safely up
at the edge of the water by means of long poles, which we
drove into the sand upon either side of her and fastened securely
with rope. I then went to work to make a mast and a sail, and
to fit her with a rudder. For the mast I chose a straight young
cedar-tree, which I found not far off, and which I set Friday to
cut down. As for the sail, I managed to make one out of
the pieces I had left from those I had brought from the ship.
When all this was done I had to teach Friday how to sail and
to guide our craft. For, although he knew very well how to
paddle a canoe, he knew nothing about a sail and a rudder, and
was most amazed when he saw me work the boat by these means.
So I showed him how the sail jibbed, or filled this way or that
as the course changed, and how the boat could be worked
to and fro in the water by the rudder. After a little practice
he became well used to all these things and was a very
good sailor.
Having made all ready for our departure from the island,
I began to lay by a store of food to take with us upon our
journey. I was busy one morning upon something of this
kind, when I called to Friday and bid him go to the sea-
shore and see if he could find a turtle or tortoise. He had
CRUSOE AND FRIDAY FINISHING THEIR BOAT
not been gone long when he came running back, and before
I had time to speak to him he cried out: "O master! O sorrow!
Obad!"
"What is it, Friday?" said I.
"There come one, two, three canoes to shore!" he replied.
By this he meant that three boats full of savages were on
their way to land.
"Well," I answered, "do not be afraid. We must fight
them. Will you stand by me, Friday, and do as I bid you?"
"Yes, yes," he replied, "me shoot. But there come great
lot, and we are but two!"
"Never mind that," said I; "our guns will scare those
whom we do not kill,"
So I made Friday take the guns and load them with
powder and shot, while I got two pistols, ready for our fight.
I hung my big sword by my side, and I gave Friday a hatchet
to carry. When we were thus prepared, I took my glass and
went up the hill to see what I could discover. I saw that
there were twenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoe^
upon the shore, and that the cannibals had come, as before,
to feast upon the dead bodies of the prisoners.
They had landed just where a number of trees grew close
to the sea, and I made up my mind that we would go into
this wood and await our chance to attack the wretches, and,
if possible, to save their victims. So I again went to Friday
and asked him if he were ready to stand by me, and help
to defend me, if I did the same for him.
"Me die when you bid, Master," he answered readily.
We then divided our arms and set off to march to the
wood. When we arrived there I bade Friday go softly

among the trees and look to see what the savages were doing.
He did so and returned to tell me that they were all about the
fire, and that near them there lay bound upon the sand a
white, bearded man, whom they would soon kill and eat. I
was filled with horror at the mention of the white, bearded
man, and, going forward myself, I saw plainly by my glass a
white man who lay upon the beach with his hands and feet tied
together. He was dressed like a European, and it made my
blood run cold to think that he should meet with such a
dreadful face. I determined to do all in my power to save
him, even if it meant the loss of my own life. So I turned
to my faithful black, and said: "Now, Friday, do as I bid
you and do not fail!"
Friday again promised to obey
me in all things. I then took aim
at the savages with my gun, and
Friday did likewise.
"Fire!" said I, and we both
let fly at them. Friday took his
aim better than I did, for he
killed three of the savages, and
wounded three more, while I
only killed one and wounded
another. All the others sprang
up and looked wildly about.
They were so amazed and
terrified that they did not know
which way to run, or what to do.
Friday kept his eyes fixed upon
me, and I bade him do just
as I did. Then, while the cannibals were looking about in
every direction to see where the firing came from, I presented
my gun again, and Friday did the same with his.
"Are you ready?" said I.
"Yes," he answered.
"Then fire!" I cried. Again we shot into the midst
of the savages, and killed five and wounded many more.
"Now, Friday," I continued, "follow me!"
So saying I rushed out of the wood and showed myself
to the cannibals, while Friday, with much courage, came forward
to my side. I told him to keep firing at the rest while I
went and tried to save the poor white man, who still lay bound
upon the sands. When I got to his side I pulled out my

knife and cut the cords which were round his hands and feet,
at the same time asking him who he. was.
"A Christian," he replied. But he was so weak and
faint that he could hardly speak. When he recovered he
began to try and thank me for delivering him, but I stopped
him, and said that there was no time to talk then, as we must
all fight for our lives. He replied that he was strong enough
to do his share; so I put into his hands a gun and sword,
which he took very eagerly.
Meanwhile Friday had been firing at the savages and had
killed a great number. Some leapt into their canoes, and
I saw them fall into the boat, overcome by terror. However,
they managed to get out to sea before Friday had time to shoot
them. The others let fly their
arrows at us, and we had a
sharp fight against them. The -^»
white man fell upon them like •«*•
a fury, killing many with his
sword as well as with his gun.
When Friday had used all
his powder and shot he went
at them with his hatchet, and
seemed determined to put an
end to the lot of them. Some
flew into the wood, when Friday
gave chase and killed three of
them. But one was too nimble
for him and managed to get to
the sea, into which he plunged
desperately, and swam out with

"THEIR ARROWS FELL THICKLY ABOUT OS*
tj
all his might to those who had escaped in the canoe. I then
called Friday and gave him some powder and shot from my
own pouch, bidding him get his gun and reload it. After this
the three of us stood together and fired again at the rest
of the cannibals. Their arrows fell thickly about us, but at
length all those who did not get off to sea were killed.
When I went to one of the boats left on shore by our
enemies, I was surprised to find another poor black lying in
the bottom of the canoe. He was bound hand and foot, as
the white man had been, and was almost dead with fear. I
immediately cut the cords and tried to help him to stand up;
but he could not speak nor move, and groaned most piteously.
He appeared to think I had only unbound him in order to
take him to be killed. When Friday came / up I bade him
speak to the poor fellow and make him understand that I should
do him no harm. I told him to give the man a drink of water
to revive him. But when Friday came to hear his voice and
look into his face he at once fell upon his neck and kissed
him, then cried, sang, and danced like a madman. It was
some time before I could make him speak to me and tell me
what was the matter, but when he grew a little quieter he
said it was his father. The two were so glad to meet that
it did my heart good to see them.
"Have you any bread left for your father, Friday?" said I.
He shook his head, and answered: "None. Ugly dog eat
all up self!"
By this he meant that he had eaten all his bread. So I
gave him a small cake out of my own pouch, and also some
dried grapes. He took these to the old man, then left the
boat and ran off at such a rate that he was out of sight before
V*~
I could ask him why he went. But in a little while he returned,
and I found that he had been home for a jug of fresh water
to quench his father's thirst. He then most tenderly helped
the poor black to get out of the boat, and supported him while
he walked up the beach. The old man was still very faint and
weak, so Friday made him sit down by some trees while he
gave him a drink of water, and did all he could to help him
to recover his strength and spirits. I was quite moved by the
affection and devotion he showed towards his parent, and the
white man appeared equally touched by the scene.
We then took the two men home with us, and made beds
for them to rest on, for they were both very weak. In fact
the poor white man was really ill from all he had gone
through. When he was quite well again, I had a long talk
with him, and he told me he was a Spaniard, and had been
on the wreck 1 had seen. He said teh more men had got to
land with him, and were now with the savages, and in much
fear of their lives. They could not get away, as they had no
ship, nor had they any tools with which to build one. I said
I would like to help them if I could, and that if they could
come to my island we might make a fine ship together,
which would take us all to our friends. He replied that he
was sure that they would be only too glad to do so, and would
feel very grateful indeed if I would send them help.
So I made up my mind to send the Spaniard and Friday's
father to see these men, and bring them back to the island.
When I suggested this to my guest he said he would be very
pleased to go to fetch his friends. s
Therefore one day, when there was a fine wind,, he and the
old black went off in one of the boats, in which the savages
FRIDAY GIVES HIS FATHER A DRINK OF WATER

CRUSOE WATCHES THE MEN FROM THE ENGLISH SHIP
">
had brought them. I gave them food and guns to take with
them, and wished them all luck upon their journeyJ
CRUSOE LEAVES THE ISLAND
GOME days after the Spaniard and the old negro had gone,
Friday came running to me, and said: "They are come!
They are come! I can see a boat!" I ran up the hill to look
out, and there was a boat on its way to our shore. But
I also saw a large ship far out at sea, and it was an
English ship. I cannot describe the joy I felt when I saw
one of our own ships'. Yet I had some doubts, for I did
not know if the men who were in the boat were friends or
foes. So I told Friday to lie quiet, for these were not the ones
we expected. Just then the small boat came to shore, and I
saw there were ten white men in it Three of them had their1
hands tied together with a rope. When they were taken out of
the boat they fell on their knees as if to beg for their lives.
Then I saw one of the others lift up his arm as if to strike
them. However, he did not do so, but left them lying on the
shore while he and his companions went inland, as if to see
in what kind of place they were.
They all went into the wood, and in an hour or two I
saw that they had lain down and gone to sleep. The three
bound men still lay by a great tree. So, as the rest were asleep*
I made up my mind to go to them, and see if I could help
them. With Friday at my heels I went round to where
they were. When they caught sight of me they had such
a fright at my strange dress and wild appearance that
they were about, to run away from me,
ROBINSON CRUSOE
ROBINSON CRUSOE
ROBINSON CRUSOE
*' Have no fear," said I, "for I am your friend. Tell me
how you come to be in -this sad state, and whether I and my
man can help you?"
"I was the captain of that ship you see," answered one
of the men. "The crew are a bad lot, and when we were
out at sea they rose up against me, and tried to kill me, so
that they could have the ship for their own. Then they
changed their minds, and instead of taking my life they brought
me and my two mates to this island, where they intend to
leave us. We feared we must die, as we did .not think there
was anyone here to save us!"
"Well," said I, "these brutes are now asleep not far off.
If I help you to get free, will you give me your word to be
true to me, and take me and my man to England in your
ship?"
The captain said he would be more than glad to do
this; so I unbound his hands, and those of his mates, and gave
them a gun each. As we approached the sleeping men they
heard us, and sprang to their feet. When they saw us all
with arms, they knelt down to beg us to spare them. We told
them we would do so if they would promise to be true and to
obey our commands. They gave us their word that they would
do as we wished, so we did not harm them. But the captain
told me that they were such bad men that it would be better
not to let them come on the ship with us, as they were not to
be trusted.
So I told them that, although they deserved to be hanged,
we would spare their lives and leave them behind to live upon
the island as I had done. They were quite willing to remain,
so I left them all my things for their use, and told them how
CRUSOE SPEAKS TO THE THREE PRISONERS
to make their bread, plant their corn, and do all I had done
myself. I also left a letter with them, which I told them to
give to the Spaniards and to Friday's father, when they returned
to the island. In this letter I explained how I came to leave
the place, and I promised to send a ship to take them all to
their homes as soon as I could. Then Friday and I prepared
to get into the boat that was to take us on board the vessel.
I took with me my goat-skin hat, my umbrella, and my parrot.
My poor old dog had died some time before.
I knew not what to do for joy when I saw the fine
vessel which was waiting to take me back to home and
friends. As we rowed away I took one long, last look at the
island upon which I had spent so many lonely years.

•
- . . 4
FAR away, whither the swallows fly when winter comes to us, there
lived a King who had eleven sons and one daughter, Elizabeth. The
eleven brothers — they were of course princes—went to school with
a star on the breast and a sword at the side, and wrote with diamond
pencils on slates framed with gold, and read and wrote so well one
could at once see they were princes. Their sister, Elizabeth, sat on
a little stool of crystal glass, and had a picture-book which had cost
half a kingdom.
How happy were those children! but it was not to last.
Their father, who was King of the whole country, married a wicked
Queen, who was very unkind to the poor children. Already on the
wedding-day they felt this. There was a great f&te at the castle, and
the children played at " giving a ball;" but instead of having plenty of
cakes and fruit, as before, the Queen gave them a cupful of sand,
saying that they might fancy it was something nice.
The following week she sent the little Elizabeth into the country to
a peasant's cottage; and before long she made the King believe so
many bad things she told him about the poor princes, that he became
quite indifferent to what became of them.
"Fly out into the world, and take care of yourselves," said the
wicked Queen; "fly in the form of great birds without voices." But
she could not do them all the injury that she really wished, and they
became eleven beautiful wild swans, which with a we'rd cry flew out
of the windows across the park and the woods.
It was still quite early when they flew past the cottage where
Elizabeth was lying asleep. They flew several times round the roof,
twisting their long necks and flapping their wings, but nobody heard
or saw them. They had to continue their flight far into the wide
world, and they flew into a big dark forest reaching down to the shore.'
Poor little Elizabeth stood in the peasant's cottage playing with a
green leaf, — for she had nothing else to play with, — and she pricked
a hole in it, looked through it at the sun, and she thought she saw her
brothers' bright eyes; while every time the hot rays fell on her cheek
she thought of their kisses.
One day passed like another. If the wind sighed in the rose-bushes
outside, it said to the roses, " Who can possibly be more beautiful than
you?" But the roses shook their heads and said, " Lizzie is." And
if on Sundays the old peasant-woman sat in the porch reading the
Bible, the wind turned the leaves and said to it, "Who can possibly

be as good as you ordain ?"1 "Lizzie is," the Bible would answer.
And it was but the truth what the roses and the Bible said.
When she reached the age of fifteen she was called home; but when
the Queen saw how lovely she was, she became very wroth and jealous
of her, and would gladly have changed her into a wild swan; but she
dared not just then, as the King wished to see his daughter.
Early in the morning the Queen went into the bath-room, which wa*
built of marble and furnished with the softest cushions and the choicest
carpets, taking three toads with her, which she kissed, saying to the
first, "Place yourself on Elizabeth's head vhen she gets into the
bath, so that she may become as stupid as you;" and to the second,
1 A slight and justifiable alteration of the original. — Tr.
>m
"Place yourself on her brow, so that she may become as ugly as you, and
that her father may not know her;" while to the third she said, " Settle
yourself near her heart, and let her get a mind so wicked that she will
suffer for it." Then she threw the toads into the water, which assumed
a greenish color thereby, called Elizabeth, undressed her, and let her
get into the bath. At the same instant she dipped under the water
one toad settled in her hair, one on her brow, and the third on her
bosom; but she did not seem to notice it. When she rose from the
water, three red poppies floated on the surface. If the toads had not
been poisonous and kissed by the Witch, they would have been changed
into red roses. Flowers they still became by resting on her head and
bosom; but she was too good and innocent for the witchery to have
any effect on her.
When the wicked Queen saw that, she rubbed Elizabeth with walnut-
juice, so that her skin became brown, smeared a nasty ointment over
her lovely face, and entangled her beautiful hair, so that nobody could
recognize the charming Elizabeth.
When her father saw her, he became quite frightened, and said it was
not his daughter. Nobody else would acknowledge her but the yard-dog
and the swallows; but they were poor, and had little voice in the matter.
Poor Elizabeth began to cry, and thought of her eleven brothers, who
were all gone. Sorrowful she stole out of the palace, and wandered the
'whole day across fields and moors into a great forest. She did not
know whither to go; she was so unhappy, and longed for her brothers;
they had surely been driven into the world like herself; she would seek
them.
She had only been in the forest a little while when night set in. She
had lost her way, but lay down peacefully on the soft moss, said her
prayers, and rested her head against the stem of a tree. Everything
was so quiet and calm, the air so balmy, and round about in the grass
and on the moss shone hundreds of glow-worms like green fire, and
when she touched the boughs with her hands they fell down like little
shooting stars.
All through the night she dreamt of her brothers; they played again
together as when children, wrote with diamond pencil on gold slates,
and looked into the beautiful picture-book which had cost half a
kingdom; but they li'id not write figures and words as before; no,
they related their bravest deeds, all that they had experienced and
said, and in the picture-book all was alive: the birds sang, and people
came out of the book and spoke to her; but as soon as she turned the
leaves they again jumped into their places, so that there should be no
confusion among them.
When she arose, the sun was already high; she could not see it, as
the boughs of the high trees were so close, but the rays played outside
like a fluttering veil of gold. The greensward smelt so fresh, and the
birds very nearly alighted on her shoulders. She could hear the noise
of a brook; it was a water-course falling into a pond with the softest
sand bottom. It was almost surrounded by close underwood, but in
one spot the stags had made a path, and by this Elizabeth reached the
water, which was so clear that had not the wind shaken the trees and
shrubs they would have appeared as if painted on the bottom.
When she saw her own face, she became very frightened, so brown
and ugly she was; but as soon as she had rubbed her face with her
little hand her white skin came out, and she took oft" her garments and
went into the refreshing water. A lovelier princess did not exist in tho
whole world.
When she had dressed, and plaited her long hair, she went to a bub-
bling spring, drank some water from her hand, and walked farther into
the forest without knowing whither. She thought of her brothers, and
of the good Lord, who would not desert her, for He made the wild
apples grow to feed the hungry. She soon found some on a tree, the
fruit weighing down the boughs. On these she made a meal, and then
wandered into the darkest part of the forest . It was so still here she
could hear her own footsteps and every leaf rustling under her foot
.
Not a bird could be seen, and not a ray of the sun could penetrate the
thick leafy covering. The tall stems stood so close together that they
had the appearance of wooden palisades on all sides, and there was a
solitude here she had never experienced before.
The night following was very dark, not a single glow-worm shining
on the moss, and she went sorrowful to sleep. Then she fancied that
the boughs above her parted, and that the Lord, surrounded by little
angels, looked down upon her.
When she awoke, she knew not whether it was a dream or reality.
When she had walked some distance, she met an old woman with
berries in a basket, who gave her some. Elizabeth asked her if she had
seen eleven princes ride through the forest. "No," the woman said;
"but yesterday I saw eleven swans with golden crowns on their heads
in the river close by."
And she led Elizabeth a little way farther, to a hill, below which ran
a river nearly overshadowed by leafy trees.
Elizabeth said good-by to the old woman, and wandered along the
river till it flowed into the sea.
The great lovely ocean lay before the young maiden, but not a single
vessel or boat was to be seen, and how, then, was she to get farther?
She looked at the thousands of pebbles on the shore, polished and
rounded by the water. Glass, iron, stones, everything piled up there,
had been given the same shape by the water, which was nevertheless
softer than her hand. "The water never ceases rolling, and the hard
substances become moulded; neither will I tire," she thought . "Thanks
for your teachings, you crystal, rolling waves. Some time, so my heart
tells me, you shall carry me to my dear brothers."
On the weed cast up by the sea lay eleven white swan's feathers,
which she gathered; there were drops of water on them, but whether
they were dew or tears nobody could tell. It was lovely by the shore,
but she did not notice it, for the sea was in constant motion, displaying
in a few hours more variety than a lake in a year. If a great dark
cloud came floating above, the sea seemed to say, "I, too, can look
dark," and the wind blew harder, and the waves donned their white
caps; and if the clouds were red and the wind slept, the sea looked like
a rose-leaf; now it was green, now white; but however calm it was,
there was always a gentle motion by the shore: the.sea swelled like the
breast of a sleeping child.
As the sun was setting, Elizabeth saw eleven white swans, with golden
crowns on their heads, flying toward the shore. One flew behind the
other, looking like a long white ribbon. Elizabeth went up on the hill
by the shore, hiding herself behind a shrub, and the eleven swans
settled close by, flapping their great white wings.
Just as the sun set, the swans' feathers fell off", and there stood Eliza-
beth's brothers, the eleven princes. She uttered a loud cry; for, though
they had altered much, she was sure it was they, and she threw herself
into their arms, called them by name, and they became delighted at
leeing their little sister, who had grown so lovely. They laughed and
wept, and had soon told one another how cruel their step-mother had
been to them all.
"We are all doomed to fly about as swans as long as the sun is up,"
said the eldest brother, "but as soon as it sets, we regain our natural
form; therefore we have to take care to have land under our feet at
f
sunset, for it* we are high up in the air we should fall down like other
human beings. We do not dwell here. On the other side of the water
is a land as beautiful as this, but the way thither is long; we have to
cross a great ocean, and there is no island on the way where to rest for
the night, only a solitary rock rises from the middle of the ocean. It
is not bigger than we can just find a resting-place on it when sitting
close together, and when the sea is high the waves dash over us; but
still we are thankful for it. There we rest for the night in our human
form, and without this rock we should never be able to visit our beloved
country, as we require the two longest days in the year for our flight
.

Only once a year we may visit our home; we may remain there eleven
days, and fly across this great forest, whence we can see the palace in
which we were born and where our father resides, and also the church
in which our mother lies buried. Here we imagine that the trees and
shrubs are related to us; here the wild horses canter over the plain as
in our childhood; here the charcoal-burner sings the same old songs to
which we danced when young; here is our country; hither we feel
drawn, and here we have found you, dear little sister. Two days more
we may remain here; then we must depart for the other beautiful land
across the sea, but which is not our country. How shall we be able to
take you with us, having neither vessel nor boat?"
"Oh, how can I save you? " said the sister.
/Ind they talked nearly the whole night, sleeping only a few hours.
Elizabeth woke at the sound of swans' wings above her. H4k
brothers were already transformed, and they flew in great circles, and
then far away. But one, the youngest, remained, and it laid its head
in her lap, and she stroked its snow-white neck. They were together
the whole day, and toward evening the others returned, and as soon
as the sun had set they assumed their human form.
"To-morrow we leave here, and may not return for a year," said the
eldest; "but we cannot leave you here. Have you courage to come
with us? My arm being strong enough to carry you through the
forest, we shall all of us be strong enough to carry you across the sea."
"Oh, yes, take me with you !" said Elizabeth.
The whole night was spent in making a net of soft willow-bark and
tough reeds, and it was large and strong. On this Elizabeth went to
rest, and when the sun rose and the brothers were transformed into
wild swans, they seized it with their beaks, and flew with their dear
sister, who was still asleep, high up toward the clouds. And as the
sun shone right on her face, one of the swans flew above her head so
as to shade it with its big wings. They were far out at sea when
Elizabeth awoke; she thought she was still dreaming, so strange it
seemed to her to be borne through the air across the sea. At her side
lay a bough with delicious berries on it, and a bundle of sweet roots
which had been gathered for her by her youngest brother, and she
smiled gratefully to him, recognizing him flying above her and shading
her.
They were so high up that the greatest ships they saw below looked
like gulls on the sea. A great cloud was behind them; it was a moun-
tain, and Elizabeth saw her own and the shadows of the eleven swans
on it in gigantic size. It was the most magnificent spectacle she
had ever beheld, but as the sun rose higher the floating shadows
disappeared.
All the day long they kept on their course with the speed of arrows;
but still they flew slower than on other occasions, as they had Elizabeth
to carry. A storm approached, and evening drew near. Trembling
with terror, Elizabeth saw the sun sink, and still the solitary rock in
the sea was not to be seen; it seemed as if the swans redoubled their
efforts Oh! she was the cause of their slow flight. When the sun
set they would become human beings, fall into the sea, and be drowned.
She prayed ardently to her Father, but still the rock was not in sight
The dark clouds drew nearer and nearer, and the fierce gusts of wind
bespoke a storm; the clouds looked like a great threatening wall,
which moved forward heavy as lead, and one flash of lightning followed
upon another.
Now the sun's disc touched the horizon. Elizabeth's heart trembled;
but then the swans shot down so quickly she thought she was falling,
but they still flew. The sun was half under water, when, lo! she be-
held the little rock, not bigger than the head of a seal, above water.
The sun sank rapidly; it was now only as big as a star, when she
touched the rock with her foot, and at the same moment the sun went
out like the last spark in a burnt piece of paper. She saw her brothers
stand around her arm-in-arm, but there was only room for herself and
them. The waves swept over the rock and drenched them, the sky
looked as if on fire, and peals of thunder followed each other; but
sister and brothers held one another's hands, and sang a hymn which
gave them courage.
At daybreak the air was calm and quiet, and as soon as the sun rose
the swans flew away from the rock with Elizabeth. The sea was still
rough, and when they were high up in the air the white foam on the
dark-green water looked like a number of swans floating on the waves.
When the sun had risen higher, Elizabeth saw before her, as if
floating in the air, a mountainous land capped with glittering glaciers,
and a palace nearly a mile long, with striking rows of columns rising
one above the other, while below rose forests of palms and the most
gorgeous flowers.
She asked if it was the land they were bound for; but the swans
shook their heads, for what she saw was the lovely fairy-castle of
Fata Morgana, whither it would be fatal to carry any human being.
As Elizabeth was looking at it, mountains, forests, and palace fell into
a chaotic mass, and in their places rose twenty grand cathedrals, all
alike, with high towers and pointed windows. She thought she heard
the swell of the organs, but it was that of the sea. When close upon
the cathedrals, they changed into a fleet of ships sailing below her; she
looked down and found that it was only a mist sweeping over the sea.
A constant change went on before her eyes, when at last she beheld the
real land whither she was bound. There rose lovely blue mountains,
with cedar forests, towns, and castles; and long before the sun set she
was seated on a mountain, before a great cave overgrown with splendid
green creepers, looking like embroidered tapestry.
V
'
** Now we shall see what you will dream to-night," said her youngest
brother, showing her sleeping apartment to her.
"May I but dream how I shall save you !" she said.
The thought occupied her very much, and she prayed to God to
assist her, and even in her sleep continued her prayer. Then it seemed
to her as if she were flying high up in the air, toward the palace of
Fata Morgana, and that the Fairy came to meet her, so beautiful and
resplendent; but still she was like the old woman who gave her the
berries in the forest and told her of the swans with the golden crowns.
"Your brothers may be saved," she said; "but have you the courage
and perseverance?" The sea is certainly softer than your fine hands,
and still moulds the hard stones; but the sea has no heart, and does not
know the pain that your fingers will suffer; it does not endure the
agony you will have to. Do you see the stinging nettle I hold in my
hand? Many like it grow around the cave in which you sleep; only
those which grow there and in the churchyards are of use, remember
that! Those you must gather, however much they sting your skin into
blisters; crush them with your feet; and you will obtain yarn, of which
you must spin eleven shirts with long sleeves; throw these over the
eleven swans, and the witchery will be broken. But remember, from
the moment you begin this task, and till it is fulfilled, you must not
speak, even if it takes you years; the first words you utter will pene-
trate like a dagger into the hearts of your brothers; on your tongue
their lives depend. Remember all this!"
And at the same moment she touched her with the nettle, and it
stung her like fire, so that she awoke. It was broad daylight, and
close by her lay a nettle like the one she had seen in her dream. Then
she fell on her knees and thanked God, and went out of the cave to
begin her task.
She caught the nasty nettles with her hands, and they burnt her like
fire, great blisters forming on her hands and arms; but that she suffered
gladly for the sake of rescuing her dear brothers. She crushed every
nettle with her soft naked feet, and wound the green yarn.
As the sun was setting, her brothers returned, and when they found
her so silent they thought it was some fresh witchery x>f their wicked
step-mother; but when they saw her hands, they understood what she
was doing for their sake, and the youngest brother began to cry; but
where his tears fell the pain ceased, and she felt not the burning
blisters.
^
She spent the night in her task, for she had no peace till she had
saved her brothers; and the whole of the next day, while the swans
were absent, she sat in solitude, but the time had never passed so
quickly with her. One shirt was already finished, and she began the
second one.
Then all of a sudden horns sounded among the mountains, and she
became very frightened; but the sound came nearer, and she heard the
hounds baying; terrified, she ran into the cave, tied the nettles she had
collected, and the shirt, into a bundle, and sat down upon it.
At the same moment a dog came out of the underwood, and soon
after another; they barked furiously, ran back, and returned, and
shortly afterward all the huntsmen stood outside the cave, the hand-
somest of whom was the King of the land; and he went up to Elizabeth,
saying, " How did you get here, you lovely child?"
Elizabeth shook her head; she did not dare to speak, for on that
depended her brothers' life and rescue; and she hid her hands under
her apron, so that the King should not see her sufferings.
"Come with me," he said; "you must not remain here; and if you
are as good as you are beautiful, I will give you dresses of silk and
velvet, and place a golden crown on your head, and you shall reside in
my finest palace."
He lifted her upon his horse, though she cried and wrung her hands;
but the King said, " I wish only to be kind to you, and some day you
will thank me therefor." And he rode off with her before him on the
horse, the huntsmen following.
At sunset the splendid royal city with its spires and cupolas lay
before them, and the King led her into his palace, where great foun-
tains splashed in lofty marble halls, and beautiful pictures decorated
the walls; but she had no eyes for anything, and wept from grief.
Indifferent, she let the tiring-maids dress her in royal robes, twine
pearls in her hair, and draw soft gloves on her blistered hands.
When she appeared in all her splendor, she was so lovely that the
Court bowed lower for her than before, and the King at once chose
her for his bride, although the Archbishop shook his head, and
whispered that the lovely forest maiden was sure to be a witch, who
had blinded his eyes and deceived his heart.
But the King paid no heed to this, and let the bands play, and had
the costliest dishes set forth, while the loveliest maidens danced before
them. And she was led through fragrant gardens into magnificent
chambers., but not a smile crossed her lips or shone in her eye: grief
was in her face, as if being her heirloom. The King opened a little
room adjoining her sleeping apartment, which was covered and hung
with the costliest mats, and exactly like her cave; on the floor lay the
yarn she had made from the nettles, and on the wall hung the shirt
which was ready. One of the huntsmen had brought it all away as a
curiosity.
"Here you may fancy you are still in your old home," said the King.
"Here is the work you were engaged in, and in the midst of all your
splendor it will please you to look back upon that time."
, When Elizabeth saw what was uppermost in her mind, a smile played
on her lips, and the blood returned to her cheeks; she thought of the
saving of her brothers, and kissed the King's hand, who pressed her to
his heart and let the marriage be announced. The lovely, dumb forest
maiden was to become the Queen of the land.
The Archbishop whispered evil words into the King's ear, but they
did not touch his heart. The wedding took place, and the Archbishop
had himself to place the crown on her head, which he did, pressing it
in anger down on her forehead so heavily that it hurt her. But she felt
a greater pain in her heart, through the loss of her brothers. Her
mouth was closed, for a single word would have been the death of her
brothers; but her eyes spoke love to the kind, handsome King, who did
all he could to please her. Every day she became fonder of him. Oh,
had she only dared to confide to him her sufferings! But she must
remain dumb; dumb she had to accomplish her task. Therefore she
stole in the night from his side into the little secret chamber, and fin-
ished one shirt after another; but when she began the seventh she had
no more yarn.
She knew that the nettles she required grew in the churchyard, and
that she must gather them herself; but how to get there?
"Oh, what is the pain in my hands compared with the sufferings of
my heart?" she thought. "I must risk it. God will protect me."
With a trembling heart, as if she was doing something wrong, she
stole in the moonlit night into the garden, passed through the long
avenues into the deserted streets, to the churchyard, where she beheld
a number of vampires sitting on the gravestones, quite naked, who were
digging up bodies from the newly made graves and eating the flesn.
Elizabeth had to pass close to them, and they glared at fter; but, saying
a prayer, she gathered the nettles and returned home.
Only one person had seen her, namely, the Archbishop. He was up
while others were sleeping, and he now became convinced that the
Queen was a witch, who had bewitched the King and the whole people.
In the confessional he told the King what he had seen, and what he
thought of it; but as the words passed his lips the saintly images around
shook their heads, as if to say, " It is not so; Elizabeth is innocent."
But the Bishop interpreted the action differently; namely, that they were
shaking their heads at her wickedness. Two big tears rolled down the
King's cheeks, and he went home with a doubting heart. Pretending
to sleep at night, but not closing an eye, he felt Elizabeth rising from

the bed, which she repeated every night; and every time he followed
her and saw her go into her secret chamber.
Every day he became more gloomy. Elizabeth noticed it, but did
not suspect the cause. It made her, however, uneasy, and she suffered
much for her brothers. Her tears fell like sparkling diamonds on the
purple and velvet, though everybody who saw her splendor envied her.
At last she had finished all the shirts but one, and for that she had
neither yarn nor nettles. Once more, for the last time, she had to go
to the churchyard. She thought with horror of the lonely walk and
the disgusting vampires, but her resolution was as firm as her confidence
in God.
1 Elizabeth went, but was followed by the Archbishop and the King,
-
who saw her go in through the gate of the churchyard; and when they
came up, they saw the vampires sitting on the gravestones, and the
King turned his head away at the sight, thinking of her who had only
just quitted his side.
"The people must judge her," he 9aid; and the people condemned
her to be burnt.
From the stately apartments of the palace she was taken to a dark
and damp dungeon, where the wind whistled through the grated win-
dows, and instead of velvet and silk cushions to lie on she was given
the bundle of nettles she had gathered, as well as the shirts she had
made. But they could not have given her anything she cared more
for, and cheerfully she set to work, and prayed to God. Outside, the
mob were singing songs in derision of her, and nobody said a kind word
to her.
Toward night she heard the whirring of swan's wings near the grating
of her window. It was her youngest brother, who had discovered her
place of confinement, and she wept with pleasure, though she knew
that probably it was her last night; now, however, her task was nearly
finished, and her brothers were near her.
The Archbishop came to stay with her during her last hours,
according to his promise to the King; but she implored with signs
and eyes to be left alone; for this night was the last of her task, and
without it all her sufferings, tears, and sleepless nights would be en-
dured in vain. The Bishop went away after upbraiding her; but she
knew she was innocent, and continued her work.
Little rats came to assist her as far as in their power by carrying the
nettle to her feet, while a thrush settled itself at the window and sang
merrily the whole night, so that she should not lose her courage.
It was still daybreak, and it wanted an hour to sunrise, when
suddenly the eleven brothers appeared at the gate of the palace asking
to see the King; but they were told they could not, as the King was
still in bed and nobody dared to wake him. They begged and they
threatened, so that the guard was called; but in the same instant the
King appeared, asking what the noise was about, when, lo! the sun
arose, the princes disappeared, and eleven wild swans flew away over
the palace.
A great number of people were passing out of the city to see
Elizabeth burned. A wretched hack drew the cart on which she
sat dressed in coarse sackcloth. Her long golden hair hung loosely
down her shoulders, her cheeks were deadly pale, and she moved her
lips slightly as she wove the green yarn; for even on the road to
another world she did not cease working. The ten shirts lay at her
feet, and she was working on the eleventh.
The mob began to jeer at her, calling out, "Look at the witch, how
she mumbles! She has n't even got a prayer-book; she prefers her
wicked work. Take it away from her!"
And they crowded in upon her to tear it away, when eleven white
swans flew up, and seated themselves around her on the cart, striking
about with their great wings.

The people fell back in terror, whispering, " It is a sign from above!
She is certainly innocent!"
Then the executioner caught her by the hand, and at the same
moment she threw the eleven shirts over the swans, and, lo! there
stood the eleven handsome princes; but the youngest had a swan'f
wing instead of his right arm, as Elizabeth had not been aMe to
finish it.
"Now I may speak," she said. "I am innocent."
And the people, who saw what had happened, bowed down before
V
her as to a saint; but she sank senseless into her brothers' arms, quite
overcome with anxiety and pain.
"Yes, she is innocent," said the eldest brother, relating all; and
while he spoke, a scent as from a thousand roses filled the air, for every
fagot of wood in the pyre had struck root and begun to grow. There
was soon a hedge of red roses, and above them all hung a snow-white
flower, shining like a star, which the King broke and laid on Elizabeth's
breast, and she awoke with peace and happiness in her heart
.
All the church-bells began to peal of their own accord; while thou-
sands of birds flocked around, and there was a procession back to the
palace such as nobody had ever beheld.

In the city of Florence, not far from the Piazza del Granduca, runs
a little cross-street which is called, I believe, Porta Rossa. Here lies,
in front of a kind of bazaar where fruit is sold, a splendid chisled pig,
cast in bronze.
The fresh crystal water gushes from the mouth of the animal, which
from age is dark green in color. The snout alone shines as if it had
been polished, which, in fact, it has by the numerous children and
beggars who grasp it with their hands when drinking from it. It is
quite a picture to see the well-shaped animal embraced by some pretty,
half-naked boy as he puts his rosy lips to the spout.
Every visitor to Florence will easily find the spot; he need only ask
the first chance beggar for the Bronze Pig.
It was late one winter's night. The mountains were covered with
snow, but the moon was up, and moonlight in Italy gives as good a
light as on a dark winter's night in the North; yes, better, in fact, for
the clear blue air here elevates the mind, whereas in the North the
cold steel-gray sky weighs as heavily as the cold hard earth which
shall some day cover one's mortal shell. te
Away in the garden of the Grand Duke's palace, below the cover of
the cypress, where even in winter thousands of flowers bloom, a little
ragged boy had been sitting all the day, — a boy who might be the
personification of Italy, smiling, and still so destitute. He was hungry
and thirsty, for nobody had given him anything; and when it became
dark the gate-keeper turned him out, as the garden was to be closed.
For a long while he stood dreaming on the bridge across the Arno,
looking at the images of the stars sparkling in the water below tht
splendid bridge.
He then approached the Bronze Pig, knelt down, put his little arms
around its broad neck and his tiny mouth to the animal's shining snout,
and drank deep draughts of the refreshing fluid. Close by lay a couple
of lettuce-leaves and some chestnuts; these were his supper. Not a
single person could be seen in the street; and being quite alone, he
leaned up against the neck of the animal, resting his curly little head
against that of the Pig, and in a few moments he was asleep.
• The clock in the cathedral struck solemnly the midnight hour, and
lo! the Pig was alive. The boy heard it say quite plainly, " Hold on,
my little boy, for I am off;" and away it ran. It was a run indeed!
First they reached the Piazza d(el Granduca, and the bronze horse
carrying the statue of the Grand Duke neighed loudly. The dazzling
escutcheon on the old Town Hall shone like transparent pictures, and
Michael Angelo's David swung
his sling. There was indeed life!
The bronze groups representing
Perseus and "The Rape of the
Sabines" were quite too real;
Tor a cry of despair burst from
them across the grand, silent
square.
Next, the Bronze Pig halted
at the Palazzo degli Uffizi, in
the colonnade, where the nobil-
ity gather for the carnival.
"Hold on," said the animal;
*' for now we run upstairs."
The little one did not say a
word, for, though trembling a lit-
tle, he felt so happy.
They entered a long gallery; he knew it well from former visits.
On the walls hung paintings, and around stood statues and busts, al!
in the loveliest light, as if it were noonday. But the splendor seen
when the door of a chamber at the end was opened far surpassed this.
That sight the boy never forgot.
Here stood the statue of a woman, — a form as lovely as only Nature
and the hand of the greatest master of the marble could mould. She
moved her beautiful limbs; dolphins sprang at her feet, and immor-
tality shone in her eyes. The world calls her the Medicean Venus.
On each side of her stood magnificent marble statues of men; one
was sharpening a sword: he is called the Whetter. The Wrestling

Gladiators, the other group is called. The sword is sharpened, and the
gladiators wrestle for the Goddess of Beauty.
The boy was dazzled with all the splendor; the walls shone with
colors, and in everything was life and motion. But all the statues did
not move from their places, for the glory from the heads of the
Madonna, Christ, and St. John bound them. The holy figures were
no longer paintings; they were the holy persons themselves.
What light and splendor in every hall! And the little boy saw it
all, for the Bronze Pig took him into every one. But one painting in
particular fixed itself in his mind, principally through the happy chil-
dren in it. He had once nodded to them in daylight. It represents
Christ descending to Hell, by Angelo Bronzino, and the expression
of confidence in the faces of the children of reaching heaven is the
chief beauty of the work. Two little ones embrace each other, and
a third holds his hand out to another without, and points to himself
as if to say, "I am going to heaven."
The boy looked longer at that painting than at any other, and the
Bronze Pig, too, remained immovable before it. A faint sigh was
heard. Did it come from the painting, or the animal? The boy held
out his hand toward the smiling children, but the Bronze Pig ran away
with him through the open antechamber.
"I thank you from the bottom of my heart, and may God bless you
for what you have let me see, dear animal 1" said the boy, stroking it as
it went thump! thump! down the stairs with him.
"The same to you," answered the Bronze Pig. "I have helped you,
and you have helped me, for only with an innocent child on my back
have I the power to move. You see I even dare to come under the rays
of the lamp before the image of the Madonna. I may carry you
everywhere except into the church; but if outside it, I may look in
through the door. You must not, however, get down, for if ;'ou do I
assume the form I have in the day at Porta Rossa."
"I shall not leave you, dear animal," said the little boy, who was at
that moment being carried at a swift pace through the streets to the
church Santa Croce. The great double portals flew open, and the light
from the altar fell upon the deserted square. A strange glimmer
streamed from a monument over a grave in one of the left side-aisles,
thousands of stars forming like a glory around it. An escutcheon orna-
mented the grave, — a red ladder on blue ground, looking as if on fire
It was Galilei's grave. It is a simple monument, but the red ladder o\.
the blue ground is a very striking escutcheon, for it is the symbol of
Art itself, along which Genius ascends to heaven.
In the right side-aisles every monument on the costly sarcophagi
seemed to have become animated. Here stood Michael Angelo, there
Dante with the laurel-wreath round his head, and Alfieri and Macchia-
veili: side by side rest all these great sons of Italy.1
The church is a splendid one, and far more beautiful than the marble
cathedral, though not so large.
The marble garments seemed to move as the great statues looked
towards the altar, where white-clad boys swung golden censers, the
fragrance from which streamed from the church into the square
without.
The boy held forth his hand toward the splendid light, when at the
same moment the Bronze Pig ran off with him. He held on to it with
all his might, feeling the wind whistle in his ears. He thought he heard
the portals of the church scrape on their hinges as they were closed,
but in the same instant he felt losing his consciousness, an icy chill
shook him, and he awoke.
It was morning, and he was leaning against the Bronze Pig at Porta
Rossa, which looked just as usual.
Fear and terror filled his heart at the thought of her whom he called
motlier, who had yesterday sent him out to gain some money. He had
none. He was hungry and thirsty, but still he embraced and kissed the
Bronze Pig once more, nodded again to it, and then turned into a lane
so narro''. that a loaded donkey could hardly have passed along it. A
great, iron-shod door stood ajar; here he went up a stone staircase,
with dirty walls, and a rope for banister, till he reached an open gallery
where clothes were drying. From here, steps led down into the court-
yard, past the well from which the inhabitants of the house drew their
water by means of iron chains, pail dangling by pail in the air, while
the chains rattled and spilt the water into the yard.2 One more stone
staircase he scaled, when he encountered a woman, about middle age,
with thick, black hair.
"What have you brought home?" she asked sternly.
1 Michael Angelo's grave is just opposite Galilei's. On the monument is his bust and
three figures, — Sculpture, Painting, and Architecture. Close by is that of Dante, though the
body lies at Ravenna. On the monument is seen Italy pointing to the statue of Dan*_*, and
Poetry weeping. A little farther off are the graves of Alfieri and Macchiavelli.
'X have deemed it right to leave out a passage here. — Tr.
"Please don't be angry," the boy pleaded; "I could not get any-
thing, absolutely nothing," and he caught his mother's skirt as if wish-
ing to kiss it. They then entered a wretched room, on the floor of
which stood an earthen jar with charcoal in it, a so-called tnarito, which
she took on her arms and warmed her hands by.
"I am sure you got something," she said to the boy, knocking him
with her elbow.
The boy began to cry, and she kicked him so that he shrieked.
"If you don't be quiet," she said, " I will knock your brains out with
the jar," at the same time swinging it in the air so menacingly that the
boy threw himself on the floor with a piercing cry. Just then a neigh-
bor entered, also with a tnarito on her arm.
"Felicita," said the latter, "what are you doing to the child?"
"The child is mine," said the other, roughly. "I can kill it if I like,
and you too, Gianina; mind that; " and she swung the jar threateningly.
The other woman held up hers for protection, and smash! went the
jars, the bits, fire, and ashes being strewn over the room. But the boy
had fled out of the room, across the courtyard, and out of the house.
The poor little boy ran till he lost his breath, when he happened to
be at the church of Santa Croce, by the door of which he had stood the
night before, and he entered.
It was fully lit up, and he knelt by the first grave on the right, that
of Michael Angelo, and sobbed aloud. People came and went, mass
was said, but nobody took any notice of the boy, except an elderly
man who stood for a while looking at him and then went away.
Hunger and thirst tortured the poor little boy so that ho nearly
fainted, and he crept into a corner between the wall and the monument,
where he went to sleep.
It was evening when he awoke by somebody shaking him. He rose
quickly, and the elderly man stood before him.
"Are you ill? Where do you live? Have you been here all the
day?" he asked. The questions being truthfully answered, the man
led him to a little house in a by-street close at hand. They entered a
glove workshop where his wife was busy sewing, while a little white
Bolognese poodle was playing before her on the table, which rushed
toward the boy.
"The two innocents know each other," said the wife, patting them
both. The boy was then given food and drink by the kind people,
and they told him he might remain with them for the night. The next
day Master Guiseppe would speak with his mother. He was given a
plain little bed, but it was a royal one compared with lying on the hard
stone floor at home, and he slept soundly and dreamt of the Bronze
Kg-
The next morning Master Guiseppe went out, and that made the
little boy very unhappy, for he knew he went to his mother to take him
back; and he wept, and kissed the little dog. But the wife nodded to
them both.
And what news did Master Guiseppe bring home? He spoke long
with his wife, and she nodded, and patted the boy. "It is a nice boy,"
she said. "He may become as good a glove-maker as you are, and his
hands are soft and pliant . Madonna has destined him for a glove-
maker."
And the boy remained in the house, the wife herself teaching him to
sew. He picked up and became happy, and began to tease Bellissima,
as the little dog was called; but that made his mistress very angry, and
the boy was very sorry for what he had done. Thoughtful he sat in
his little chamber which looked on to the street, for he could not sleep.
The Bronze Pig was in his thoughts, and suddenly he heard a noise
outside, " Clauck! clauck!" "It must be the Bronze Pig," he thought,
rushing to the window. But there was nothing down there.
"Help the signore to carry his paint-case," said his mistress- the next
morning, when a neighbor, a young painter, came out carrying a case
and a large roll of canvas. The boy took the box and followed the
painter, who proceeding to the picture-gallery went up the staircase the
boy knew so well from the night he had run up the same on the Bronze
Pig. He recognized the statues, the lovely Venus, and the splendid
paintings.
Now they stood before Bronzino's painting of Christ and the little
laughing children, and the boy laughed too, for he was with them in
heaven.
"Well, now you had better go home," said the painter, as the boy
had waited to see him raise his easel.
"May I look at you painting?" said the boy. "May I be allowed
to see how you transfer the painting to that piece of white stuff?"
*' I am not going to paint now," said the artist, opening his box of
chalks. His hand travelled rapidly, while his eye rested on the great
painting, and though the touches were faint, Christ was soon depicted
on the canvas.
"But now you must be off," said the painter; and the boy went
quietly home and took his place on the table, learning to sew gloves.
But all the day his thoughts were in the picture-gallery, and therefore
he pricked his fingers and was very awkward; but he did not tease Bel-
lissima. At night, the door being still open, he stole out. It was a
cold but starlight night, so lovely and bright. He wandered through
the streets, already quiet and deserted, and soon afterwards he stood
before the Bronze Pig. He bent over it and kissed its shining snout.
"You dear animal," he said; "how I have been longing after you!
To-night we must have a ride."

But the Bronze Pig did not stir, and the fresh water gushed from its
mouth. Then, just as the little boy had seated himself on its back, he
felt something tugging at his trousers; he looked down and beheld —
Bellissima! The dog had stolen after him without being noticed, and
he barked as if saying, "Don't you see me? What do you sit there
for?" No fierce dragon could have frightened the boy more than
the dog in that place. Bellissima in the streets, and without being
"dressed," as his mistress called it. What would it end in? Bellissima
never went out in the winter without wearing a little sheepskin coat,
which had been made for him. It was tied with a red ribbon round
the neck, and had a rosette and a bell. The dog looked almost like a
little lamb when dressed thus for a walk with the signora. Bellissima
V,
there without being dressed! All the boy's illusions were gone; but
itill he kissed the Bronze Pig, and took the dog, which trembled with
cold, on his arms, and ran off for home as fast as he could.
"What are you running off with?" two policemen called out; and the
dog began to bark. "Where have you stolen that pretty dog?" and
they took it away from him.
"Oh, do give him back to me !" pleaded the boy.
"If you have n't stolen him, tell them at home that they can have him
back at the station," they said, and walked off.
What terrible fear and despair! The boy did not know whether to
throw himself in the Arno or go home and confess all. "They are
sure to kill me," he thought. "But I should like to die, for then 1
should go to Jesus and the Madonna." And then he went home; but
mostly because he wished to die.
The door was closed, and he could not reach the knocker. There
was not a soul in the street; but a stone lying near, he began to knock
with it
.
"Who is that? " somebody asked within.
"It is I," he said. "Bellissima is lost . Open the door and kill me!"
The anxiety for Bellissima became very great, particularly on the
part of the mistress of the house, who, looking on the wall, saw the
sheepskin hang there.
"Bellissima at the station!" she called out . "You naughty boy!
How did you get her out? She is sure to freeze to death. Fancy the
delicate creature among the rough men!" Her husband had to go
out . His wife cried with the boy, and all the people in the house,
including the painter, appeared on the scene. He took the boy
between his knees, and questioning him, gathered all about the Bronze
Pig and the picture-gallery, though it was not easy to understand.
The artist soothed the boy, and tried to put a kind word in for him
with his mistress; but she was not pacified till her husband brought
the dog. Now there was joy, and the artist patted the boy on the
head and gave him a number of drawings.
What a collection! There were comical heads among others, but,
what was the finest of all, the Bronze Pig itself. Could anything be
better? There it was in a few touches, and even the house behind it.
"Oh, if I could only draw and paint," sighed the boy; "then I
should possess all the world."
The next day, when he was alone, he seized a pencil and attempted
iu copy the Bronze Pig; and he succeeded. It was certainly a little
awkward and a little out of proportion, but still one could sec what it
was meant to represent, and the boy was delighted with the result.
The pencil would at first not travel so well; but the following day there
stood a second Bronze Pig by the side of the first, and it was a great
deal better; and the third he drew was so good that everybody could
see what it was meant to represent.
But he was slow in learning to sew gloves, and the errands in the
city took very long, for the Bronze Pig had taught him that all pictures
might be transferred to paper; and Florence is a huge picture-book to
those who take tho trouble to look at it.

On the Piazza della Trinitd stands a column on the top of which the
Goddess of Justice is placed, blindfolded, and with the scales and the
sword. Soon she stood on the paper, and it was the glove-maker's
little boy who had drawn it.
The collection of drawings increased, but still all in it were dead
things, when one day Bellissima jumped before the boy. "Be quiet,"
he said, "and you shall come among my drawings." But the dog
would not stand still, so he tied it on to a chair by its head and tail.
The dog began to snarl and struggle, and in the same instant the
signora entered.
"You wicked boy!" she cried in great rage, striking him at the
"N
same time. "Out of the house with you at once! You are a nasty
ungrateful wretch!" and she kissed her little dog.
As the boy was on the point of going, the artist came upstairs — and
here was the turning-point in the boy's career.
In the year 1834 there was an exhibition of paintings in the Academic
delle Arte in Florence, at which two paintings, hanging side by side,
attracted immense attention. On the smallest was seen a lively little
boy, who was in the act of drawing a little white poodle, which was
tied on to a chair by its head and tail. There was a life and truthful-
ness in the painting which captivated everybody. The artist was, it
was stated, a young Florentine who had been found in the street as a
boy, and who, on being brought up as a glove-maker, had taught
himself to draw. A now famous painter had discovered the boy's
talent just as he was on the point of being dismissed because he had
tied up the signora's pet dog to serve as his model.
The glove-maker's apprentice had become a great painter, — that, this
picture alone testified; but the one next to.it more so. It represented
only a single figure; namely, a pretty, ragged boy lying asleep, leaning
against the Bronze Pig in the street Porta Rossa. Every one knew the
spot. The child's arms encircled the animal's head, and he was sleep-
ing peacefully, while the lamp at the image of the Madonna threw a
strong light on his pale, beautiful face. It was a grand painting, and
mounted in a fine gilt frame, on the corner of which hung a wreath
of laurels; but between the leaves fluttered a black ribbon, and a long
black veil descended therefrom.
The young artist had the same day gone to his heavenly rest
.

THERE was once a poor Prince who had a kingdom which certainly
was very small, but still large enough to get married on, and married he
wanted to be.
It was indeed bold of him to say to the Emperor's daughter, "Will
you marry mc?" But he dared to do so, for he was known far and
wide, and there were hundreds of princesses who would have jumped
at the offer. But don't think she did.
Well, now we shall hear.
On the grave of the Prince's father grew a rose-tree; oh, such a
lovely rose-tree! but it only bloomed once in five years, and then it bore
only one flower. That flower smelt, however, so sweet that anybody
who smelt it forgot at once all his troubles. He had also a nightingale
which could sing the most beautiful airs, and the rose and the bird were
presented to the Princess in two big silver cases.
The Emperor had them carried into a room where the Princess was
playing with her ladies-in-waiting at giving " at homes," for they had
nothing else to do; and when she saw the big cases with the presents,
she clapped her hands with delight.
"Oh, I wish it were a little kitten," she said; but then the lovely rose
tvas brought out.
*' Ah, how beautifully it is made!" exclaimed the court ladies.
"It is more than that," said the Emperor; "it is neat."
But the Princess touched it.and almost began to cry.
"Fie, pa!" she exclaimed; "it is not artificial, it is natural t*'
"Fie!" cried all her ladies in chorus; "it is natural f"
"Well, let us see what is in the other case before we lose our temper,"
said the Emperor; and the nightingale was brought out. It sang so
beautifully that it was impossible to say anything against it at first.
"Superb! charmante!" ejaculated the ladies; for of course they ail
spoke French, one worse than another.
"How the bird reminds me of the deeply lamented Empress's mu-
sical box," said an old courtier. "Ay, it is the same tone, the same
execution."
"It is, it is indeed," said the old Emperor, with tears in his eyes.
"I believe it is not natural," said the Princess.
"Oh, yes, it is," replied those who had brought it.
"Well, let it fly," said the Princess; and she would have nothing what-
ever to do'with the Prince.
But he was not disheartened. He rubbed his face with dirt, put on
old clothes, pressed his hat over his eyes, and went to the palace of the
Emperor.
"How do you do, Emperor?" he said. "Can I get some situation
here?"
"Well," replied the Emperor, "we have many applicants here; but
all the same I want somebody to look after the pigs, for I have a good
many of them."
And so the Prince was made Imperial Swine-herd. He was given
a wretched little room close to the pigsty, where he had to live. But
he sat working the whole day, and in the evening he had made a little
saucepan, with bells all around the brim, and when it boiled, the bells
began to play the well-known old song, —
"Oh, my little darling,
I love you!"
But the strangest part of it was that anybody putting his finger into it
could smell the dinner that was being cooked in every kitchen in the
whole town; so that was really something better than the rose.
Then the Princess came along with her ladies, and when she heard the
song she stopped, being much pleased, for she too could play "Oh, my
little darling." It was the only thing she knew; and that she could only
play with one finger.
"Why, it is the song / play," she said. "He must be an educated
swine-herd. Look here! Just go and ask him what the instrument
costs."
And one of the ladies had to go into the mire; bat she put pattens
Over her shoes.
"What do you want for that saucepan?" she asked.
"I want ten kisses from the Princess," answered the Swine-herd.
'» ~%^3?'
* Lor!'" exclaimed the lady.
"Well, I won't take less," said the Swine-herd.
"What does he ask?" inquired the Princess.
"I don't dare to say it," said the lady; "it is so awful."
"Well, you can whisper it to me," replied the Princess; and so the
lady whispered.
"He must be mad," exclaimed the Princess, and walked quickly
away.

But when she had gone a little distance the bells began again to
play, —
r "Oh, my little darling,
I love you!"
"Look here," said the Princess, " ask him if he won't take ten kisses
from my ladies."
"No, thank you," replied the Swine-herd; "ten kisses from the Prin-
cess, or I keep my saucepan."
"How very annoying!" exclaimed the Princess. "Well, you will have
to stand around me, so that nobody shall see it."
And the ladies placed themselves around her, and the Swine-herd
received the ten kisses, and the Princess the saucepan.
Oh, what joy there was now! Night and day the saucepan had to
boil; and in the whole town there was n't a kitchen in which they did not
know what was being cooked, from the courtiers down to the lowest
.
THE SWINE-HERDL
±vtf&3^.
••We know who is going to have tripe and onions," they exclaimed,
"and who is going to have mutton cutlets. Oh, how interesting!"
"Very interesting indeed," rejoined the old mistress of the cere-
monies.
"But take care you hold your tongues," said the Princess; "for re«
member, I am the Emperor's daughter."
"Oh, dear, yes!" exclaimed the court ladies.
The Swine-herd, that is, the Prince, — but of course they did not know
he was anything but a common Swine-herd, — spent the day in making
a rattle, which, when it was turned, played all the waltzes, galops,
and polkas composed since the world was created.
"It is really superb" said the Princess, as she passed. "I never
heard a prettier composition. Look here! go and ask him what he
wants for the instrument; but I will not be kissed."
"He wants a hundred kisses from the Princess," replied the lady who
had inquired.
"He must be mad," said the Princess, walking away.
But when she had gone some distance she paused and said, "I
must encourage art; I am the Emperor's daughter. Tell him he shall
have the same number as yesterday; the rest he can take from my
ladies."
"But we don't care about it," they answered.
"Nonsense!" said the Princess; "if I kiss him, you can. Remember,
I pay and feed you." And the lady had to proceed to the Swine-herd
again.
"A hundred kisses, or eac!>. keeps his own," was the reply.
"Stand around me," said the Princess; and so the kissing began.
"What does that crowd down by the pigsty mean?" said the Em-
peror to himself, standing on the balcony; and he rubbed his eyes and
put on his spectacles. "I am sure it is the ladies-in-waiting who are up
to some joke; I must go and see what it is; " and he drew his slippers
up at the heels, for they were trodden down.
How fast he ran!
As soon as he got into the yard he walked very quietly, and the
ladies had so much to do with counting the kisses that they did not
notice him. He raised himself on tiptoe.
"What in the world is this?" he exclaimed, when he saw the kissing;
and in the next moment he struck the Swine-herd on the head with his
slipper, just as he was receiving the eighty-sixth kiss.
y"
"Out with you both !" he exclaimed, for he was very angry. And so
the Princess and Swine-herd were turned out of the empire.

There she now stood, crying; and then it began to rain.
"Oh, poor wretch that lam!" exclaimed the Princess; "if I had only
taken the handsome Prince! I am so
unhappy!"
Then the Swine-herd went behind
a tree, washed the dirt off his face,
threw away his shabby clothes, and
went before her in his princely gar-
ments, looking very handsome.
"I have learned to despise you," he
said. "You refused an honest Prince,
and you did not appreciate the rose and
the nightingale, but the common Swine-
herd you kissed for a plaything. Now
you must lie on the bed you have made
for yourself."
And then he went into his kingdom
and locked the gate, while the Prin-

cess was left outside with her saucepan and rattle,
In China, as you know, the Emperor is a Chinese, and all those about
him Chinese. It is now many years ago, but that is just the reason
why the story is worth hearing before it is lost . The Emperor's palace
was the most magnificent in the world, entirely made of the finest porce-
lain, and it was so delicate that one had really to be careful when touch-
ing it. In the park were rarest flowers, and to the most gorgeous, silver
bells were attached, which rang, so that nobody should pass without
noting them. Everything was carefully arranged in the Emperor's
park, and it was so great that the gardener did not know how far it ex-
tended; for if one continued to walk in it one entered the most beautiful
forest, with tall trees and deep lakes. The forest reached right down
to the deep and blue sea, and great ships could float close into it. Here
in the woods lived a Nightingale which sang so beautifully that even
the poor fisherman, who had his work to attend to, lay listening at
night. "Oh, how sweetly it sings!" he exclaimed.
From all the countries in the world people came to the Emperor's
city, who admired the same, the palace and the park; but when they
heard the Nightingale they all said, "That is the most wonderful."
And when the travellers came home, many a book was written about
the city, the palace, and the park, and nobody forgot the Nightingale.
It was praised the most; and those who could write sonnets wrote the
most beautiful in its honor.
The books went all over the world, and some at last reached the Em-
peror. He was sitting in a chair of gold, reading and reading, and
every moment he nodded his head; for he liked to read the flattering
accounts of the city, the palace, and the park. "But the Nightingale
is the most wonderful of all," it said.
"What is this?" he exclaimed. "The Nightingale! I don't know
it . Does such a bird exist in my empire, and that in my own park
.
!
too? I never heard of it before. It is the sort of thing one learns by
reading."
And he called one of his courtiers, who was so noble that when any-
body who was below him in rank ventured to speak to him, he only an-
swered by putting his tongue out.
"It is stated to be a most remarkable bird, here called a Night-
ingale," said the Emperor. "It is said to be the most wonderful
thing in my whole empire. Why has n't somebody told me about it
before?"
"I never heard of the thing," replied the courtier; "it has never
been presented at Court."
"I desire it to come and sing for me to-night;" said the Emperor;
"the whole world seems to know what I possess, except myself."
"I have never heard of the Nightingale," repeated the courtier;
"but I will find him, most certainly."
But where? The courtier ran up and down stairs, and through all
the chambers and passages of the palace, but nobody whom he met had
heard of the Nightingale, and said that no doubt it was all fiction, what
was written about it.
"I beg your Imperial Majesty not to believe what the book says; it
is all fiction, if not sorcery."
"But the book in which I have read it has been sent to me by
the great Emperor of Japan, therefore it must be true. I command
the Nightingale to be here to-night. If not, the whole Court will
be drummed on their stomachs after supper."
"Tsing-pa!" exclaimed the courtier, and ran up and down stairs, and
through all the chambers and passages of the palace again, followed by
half the Court, for they did not like being drummed on their stomachs.
There was an incessant inquiry for the wonderful Nightingale, which all
the world knew, but nobody at Court.
At last they found a little girl in the kitchen who said, " Dear me, my
lord, the Nightingale! I know it, and how lovely it sings! I am
allowed to carry some remnants from the table every night to my
mother, who lives by the sea, and when I return, and being tired rest
in the forest, I hear it singing. My eyes become filled with tears there-
by; I feel as if my mother kisses me."
"Little kitchen-maid," said the courtier, " I will get you a situation
as under-cook, and let you see Ae Emperor <at, if yoti'will showstfS
the Nightingale, for it has be*en ordered to Court tcHiight."
-
And so they all set out for the forest where the Nightingale used to
sing. After a little while they heard the lowing of a cow.
"Ah," said the courtier, " here it is! There is, indeed, great strength
in such a small animal. I am sure I have heard it before."
"No, my lord, that is a cow lowing," said the kitchen-maid. "We
are still far from the place."
Then they heard the croaking of frogs.
"Magnificent," said the Court chaplain; "I hear it. It is like
church-bells."
"No, that is the frogs," said the girl; "but now we shall soon hear
him."
Now the Nightingale began to sing.

"That's it," said the kitchen-maid. "Listen! And there it sits,"
she added, pointing to a little bird on a bough.
"Is it possible?" said the courtier. "I never thought he was like
that. How common it looks! Surely it must have lost all its color at
the sight of so many grand people."
"Little Nightingale," cried the kitchen-maid, " our gracious Emperor
wishes so much that you should sing before him."
"I will do so with great pleasure," replied the Nightingale; and it
sang so sweetly that everybody was charmed.
"It is like glass bells," said the courtier. "Just look how the little
throat works; it is remarkable that we have never heard of it before
It is sure to be a success at Court."
"Shall I sing once more for the Emperor?" asked the Nightingale,
believing that the Emperor was present.
"Charming little Nightingale !" said the courtier, "I have the pleasure
of informing you that the Emperor commands your presence at Court
to-night, in order to delight him with your lovely voice."
"It sounds best in the woods," said the Nightingale; but still it
followed them, as the Emperor wished it.
The palace was like a fairy castle. Walls and roofs, which were
all of porcelain, sparkled in the light of thousands of golden lamps,
while the choicest flowers which could sing were ranged in the cor-
ridors.
In the middle of the great hall, where the Emperor sat, a tree of gold
was raised, on which the Nightingale was to sit. The whole Court was
present, and the little kitchen-maid was allowed to stand behind the
door, as she was now promoted. Everybody was in Court dress, and
everybody looked at the little gray bird to which the Emperor was
nodding. Then the Nightingale sang so charmingly that tears rose
to the eyes of the Emperor and even rolled down his cheeks. And the
Nightingale sang sweeter still, so lovely that the Emperor's heart was
touched; which made him so delighted that he offered it his gold slip-
per to wear round its neck; but the Nightingale declined the offer
with thanks, for it was already more than satisfied.
"I have seen tears in the eyes of the Emperor," it said; "that is
enough for me. An Emperor's tear is worth the finest gem. I am
fully repaid;" and it sang again more beautifully than before.
"It is the dearest flirtation I have known," said the ladies; and they
took water in their mouths to cluck when anybody spoke to them,
and tried to think that they too were nightingales. Ay, even the ser-
vants deigned to remark that they were pleased; and that was the
greatest compliment, for they are the most difficult to please. Yes, the
Nightingale was indeed a success.
„ The bird had to remain at Court, had its own cage, and could walk
out twice a day and once a night. It had twelve attendants, who all
held a silk ribbon attached to its legs, so there wasn't much enjoyment
in the walks.
The whole town talked about the wonderful bird; and when two per-
sona met each other, one said, "Nightin," and the other only, "gale;"
and so they understood each other. Ay, eleven little boys were even
named after it, though not a single one of them could sing a note.
One day the Emperor received a big parcel, outside which was
written, " Nightingale."
"Here is a new book about our bird," said the Emperor. But it was
no book. It was a work of art in a box; namely, an artificial night-
ingale, which was like the real one, only it was covered with precious
stones. As soon as it was wound up it sang one of the melodies of the
real bird, while its tail bobbed up and down glittering with silver and
gold. Round its neck hung a ribbon, on which was written, "The
Emperor of Japan's nightingale is poor compared with the Emperor of
China's."
"It iscJiarmante" they all cried; and he who had brought the artificial
bird was at once created Imperial Grand Master of the Nightingale.
"Now they must sing together," said the Emperor; but it did not go
well, for the real Nightingale sang in its natural way, and the artificial
one could not keep time.
Then the artificial bird sang alone, which it did as well as the real
one; and in addition it glittered like bracelets and rings, which, of
course, was more delightful to look at.
Thirty-three times it sang the same song without being tired, and
some wanted it to sing it again; but the Emperor thought that now the
real Nightingale ought to sing. But where was it? Nobody had no-
ticed it flying away through the open window to its green woods.
"What does that mean?" said the Emperor. And the courtiers
thought it was very ungrateful of the bird. "But we have the best left,"
they said; and so the artificial Nightingale had to sing again, and every-
body praised it far more than the real one.
"You see, your Majesty," said a courtier, "with the real bird one
never knows what is to come, but here everything is arranged. That
comes and nothing else. It can be explained; we may even rip it open
and show how one waltz follows another."
"That is just my opinion, too," cried the rest of the Court. Then
the Emperor ordered the bird to sing before the people on the Sunday
following, and they were as delighted as if they had taken too much
tea, for that is really Chinese; and they all held up one finger, nodded
their heads, and said "Ah!" But the poor fishermen who had heard
the real Nightingale said that the artificial one sang well in its way, but
that it lacked something, they could not say what.
The real Nightingale was next banished from the empire.
The artificial Nightingale was placed on a silk cushion By tfie
Emperor's bed, and around were laid all its presents of precious stones.
It was given the title of " Imperial Bedroom Songster," with the rank
of Number One on the left side; for the Emperor considered that side
the most aristocratic, because it was the side of the heart, — for the
heart is on the left side even with an Emperor.
The Court Composer wrote five-and-twenty volumes about the bird,
so lengthy and so learned, with the most difficult Chinese words. And
those who read them said it was all very clear; for if they had not, they
would of course have been declared fools and been drummed on the
stomach.
Thus a year passed. The Emperor, the Court, and all the people
knew every note in the artificial Nightingale's song; but that was just
why they liked it, for then they could all sing as well. The boys in
the street sang, "Zizi-zi! clunck! clunck! clunck!" as well as the Em-
peror himself. Ay, it was quite charming!
But one night as the Emperor was lying in bed listening to the bird's
song, something went "Bang!" inside it; there was a crack and
whir-r-r-r! all the wheels spun round — and all was silent.
The Emperor at once jumped out of bed and called his body-physi-
cian; but what could he do? Then a watchmaker was called, and after
much talking and examining he succeeded in repairing it somehow; but
it had to be used carefully, as the springs were worn out and could not
be replaced, if it should sing at all. There was great grief everywhere,
and only once a-year the bird was allowed to sing; and that was quite
enough. The Court Composer made a speech with all the strange
words in it, saying that it was as good as before; and so everybody
said the same.
- /ive years had elapsed, when there was a great grief in the country;
for the Emperor was ill and could not live, and he was much beloved
by his subjects. A new Emperor had already been proclaimed, and
people stood outside the palace asking the courtiers how the Emperor
was.
"T! T!" they said, and shook their heads.
The Emperor lay cold and pale in his great splendid bed, and the
Court, believing him dead, hurried out to do homage to the new Em-
peror. The attendants ran out to talk about the matter, and the ladies-
in-waiting had a great tea-party. In every room and corridor carpets
had been laid down, and therefore not a single sound was heard any-
where. But the Emperor was not yet dead. Calm and pale he lay in
V
his magnificent bed with long silk curtains and heavy gold tassels,
while the moon shone upon him from a window high up on the wall,
as well as on the artificial Nightingale.
The poor Emperor could hardly breathe; he felt as if somebody was
sitting on his chest; and opening his eyes he beheld Death sitting on
the bed, with the Emperor's crown on his head, his sword in his hand,
and the imperial standard over his shoulder. And all around strange
heads peeped through the folds of the bed-curtains, some of whom

were horrible to look at, and others pleasant. They were the Emperor's
good and bad deeds who looked at him, while Death weighed on his
chest
.
"Do you remember me?" said one. "Do you remember me?"
added another. And they told him of his bad deeds till a cold per-
spiration gathered on his forehead.
''I don't know anything about it!" cried the Emperor. "For
heaven's sake, music, music! — the great Chinese drum! only stifle
what they are saying!"
But they continued, and Death nodded his head at what they were
relating, like a true Chinese.
, "Music! music !" cried the Emperor again in agony. "Dear litde
gold-bird, sing! only sing! I have given you gold and precious stones;
I have with my own hands hung my gold slipper round your neck.
Sing, only sing!"
But the bird remained silent; there was nobody to wind it up, and
otherwise it could not sing. And Death continued'to stare at the Em-
peror with his hollow eyes, while the silence around was quite terrible.
In that moment a lovely song was heard close to the window; it
was the little living Nightingale sitting without. It had heard about
the Emperor's illness, and had come to comfort and encourage him.
And as it sang, the horrible phantom became fainter and fainter, while
the blood in the Emperor's body coursed quicker and quicker, and
even Death listened, and said encouragingly, " Go on, little Nightin-
gale 1 go on!"
"I will if you will give me the golden sword, if you will give me
that standard, if you will give me the Emperor's crown," responded the
bird.
And Death gave every one for a song; while the Nightingale sang
about the peaceful graveyard, where the white roses bloom, where the
honeysuckle scents the air, and where the green grass is moistened by
the tears of mourners, so that Death began to long so much for his
garden that he swept out of the window like a cold white mist.
"Thank you, thank you, little divine bird!" cried the Emperor; "I
know you. Although I banished you from my domains, you have
driven the horrible phantoms from my bed and Death from my heart.
How can I repay you?"
"I am fully rewarded," replied the Nightingale; "I drew tears from
your eyes the first time I sang to you; that I shall never forget. Those
are jewels which the heart of a songster prizes above all others; but
now you must sleep, and become well and strong. In the mean time I
will sing to you."
When the morning sun shone in on him through the window, the
Emperor awoke quite restored; but none of his attendants had as yet
returned, for they believed he was dead; and the Nightingale was still
singing.
"You must always remain with me," said the Emperor; "you shall
only sing when you like, and the artificial Nightingale I will destroy."
"No, don't do that," answered the Nightingale. "It did what it
could do; keep it . I cannot live at the palace, but let me come when I
like. I will come at night, and sit outside your window and sing to you,
so that you may be delighted as well as reflective. I will sing of those
who are happy and those who are suffering, of the good and bad hid-
den around you. The little songster flies far and wide, to the poor
fisherman and the honest peasant. I will come and tell you all; but I
love your heart better than your crown, though the crown has a halo
around it . But you must promise me one thing —"
* "Everything!" cried the Emperor, as he stood in his imperial robes
in which he had dressed himself, holding the heavy gold sword to his
heart.
"You must promise me never to tell anybody that a little songster
tells you everything."
And so the Nightingale flew away.
Then the attendants entered to look at their deceased Emperor. Y«s»
there they stood amazed; and the Emperor said, " Good-morning."


A STORV IN SEVEN PARTS.
First Part,—wkick deals with the Looking-glass and its Fragments.
WELL, now we are going to begin, and when we have got to the end
of the story we shall know more than we do now, for it is of a wicked
demon, — one of the very worst.
One day he was in high spirits, for he had made a looking-glass
which possessed this peculiarity, — thct everything good or beautiful
reflected in it dwindled down to almost nothing, but whatever was
worthless and unsightly stood out bolrily *.nd became still worse. The
most beautiful landscapes when seen in 't looked only like cooked
spinach, and even handsome people became repulsive, or stood on their
heads and looked ridiculous. The faces were so distorted that they
could not be recognized; and if any one had a freckle, never mind how
small, it was sure to spread over nose and mouth. That was highly
amusing, the demon said. When anything good or innocent entered a
man's head there was a grin on the face of the looking-glass, and the
demon laughed heartily at his ingenious invention. All who attended
his school of sorcery related everywhere that a miracle had happened,
and that now, for the first time, one could see what man and the world
^ ._.-*._
really were like They ran about everywhere with the looking-glass,
till at last there was no man and no country that had not been distorted
by it . Not satisfied with this, they flew up to Heaven with it to scoff
at the angels; but the looking-glass shook so violently with its own
grinning that it slipped out of their hands, and having fallen to the
earth broke into hundreds of millions of billions of pieces, ay, even
more,—and these caused greatest mischief, for some of the pieces
were not larger than dust, .and whoever got them in his eyes as they
were flying about in the air saw the whole human race distorted; for
each particle, however small, retained the peculiarity of the looking-
glass when whole. Some men even got a small piece of the glass in
their hearts; and that was dreadful, for the heart became like a lump
of ice. Some of the pieces were so large that they were used for
window-panes, but it would not do to look at one's friends through
them. Other pieces were made into spectacles, and then indeed all
went wrong, particularly when people put them on in order to see right
and to be just.
And some of the dust of the broken glass is still flying about in the
air. But now we shall hear.
Second Part. — A Little Boy and a Little Girl.
IN a large city, where there were so many people and houses that
there was not room enough for all to have even a little garden, and
where they were mostly, therefore, obliged to be satisfied with flowers
in flower-pots, there lived two poor children who had a garden a little
larger than a flower-pot. They were not brother and sister, but were
as fond of each other as if'they had been so. Their parents lived exactly
opposite each other, in two attics; and where the roof of the one house
would have joined the other they were separated by a gutter running
between them; but in each house there was a small window, so that
one had but to step across the gutter to reach from the one ,.;ttic
to the other.
Outside each window was a large wooden box, in which grew some
kitchen-herbs and a rose-tree, flourishing equally well in both. It
occurred to the parents to place the boxes crossways over the gutter,
so that they reached nearly from one window to the other, looking like
two walls covered with flowers. For peas hung down over the sides of
;„~*
Z£F&,
the boxes, and the branches of the rose-trees bent forward towards
each other, so that it looked almost like a triumphal arch of leaves and
flowers. As the boxes were very high, and the children not allowed
to climb upon them, they often received permission to get out of the
windows, where, seated on their little stools under the rose-trees, they
used to play together.
In winter there was an end to this amusement, for the windows were
often quite covered with ice; but then the children warmed halfpence
on the stove, and laying the warm coin against the frozen glass made a
beautiful peep-hole, so round! and behind each there shone a bright,
sparkling eye, — that of the little girl and the little boy. His name
was Kay, and hers Gerda. In summer they could be together with
one jump; but in winter they had to run down all the stairs of the one
house and up those of the other, while the snow was falling without
.
"Those are the white bees swarming," the old Grandmother used
to say.
"Have they a queen too?" asked the little boy, for he knew there
was such a one among the real bees.
"Yes, they have," said the Grandmother. "She is flying there, where
they are swarming thickest; she is the largest of them all, and she
never rests quiet on the ground, but flies up again into the black
clouds. Often during the winter night she flies through the streets of
the toim and looks in through the windows, which are then covered
with frost in such strange forms as if they were so many flowers."
"Yes, that I have seen," said both children; and now they knew that
it was true.
"Can the Snow-queen enter here?" asked the little girl.
"Let her come," said the boy, "and I will put her on the stove; then
she will melt."
But the Grandmother smoothed his hair and told them other stories.
That evening, when little Kay was at home and half undressed, he
climbed into a chair by the side of the window and looked through the
hole. Some flakes of snow were falling, and one among them, the very
largest, remained lying on the rim of the flower-box. It increased more
and more, till at last it became a lady dressed in the finest white gauze,
as if formed by millions of star-like flakes. She was so beautiful, but
of ice, — dazzling, glistening ice; and yet she was alive. Her eyes
sparkled like two bright stars, but they were restless and unsteady.
She nodded towards the window and beckoned with her finger, which
"V
ft ightened the little boy so much that he jumped down from the chair;
and just then it seemed as if a large bird flew past the window.
The next day there was a clear frost. Then spring came; the sun
shone, the trees began to bud, the swallows built their nests, the win-
dows were opened, and the littie children again sat in their tiny garden,
high up on the roof in the gutter.
The roses bloomed more beautifully than ever this summer; and the
little girl having learned a hymn in which there was mention of roses, it
"eminded her of her own, and she sang the hymn to the little boy, who
joined in it, —
"Though the bloom of the rose will fade away,
We shall meet the dear Christ-child some day."
The little ones held each other by the hand, kissed the roses, and
looked into the bright sunshine, as if beholding the Christ-child.
What delightful summer days those were, and how pleasant it was
to be out of doors near the fresh rose-trees, which seemed as if they
would never have done blooming!
Kay and Gerda were seated, looking over a picture-book of animals
and birds, when, just as the church-
bells struck five, Kay exclaimed,
"Oh, something sharp has run into
my heart, and now something has
flown into my eyes!"
The little girl took him round the
neck and looked in his eyes; but
no, there was nothing to be seen.
"I think it is gone again," he
said; but it was not gone. It was
just one of the pieces of the magic
glass, which, we recollect, fell and
was broken, — the hateful glass that
made everything great and good
reflected in it appear small and con-
temptible; but what was bad and
mean was made most of, and the
faults in anything became very prominent . Poor Kay had got one of
these pieces into his heart too, and soon that would become a lump of
ice. It did not hurt him any longer, but still it was there.
"Why are you crying?" he asked. "It makes you look so ugly,

O"
'KAY AND GERDA WERE SKATZk
TOGETHER."
and there is nothing whatever the matter with me." Then all at once
he exclaimed, "Look, how nasty that rose is! it is all worm-eaten; and
this one is quite out of shape. They are ugly flowers, like the box in
which they grow;" and he kicked the box, and tore off some of the
roses.
"What are you doing, Kay?" cried the little girl; and as he saw
her fright he tore off another rose and clambered in through his window,
away from the dear little Gerda.
When she afterwards came with the picture-book he said it was only
fit for babies; and when the old Grandmother told stories, he would
constantly interrupt her with a "but;" and when he could manage it,
he got behind her, and putting a pair of spectacles on his nose, imitated
her so exactly that all who saw him laughed. Soon he could mimic
the inhabitants of the whole street, imitating their peculiarities and
weaknesses, so that people said, "That boy has a wonderful head;" but
it was only the glass that had got into his eyes, the glass that was in his
heart; and that was the reason why he teased even little Gerda, who
loved him with all her heart.
His play was now quite different from what it used to be, it was so
sensible. One winter's day, when it was snowing, he brought a large
magnifying-glass, and holding out a corner of his blue coat, let the
snow-flakes fall upon it.
"Look through the glass, Gerda," he said; and the snow-flakes
appeared much larger, looking like beautiful flowers or ten-cornered
stars; they were quite beautiful to look at . "Now, are not these more
interesting than the real flowers?" Kay said. "See, there is not a sin-
gle fault in them, they are all perfect; if they could but remain without
melting!"
Soon after, Kay appeared with large gloves on, carrying his little
sliding-sledge on his back; and he shouted in Gerda's ear, "I have got
leave to go to the great square, where the other boys play;" and he
was gone.
There, in the square, the boldest of the boys fastened their sledges
behind the farmers' carts, and went a good way with them. All was
life; and when they were at the height of their play there came a
large long sledge, painted entirely white, and in it sat a figure muffled
up in white fur, with a white fur cap on. The sledge drove round the
sqrare ten times, and Kay quickly fastened his little sledge to it . It
ran faster and faster, and then turned into one of the streets that
run out ot the square. The person driving turned round and nodded
so friendly to Kay, just as if they knew each other; and each time he
was on the point of unfastening his sledge the person nodded to him
again, so that he remained where he was, and they drove out through the
city gates. The snow began to fall so thickly that the little boy could
not see his hand, and then he undid the string with which he had
fastened himself to the large sledge; but that was of no use, for his little
sledge remained attached to the other, and on they flew as fast as the
wind. He called out as loud as he could, but no one heard him, and
the sledge seemed to drive over hedges and ditches; then he grew
quite frightened, and tried to say his prayers, but could think of nothing
but his multiplication-table.
The snow-flakes grew larger and larger, till at last they appeared
like white chickens, when of a sudden they turned aside and the
large sledge stopped. The person driving it stood up, and Kay now
saw that it was a lady, tall, slim, and dazzlingly white. It was the
Snow-queen.
"We have had a good drive," she said; "but you are cold? Come,
creep under my bear-skin." And she seated him by her side in the
sledge, covering him up with the skin; but he felt as if he were sinking
into a snow-drift.
"Are you still cold? " she asked, kissing him on the forehead. Oh!
that was colder than ice, and seemed to penetrate to his very heart,
which was already almost a lump of ice. He felt as if he were going to
die, but only for a moment, after which he was comfortable, and did not
in the least feel the cold.
"My sledge! do not forget my sledge!" he cried. Of that he thought
first; and it was fastened to one of the white chickens, which followed
with it on its back. The Snow-queen kissed Kay again, and then he
forgot little Gerda, Grandmother, and all at home.
"You must have no more kisses," she said, " or else I shall kiss you
to death."
Kay looked at her; she was so beautiful, and a more intelligent,
lovely face he could not imagine. She no longer seemed of ice, as
when she sat outside on the window-sill and beckoned to him. In his
eyes she was perfection, and he had no fear; he told her that he could
reckon in his head, and knew the number of square miles the country
contained, as well as the number of its inhabitants, and she smiled at all
he said It then seemed to him as if he did not yet know enough, and
he looked up into the vast expanse of air. She flew up with him, hignc*
and higher, on to the black clouds; and the storm whistled and howled,
but it sounded like old songs. They flew over forests and lakes, over
seas and continents. Beneath them the cold wind whistled, the wolve3
howled, the snow sparkled; but high above them the moon shone
brightly, and on this Kay's eyes were fixed the whole long winter's
night . During the day he slept at the feet of the Snow-queen.
Third Part. — The Flower-garden of the Sorceress.
But how did little Gerda get on when Kay did not return? What
could have become of him? No one knew, no one could give any in-
formation. The boys could only vcll that they had seen him fasten his
sledge to a magnificent large .::<., whi~h had driven along the street
and out of the city gates. N one could tell where he was. Many
tears were shed, and LttL Gerda cried more than all. Then it was
said he was dead, that nc had falkn into the river which flowed past the
town. Oh, what lo. g, dreary winter days those were!
Now spring came and warm sunshine.
"Kay is dead and gone!" said little Gerda.
"I do not think so," said the Sunshine in reply.
u Kay is dead and gone!" she said to the Swallows.
"We do not think so," they answered; and at last little Gerda did
AOt think so either.
"I will put on my new red shoes," she said one morning, — " those
which Kay has never seen, — and I will go down to the River and ask
it about him."
It was still early. She kissed her old Grandmother, who was not
awake yet, and having put on the red shoes, went all alone out of the
city gates and down to the River.
"Is it true that you have taken my little playfellow? " she said. "I
will give you my red shoes if you will restore him to me."
It seemed to her as if the waves nodded in a peculiar way, and she then
took her red shoes — the things she liked best of all she had — and
threw them both into the river; but they fell near the shore and were
washed on land again. It was exactly as if the River would not take
what was so dear to her, for it had not little Kay to give in return; but
she thought she had not thrown the shoes out far enough, so she got
\
Into a boat, which lay among the rushes, and going to the farthest
end of it she threw the shoes into the water again. But the boat was
not fastened, and the motion she caused in it set it off from land. She
noticed it and hastened to get back, but it was already more than a
yard from land, and now drifted fast out into the river.
Then little Gerda became very frightened, and began to cry; but no
one heard her excepting the Sparrows, and they could not carry her on to
land, but they flew along the banks singing, as if to console her, " Here
we are! here we are!" The boat glided down the stream, and little
Gerda sat there quite quiet, in her stockings, while her little red shoes
floated after; but they could not overtake the boat
.

It was very pretty on both sides; there were beautiful flowers, old
trees, and meadows with sheep and cows, but not a human being was to
be seen.
"Perhaps the River will carry me to little Kay," she thought, and
then she grew more cheerful; she stood up, and for hours she admired
the beautiful green banks. At length she came to a large orchard full of
cherry-trees, in which there stood a little house with strange red and
blue windows. It had a straw roof, and in front stood two wooden sol-
diers, who presented arms as Gerda passed.
She called to them, thinking they were alive, but they returned nr
answer, as was quite natural.
Gerda cried still louder; and then there came an old, a very old
woman out of the house, supporting herself with a hooked stick. She
wore a large straw hat painted all over with the most beautiful
flowers.
"You poor little child!" said the old woman, " how did you get on
to the great rushing river, and be thus carried out into the world?" And
she walked right into the river, caught hold of the boat with the hook
of her stick, and having drawn it to land, lifted little Gerda out.
Gerda was delighted to feel herself on dry land again, though a little
bit frightened at the strange old woman.
"Come, and tell me who you are and how you came here," she
said.
And Gerda told her. The old woman shook her head, mumbling,
"Hem! hem!" and when Gerda asked her whether she had seen little
Kay, she said that he had not passed yet, but that he would be sure to
come, and that therefore she must not be sad, but had better taste her
cherries, and look at her flowers, which were more beautiful than any
picture-book, and that each could tell a story. She then took Gerda
by the hand, and having led her into the house, locked the door.
The windows were very high up, and the panes of glass red, blue,
and yellow, so that the light came in in various colors, which looked
very strange. On the table were the most -delicious cherries, of which
Gerda ate as many as she felt inclined, for she had permission to do so.
While she was eating, the old wom-n combed her hair with a golden
comb, and her beautiful yellow hair shone so bright, and curled round
her pretty, cheerful little face, which was as round and blooming as a
rose.
"I have always longed to have a dear little girl like you," said the
old woman, "and you shall see how well we will get on together."
As she combed Gerda's hair, the little girl forgot more and more her
playfellow Kay, for the old woman was a sorceress; but she was not a
wicked witch, and only conjured a little, just for her own amusement,
and she wished to keep Gerda with her. Therefore she went into the
garden, and touching all the rose-trees with her stick, they sank down
into the black earth, so that there was no trace left of where they had
stood. The old woman was afraid that when Gerda saw the rose-trees
she might think of her own, and remembering little Kay, run away.
She then took Gerda into the flower-garden. Oh, what a scent,
and what splendor! There were all imaginable flowers of every sea-
son of the year, so that no picture-book could be finer or prettier.
Gerda danced with delight, and played till the sun went down behind
the high cherry-trees, when she had a beautiful bed with red sflk pil-
lows stuffed with violets, and she slept and dreamed as delightfully as
any queen on her wedding-day.
The next day she again played with the flowers in the warm sunshine;
and thus many days passed by. Gerda knew every flower; but as many
as there were, it seemed to her as if one were wanting, though she did
not know which. Now, one day she was sitting, looking at the old
woman's painted hat, and just the most beautiful of the flowers was a
rose. The old woman had forgotten to blot that out when she banished
the others into the earth; but so it is when one has not one's thoughts
about one. "What! " Gerda cried, "are there no roses here?" She
looked in all the beds, but none was to be found; and then she sat
down and cried, when it so happened that her tears fell on the spot
where a rose-tree was buried, and as the warm tears fell on the ground
the tree sprang up in full bloom and with blossoms as beautiful as
they had ever been. Gerda threw her arms round the tree, kissed the
roses, and thought of her own rose-tree at home, as well as of little
Kay.
"Oh, how I have been delayed!" said the little girl. "I came to
look for Kay. Do you know where he is?" she asked the flowers.
"Do you think he is dead?"
"He is not dead," said the Roses, " for we have been in the earth,
where all the dead are, and Kay was not there."
"Thank you very much," said Gerda; and she went to the other flow-
ers, looked into their calyxes, and asked, "Cannot you tell me where
little Kay is?"
But each flower stood there in the sunshine, dreaming its own fairy-
tale, which Gerda had to listen to; but of Kay they knew nothing.
And what did the Tiger-lily say?
"Do you hear the drum? Drum! drum!—only two notes, always
the same, — drum! drum! Listen to the funeral dirge of the women
and the chant of the priests! The Hindoo woman stands in her long red
mantle on the funeral pile; the flames flicker around her and her dead
husband; but the Hindoo woman thinks of a living one there in the
crowd, of him from whose eyes the fire burns hotter, and troubles her
heart more than the flames which will soon burn her body to ashes.
Will the flame of the heart be consumed in the flame of the funeral
pile?"
"I don't understand a word of all that," said little Gerda.
*' That is my story," answered the Tiger-lily.
What does the Convolvulus say?
"At the end of a mountain path rises an old castle. The ivy climDs
up the old red walls, thickly covering the balcony, and there stands a
beautiful girl. She leans over the balustrade, looking eagerly down the
path. No rose is fresher than she; no apple-blossom carried from the
tree by the wind moves more gracefully. Now her magnificent satin
garment rustles. Is he not coming yet?"
"Do you mean Kay?" asked little Gerda.
"I am speaking only of my story, my dream," the Convolvulus
answered.
What says the Snowdrop?
"A board hangs on a rope fastened between two trees. That is a
swing; and two pretty little girls, with dresses as white as snow, and
long green ribbons fluttering from their hats, are seated in it, swinging.
Their brother, who is bigger than they, is standing in the swing, with
one arm round the rope to keep himself up, for in one hand he holds a
cup and in the other a clay pipe; he is blowing soap-bubbles. The
swing is moving, and the bubbles fly with beautiful, constantly changing
colors; the last still hangs to the pipe and is trembling in the wind. A
little black dog is standing on its hind legs, wanting to get into the
swing too. The bubble floats away, the dog falls and barks, for it is
teased. The dog is angry and the bubble bursts. A swinging-board
and a bursting bubble arc my song."
"I dare say your story is very pretty, but you tell it in such a melan-
choly way, and there is not a word in it about little Kay."
What do the Hyacinths say?
"There were three sisters so lovely and fragile. The dress of one
was red, of another blue, and that of the third entirely white. Hand in
hand they danced by the side of a lake in the bright moonshine. They
were not fairies, but human beings. There was a sweet scent, and the
girls disappeared in the forest. The scent became stronger, and three
coffins, in which lay the three beautiful girls, glided out of the forest
and floated across the lake, glow-worms flying around them. Are
the girls asleep, or are they dead? The scent from the flowers says
they are dead, and the vesper bell tolls for their funeral."
"You make me quite sad," said Gerda. "You have such a strong
scent that I cannot help thinking of the dead girls. Can it be that Kay
is really dead? The Roses have been buried, and they say * No.'"
*' Ding, dong!" sounded the Hyacinth bells. "We do not toll for
little Kay, — we do not know him; we only sing our song, the only one
we know."
Gerda went to the Buttercup, which shone from among its glittering
green leaves, and said, " You are a little bright sun. Tell me if you
know whether I shall find my playfellow."
The Buttercup shone so beautifully, and looked at Gerda, but its
song was not of Kay either.
"In a small yard the sun shone so warmly the first day of spring;
the rays were reflected from the white walls of the house, and close
by stood the first yellow flower, sHning like gold in the sun. The
old grandmother was sitting out of door, in her chair, and her grand-
daughter, a poor but beautiful servant-giri, was parting from her after
a short visit . She kissed her grandmother. In that kiss there was a
blessing. Well, that it, my little story."
"My poor old Grandmother!" Gerda sighed; "she is no doubt long-
ing for me, and is sad about me as she was about Kay. But I will
soon be back home, and bring Kay with me. It is of no use my asking
the flowers, for they only know their own song, and can give me no
information." She then tucked up her dress, in order to be able to run
faster; but as she jumped over a Narcissus, it struck her across the
legs. So she stopped, looked at the long white flower, and said, " Per-
haps you have something to tell me;" and she bent down her ear to
the flower. Now, what did the Narcissus say?
"I see myself! I see myself!" it said. "Oh, how beautiful I am!
Up above, in a small attic, stands a little dancer half-dressed. She
stands first on one leg and then on both. She is nothing but a vision.
She is pouring water out of the teapot upon a piece of stuff; that is
her stays. Cleanliness is next to godliness. And the white dress which
hangs upon the nail has also been washed in the teapot and dried on
the roof. She puts it on, and tying a yellow handkerchief round her
neck, makes the dress look whiter still. With one leg out, look! she is
standing on a stalk. I see myself! I see myself!"
"I care little about that," said Gerda. "You need not tell me that;"
and she ran off to the end of the garden.
The door was locked; but she pressed heavily against the rusty lock
and it sprang open, when out she ran on her bare feet, out into the wide
world. She looked back three times, but there was no one following
her. When she could run no longer, she seated herself upon a large
s
stone, and looking round her, saw that the summer was gone; it was
late in the autumn; but that could not be seen in the beautiful garden,
where the sun was always shining, and where there were flowers of all
seasons.
"Oh, goodness! how long I have been delayed!" little Gerda said.
"Why, it has grown autumn, and now there is no time to rest!" So
she got up again to go on.
Oh, dear! how sore and tired her little feet were! and all around her
it looked cold and cheerless. The long leaves of the willow were quite
yellow, and the dew dripped from them. One leaf after another fell,
and only the sloe-thorn bore fruit, but it was so sour that it made her
make faces. How bleak and depressing it was in the wide world!
Fourth Part.—The Prince and the Princess.
Gerda was obliged to rest again; and just opposite the spot where she
was sitting a large Raven was hopping about on the snow. It had been
watching her for some time, shaking its head, and now it cried, " Caw!
caw! how do?" It could not ex-
press itself better, but meant well
with the little girl, and asked where
she was going all alone into the
wide world. Gerda felt how much
there lay in that one word " alone;"
and then she told her whole story,
asking whether it had seen Kay.
The Raven nodded quite know-
ingly, and said, "It may be! it
may be!"
"What! you think you have
seen him!" the little girl cried, and
hugged the Raven so that she
nearly squeezed it to death.
"Gently, gently!" said the Ra-
ven. "I think I know; I think it
may have been little Kay; but, for certain, by now the Princess has
driven you out of his thoughts."
"Does he live with a Princess?" asked Gerda.

•mow rr cried, 'caw I caw! how do i'
"I understand what you say," replied the Raven, "but I find it
difficult to express myself in your language. If you understand the
Raven's tongue it will go better."
"No, 1 never learned that," said Gerda; "but my Grandmother knew
it . Oh, had I but learned it!"
"It does not matter," said the Raven; "I will tell you the story as
well as I can, though it will be done badly;" and then it related all it
knew.
"In the kingdom in which we are now sitting lives a Princess, who
is awfully clever; but then, she has read all the newspapers in the
world,—read and forgotten them again, so clever is she. Lately she
was sitting on her throne, which is said not to be over-pleasant, when
she began to sing; and the theme of her song was, 'Why should I not
marry?' 'Well, there is something in that,' she said, and so she deter-
mined to get married; but she must have a husband who knew how to
answer when spoken to, not one who could only stand and look grand,
for that is so stupid. Then she had all her court ladies drummed
together, and when they heard what her intention was they were much
delighted. 'That's what I like,' one said; and,' I have been thinking
of that too,' said another. You may believe every word of what I tell
you," said the Raven, "for I have a tame sweetheart who wanders at
liberty all over the palace, and it is she who has told me all."
The sweetheart was, as a matter of course, a raven too.
"The newspapers appeared with a border of hearts and the Princess's
monogram. Therein might be read that every good-looking young
man was at liberty to go to the palace and converse with the Princess,
and that she would marry him who spoke the best and who appeared
to feel at home there. Yes, yes!" said the Raven, "you may believe
what I say, for it is as true as I am sitting here. There was a great con-
course of people, crowding and pushing; but nobody succeeded, either
the first or second day. They could all speak well enough out in the
street; but when they got into the palace and saw the guards in silver
and the stairs lined with footmen in gold, and saw the splendid rooms,
they became quite bewildered; so that when they stood before the
throne on which the Princess sat, they could do nothing but repeat the
last word she had uttered, and that she did not particularly care about
hearing repeated. It was exactly as if the good people had swallowed
snuff and fallen asleep, till they were in the street again, when they could
talk fast enough. There was a string of people all the way from the city
gates up to the palace, and I was there myself to see them," said the
Raven. "They grew hungry as well as thirsty; but in the palace they
did not get as much as a glass of water. Some, it is true, had prudently
taken some bread and butter with them, but did not share it with
their neighbor, for they thought, 'Let him look hungry, and the
Princess will certainly not have him'"
"But Kay, little Kay l" asked Gerda; "when did he come? Was he
among the crowd?"
"Patience! patience! for we are just coming to him. It was on
the third day, there came a little person without horse or carriage, but
walking merrily straight up to the palace. His eyes were bright like
yours, and he had beautiful long hair, but he was poorly dressed."
"That was Kay!" shouted Gerda with delight . "At last I have
found him!" and she clapped her little hands.
"He had a little knapsack on his bacl," continued the Raven.
"No, that must have been his sledge," Gerda said; "for he went
away with his sledge on his back."
"That may be," replied the Raven, "for I did not pay particular
attention to it; but this I know from my sweetheart, that when he got
inside the palace and saw the body-guard in silver, and the footmen in
gold on the stairs, he was not in the least abashed, but nodded, and said
to them, 'It must be tedious work to stand there on the stairs, so I
will go in at once.' The rooms were splendidly lighted, and there were
lords and gentlemen walking about barefooted, with gold salvers. It
was all quite solemn, though his boots creaked awfully; but he was not
in the least concerned."
"That was certainly Kay," Gerda said. "I know he had new boots
on, for I heard them creak."
"Yes, creak they did," continued the Raven; "but merrily he walked
straight up to the Princess, who was sitting on a pearl as large as a
spinning-wheel; and all the court ladies with their maids and their
maids' maids, and the courtiers with their servants and their servants'
servants, who kept a boy in turn, were standing around, and the nearer
they stood to the door the prouder they looked. The servants' ser-
vants' boy, who always wears slippers, stands so proudly in the door
that one dare scarcely look at him."
"That must be horrible," said little Gerda; "but Kay has gained the
Princess for all that."
"If I had not been a Raven I would have had her myself, though I
am engaged," said the Raven. "My tame sweetheart says that he
spoke as well as I speak when I am talking our language. He was gay
and well behaved, but had not come at all to pay court to the Princess,
but only to hear how clever she was. He had every reason to be
satisfied with her, and she no less so with him."
"Oh for certain that was Kay," Gerda said, "for he was always so
clever; he knew reckoning. Will you not introduce me into the palace?"
"Well, that is easily said," answered the Raven, " but how are we to
manage it? I must talk it over with my tame sweetheart, and she will no
doubt be able to advise us; for I must tell you that a little girl like you
will never obtain permission to enter in the ordinary way."
"Oh, yes, I shall," said Gerda, "for as soon as Kay hears that I am
there he will come out directly and fetch me."
"Wait for me there at the stile," said the Raven, and wagging its
head, it flew off.
The Raven did not return till late in the evening, when it said: "She
sends you all sorts of kind messages, and here is a small loaf for you
which she took from the kitchen, where there is plenty of them; for no
doubt you are hungry. It is impossible for you to be admitted into the
palace, as you are barefooted. The guards in silver and the footmen in
gold would never allow it; but do not cry, for you shall go in. My
sweetheart knows a little back staircase which leads up to the bed-
room, and she knows where to find the key."
So they went into the garden, into the great avenue, where one leaf
was falling off after the other; and when the lights in the palace were
put out, the Raven led Gerda to a back door, which stood ajar.
Oh, how Gerda's heart beat with fear and anxiety 1 She felt exactly
as if she were going to do something wrong; and yet she only wanted to
know whether little Kay was there, and there he must be. So vividly
she called to mind his clear eyes and long hair, and it seemed as if she
saw him smiling as he used to do when at home they sat together under
the roses. He would surely be pleased to see her, and to hear what a
long way she had come for his sake, as also to know how they had all
fretted at home at his not returning. Oh, what fear, and at the same
fime what delight!
They were now on the stairs, where a small lamp was burning, and
on the floor stood the tame Raven, turning her head first on one side
iud then on the other, looking at Gerda, who courtesied, as her Grand-
mother had taught her to do.
** My future husband has said so much to me in your praise, and
four story too is very touching," said the tame Raven. "If you, my
little lady, will take the lamp, please, I will lead the way. We are
going straight there, and we shall not meet any one."
"It seems to me as if some one is coming just behind us," said
Gerda; and then there was a rustling past them. It was like shadows
on the wall, — horses with flowing manes and slender legs, huntsmen,
and ladies and gentlemen on horseback.
"Those are only dreams," said the Raven, "and come to carry
the ladies' and gentlemen's thoughts off to the chase; which is well,
for we can then examine them better in bed. But I hope that when
you have risen to honor and dignity you will show a grateful
heart."
"It is quite unnecessary to talk about that," said the Raven from the
forest.
They now entered the first room, the walls of which were hung with
rose-colored silk and artificial flowers. Here the dreams rushed past them
again, but went so fast that Gerda could not catch a sight of them. One
room was more splendid than another, — it was almost enough to make
one giddy; and now they reached the bedroom. The ceiling here was
like large palm-leaves, made of the most beautiful glass, and from the
centre were suspended, by a golden branch, two beds in the form of
Ulies. The one was white, and in that lay the Princess; while the other
was red, and in that Gerda was to look for little Kay. She bent one of
the red leaves on one side and saw a brown neck. Oh, that was Kay!
She called his name out aloud, holding the lamp over him. The
dreams rushed past again; he awoke and turned his head: it was not
little Kay!
The Prince's neck only was like Kay's; but he was young and
handsome. At the same time the Princess's face appeared from among
the white lily leaves, and she asked what was the matter. Little Gerda
then cried and told her whole story, and all that the Ravens had done
for her.
"Poor child!" said the Prince and Princess, praising the Ravens for
what they had done, and saying they were not at all angry, but that
they must not repeat it. And a reward was promised them.
"Will you be free," asked the Princess, "or will you have a settled
appointment as court Ravens, with all the kitchen remains?"
The two Ravens made their bows, and begged they might have 9
settled appointment, for they thought of their old age, saying, "It is
nice to have something when one gets old."
The Prince then got out of his bed and let Gerda sleep in it; more he
could not do. She folded her little hands, and thought, " How good
men and animals are!" and then, closing her eyes, she slept soundly.
The dreams came flying back, and they looked like angels drawing a
sledge, on which sat Kay and nodded. But the whole was only a
dream, and was therefore all gone as soon as she awoke.
The next day she was clothed from head to foot in silk and velvet, and
she received the offer to remain at the palace and enjoy herself; but she

only begged for a little carriage with a horse, and for a pair of boots,
when she would go out again into the wide world and look for Kay.
And she got not only the boots, but a muff; and when she wished to
leave, a new coach of pure gold drew up at the door, with the Prince's
and Princess's coat-of-arms upon it, like shining stars. The coachman,
footman, and outriders — for there were outriders too — wore golden
crowns. The Prince and Princess themselves helped her into the car-
riage and wished her success. The Raven of the forest, who was now
married, accompanied her the first ten miles, sitting by her side, — for
riding backwards disagreed with him, — while the other Raven stood at
the door flapping her wings. She could not go with them, as she suffered
y
from headache since she had a settled appointment at the palace and
got too much to eat. The inside of the carriage was lined with cakes
and sweets, and in the seat were fruits and gingerbread nuts.
"Farewell! farewell 1" said the Prince and Princess, while little Gerda
wept, and the Raven wept too. They went on for ten miles, and then the
Raven had to say good-by, which was the saddest parting of all. He
flew up into a tree and flapped his black wings as long as he could see
the carriage, which shone like the sun.
Fifth Part. — The Little Robber-girl.
THEY drove through the dark forest, but the carriage gave a light
like a torch, which affected the robbers' eyes so that they could not
bear it
.
"That is gold! that is gold!" they cried, and rushing forward, seized
the horses, killed the little jockeys, coachman, and servants, and then
dragged little Gerda out of the carriage.
"She is nice, she is fat, she has been fed upon nuts!" said the old
Robber-woman, who had a long bristly beard, and eyebrows which
bung down over her eyes
"Why, she is as good as a fat lamb! how nice she will taste!" and
she drew out her long knife, which shone so that it was horrible to
look at
.
"Au!" the woman cried at the same moment, for she was bitten in
the ear by her own daughter, who was hanging at her back, and who
was so wild and wicked that nothing could be done with her. "You
nasty imp !" cried the mother, and now she had no time to kill Gerda.
"She shall play with me," said the little Robber-girl. "She shall give
me her muff and her beautiful dress, and shall sleep with me in my
bed;" and she then bit her mother again, so that the woman jumped
about, and the robbers laughed, shouting, "See how she dances with
her cub!"
"I will get into the carriage," said the Robber-girl; and she would
have her own way, for she was so obstinate and spoilt; so she and
Gerda entered it, and were driven over stones and through ditches
deeper into the forest . The little Robber-girl was no taller than Gerda,
but stronger, with broader shoulders and darker skin. Her eyes were
black, and had rather a melancholy expressioa She laid hold of Gerda
round the waist and said, "They shall not kill you as long as 1 am
not angry with you! You are a princess, I suppose?"
"No," said Gerda, and told all she had undergone, and how much she
loved little Kay.
The Robber-girl looked at her quite seriously, nodded her head
slightly, and said, "They shall not kill you, even if I am angry with
you; for I 'll do it myself then." She dried Gerda's eyes, and then
put both her hands in the beautiful muff which was so soft and warm.
Now the carriage stopped, and they were in the courtyard of a
Robber's castle. It was all in ruins, and the ravens and crows flew out

of the holes, and large bull-dogs, of which each looked as if it could
devour a man, sprang towards them; but they did not bark, for that
was forbidden.
In the large old smoke-colored hall, in the middle of the stone
floor, a huge fire was burning, and the smoke, rising to the roof, had to
find itself an outlet. Soup was boiling in a caldron, and hares and
rabbits were roasting on spits.
"To-night you shall sleep with me, with all my animals," the Robber-
girl said; and after they had had something to eat and drink, they went
into a corner, where there was straw and a piece of carpet . More
than a hundred pigeons sat above upon laths and sticks, and they all
,
/
seemed to be asleep, though they did turn round a little at the approach
of the two little girls.
"They all belong to me," said the Robber-girl; and catching hold of
one of the nearest by the feet, she shook it until it flapped its wings.
"Kiss her," she cried, touching Gerda in the face with it. "Yonder,
behind those bars, there are two wood-pigeons that would fly away di-
rectly if they were not properly secured; and here stands my dear old
Boo!" As she said this she pulled the horns of a Reindeer, which was
fastened by a bright copper ring round its neck. "We have to keep
him a prisoner too, or he would be off". Every evening I tickft flis
throat with my sharp knife, which frightens him dreadfully." The little
girl drew a long knife out of a crack in the wall, and let it glide across
the Reindeer's throat, which made the poor beast tremble and kick; and
the little Robber-girl, laughing, drew Gerda into the bed with her.
"Are you going to keep that knife in bed with you?" Gerda asked,
and looked rather frightened at it
.
"I always sleep with a knife," said the Robber-girl; "one can never
tell what may happen; but let me again hear what you said about little
Kay, and why you came out into the wide world." And Gerda told all
again, from beginning to end; and the wood-pigeons cooed in their
cage, but the others slept . The little Robber-girl put one arm round
Gerda's neck, and holding the knife in the other, soon fell asleep; but
Gerda could not close her eyes: she did not know whether she was
to live, or whether death awaited her. The robbers sat round the fire,
drinking and singing, while the Robber-woman turned summersaults.
It was quite horrible for the little girl to watch them.
The Wood-pigeons said, "Kourrou! kourrou! we have seen little
Kay. A white chicken carried his sledge, and he sat in the Snow-
queen's carriage, which drove close over the forest as we lay in our
nest. She blew upon us young ones, and all excepting us two died.
Kourrou! kourrou!"
"What are you saying up there?" Gerda asked. "Where was the
Snow-queen going to? Do you know anything about it?"
"She was most likely going to Lapland, for it is always snow and
ice there. Ask the Reindeer that is tied up there."
"It is ice and snow, and it is delightful and healthy there," said
the Reindeer. "There one can jump and run about. There the Snow-
queen has her summer tent; but her palace is up towards the North
Pole, on the island called Spitzbergen."
\
"Oh, Kay! dear little Kay!" Gerda said.
"Now you must lie quiet," said the Robber-girl, "or I will run the
knife into you."
Next morning Gerda told her all that the Wood-pigeons had said,
and the little Robber-girl looked quite serious, but nodding her head
said, " It does n't matter! it does n't matter! Do you know where Lap-
land is? " she asked the Reindeer.
"Who should know better than I?" answered the animal, its eyes
sparkling. "I was born and bred there, and there I have run about
on the snow-field."
"Listen!" said the Robber-girl to Gerda. "You see that all the men
are gone; my mother, however, is still here, and she will remain; but
about midday she drinks out of a great flask, and then sleeps a little. I
will then do something for you." Then she jumped out of bed, rushed
to her mother, and pulling her beard, said, " My own beloved goat,
good-morning!" Her mother in return boxed her ears so that they
became red and blue; but that was from sheer love.
As soon as her mother was asleep, after having drunk out of the
flask, the Robber-girl went to the Reindeer and said: "I might still have
a good deal of fun, tickling you with the sharp knife, for then you are
very amusing; but that does n't matter. I will unfasten you and let you
out, so that you may run back to Lapland; but you must make good
use of your legs, and carry this little girl to the Snow-queen's palace,
where her playfellow is. You heard what she said, for she spoke loud
enough, and you were listening." The Reindeer jumped high into the
air with delight. The Robber-girl lifted little Gerda on its back,
having taken the precaution to tie her fast, and even to give her a little
cushion to sit upon. "It does n't matter," she said. "There are your fur
boots, for it will be cold; but the muff I shall keep, for it is so pretty.
You shall not freeze, however, for you shall have my mother's large,
warm gloves, which will reach up to your elbow. There, put them on.
Now, as to your hands, you look exactly like my ugly mother."
Gerda cried with joy.
*' I won't have you blubbering," said the little Robber-girl; "now
you ought to look particularly happy. Here are two loaves and a
ham, so you will not die of hunger." Both were fastened behind her;
and the little Robber-girl opened the door, having chained up all the
big dogs, cut the rope with her sharp knife, and said to thf Reindeer,
•' Now run, but take great care of the little girl."
Gerda stretched out her hands, with the large gloves on, towards the
Robber-girl, and cried "Good-by! " and the Reindeer flew as fast as
possible through the great forest, and over heath and marsh. The
wolves howled, and the birds of prey screamed, "Atsche! atsche 1"
which sounded exactly like sneezing from the sky.

^/*i/ar
"Those are my old Northern Lights," said the Reindeer; "see how
they shine!" and it ran even faster than before. It ran day and night.
The loaves were eaten, and the ham also, and then they were in
Lapland.
Sixth Part. — The Lapp Woman and*the Finn Woman.
THEY stopped at a small house, and a miserable place it was. The
roof reached down to the ground, and the door was so low that the in-
mates had to crawl on their stomachs when they wanted to go in or out.
There was no one at home excepting an old Lapp Woman, who was
cooking fish by the light of a train-oil lamp, and to her the Reindeer
told Gerda's whole story; but his own first, for that appeared to him by
far the more important, and the cold had nipped Gerda so that she could
not speak.
"Oh, you poor creatures!" said the old Lapp Woman; "you havt far
to run still. You must go more than a hundred miles ?oto Lapland, for
there the Snow-queen lives. I will write a few words on a dried stock-
fish, for I have no paper, and that I will give you for the Finn Woman
up there, for she can give you more accurate information than I."
Now as soon as Gerda was warm, and had got something to eat and
drink, the old Woman wrote a few words on a dried codfish, begged
Gerda to take great care of it, and having tied her on the Reindeer
again, off it started. "Atsche! atsche!" it sounded from above, in the
air, and the whole night long the Northern Lights shone most beauti-
fully. They arrived in Finmarken, and knocked at the Finn Woman'*
chimney, for she had no door at all.

It was so hot inside that the Finn Woman was nearly naked. She
was small of figure, and very dirty. She immediately undid Gerda's
things, taking off her gloves and boots, for it would otherwise have been
too hot for her; laid a lump of ice on the Reindeer's head, and then
read what was written on the fish. She read it three times, when she
knew it by heart; so she put the fish in the soup-pot, for it was good to
eat, and she never wasted anything.
Then the Reindeer told its own story and next Gerda's; and the
Finn Woman blinked with her clever eyes, but said nothing.
* You are so clever," said the Reindeer; "I know that you can tie
all the winds of the world together with one piece of string, so that
when the sailor unfastens the first knot, he has a fair wind; if he unties
the second, it blows freshly; but if the third and fourth be untied, the
wind rages so that the trees of the forest fall. Won't you prepare the
little girl a drink, to give her the strength of twelve men, so that she
may vanquish the Snow-queen?"
"The strength of twelve men!" said the Finn Woman. "That would
not help her much;" and then she went to a cupboard, from which
she took a large rolled-up skin. As she unrolled it there appeared
strange letters written upon it, and she read till the water dripped down
from her forehead.
But the Reindeer begged again so hard for Gerda, and she looked at
the Finn Woman with such beseeching eyes, full of tears, that she again
began to blink her eyes, and drawing the Reindeer into a corner, whis-
pered to him, while she put fresh ice upon his head: "Little Kay is
still with the Snow-queen, and finds everything there to his taste, so
that he thinks it the best place in the world; but this is caused by his
having a piece of broken glass in his heart and another piece in his
eyes. They must come out, or he will never be a man, and the Snow-
queen will retain her full power over him."
"But can you not give little Gerda something, so that she may obtain
power over all?"
"I cannot give her greater power than she already possesses; and do
you not see how great that is? Do you not see that men and beasts
must serve her; and how, barefooted as she is, she has got on so well
in the world? She cannot receive her power from us; that is in her own
heart, and consists in her being a good, innocent child. If she cannot
herself get into the Snow-queen's palace and free little Kay from the
glass, we cannot help her. Ten miles from here the Snow-queen's
garden begins, and there you must carry the little girl. Set her down
at the large bush which stands there in the snow covered with red ber-
ries; and do not waste many words, but make haste back here." Then
the Finn Woman placed Gerda upon the Reindeer, which ran off as fast
as it could. "Oh, I have not got my boots! I have not got my gloves!"
little Gerda cried out, for this she noticed in the piercing cold; but the
Reindeer did not venture to stop, and it ran on till it came to the bush
with the red berries. There it put her down, kissed her, and large
bright tears ran down the animal's cheeks when it started off back
again. There stood poor Gerda, without boots and without gloves, in
the middle of that fearfully cold Lapland!
THE SNOW-QUEEN.
She ran forward as fast as possible, and was soon met by a whole
regiment of snow-flakes, which did not fall from heaven, for the sky was
quite clear; but they ran straight along the ground, and the nearer they
came the larger they grew. Gerda remembered how large and beauti-
ful those looked which she saw through the magnifying glass; but these
were much larger, and far different: they were living, and dreadful to
look at; they were the Snow-queen's guards. They had the strangest
shapes, some looking like frightful porcupines, others like knots of living
snakes stretching out their heads, and others like fat little bears with

bristly hair; but all were a glittering white,— they were all living snow-
flakes.
Then little Gerda prayed, and the cold was so great that she could
see her own breath coming like smoke out of her mouth. The breath
became denser and denser, at length assumed the forms of little angels,
which grew larger and larger as they touched the ground. They all
wore helmets on their heads, and held spears and shields in their hands,
and their number was constantly increasing, so that by the time Gerda
had finished her prayer she was surrounded by a whole legion. They
hrust their spears into the frightful snow-flakes, breaking them into
hundreds of pieces, and Gerda went on joyously and in safety. The
angels kissed her hands and feet, so that she felt less how extremely cold
it was; and quickly she hastened on to the Snow-queen's palace.
But now let us first see what Kay was doing. He was certainly not
thinking of little Gerda, and, least of all, that she was then standing
outside the palace.
Seventh Part. —Of the Snow^ueeris Palace, and what happened in it.
THE palace walls were of driven snow, and the doors and windows of
the cutting winds. There were more than a hundred rooms, as the snow
had formed them, the largest extending several miles, and all were
lighted by the bright Northern Lights. They were all so large, so
empty, and so icy-cold and shining! There was never any amusement
there, not even a bears' ball, — for which the storm could have provided
music, and the polar bears could have shown off their antics, walking
on their hind legs. There were never any card-parties either, with tea
and gossip, but empty, cold, and vast were the rooms of the Snow-
queen's palace.
In the middle of the empty, immense snow-room there was a frozen
lake, cracked into a thousand pieces, but each piece was so like the
others that it seemed a masterly work of art; and in the middle of this sat
the Snow-queen when she was at home. She used to say that she then
sat on the Mirror of Reason, and that it was the only one in the world.
Little Kay was quite blue with cold, —: indeed, almost black; but he
did not know it, for she had kissed away the frost-shiver, and his heart
was like a lump of ice. He was dragging some sharp-edged, flat pieces
of ice about, and these he fitted together in all possible ways, just as
we do small pieces of wood which we call the Chinese puzzle. Kay
was also forming figures of the most wonderful description; and that
was the Ice-Game of Reason. In his eyes the figures were perfect,
and of the highest importance, for the piece of broken glass which
was in his eye made him think so. He formed whole words, but he
could never succeed in the one word he wished to have, — the word
Eternity; for the Snow-queen had said to him, "If you can suc-
ceed in forming that one word you shall be your own master, and
I will give you the whole world, together with a pair of new skates."
But he could not.
"I am now going to pay a visit to the warmer countries," said the
Snow-Queen, "and intend giving a peep into the black caldrons," — she
meant the volcanoes of Etna and Vesuvius. "I will cover them with
white, which will also do good to the orange-trees and vines." Then
the Snow-queen flew away, and Kay was left alone in those vast,
empty rooms, staring at the pieces of ice, and thinking and thinking
till his brain ached. He sat there so stiff and still that he looked as if
he were frozen.
Just then little Gerda came into the palace through the large gate.
Here were cutting winds; but she said her evening prayer, and the

winds were lulled as if they wanted to go to sleep, and she entered the
large, empty, cold room. She then saw Kay, recognized him at once,
and running up to him pressed him closely to her, and cried, "Kay!
dear little Kay! so I have found you at last!"
But he sat quite still, stiff, and cold, and little Gerda cried bitter,
burning tears, which fell upon his breast, and penetrating to his heart
thawed the lump of ice and dissolved the piece of broken glass. He
looked at her, and she sang the hymn, —
"Though the bloom of the rose will fade away,
We shall meet the dear Christ-child some day.
Then Kay burst into tears, and cried till the pieces of glass vmc
trashed out of his eyes, — when he recognized her, and exclaimed in
delight, "Gerda! dear little Gerda! where have you been all this time,
and where have I been?" He looked all around, and continued,
"How cold it is here, and how vast and empty!" He pressed closely
to her, and she laughed and cried in turns. There was such joy that
even the pieces of ice danced; and when they were tired and lay down
again they formed the letters of the word which, when discovered, the
Snow-queen said he should be his own master, and she would give him
the whole world, besides a pair of new skates.
Gerda kissed his cheeks, and the color came back into them; she
kissed his eyes, and they were as bright as her own; she kissed his
hands and feet, and he was himself again. The Snow-queen might
now return, for his discharge was there written in sparkling ice.
They took each other by the hand and wandered out of the palace.
They spoke of their grandmother, and of the rose-trees upon the roof,
and wherever they went the winds were lulled and the sun burst forth;
and when they got to the bush with the red berries they found the
Reindeer waiting for them, and another with it. These carried them
first to the Finn Woman, in whose hot room they warmed themselves
and obtained information about their homeward journey; and then to
the old Lapp Woman, who had made new clothes for them and got a
sledge ready.
The two reindeer took them quickly to the borders of the country,
and there the first green was springing up. Here they parted from
the Reindeer and the old Lapp Woman, and all cried, " Good-by!"
The little birds began to twitter, the buds were green on the trees in the
woods, and out of it came riding a young girl on a beautiful horse
which Gerda knew, for it was the one that h-d been harnessed to the
golden carriage. This was the Robber-girl, with a red cap on her head
and pistols in her belt. She had had enough of home, and was now
travelling towards the North, to take another course later if that did
not please her.
She and Gerda immediately recognized each other, and there was
great rejoicing.
"You are a pretty fellow!" she said to little Kay; "I should like to
know whether you deserve that one should run to the end of the world
after you?"
But Gerda tapped her on the cheek and asked after the Prince and
Princess.
*' They have gone to a foreign country," said the Robber-giri
"And the Ravens?" asked Gerda.
"The Raven is dead," she answered, "and his wife, now a widow,
goes about with a piece of black cotton round her leg, and laments
dreadfully; but that is nothing but talk. But now tell me how it
fared with you, and how you managed to catch him."
And Gerda and Kay told her all.
The Robber-girl took them both by the hand, and promised that if
«ver she should pass through their town she would come up to visit
them; and then she rode on into the wide world.

Gerda and Kay continued their way hand in hand. It was delightful
spring, with green leaves and beautiful flowers; the church-bells rang
merrily, and they recognized the high steeples and the large city; it
was that in which they lived. So they entered it and went to their
grandmother's house, up the stairs, and into the room, where every-
thing was just as it used to be, the clock going "tick, tick!" and the
hands moving; but then they noticed that they were no longer children.
The roses in the roof-gutter, in full bloom, crept in through the open
window; and there stood the two children's stools, and Gerda seated
herself on hers, and Kay took his, holding each other still by the hand.
The cold, empty splendor of the Snow-queen's palace was forgotten lik«
a disagreeable dream. The grandmother sat in the clear sunshine and
1
reaa aloud from the Bible," Except ye become as little children ye
shall in no wise enter Heaven."
Kay and Gerda looked at each other, and both thought of the old
hymn,—
"Though the bloom of the rose will fade away,
We shall meet the dear Christ-child some day."
There they sat, grown up, and yet children; for in their hearts they
were children. And it was summer, — warm, delightful summer within
and without
.

Oh, how cold it was! It snowed and blew so just as it was getting
dark, and it was the last day of the year. It was New Year's Eve.
In the cold and darkness a poor little girl was wandering in the
streets with bare head and feet . She had had on slippers when she left
home, but what good were they? They were very large, — her mother
had worn them last, so big they were, — and the little girl had lost them
as she hurried across the street to escape two rapidly driven vans.
One of the slippers was not to be found, and the other a boy ran away
with, saying he would use it for a cradle when he got children.
There wandered the little girl on her tiny naked feet, which were red
and blue with the cold. She had a lot of wooden matches in an old
apron, and she carried one bundle in her hand. Nobody had bought
anything of her the whole day, and nobody had given her a copper.
She was hungry and cold, and looked so wretched, poor little mite!
The snow-flakes fell on her long yellow hair, which clustered so prettily
round her neck; yet she thought but little of that ornament. From all
windows light shone, and in the streets it smelled so deliciously of roast
goose, for it was New Year's Eve.1
She sat down in a corner between two houses, one of which projected
a little more than the other, and drew up her little feet, but she froze all
the more. And she did not dare to go home, for as she had not sold
any matches, and nobody had given her anything, her father would
beat her; and it was cold at home, too. They lived right under the
roof, where the wind whistled through holes filled with straw and rsgs.
Her little hands were quite benumbed with cold. Oh, how nice a
match would be! If she only dared to draw one from the bundle and
strike it against the wall and warm her hands! She drew one out.
J^-r-atch / how it sputtered and burnt! When she held her hand around
1 Roast goose is very commonly eaten in Scandinavia on New Year's Eve. — Tb.
It, it was a warm, bright flame like a little candle. It was such a wonder-
ful light! The little girl fancied she was sitting in front of a great fire
with shining fire-irons, it burnt so splendidly and warmed so much.
What was that? The little girl already stretched out her feet to warm
them — and the match went out. The stove was gone; she was sitting
with a little bit of burnt wood in her hand.
Another one was lighted. It burnt and shone, and where the light
fell on the wall it became as transparent as gauze, and she could look

•T ^
) >
right into the room. A table was laid with a snow-white cloth and fine
china, and splendid stuffed goose steamed on the table. And what was
most glorious was that the goose jumped from the dish and waddled
along the floor, with a knife and fork in the back, right up to the poor
girl, when — the match went out, leaving her only the black wall to
stare at
.
She lit a new one. Now she was sitting under the loveliest Christmas-
tree, far bigger and more decorated than that she had seen through the
door at the rich merchant's last Christmas. Thousands of candles
burnt on the green branches, and variegated pictures like those she
had seen in the shop-windows looked down upon her. The little one
stretched both her hands upwards, when — the match went out! But
the thousands of lights rose higher and higher, and she saw that they
had become bright stars. One fell, leaving a long bright trail in the sky.
^s
"Now somebody has just died!" said the little girl; for her old
grandmother, who was the only one who had been kind to her, and who
was dead, had told her that when a star falls a soul ascends to Heaven.
She struck one match more, and it shone around her; and lo! in the
light stood her grandmother, looking so bright, kind, and good.
"Grandmother!" cried the child; "take me with you. I know you
will disappear with the light, like the warm stove, the splendid goose,
and the great Christmas-tree." And she struck quickly all her matches

in the bundle, for she wished to retain her grandmother. And the
matches shone with a brightness clearer than daylight. Grandmother
had never looked so handsome and so tall. She lifted the little girl in
her arms, and they flew in glory and joyousness so high, so high! but
there was no hunger, no care, no cold, for they were with God.
But the little girl sat in the corner frozen to death; still a happy
smile played round her mouth and her cheeks were red. She had
frozen to death on the last night of the old year.
New Year's morning rose upon the little corpse, which still held ths
bundle of matches, most of which were burnt. "She has tried to warm
herself," people said. But nobody knew what a lovely sight she had
beheld, and in what glory she had gone with her old grandmother into
New Year's joys.
*
I
I
